OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2018  Powering. Reliable. Future. 02 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ABOUT THE REPORT The report entitled “Our Responsibility 2018” is aimed at GRI 102-49) in the report was confirmed by the GRI Report analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations Services Team. The report also serves as our progress report (NGOs), customers and suppliers, policymakers and governfor the Global Compact of the United Nations and provides ment agencies, as well as our employees and the people information on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and living in the regions where we do business. It describes the targets we make a contribution to, see page 94. most important social, environmental and economic challenges facing our core business, the conflicting aims that Dates can arise, and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy The period under review is fiscal 2018, which began on we have developed in response. 1 January and ended on 31 December. In line with the RWE Annual Report 2018, innogy will be reported From the business year 2017, companies in Germany geared through the planned transaction with E.ON as continuing to the capital market must comply with the amendment to operations under the qualitative disclosures for the RWE the German Commercial Code (HGB) dated 18 April 2017 Group. RWE will be reported as a stand-alone item in the (CSR Directive Implementation Act) and publish a Nonindicators because innogy is regarded purely as a financial financial Declaration in the combined review of operations investment. Any deviations from this are clearly stated. or a separate Group Non-financial Report (NfR) in a separate Furthermore, a number of indicators from 2017 had to be document. RWE AG is meeting this obligation with the adjusted retrospectively as a result of the new reporting sections of this report marked in blue. These sections were structure of the RWE Annual Report, which included RWE subject to a limited assurance engagement performed by and the innogy continuing operations retrospectively. We accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafthave indicated this as appropriate. The financial and market sprüfungsgesellschaft. The audit was implemented taking data were taken from the RWE Annual Report 2018. We into account compliance with the requirements of the Gerpresent financial data denominated in the relevant national man Commercial Code (HGB). currency or have converted these based on the average annual values for 2018 (1 US dollar = € 0.85, 1 UK pound sterling = This report is published electronically in pdf format. The € 1.13, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.89, 1 Polish zloty = € 0.23). accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirt­ The commercial rounding of certain figures can result in the schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft performed an engagement sums of the rounded figures or percentages deviating from audit on the disclosures indicated with and provided a the rounded totals in some cases. limited assurance relating to compliance of the disclosures with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For reference The audit only covered the appropriately highlighted sections This report is published in German and English. The Executive of the report and not texts or Internet pages referred to. Board of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. The editorial deadline was on 08.03.2019. This report continues Approach our policy of annual reporting. The next report will be pubThe limited assurance engagement was carried out in lished in the spring of 2020. When for reasons of simplicity accordance with the auditing principles of the International and readability the terms “employees”, “shareholders”, etc. Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised), are used to designate persons in this documentation, this see page 89 for Assurance Report. The CR Report includes naturally refers to all gender identities throughout. an overview of all the important indicators, see page 91. RWE Archive CR Reports The CR Report of RWE AG is published as a GRI Report and conforms with the GRI Standards (2016) of the Global ReportForward-looking statements ing Initiative in a selection based on a Materiality Analysis of This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the topics relevant for our business. In addition, we also report the future development of the RWE Group and its companies on material in-depth topics based on the GRI requirements as well as future economic and political developments. These for the electricity industry, which were formerly applicable as statements are assessments that we have made based on the G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures, and no longer form information available at the time this report was drawn up. part of the GRI Standards. The report was prepared in conIn the event that the underlying assumptions do not materiformity with the GRI Standards: “core option”. This GRI report alise or additional developments arise, actual performance “Our Responsibility 2018” was available for the implementamay deviate from the performance expected at present. We tion of the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. The correct are therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsever positioning of the “materiality disclosures” (GRI 102-40 to for the accuracy of these statements. 03 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CONTENT 02 About the report 05 Foreword 06 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 07 Organisational Profile 19 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 07 GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 20 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 07 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services setting purpose, values, and strategies 07 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 20 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 07 GRI 102-4 Location of operations environmental, and social impacts 07 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 20 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of the risk management 08 GRI 102-6 Markets served processes 10 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 20 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 11 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other social topics workers 21 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 11 GRI 102-9 Supply chain sustainability reporting 12 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 21 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policy and its supply chain 12 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 22 Stakeholder Engagement 12 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 22 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 22 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 22 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 Strategy 22 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 23 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 26 Reporting Practice 16 Ethics and Integrity 26 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 16 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms financial statements of behaviour 26 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic 16 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns boundaries about ethics 26 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 29 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 17 Governance 29 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 17 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 29 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 17 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 29 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 18 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 29 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle economic, environmental, and social topics 30 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 18 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, report environmental, and social topics 30 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 18 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance the GRI Standards body and its committees 30 GRI 102-55 GRI Content index 19 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governing body 30 GRI 102-56 External assurance 19 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 04 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix 31 MATERIAL TOPICS 88 APPENDIX 32 Economic Topics 89 Assurance Report 32 GRI 201 Economic Performance 36 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 91 Key Sustainability Indicators 38 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 91 Economic performance indicators 42 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 92 Environmental performance Indicators 44 Availability and Reliability 93 Social performance indicators 46 Energy Efficient Products and Services 47 Research and Development 94 Progress Report on the Global Compact 2018 48 Shutdown and Decommissioning of Power Plants and Reinstatement of Opencast Mines 97 Contact and Imprint 52 Environmental Topics 52 GRI 302 Energy 54 GRI 303 Water 56 GRI 304 Biodiversity 59 GRI 305 Emissions 66 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 68 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 70 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 71 Social Topics 71 GRI 401 Employment 72 GRI 402 Labour/Management Relations 73 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 76 GRI 404 Training and Education 78 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 81 GRI 413 Local Communities 82 Catastrophe/Emergency Planning and Response 84 GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 85 GRI 415 Public Policy 86 GRI 417 Marketing and Labelling 86 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 05 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix FOREWORD Dear Readers, RWE is a driving force in the transformation of our energy In a number of areas, we anticipate implementation of the supply. The year 2018 was paradigmatic in this process. agreement with E.ON and refer to RWE including the continThere have not been many business years in the 120-year uing activities of innogy. In each case, we highlight the history of our company in which we have made such significhanged boundaries in order to facilitate comparison with cant strategy decisions. Our commitment to a secure, affordthe previous year. able and sustainable energy supply is just as important in this context as our responsibility towards society, our However, alongside the many examples that demonstrate employees and our investors. the transformation at RWE, a number of constants are also evident in our reporting. In common with last year, a numRWE strategically continued its transformation process ber of sections of our Sustainability Report have been highthrough the agreement reached with E.ON in March 2018. lighted in blue as being our Group Non-financial Report. This Part of the agreement includes a takeover of the renewable is in line with the principle informing the European CSR Direcenergy business from E.ON and innogy. This will make RWE tive and the German Implementation Act in relation to proEurope’s third largest business for renewable energy and viding transparent information about non-financial aspects. the world’s number two in the area of offshore wind power. As in previous years, this year’s sustainability report simultaAt the same time, the transition within RWE has continued. neously constitutes our progress report on the UN Global We have modernised and upgraded further power plants – Compact. By signing the Global Compact, we declared our and we have shut down others. This has enabled us to commitment to actively promoting human rights, decent reduce our CO2 emissions for the sixth year in succession. working conditions and environmental protection within our A reduction of greater than 10% was again achieved in 2018. sphere of influence, and taking decisive action against corOnce again, we intensified our activities relating to occuparuption and bribery. The progress report sets out how we at tional health and safety. As a result, we have been able to RWE implement the 10 principles of the Global Compact. significantly reduce the number of occupational accidents by comparison with the previous year – even though the And there is another thing that will not change. Every year, number continues to be too high. Diversity in our corporate we place great emphasis on presenting transparent and culture continues to be an important topic for us. Our Execuevidence-based information. We provide this for our staketive Mentoring Programme has enabled us to further increase holders – in particular policymakers, investors, customers, the proportion of female managers in the company. employees, local authorities and the general public – outlining how we at RWE live up to our responsibility. These are just a few examples of how RWE has fulfilled its responsibility in 2018. You will find more detail on this and We will be delighted if this leads to an ongoing dialogue. on many other aspects of our wide-ranging engagement on the following pages of this sustainability report. Yours, Rolf Martin Schmitz 06 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix  GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the German version of the report. GRI 101 Foundation (in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016) GRI 102 General disclosures (in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016) GENERAL DISCLOSURES 07 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE In addition to the information provided below, more information is also available in section 1.1 STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE in the combined review of operations of the RWE Annual Report 2018, page 18. GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation RWE Aktiengesellschaft GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services RWE AG makes a major contribution to the smooth operation For information on the products and services of innogy see of the entire energy system and to security of supply in the innogy Sustainability Report GRI 102-2, page 10. Europe with its operating segments Lignite & Nuclear, European Power and Supply & Trading. Up to now, we have covered all the stages of the value chain in the energy sector through our Group companies We manage our subsidiary company innogy SE with its three (including innogy). In future, RWE will concentrate on divisions of Renewable Energies, Grid & Infrastructure and electricity generation from conventional and renewable Retail as a fully consolidated financial investment, see sources, and on energy trading. For more information see GRI 102-6, page 8. GRI 102-6, page 8. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Essen, Germany GRI 102-4 Location of operations RWE is an international group which including its subsidiary QQ Germany company innogy is represented at business locations in QQ Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg 28 countries. QQ United Kingdom QQ Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe (Croatia, The key business operations are distributed across the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia) following countries and regions: QQ Western and Southern Europe (Spain and Italy) QQ Singapore QQ USA GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form At the end of 2018, an estimated 86% of the total of 614.7 Kingdom and Ireland, it accounted for a combined 43% million RWE shares (incl. 39 million non-voting preferred (previous year: 40%). shares) were held by institutional investors, while the other shares were held by private individuals (including employees). RWE AG’s single largest shareholder is KEB Holding, which Institutional investors from Germany owned 25% of RWE is backed by the City of Dortmund, followed by US asset (previous year: 29%). In other countries on the European management company BlackRock. Based on their latest voting continent, this investor group held 15% (previous year: 14%) right notifications, these companies each held about 6% and of RWE’s subscribed capital. In North America, the United 5% respectively of the subscribed capital. The third biggest 08 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix shareholder is the City of Essen with 3%. The free float of Stakes held by asset management companies like BlackRock our common shares considered by Deutsche Börse (German are classified by Deutsche Börse as free float as long as they Stock Exchange) in terms of index weighting was 94% at do not exceed 25% of the capital stock. year-end. Only the stake held KEB Holding was deducted. GRI 102-6 Markets served We report on our business model and our markets in the Lignite & Nuclear review of operations in the RWE Annual Report 2018 in This is where we record our German electricity generation section 1.1 STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE, page 8. from the energy sources of lignite and nuclear energy, as well as lignite mining in the Rhineland. These activities are Our company is currently in the middle of a transformation overseen by our subsidiary company RWE Power AG. This process. This will enable it to recalibrate and reposition itself segment also includes our 51% stake in the Hungarian in operational and organisational terms. Up to now, we have utility Mátra, which generates electricity from lignite and covered all stages of the value chain in the energy sector which we sold in March 2018. It also comprises our interests through our Group companies (including innogy). In future, in the Dutch nuclear power plant operator EPZ (30%) and in RWE will concentrate on electricity generation from convenGermany-based URANIT (50%), which holds a 33% in the tional and renewable sources, and on energy trading. The uranium enrichment specialist Urenco. platform for this is the planned transaction with E.ON, which both companies agreed in March 2018 and which is to be European Power implemented in 2019. The transaction provides for E.ON Our electricity generation from gas, hard coal, biomass purchasing 76.8% of the shares in innogy which up to now and water is subsumed under this segment. Here, the geobelonged to RWE AG. RWE will take over the business with graphic focus is on Germany, the United Kingdom and the renewable energy from E.ON and the renewable energy Benelux region. The segment also contains our 70% stake in business from innogy. Added to this, E.ON’s minority interthe Denizli gas-fired power plant in Turkey, some hydroelectric ests in the nuclear power plants Emsland and Gundremminpower plants in Germany and Luxembourg and RWE Technolgen operated by RWE, the gas storage business of innogy ogy International GmbH, which specialises in project manand its share in the Austrian energy utility Kelag. RWE will agement and engineering services. All of these activities also take a 16.7% stake in E.ON. are overseen by RWE Generation SE. The RWE Group is currently structured into three operating Energy Trading segments (business units) and innogy, which is managed This segment encompasses the multifaceted activities of purely as a financial investment. In this report, RWE concenRWE Supply & Trading GmbH. The company acts as the comtrates on the core Group together with the operating segmercial hub for the RWE Group. RWE Supply & Trading is the ments. innogy is only referred to explicitly in special cases. interface between the RWE Group and the global wholesale Generally speaking, innogy has similar processes to those markets for energy and energy-related raw materials. It is also applied at RWE and also publishes an independent sustainthe hub for all tradeable goods in physical and/or derivative ability report. form, including electricity, gas, Liquified Natural Gas (LNG), coal, biomass, emissions certificates and renewable energy. It increasingly conducts these activities outside Europe, for example in New York, Singapore and Mumbai. Its function is also to ensure economic optimisation of the entire unregulated gas business of the RWE Group, including all activities in the areas of procurement, transport, storage and LNG. 09 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix innogy expansion of photovoltaics, and system-supporting technoloOur financial investment innogy SE is responsible for busigies such as battery storage have recently been incorporated ness involving renewable energy, distribution networks and in the portfolio. retail. Its strategy is designed to spur structural change in the energy sector. Following the planned transaction with The Grid & Infrastructure Division operates and maintains E.ON, RWE will take over virtually the entire renewable gas grids. The division is divided into Grid & Infrastructure energy business from E.ON and from innogy. During the Germany and Central and South Eastern Europe. Furthertransition period prior to closing of the transaction, the more, the division offers grid services (Grid+) and is expandinnogy continuing operations are incorporated in the Group ing its activities in the area of glass-fibre networks (FTTx). structure as a fourth segment. innogy manages electricity and gas grids mainly in Germany, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. Renewables: innogy SE develops, builds and operates facilities for the generation of electricity from renewable energy The Retail Division is responsible for the sale of electricity sources. The main markets for renewable energy are in and gas, and for providing innovative energy solutions and Australia, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Ireland, services (Energy+). The main markets are in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain and the USA. Germany, Croatia, the Netherlands, Romania (until August In terms of energy sources, the focus is on onshore and off2018), Slovakia, Slovenia, Czech Republic and Hungary. shore wind energy, as well as hydroelectric power. Recently, capital expenditure has also been directed towards the 10 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Company size Unit 2018 20174 Workforce FTE 15,556 17,154 Headcount 1 16,463 17,979 Total number of business locations2 Countries 28 24 Revenue (without natural-gas/electricity tax) 5 € billion 13,388 13,822 Equity6 € billion 14.3 12.0 Net debt 7 € billion 2.28 4.51 Lignite produced (opencast mining in the Rhineland million mt 86.3 91.3 Mining Region) External electricity sales volume3, 5 kWh bn 216.1 227.7 External gas sales volume 5 kWh bn 67.0 64.1 1 Employees and apprentices of the RWE Group not including innogy. 2 Number of countries in which fully consolidated companies and joint operations of the RWE Group have their registered office. 3 For data on electricity generation see Key sustainability indicators, page 91. 4 Data for 2017 were to some extent corrected retrospectively and they reflect the new report structure. 5 Disclosures for the RWE Group including the innogy continuing operations. 6 Figures for the RWE Group (including innogy). 7 Figures for the RWE Group excluding innogy. Number of residential, industrial, and commercial electricity customers and 6.2 million gas customers. The size customers of RWE and innogy of the customer base in our RWE Energy Trading segment is Our subsidiary innogy is able to build on a broad customer significantly less. However, even today it generates around base in all its markets. In 2018, the Residential and Commercial 26% of electricity sales and around 46% of gas sales in the Customer segment essentially included a total of 15.5 million segment of very large customers. Residential Industrial and commercial and corporate External electricity sales volume 3 Distributors Total customers customers billion kWh 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Lignite & Nuclear 0.2 0.2 5.1 12.3 5.3 12.5 European Power 2.3 2.2 4.5 5.2 6.8 7.4 Energy Trading 56.5 36.1 199.91 203.91 innogy – continuing operations 4.0 3.8 4.0 3.8 RWE Group2 0.2 0.2 58.8 38.3 13.7 21.4 216.1 227.7 1 Including volume effects arising from the sales of self-generated electricity on the wholesale market. If these sales volumes are greater than the purchases sourced from third-party utilities for retail purposes, the positive balance in sales is taken into account. In 2018, there was a positive balance of 143.4 billion kWh, compared with 167.8 billion kWh in the previous year. 2 Including lower volumes recorded under “Other consolidation”. 3 Figures for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively in line with the new reporting structure.  11 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Residential Industrial and commercial and corporate External gas sales volume1 Distributors Total customers customers billion kWh 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Energy Trading 30.7 27.4 35.4 35.8 66.1 63.2 innogy – continuing operations 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 European Power 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 RWE Group 30.7 27.4 36.3 36.7 67.0 64.1 1 Figures for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively in line with the new report structure. Further information on the company is also available under Key Sustainability Indicators, page 91. GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Headcount of employees1 2018 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Germany 1,574 13,077 14,651 1,393 12,743 14,136 United Kingdom 184 971 1,155 166 953 1,119 Netherlands/Belgium 52 498 550 52 507 559 Central Eastern/South Eastern Europe 21 56 77 231 1,905 2,136 Other countries 9 21 30 8 21 29 RWE standalone 1,840 14,623 16,463 1,850 16,129 17,979 Part-time employees 949 836 Full-time employees 15,514 17,143 Permanent contract 15,790 17,326 Fixed-term contract 673 653 1 Employee data relate to RWE without innogy. RWE only contracts a small proportion of permanently employed staff from subcontractors to carry out operational functions. We contract them for service and service packages, and for construction and assembly work. GRI 102-9 Supply chain Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard innogy SE for this item was approximately € 1.7 billion. In coal, gas, LNG and biomass, as well as trading in combustion order to meet the differing requirements relating to procurefuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised products ment, we have adjusted our processes and ensure compliwith defined quality attributes on international wholesale ance with our sustainability requirements in the supply chain. markets. These markets are the most important source of procurement. The procurement volume of combustion fuels When procuring services that are delivered at our sites, (hard coal, natural gas and biomass) was around € 4.2 billion we treat subcontracted employees in the same way as our in 2018 (RWE Group including innogy continuing operations). own employees. We use the RWE Code of Conduct to ensure compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact When purchasing goods, services and plant components and the statutory regulations. In the case of critical groups for our business operations, RWE is in direct contact and in of goods, we check this in the course of a pre-qualification, contractual relations with service providers or suppliers. In see GRI 204, page 38. 2018, the procurement volume of the RWE Group without 12 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain For information on material organisational changes see GRI 102-6, page 8. GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach  Identifying, assessing and managing risks at the earliest posInternal Auditing ensures compliance with the RWE Code sible stage are the function of the Risk Management Departof Conduct in the course of the audits carried out. The ment at RWE AG. This includes our Group-wide reporting and principles of the Code of Conduct are included in the audit controlling systems. It also encompasses our guidelines on criteria. The Chief Compliance Officer regularly reports on handling risks, and risk analysis within the scope of stratethis matter to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the gic, planning and controlling processes. The activities of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Risk Committee and Internal Auditing are also fundamental tenets of this work alongside reporting on the basis of the For more information on risk management see the Act on Control and Transparency of Enterprises (KonTraG). RWE Annual Report 2018, page 73. We invest regularly in environmental protection. We have divided our expenses by areas of activity. Environmental protection expenses in € million 2018¹ 2017 Air pollution control 185.5 203 Nature conservation and protection of the landscape 35.4 59 Water protection 99.1 134 Waste disposal 273.0 253 Noise abatement 4.9 9 Polluted sites. soil contamination 2.2 1 Climate protection 35.5 988 Total 635.5 1.647 1 Data for 2018 is for the RWE Group without innogy. GRI 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact and SDG Initiative Bettercoal Since January 2004, the RWE Group has been a member of Cooperating with other energy companies is absolutely the „Global Compact“ (GC) set up by former General essential in order to be in a position to exert more pressure Secretary of the United Nations Kofi Annan. By signing up and meet demands for sustainable production and transport to the ten principles underlying the Global Compact, RWE conditions in the supply chain for hard coal. In 2012, we made a commitment to human rights and labour standards, joined forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to promoting environmental protection in its business operalaunch the Bettercoal Initiative. By the end of 2018, 13 tions, and preventing corruption. We present the contribution big energy companies were members of Bettercoal. The we have made to global implementation of the principles of Dutch ports also joined the initiative as associate members. the Global Compact in an annual Progress Report. We also Bettercoal audits coal production sites throughout the world present our contribution to the Sustainable Development and makes the results for assessment of its suppliers avail­ Goals (SDG) adopted by the United Nations in September able to members, see GRI 204, page 38. 2015 in the Appendix to this report on page 94. 13 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-13 Membership of associations We are an active member of a large number of different QQ German Equities Institute (Deutsches Aktieninstitut e. V.) committees and specialist associations as part of our social, QQ German-Russian Forum (Deutsch-Russisches Forum e. V.) environmental and business responsibility. The following QQ IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme memberships are important for RWE AG QQ IETA (International Emission Trading Association) (in alphabetical order): QQ If.E Innovation Forum for the Energy Transition of IG BCE (Innovationsforum Energiewende lf.E der IG BCE) QQ AGWE – Employers’ Association of Gas, Water and QQ Promotion Group for German Industry Electricity Utilities (Arbeitgeberverband von Gas-, (Förderkreis der Deutschen Industrie e. V.) Wasserund Elektrizitätsunternehmungen e. V.) QQ Sustainable Biomass Program QQ Bettercoal Ltd. QQ VdV – Association of the German Integrated Economy QQ BDEW – German Association of Energy and (Verband der Deutschen Verbundwirtschaft e. V.) Water Industries QQ VGB PowerTech e. V. – international technical association (Bundesverband der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e. V.) for generation and storage of power and heat QQ DEBRIV Federal Lignite Association QQ VRB – Association of Raw Materials and Mining (Bundesverband Braunkohle) (Vereinigung Rohstoffe und Bergbau e. V.) QQ DICO – German Institute for Compliance QQ World Economic Forum (Deutsches Institut für Compliance e. V.) QQ World Energy Council (Weltenergierat) QQ DIIR – German Institute for Internal Auditing (Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision e. V.) In the course of its membership activities, RWE checks QQ DIRK – German Investor Relations Association whether the association positions published in press (Deutscher Investor Relations Verband e. V.) releases or in another form match RWE positions on these QQ econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of issues, e.g. on climate change. Once again, there was no the German Economy (Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung need for the Group to distance itself from specific association der Deutschen Wirtschaft e. V.) positions in 2018. QQ EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders QQ Energy Netherlands (Energie Nederland) For memberships of innogy, see GRI 102-13 in the innogy QQ Energy UK Sustainability Report, page 19. QQ Eurogas 14 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See Foreword, page 5. GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities The CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) came aspects1 of environmental concerns, employee concerns, into force on 19 April 2017. It obliges large capital-market social concerns, protecting human rights, anti-corruption oriented companies to draw up and publish a non-financial and combatting bribery: declaration (NfD) in the Management Report or a separate non-financial Group report (NfR) in a different document. QQ Environment The aim is to provide information that is necessary to under– CO2 emissions at power plants, safe operation of stand the business performance, business results, position power plants and opencast mines2, contribution to and impacts of the activity of the company on the environachieving political climate goals, quality of recultivation2, ment and society. RWE has therefore decided to use individual innovative products and services, NOX and mercury blue sections of the CR Report as modules for the separate emissions, efficiency of power plants and sites, polluted non-financial Group report and to publish them in the CR waste from nuclear energy, intermediate storage and Report. The CR Report of RWE AG is drawn up in conformity final repository2 with the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative QQ Work (GRI). In the non-financial report, we have also used the GRI – Occupational accidents, healthcare promotion and Standards as a framework for the materiality analysis and a overcoming stress description of the concepts. The components of the NfR are QQ Society also based on the performance indicators relating to CR, – Protection of infrastructure against cyber-attacks, which are reflected in the performance-related remuneration transparency in political communication, safety and of the Management Board. Due to the requirements of the protection of nuclear power plants, new storage CSR-RUG for reporting on the aspects required in this act, technologies, dialogue with critics the approach “Comply-or-explain” applies. This means that QQ Human rights an explanation and justification must be given unless a con– Observance of human rights in the supply chain² cept is pursued. QQ Anti-corruption – Implementation and monitoring compliance of the An analysis of material topics for the RWE Group is carried RWE Code of Conduct out in preparation for drawing up the CR Report each year, see GRI 102-47, page 26. This includes a survey of The topic areas identified in this way determine the focuses selected stakeholders. The relevant individual topics identidefined in this report. fied in this materiality analysis determine the reporting innogy prepared a separate materiality analysis on the basis scope of this CR report. The following particularly relevant of the specific business model, see innogy Sustain­ability individual topics were determined as encompassing the Report GRI 102-46, page 34. 1 For the sake of clarity, the most important topics are presented in accordance with the classification of the German Commercial Code (HGB). 2 These topics were included as new relevant topics in 2018. 15 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix First and foremost, key sustainability impacts were identiprotecting human rights. Anti-corruption and combatting fied as the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) associated with bribery are addressed in the section of the same name. conventional power generation that guarantees a secure Social concerns such as dialogue with our local stakeholders energy supply. These currently frame the debate in the pubor information about resettlement and recultivation in the lic domain and shape the direction of government policy. Rhine-Ruhr region have a lower status in the stakeholders’ In future, these will continue to fall. Key reasons for this are survey carried out for the materiality analysis in relation to the ongoing expansion of renewable energy, the reformed other topics and they are not a constituent element of the European emissions trading scheme and the implementation performance-related compensation of the Executive Board. of our plan for reduction of CO2 emissions linked to this, for Although they are consequently a constituent element of example by migrating older lignite-fired units to security our CR Report, they have not been included in the Nonstand-by. Opportunities and risks result from a number of financial Group Report. The selection of the sections for the factors including the statutory implementation of measures Non-financial Group Report was carried out in consultation for the German Climate Protection plan 2050 planned for with the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and it 2019 in accordance with the coalition agreement of the also reflects the assessments of the stakeholders. German Federal Government including the recommendations of the Commission “Growth, Structural Change and EmployThe business model and alignment of the RWE Group prement” and the more stringent climate protection policy of sent a range of diverse opportunities. When we established the Dutch government, and Brexit. The manifestation of a innogy in 2016 in an initial public offering, these only reprenumber of risks can exert significantly serious impacts on sented the first steps on the roadmap to a new RWE. We the business model of RWE, for example, implementation are now taking another major step by swapping our financial of the recommendations of the Commission “Growth, Strucinvestment in innogy for a leading operating position in tural Change and Employment”. There is therefore the risk renewable energy. The platform for this is a transaction with that the compensation payments offered may not be suffiE.ON agreed in March 2018, as a result of which the two cient to mitigate the profit losses and additional costs companies will be realigned. As soon as the swap transacincurred. tion has been completed, we will drive forward the expanFor explanations on material risks and opportunities, see sion of renewable energy – with net capital expenditure of the Annual Report, section 1.13, page 73. around € 1.5 billion each year. Our new role will be as an allrounder in electricity generation who will guarantee secure Another focus is on occupational health and safety. This supply with its flexible portfolio of power plants, while at relates to our own employees and to employees of subconthe same time playing a proactive role in restructuring the tractors commissioned by us. Furthermore, a great deal energy system to create more climate protection. of attention is focused on the area of compliance, and the sustainability requirements in the supply chain, particularly The dialogue with the different stakeholders is important in the case of hard coal. to us – starting with government, continuing through associations and employees, and including environmental and Other aspects of sustainability impacts are protection of consumer organisations. With this end in mind, we are conour plants – safe technical operation and protection against tinuously engaging in discussion in the public domain and cyber-attacks, transparency of political communication and monitoring the positions of our stakeholders in relation to the areas of biodiversity and recultivation. all issues of sustainability and make use of opportunities to exchange views with them, see GRI 102-43, page 22. In relation to the NfR, the sections Emissions (greenhouse This is carried out in close consultation with colleagues from gas emissions) and Compliance (environment) therefore conthe relevant specialist departments and the subsidiaries in stitute the contribution to environmental concerns, parts of the various countries where we operate. The key task is to the section on Occupational Health and Safety encompass integrate the fundamental concepts of Corporate Responsithe aspect of Employee concerns, the section on Procurebility in all our business processes. ment deals with a number of areas including the aspect of 16 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour At RWE, we are well aware of our role in the community and and is intended to give a unified foundation for the contracof our responsibility towards customers and business parttual relationship. ners, as well as shareholders and employees. We therefore have clearly defined principles which form the framework for Responsible management and supervision of the company our corporate and community engagement. The focus of our rank among the cornerstones for long-term success. Our actions is on the common values of trust, passion and perbenchmark is provided by the German Corporate Governance formance. They ensure a unified, overarching identity in all Code, originally launched in 2002, in the relevant latest verthe companies of the RWE Group. These values are supplesion. We comply with most of the recommendations of the mented by the RWE Code of Conduct and the principles for code, see further details under GRI 102-18, page17. good conduct defined in the Code. The Code also establishes This enables us to strengthen the trust placed in us by our the benchmark for collaboration with contractual partners investors, customers, employees and the general public. GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Every single employee is encouraged to be proactive in parties outside the company, for example suppliers or other bringing any issues relating to our Code of Conduct and business partners. Notifications relating to any potential compliance with the code to the attention of their superbreaches are recorded by the Compliance Department. visor and/or the responsible compliance officer. The same Each case is reviewed by the Group function responsible, applies to any indications relating to breaches of the Code and any remedial measures necessary are initiated in the of Conduct. Compliance officers are appointed for all divicontext of a systematic follow-up process. sions and Group companies, and they are always available as points of contact for such matters. In particular, they receive Our external ombudsperson takes all notifications and information about issues relating to prevention of corruption. complaints relating to negative environmental, social and Contact details for compliance officers are available on the human-rights impacts, and regarding working practices. Intranet. Further expansion of the reporting system is planned for 2019. It is also possible to contact an independent external ombudsperson by phone or email. This contact is available for employees and also accepts information from third 17 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure The corporate governance of RWE AG as a German jointinformation on the concrete work of the Supervisory Board stock company listed on the stock exchange is primarily and its committees is provided in the latest Supervisory determined by the Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) Board Report in the Annual Report 2018, page 8. and also by the regulations of the German Corporate Governance Code in its latest current version. RWE essentially complies with the recommendations of the new version of the German Corporate Governance Code Pursuant to the statutory regulations, RWE is subject to the (DCGK) published on 24 April 2017 and has already complied “dual governance system”. This is characterised by a strict with them in the past. However, on 21 September 2018, separation of personnel between the Executive Board as a the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of RWE AG management body and the Supervisory Board as a monitoring declared in an update of the Declaration of Compliance body. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board work pursuant to Article 161 Stock Corporation Act (AktG) dated closely together in pursuing the interests of the company. 14 December 2017 a deviation from the recommendations pursuant to Clause 4.2.3 section 2 sentence 8 DCGK, accordThe Executive Board manages the company with the objective ing to which a subsequent amendment to the performance of generating sustainable value added under its own respontargets or the comparison parameters should be excluded sibility. The principle of overall responsibility applies to their in relation to the compensation for the Executive Board. On work, and this means that the members of the Executive 21 September 2018, the Supervisory Board decided to retroBoard bear joint responsibility for the entire executive manactively adjust the target values of company bonuses (as a agement. They develop the corporate strategy and ensure constituent element of the annual variable remuneration) for implementation in consultation with the Supervisory Board. the Executive Board in the business year 2018 and for the tranches relating to 2018 and 2019 of the Strategic PerforThe Supervisory Board advises the Executive Board on manmance Plan (SPP). The adjustment is necessary and appropriaging the company and monitors its activity. It appoints and ate under statutory legislation relating to joint-stock compadismisses members of the Executive Board, passes resolunies against the background of the exchange of business tions on the compensation system for the members of the activities agreed between RWE and E.ON. The previous tarExecutive Board and defines individual compensation packget values (adjusted EBIT for the company bonuses; adjusted ages for each member. The Supervisory Board is involved in net income for the SPP) were defined on the basis of the all decisions that are of fundamental importance for RWE. plans for the RWE Group. This has taken account of innogy SE, in which RWE AG has a 76.8% shareholding, as a fully consolThe RWE Supervisory Board currently has five permanent idated subsidiary company. The intention is to transfer the committees and the Executive Committee: the Mediation majority shareholding in innogy to E.ON in the course of the Committee pursuant to Article 27 Section 3 Co-determinaexchange deal. The reporting parameters necessary for tion Act (MitbestG), the Personnel Affairs Committee, the measuring target attainment in relation to the company Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Stratbonuses and the SPP will therefore no longer be available egy Committee. The committees prepare topics and resolufrom business year 2018. Instead, RWE figures will then be tions in advance of meetings of the Supervisory Board. They used for performance measurement, in which innogy – differsometimes also have decision-making powers delegated to ing from the International Financial Reporting Standards them by the Supervisory Board. The chairs of the commit(IFRS) – is recorded simply as a straight financial shareholding. tees regularly inform the Supervisory Board about the work For more information on this see our current Corporate of the committees. In addition, shareholder and employee Governance Report published on the Internet at representatives regularly hold separate preliminary meetings www.rwe.com/corporate-governance. before Supervisory Board meetings. Additional detailed For information on the governance structure of innogy see GRI 102-18 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 22. GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Powers of attorney are granted by the Executive Board in to take decisions independently within their sphere of the form of procurations and power to actto the individual responsibility, so long as a higher level of authority has not departmental and section managers who are empowered reserved the right to approve certain decisions. 18 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board of RWE AG has adopted a portfolio Acquisitions, and Tax. The Group Executive Board reports to distribution which gives specified members of the Executive the Supervisory Board of the company as the highest govBoard responsibility for various topics. The current portfolio ernance body. distribution provides for the following powers of responsibility over economic, environmental and social topics: The The Group-wide implementation and realisation of CorpoChairman of the Executive Board deals with the group-level rate Responsibility is coordinated by the Group Corporate responsibilities Corporate Business Development, Corporate Responsibility Team within the Group Communication & Transformation, Group Communications & Energy Policy, Energy Policy Team. The Head of the Group Communication Group Strategy, Human Resources, Internal Audit & Compli& Energy Policy Department reports directly to the Chief ance, Legal. Since 1 May 2017, the Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer. Representatives of RWE AG and the key has also held the role of Labour Director. The responsibilities operating companies come together in relation to specific of the Chief Financial Officer include Accounting, Business themes as necessary in order to swap experiences and to Services, Controlling & Risk Management, Finance & Credit agree activities jointly. Risk, Investor Relations, Portfolio Management/Mergers & GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Each shareholder has the right to submit a countermotion The publication of the business results is accompanied by with substantiation against the proposals put forward by the an investors’ and analysts’ teleconference. Additionally, Executive Board and/or the Supervisory Board on a specific managers take part in Group roadshows and participate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders in conferences. In accordance with the recommendations whose shares taken together make up one twentieth of the of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman entire share capital or a proportionate amount of € 500,000 of the Supervisory Board is regularly available to investors can demand that items are placed on the agenda and for discussions about matters specifically relating to the announced. Supervisory Board. GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees The Supervisory Board is a non-executive supervisory body. A presentation of the Executive Board and the Supervisory It consists of 20 members, ten of which are elected by the Board is given in the description of the governance bodies in Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of the the RWE Annual Report 2018, page 196. It provides an German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Ten of the overview of the number of other important positions or oblimembers are elected by the employees pursuant to the Cogations held by the individual persons and the type of oblidetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) dated 4 May gation. 1976 (MitbestG). In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act, the period of office for current members of the In order to ensure a fit and proper composition of the SuperSupervisory Board continues until the end of the Annual visory Board, the Supervisory Board passed a resolution on General Meeting which passes a resolution on the discharge a competence profile. As envisaged in the German Stock for the actions of the Supervisory Board for the fourth busiCorporation Act and in the German Corporate Governance ness year after the commencement of the period of office. Code, the aim is to make appointments to the Supervisory The periodic new elections for the Supervisory Board are Board so as to ensure provision of expert monitoring and therefore planned for 2021. At the moment, the Supervisory consultation. The objective is for at least one member of the Board of RWE AG includes six women, of which three were Supervisory Board to be able to provide expertise for each elected by the employees. RWE AG therefore complies with aspect of the activity of the Supervisory Board. This means the statutory gender quota of 30%. that the necessary knowledge and experience is reflected by the Members of the Supervisory Board as a whole. 19 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Furthermore, the Supervisory Board intends to ensure that it sions and evaluating the documents associated with the includes members with international experience who come annual financial statements. Alternatively, they need to be from outside Germany or who have spent a considerable willing to engage in a learning curve to acquire the necesnumber of years working in other countries. sary knowledge and skills. The needs profile also includes special areas of expertise and qualifications that are imporMembers of the Supervisory Board are expected to be tant for the business activities. This may include e.g. experifamiliar with the business areas of the RWE Group, the marence from an international activity or management functions ket landscape, the needs of customers and the strategic in politics and business, know-how in areas of the energy direction of the company. They should possess all the skills sector, employee co-determination, accounting or auditing, and know-how necessary for their activity as a member of and expertise in the public sector.You will find more inforthe Supervisory Board including assessment of reports promation in the RWE Annual Report 2018, page 10, and on vided by the Executive Board, weighing up business deciour Webpage. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governing body The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Dr Werner Brandt, is not simultaneously a member of the Executive Board. He has also not been a member of the Executive Board of RWE AG in the past. GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body As defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory clusion, amendment and the termination of contracts of Board, the Nomination Committee convenes as necessary employment with the members of the Executive Board. This and proposes suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board work does not include the decisions reserved for the Superas its nominations for election by the Annual General Meetvisory Board pursuant to Article 87 Section 1 and Section 2 ing. When the committee selects the nomination proposals, Sentence 1 and Sentence 2 Stock Corporation Act (AktG), it takes into account the international operations of the although the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the company, potential conflicts of interest, and diversity. There groundwork for such decisions. Furthermore, the committee is also a competence and needs profile for members of the regularly gives advice on long-term succession planning for Supervisory Board which is intended to ensure a heterogethe Executive Board. In this context, the committee takes neous composition of the Supervisory Board, see GRI 102account of planning for the management of the company 22, page 18. and also considers the need for diversity. For purposes of making appointments to the Executive Board, the Supervisory As it is also defined in the Rules of Procedure of the SuperBoard has adopted a requirements profile for members of visory Board, the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the the Executive Board in accordance with the recommendations groundwork for decisions on personnel by the Supervisory of the German Corporate Governance Code. This also takes Board. The committee makes decisions on behalf of the account of the requirements for diversity relating to this Supervisory Board in a number of areas, including the congovernance body. GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Transparency is a core element of good corporate governrepresented in the Supervisory Board of innogy SE. Conflicts ance. It is absolutely indispensable in cases where transacof interest arising as a result of this were declared and solutions concluded by the Executive Board may lead to conflicts tions for dealing with the conflicts of interest were agreed in of interest. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board the relevant bodies. As a consequence, Dr Erhard Schipporeit also addressed the issue of double mandates in the Group. and Ms Monika Krebber, who are represented in the SuperThis may arise if a member of the Executive Board of RWE AG visory Board of RWE AG and in the Supervisory Board of and members of the Supervisory Board of RWE AG are also innogy SE, did not receive any preparatory meeting docu20 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ments relating to the decisions affecting the sale of shares 2018, there were no further decisions requiring resolutions by RWE AG in innogy SE during the business year 2018, and to be passed which would have resulted in actual conflicts of were excluded from consultative discussions and passing interest. Furthermore, no contracts were concluded between resolutions in relation to this matter in the Supervisory members of the Supervisory Board and RWE AG. Board of RWE AG. The Member of the Executive Board Dr Markus Krebber also declared a conflict of interest in this The memberships in other governance bodies held by memmatter relating to his membership on the Supervisory Board bers of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are disof innogy SE and he received no documents and did not closed transparently in the presentation of governance bodies take part in any consultative discussions and passing resoluin the RWE Annual Report 2018, page 196. RWE AG has tions on the Supervisory Board of innogy SE, which related no controlling shareholder. Transactions with related parties directly or indirectly to this transaction. In the business year are included in financial reporting. GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategies We have created long-term incentives for sustainable corpofor the Executive Board has been linked to CR indicators, see rate governance in which part of the variable compensation GRI 102-35, page 21. GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts See GRI 102-31, page 20. GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of the risk management processes The Executive Board of RWE AG holds the principal responsireports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of bility for the risk management system. The board monitors RWE AG on the risk position of the Group. and manages the overall risk of the Group. The responsibility for applying and developing the risk management system is The Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the quality at the level below the Executive Board with Controlling & and the functional capability of the risk management system. Risk Management of RWE AG. This department regularly GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board of RWE AG is informed immediately if The efficacy audit was successfully completed at the turn there are any significant changes to the risk situation. The of the year 2013/2014. The Chief Compliance Officer management and supervisory bodies are informed about reports at regular intervals to the Executive Board of RWE AG the risk situation as part of quarterly reporting. and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on compliance-relevant issues. This includes in principle all the The entrepreneurial actions of RWE are defined by integrity topic areas of the Code of Conduct and provides consolidated and compliance with the law. The RWE Code of Conduct sets information about this. Every manager with disciplinary responout the targets and principles for this and forms the basis sibility additionally needs to submit an annual report on for the corporate culture. The Compliance Management Sysimplementation of the Code of Conduct in his/her area of tem focuses in particular on the identification of potential responsibility. A further review of the Compliance Managestructural risks of corruption. The Compliance Management ment System was started by a professional services firm at System for anti-corruption was audited by a professional the end of 2018. services firm in accordance with IDW Audit Standard 980. 21 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting  The section of the report highlighted in blue presents the The remaining section of the report was checked and implementation of the Non-financial Group Report required approved by the Executive Board of RWE AG. under statutory regulations. It was audited by the Supervisory Board of RWE AG. GRI 102-35 Remuneration policy The performance of individual Executive Board members is Further details on the compensation policy and criteria for taken into account by multiplying the company bonus by a the Executive Board, including disclosures on components of performance factor. The value achieved depends on the folthe compensation package, are included in the compensalowing criteria, each of which is weighted by one-third: tion report in the (1) achievement of the individual targets, (2) collective perRWE Annual Report 2018, page 61. formance of the Executive Board, and (3) performance in This takes account of all statutory regulations and follows corporate responsibility (CR) and employee motivation. the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Success in CR depends on the achievement of environmenCode with the exception of the amendment shown in tal and social goals and is documented in our sustainability GRI 102-18, page 17. reporting. 22 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups  Our company regularly engages in communication in differWe also seek contact with players who are otherwise ent ways with customers, academics, policymakers, repreinvolved in issues relating to the energy industry, as well as sentatives of environmental organisations, local government the corporate activities of RWE and its impacts on society agencies, neighbours around our locations and other citizens. as a whole. GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 99.8% of the employees of the RWE Group work in Europe Our business partners are required to acknowledge the and are represented by the European Works Council. The Code of Conduct and therefore to accept the principles of RWE Social Charter covers 100% of our employees. the United Nations Global Compact, which include the right to collective bargaining agreements. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders  Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations we stakeholders have of RWE are nuanced and defined by have relationships with and engage in dialogue with. We their attitude to energy issues and the extent to which those also regard individuals and entities who seek communication stakeholders are affected by energy, climate and other with us, or who are interested in our company, as stakeholdtopics relevant for the company. The different countries ers. There is no prior selection process. In order to identify show a varying basic attitude to these topics. Their views the various aspirations and take account of them in our are informed by a number of factors including the individual corporate policy, we are in continuous dialogue with our national background. stakeholders and open to their concerns. Expectations that GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement  Communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable and activities with a great deal of interest, perhaps because ideas for the orientation of our corporate activities. Since they are looking for positive effects to give upside impact on the energy world is going through a process of change, it the local economy. Alternatively, they may be anxious about is particularly important for us to discuss expectations and negative impacts on their own lives, the surrounding area projections about the future of energy supply with external and the environment. We meet these expectations with a stakeholders. At the same time, this dialogue provides us transparent information policy, an honest exchange of views with the opportunity to reflect and convey our company and an interest in constructive proposals. At national level, decisions and underlying motivation more effectively. we engage in discussions with our stakeholders in particular on the following issues: our contribution to the energy tranThe dialogue takes place at different levels. We engage in sition and climate protection, the future of the generation discussions about company activities at local level with mix and the energy market, current and pending legislative neighbouring residents and citizen’s initiatives, local authoriand regulatory procedures, sustainability in international ties and regional initiatives. These conversations might supply relationships and a responsible approach to our cusrelate to, for example, construction measures and approval tomers and the environment. proceedings. Local residents frequently follow our projects 23 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised  In 2018 as in the previous year, the dominant issue in be rendered. It should be assumed that a main operational the context of the dialogue with stakeholders continued plan on the topic of FFH with legal force may not be available to be the contributions that the energy industry can make until the end of 2020. to achieving the national and international climate change targets, and the role that conventional power generation As a result, the deforestation cannot be continued for the is able to play in the energy transition, and particularly with time being. However, the other operations including prelimirespect to security of supply. We engaged in an intensive nary clearance and lignite extraction can be continued. dialogue at all levels on this issue with a large number of representatives from the political sphere, business, unions, One example of dialogue was local and regional forums civil society and the general public A range of different where there was an exchange of views on issues relating to topics were addressed, for example reform of the European the energy transition and climate protection in the RhineEmissions Trading Scheme, implementation of the Climate land lignite mining area. This interaction was at the level of Protection Plan 2050 in Germany, renewal of the climate local authorities and at meetings of elected politicians. agreement in the Netherlands, the future design of the EuroOther key issues related to security of supply, job security pean electricity market and the Commission on “Growth, and perspectives for the future at the locations. Structural Change and Employment”. For information on the organisation of the content see GRI 305, page 59. Another area of increasing involvement was the Future Agency Rhineland Mining Region (Zukunftsagentur RheiniIn 2018, the discussion surrounding the deforestation and sches Revier, formerly Innovation Region Rhenish Mining clearance of Hambach Forest attained national importance. Area), which supports the structural change in this area. A lot of discussions were carried out with stakeholders in A representative of RWE Power AG is a Member of the Superwhich the overall necessity for deforestation was explained, visory Board of the Zukunftsagentur Rheinisches Revier covering topics including the continuation and progress of GmbH. Furthermore, RWE participates in a large number of opencast mining, the environmental mitigation and replacedifferent projects and initiatives in the area of opencast ment measures (see GRI 304 , page 56), and the impormining to shape the region, for example the development tance of generating electricity from lignite. Furthermore, the company Entwicklungsgesellschaft Indeland GmbH. In 2017, company provided stakeholders with factual information we continued to support commitments in favour of the Indethrough its various communication channels. The newly land development company until the end of the year 2021. created Internet portal www.hambacherforst.com (GerIn 2018, RWE consented to continue providing financial and man only). is one example of particular importance. specialist support for the Special Purpose Association Zweckverband Tagebaufolge(n)landschaft Garzweiler initially for a After the resolution passed by the Higher Administrative period of six years up until 2023 as well as for the surroundCourt (OVG) Münster in an expedited procedure stating that ing initiative “Umfeldinitative Hambach” which is currently the deforestation should not be continued for the time being founded. being, these discussions were used from October 2018 to make the effects of the judgement transparent. We worked together with the Future Agency Rhineland Mining Region to establish the “Future FORUM Paffendorf – In relation to the need for the clearances in Hambach Forest, We support the Rhineland Mining Region” in a launch event the Higher Administrative Court (OVG) Münster handed in March 2018. The aim is to bundle and network activities down a judgement on 5 October 2018, which is explained of the local authorities, special-purpose associations and below, stating that the issue of whether Hambach Forest initiatives around structural change. In September 2018, a should have been included as a Flora Fauna Habitat (FFH) in planning workshop was held in the Future FORUM where the European nature conservation programme, could not be local-authority and regional target aspirations were brought clarified in the expedited procedure owing to its complexity together to form a picture of the future. Recommendations and it had been referred to the principal proceedings. It canfor the ongoing process of regional development were then not be predicted when a final decision with legal force will drawn up and given concrete form. In 2018, special issues 24 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix dealing with the approach to dealing with mining damage We are also in regular dialogue with our suppliers. We hold were discussed at specialist conferences such as the Mining an annual suppliers conference as a forum for discussion Damage Forum. about current market developments and ideas. Around 100 representatives of nearly 80 subcontractors participate As early as 2010, an arbitration board was set up at the in this conference. Every year, RWE including innogy awards district administration of Cologne, now with the district orders amounting to more than 720 million euros to compaadministration of the Rhineland district of Neuss, in order to nies in the region. In order to strengthen local companies, settle disputes that had resulted in connection with damage the regional allocation of orders within the region is preferred to buildings as a result of potential impacts from lignite minif the offers are equivalent in commercial and qualitative terms. ing. Private individuals, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises were able to present their cases at this board if We continue to hold regular events at national and European they had been unable to reach a settlement with RWE level, for example our RWE Talks. These are also held jointly Power AG up to that point. Contrary to going before a court, with innogy SE. In 2018, they took place in Berlin. Members the procedure in front of the arbitration board is free of of the Executive Board and Managing Directors reported in charge for the claimant. this forum on the latest developments in the energy industry and held discussions with a wide range of different specialThe Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) Niederinterest groups including government, civil society, business außem, which RWE set up at the power plant there, con­ and academia. The discussion topics included the role of tinued to receive a positive reception. The forum offers (natural) gas in the energy transition and the future of elecneighbours, associations and other local stakeholders the tricity generation and the role of coal in this process. opportunity to engage in discussion with RWE about issues related to lignite production and refinement, and power Over the course of 2018, representatives of RWE in the generation with particular reference to the Niederaußem United Kingdom engaged in a dialogue on a variety of issues site. In 2018, the forum met twice. The agenda focused on relating to energy and environmental policy with the reguregional development at the power-plant location, structural latory authorities and policymakers. One topic that we change in the region, perspectives on the use of CO2 as a discussed with the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs, material, as well as recultivation and reuse of former openEnergy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and with the regulator cast mining areas in the Rhineland Mining Region. Ofgem was the reform of the British capacity market. Another topic of discussion with the BEIS and the British Furthermore, we are also planning energy discussions with Treasury was the future price of CO2. There were also dislocal stakeholders in the area of our opencast mines, in the cussions on various other subjects including Brexit, its shape same way as we started them at Inden in 2017. and the potential impacts on the energy industry. A great deal of attention in discussions was also devoted to topics In 2018, we additionally held regular power plant discussions such as national implementation of the EU Directive on at our nuclear power locations. The events are used to Industrial Emissions and the EU Directive on Upper Limits inform politicians, representatives from the community and for National Emissions. the media about operations at the locations. We also rolled out Transparency Initiatives at all three locations. The objecLikewise, RWE was in regular contact with a large number tive of these is to create even more transparency in the of regional and national stakeholders in the Netherlands. future for providing information to various regional specialThese included parliamentarians, politicians, NGOs and acainterest groups through dialogue opportunities directed demics. In particular, we contributed to the discussion about towards different target groups about licensing procedures the ongoing climate protection policy to achieve the climate currently under way. Openness in relation to planning for goals for 2030 and 2050. In this context, we participated in decommissioning and the process involved is also part of conversations about the new national climate and energy this approach. agreement, which the new government coalition launched and which is likely to be completed in the spring of 2019. 25 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In addition, RWE – together with the chemicals industry and a service provider and supplier, and also as a partner who other industrial sectors – is involved in the development of a can work with them to create individual solutions. Our usual bio-based economy in the Netherlands. RWE is also part of high level of product quality, fast and streamlined processes, the Zambezi Consortium alongside Avantium, the national competitive prices, and a clear customer focus continue to forestry authority, AkzoNobel and ChemEurope. The aim is remain our top priorities in this relationship. to develop bio-based plastics and use the by-products as efficiently as possible. If the transition to a bio-based econWe hold two customer events every year. The “Energy omy is to be structured successfully, companies and organiDialogue” is held in Germany and the language is German. sations need to form new value chains and develop new The “Energy Talks” take place in the Netherlands/Belgium forms of cooperation. To this end, RWE has been organising and they are held in English. The exchange with our customers a series of events for some time known as “Energy Fields” extends from the strategy of RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, to which we invite selected players from the bioeconomy. through topics relating to innovation such as “Green Power Each of these forums focuses on an aspect of the bio-based Purchase Agreements” to market analyses. These events economy, for example Business Case Biorefinery, the Role of have provided us with a great deal of constructive feedback the Consumer, and Startup and Innovation. Furthermore, we from our customers. Alongside our commodity solutions, held local stakeholder meetings at our power plant locations our energy market analyses in particular and the cooperative in Geertruidenberg and Eemshaven. In Belgium, RWE has approach to product development has received a great deal been in discussions about potential capacity mechanisms. of praise. Furthermore, we have gained concrete proposals There is an option here of connecting the Dutch Claus C for improvement and new ideas from the events. We evalupower plant to the Belgian grid. ate these and put them into practice. Both events also provide an outstanding forum in order to exchange views with For information on the stakeholder dialogues of innogy SE experts on the energy market and on the framework of see GRI 102-43, page 31 and GRI 102-44, page 32 energy policy. in the innogy Sustainability Report. innogy SE also regularly measures customer loyalty and Results of surveys on customer satisfaction customer satisfaction, see GRI 102-43, page 31 and GRI We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in 417, page 107 in the innogy Sustainability Report. new products and to recommend our company to other people. Our stated objective is to be accepted by them as 26 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See list in the RWE Annual Report 2018, page 160. GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Our management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting and bribery. Prior to disseminating the questionnaire, we take into account the relevant issues that we have deterlaid the groundwork and allocated a total of 17 topics to mined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach these five aspects that we had identified from the familiar corresponds to the current GRI Standards of the Global set of expectations relating to our company that we were Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this aware of and from the GRI Standards and the CR Report report. from the previous year. Our deliberations covered their individual importance for our business, our stakeholders and the So as to determine the material topics for sustainable associated impacts. Additional sub-topics were also allocated corporate governance at RWE, we have focused on the to all the topics so as to achieve maximally comprehensive topics that are particularly relevant for our external and coverage of all the relevant issues. The stakeholders were internal stakeholders. Our approach involved an update able to supplement these. A distinction was also drawn of last year’s comprehensive Materiality Analysis by conbetween topics where the biggest potential change was in ducting interviews with five specialist departments that the company itself and topics that primarily affected our are likely to make a tangible contribution to our sustainasupply chain or our business relationships, see bility management. GRI 102-47, page 26. We used a standardised questionnaire to survey these interThe individual interviews to survey the assessment of our nal stakeholders and collect information about aspects relatshareholders were carried out by CR process owners in ing to environmental concerns, employees’ concerns, social RWE AG. Feedback we received from our stakeholders concerns, protection of human rights, and anti-corruption focused on the medium to long-term perspectives of RWE. GRI 102-47 List of material topics  The topics below present the results of our Materiality Analysis of the topic are generated. RWE would also like to exercise a carried out in 2018, as described in GRI 102-46, page 26. positive influence as far as possible on upstream and downThe topics identified in the Materiality Analysis and presented stream activities in our value chain even if these take place in the table below determine the scope of this CR Report. outside our company. We are able to directly manage the We draw a distinction in the presentation of the analysis impacts that are caused within our company. between the value-chain phases in which the key impacts 27 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Overview of the material aspects and where their impacts are caused: Upstream value Consumption phase/ Corresponding generation downstream value Material topics GRI topics phase RWE generation phase Environmental Concerns Biodiversity Quality of recultivation GRI 304 – Biodiversity Interventions in the landscape GRI 304 – Biodiversity and nature GRI 304 – Biodiversity Origin of the biomass used in GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental power plants Assessment Climate Protection CO2 emissions in power plants GRI 305 – Emissions GRI 417 – Marketing and Labelling Contribution to achieving GRI 201 – Economic Performance political climate goals GRI 305 – Emissions Emissions (apart from greenhouse gases) NOX, dust and mercury emissions GRI 305 – Emissions from power plants Energy Efficiency Efficiency of power plants and GRI 302 – Energy systems Innovative products and services Energy efficient products and services, research and development GRI 302 – Energy Water Lowering of the groundwater table GRI 303 – Water by opencast mining Waste Nuclear energy Polluted sites GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste Intermediate storage and final repository Decommissioning of GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste nuclear power plants Shutdowns and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of mining locations Environmental Management Safe operation of power plants GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance and opencast mines Environmental protection targets GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance Employee Concerns Occupational Health and Safety Occupational accidents GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety Healthcare promotion and GRI 403 – Occupational Health and overcoming stress Safety Labour Relations GRI 401 – Employment Job cuts and reorganisation GRI 402 – Labour/Management Relations GRI 404 – Training and Education 28 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Upstream value Consumption phase/ Corresponding generation downstream value Material topics GRI topics phase RWE generation phase Diversity Avoidance of discrimination GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promotion of diversity GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Social Concerns Catastrophe/Emergency Planning Security and protection of nuclear Catastrophe/Emergency planning power plants and response Protection of infrastructure against Catastrophe/Emergency planning cyber-attacks and response Economic Performance Transaction and integration GRI 201– Economic Performance of renewables Availability and Reliability Flexibilisation of the power plant Availability and reliability portfolio New storage technologies Availability and reliability Regional Relationships Regional partnerships and GRI 203 – Indirect Economic Impacts cooperations GRI 413 – Local Communities Dialogue with critics GRI 102-44 – Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Relationships with Politics Transparency in political GRI 415 – Public Policy communication Respect for Human Rights Supplier Selection and Assessment Respect for human rights in the GRI 204 – Procurement supply chain GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment Origin of imported hard coal GRI 204 – Procurement Anti-corruption and Combatting Bribery Anti-corruption, combatting bribery and granting and accepting advantages Implementing and monitoring of GRI 205 – Anti-corruption the Code of Conduct 29 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The selection of topics for the NfB was carried out on the basis of the approach presented in GRI 102-15, page 14: Table: Topics for the Non-financial Report Statutory Aspects pursuant to Article 289c Section 2 German Commercial Code (HGB) Topics Environmental concerns Emissions, environmental compliance Employee concerns Health and safety Social concerns The aspect of social concerns is currently not material for RWE in accordance with the materiality provision in the German Commercial Code (HGB). However, social engagement is part of the fundamental understanding of corporate responsibility at RWE. This why we report in the CR Report on the dialogue with our local stakeholders and on information about resettlement and recultivation in the Rhineland Mining Region. This relates to a voluntary reporting regime. Anti-corruption and combatting bribery Anti-corruption Respect for human rights Procurement practices GRI 102-48 Restatements of information The segments will now be shown separately in this report. that the figures for the previous year were adjusted. Disclosures in parts of this report are only made for RWE For more information see GRI 102-6, page 8. without the discontinued innogy operations. This means GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No material changes, see GRI 102-47, page 26. GRI 102-50 Reporting period Business year 2018: 1 January 2018 – 31 December 2018 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 30 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report RWE Aktiengesellschaft Dr Jens Wiggershaus Corporate Responsibility Huyssenallee 2 45128 Essen Phone +49 201 12-15593 E-mail responsibility@rwe.com GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI 102-55 GRI Content index This report also presents the GRI Content Index. It was industry which were formerly valid as the “G4 Electric Utilities prepared on the basis of our established reporting and our Sector Disclosure” but are no longer part of the GRI Standards. findings from the dialogue with stakeholders. We prepared The values were not available to us with the necessary differthe report in accordance with the GRI Standards (2016) in entiation for a number of the disclosures derived from the order to facilitate a comparison of our performance with that GRI. We have provided a justification in each case and used of other companies. We also report on far-reaching material disclosures which came closest to the requirements. topics based on the GRI requirements for the electricity GRI 102-56 External assurance The disclosures marked with the were subject to a limited tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 assurance engagement performed by accountancy firm Price(Revised). For the Independent Practitioner’s Assurance waterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs-gesellschaft. Engagement Report see page 89. The audit was implemented taking into account the Interna31 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix MATERIAL TOPICS 32 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ECONOMIC TOPICS GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Organisation and management Our market environment and the demands of society at RWE has adopted a number of measures so that we are able large are changing with the transition of energy systems in to remain competitive as one of the biggest European Europe. In Germany, the development of the electricity energy utilities operating in the marketplace. Our strategy market is largely dependent on the expansion and rising was therefore adjusted. It is based on three pillars: optimisafeed-ins of renewable energy. These reduce the utilisation tion of the power plant business, utilisation of the potential of conventional power plants, in particular of gas-fired of the core business, and securing the energy supply for the power plants but increasingly also hard coal-fired power energy transition. The unambiguous target of POWERING. plants. Renewable energy and the development of prices for RELIABLE.FUTURE. indicates that as a supplier of reliable hard coal and gas, the recent significantly increased prices energy provision, we offer secure and affordable energy for for CO2 certificates together with the general economic economies, companies and most importantly people. development are exerting a significant influence on the wholesale prices that electricity producers are able to In 2016, RWE created the platform for a new corporate achieve in the market. Our revenues are therefore deterstructure with the initial public offering for innogy SE. The mined by the utilisation and the wholesale prices for elecnew structure has enabled RWE to strengthen its financial tricity and CO2 without us being able to exert any direct position and this will improve our performance and make influence on these parameters. The consequence is that us more competitive. The planned realignment of the lines the developments described exert a strong impact on our of business with E.ON will enable RWE to concentrate on earnings derived from electricity generation, even if the hike generating electricity from conventional and renewable in wholesale prices brought some relief. At the same time, energy sources, and trading in future. The new E.ON will the trend towards increasing electrification will cause an create a company with a clear focus on smart electricity impact on our business over the medium to long term. grids and customer solutions. The growing requirement for electricity emanating from additional applications for electricity, for example in the RWE will continue to optimise its own power plant portfolio sectors of transport and heating, will counteract falling in a consolidating market. We are therefore going to make use consumption of electricity resulting from increasingly of options for the additional construction of de-centralised efficient use of power. generation plants such as power plants for customers. However, the focus is also on other generation, and in particular Existing business models and processes in the energy storage and flexibility solutions which open up new opporindustry are increasingly losing their profitability and are tunities for making profits especially in regulated business and no longer fit for purpose. They need to be modified by new are intended to provide opportunities for increasing the use of ideas and in some cases even replaced, see Research and electricity. Furthermore, RWE Technology International GmbH Development, page 47. (RWE TI) is expanding the international offering of independent services as a project management and engineering comOur intention is to strengthen our competitive position and pany of RWE in the areas of mining, thermal power plants, convince our customers over the long term with innovative, renewable energy and infrastructure. attractive and affordable products, efficiency enhancements in our power plants, strategic deployment of power plants The art of mastering the transition quickly is now a key and adjustments to our power plant portfolio. competitive advantage. RWE is supporting the required and necessary internal processes of change with various transforThe speed of the transition is continually accelerating. The mation programmes. These are coordinated and driven formarkets we are operating in demand that we undergo a conward by the Corporate Transformation Department, which tinual process of transformation and development in order reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. to be successful. If we are to meet these requirements in the future, it is important to confront the challenges over the long term with creative, motivated and competent employees. 33 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Our central focus here is on anchoring the transformation QQ The New Way of Working (NWoW) programme represents project within the organisation. Achieving this successfully a new mindset and approach to carrying out work, see entails analysing the aspects of strategy, structure and GRI 401, page 71. The project is enabling us to culture. However, our overriding aim is to treat the people strengthen the orientation of our employees on perforwho are implementing the transformation and the organisamance and customers, and involve them more closely tion as a social system. The success of transformation projects in decision-making processes. At the same time, we are stands or falls with the willingness of our employees to supensuring more efficient cooperation within the entire port and contribute to the process. The Executive Board and Group. the managers act as role models by actively supporting and QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP) is used to roll exemplifying the transformation. Supporting and establishout Group-wide projects and develop a uniform undering structural and cultural changes empowers us to make standing of change and leadership. an important contribution to implementing the strategy of QQ In 2018, a Group-wide staff survey was carried out with our company. around 15,000 employees in order to involve them proactively in the development of RWE. The intention of the Measures and performance measurement staff survey was to help identify the strengths of the comIn 2018, we shut down further power plants or transferred pany so that they could be expanded and optimisation them to legally-mandated security standby in order to adapt fields determined. our power plant portfolio to the market conditions, see QQ Peer Group@RWE is an “exercise area” for executive Shutdown of Power Plants, page 48. The NEO improveemployees that allows them to develop management ment programme already initiated in previous years has expertise through joined-up peer-to-peer consultation and resulted in additional efficiency enhancements and cost advice based on case studies. This creates an informal, reductions with conventional generation. In order to implestrong and convincing network throughout RWE. ment more efficient work processes and shorter decisionmaking pathways in lignite mining, the Alpha Project A large proportion of the value added generated by us flows launched in 2016 and involving reorganisation of opencast back into the regions where we are operating, for example mining was completed in 2018. in the form of tax, deductions or salaries. We thereby make a contribution to regional development. Our value-added Alongside the complete restructuring of the Group and statement provides a transparent presentation of how profits our R&D activities, the motivator of innovations is also are distributed, see GRI 201-1, page 34. We also make driving forward new conceptual and operational approaches donations and promote sponsorship activities in the regions, within the organisation of RWE. In 2018, measures supportand foster volunteering employee engagement through the ing cultural change included continuation of the following Companius project Aktiv vor Ort – Active on Site, see projects: GRI 203-2, page 37. 34 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Distribution of value added by the Group in € million Total 2018 Total 2017³ Total 7,482 10,013 to employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions) 4,854 4,704 to the government (taxes and deductions) 1 244 464 to lenders 881 1,608 to other shareholders 738 415 Net income 335 1,900 Dividend payment to RWE shareholders2 430 922 1 Only the taxes paid are included, not tax expense. 2 Dividend proposal of RWE AG for the business year 2018 subject to the adoption of the resolution by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2019. 3 Vales for 2017 were adjusted. Regional engagement by the RWE Group in € million Total 2018 Total 2017¹ Donations 0.9 1.22 Sponsorship 0.8 1.16 Volunteering 1.2 1.4 1 Reference-date values from 2017 adjusted after plausibility checking and follow-up of individual entries. Data for RWE without innogy. GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Once again, climate protection was one of the key political also makes specialist commercial service offerings, such as issues in 2018 and it is also crucial for RWE. Key factors in our optimisation and enhanced flexibility for portfolios and business are the ongoing expansion of renewable energy plants. Apart from the services outlined above, RWE Supply and increasing requirements for our fossil-fuel power plants. & Trading GmbH also markets the electricity produced at Alongside reduced profits and necessary modifications in these power plants. RWE Generation SE together with RWE our power plant portfolio, we perceive entrepreneurial Technology International GmbH develops highly efficient opportunities for us in the area of climate protection, and power plants for combined heat and power at international we intend to exploit them. Our conventional power plant locations and operates them to provide energy supplies for portfolio will guarantee security for the electricity supply customers. In other projects, RWE Technology International with advanced and flexible power plants that compensate GmbH is upgrading the existing power plants Amer and for the fluctuating feed-in of renewable energy. In addition, Eemshaven (both in the Netherlands) to co-combustion of we are also reviewing a lot of other options for guaranteeing biomass and development of grid stabilisation plants on security of supply when the proportion of renewable energy behalf of RWE Generation SE. is growing, e.g. storage or various Power-to-X technologies. Our subsidiary innogy is building on the trends of digitaliImpacts associated with risk or opportunity sation, decentralisation and decarbonisation and is thereWe support ambitious political goals for climate protection, fore playing a role in shaping the future energy world. In for expanding renewable energy and for improvement of the course of business activities in the divisions Renewable energy efficiency at European level and at the level of the Energy and Grid & Infrastructure, innogy develops and sells member states, see GRI 305, page 59. At the same time, climate-friendly products and services. Next to dedicated we are addressing the enormous challenges that these trading operations, our trading subsidiary RWE Supply & objectives present for us in terms of competitiveness, innoTrading GmbH offers appropriate services for major industrial vative power and financial strength. customers. In addition to pure energy supplies, the company 35 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In mid-2017, the recommendations made by the Financial formance-oriented and flexible, see GRI 201, page 32. Stability Board of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Financial risks associated, for example, with general climate Disclosures (TCFD) deployed by the G20 published recomprotection policy and emissions trading in particular are mendations for the type and scope of future reporting on reflected in our risk management. We reduce these risks in climate risks, particularly those resulting from the emission the case of emissions trading by concluding appropriate of greenhouse gases. These recommendations are partly hedging transactions. When a specified amount of electricity already reflected in reporting standards and ratings we is sold on the futures market, the risk is hedged among other participate in. In future, the issue will relate to cross-sector things by purchasing appropriate amounts of combustion implementation of the recommendation in reports. RWE fuels and the necessary emissions certificates. has also been engaging with the TCFD recommendations and carried out a gap analysis of the reporting processes The Executive Board engages with the financial risks and currently in existence in 2018. We will continue implemenopportunities associated with climate change in the control tation of the potential for improvement identified in 2019. processes. This also includes the review of other risk mitigation options, for example through portfolio adjustments. Financial implications of the risk or opportunity However, the quantified results are not disclosed for combefore action is taken petitive reasons. We have already carried out a large range of measures to make our processes even more efficient, our organisation even more effective and our corporate culture more perGRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government RWE does not receive any financial grants or subsidies from We also receive agricultural subsidies from the EU for the the government for its operating business. Furthermore, we use of agricultural operational areas. These subsidies are for finance all capital expenditure from our own resources. On interim agricultural use in the course of reinstating former the other hand, we receive financial assistance from governopencast mining sites and they last for a limited period of ment agencies for projects in research and development (R&D) time. In 2018, these amounted to around € 330,000. activities. The EU Transparency Register is one of the sources providing information on R&D projects with EU subsidies. The state does not hold any shares in RWE. 36 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges with them in this context. “3MalE – Education with Energy” As an economic player, RWE exerts a significant influence bundles the education packages of all RWE and innogy comon the economy and society. We want to be a highly credible panies in Germany. The initiative is intended to help young partner for the energy transition and our aim is to enhance people research, discover and experience energy. For figures trust in our company both within our regional and local envion 3MalE see GRI 413-1, page 81. ronment, and in society as a whole. RWE makes an important contribution to the regional economy through the secure RWE wants to use the new energy blog at www.en-former. and cost-effective supply of electricity and gas at all times. com to provide interested stakeholders with as much inforThe provision of jobs and allocation of orders to local commation as possible on current issues in the energy industry. panies constitute additional important contributions. We promote social developments through initiatives in social, innogy Foundation for Energy and Community environmental and cultural spheres, with support for volunplaying a role as a corporate citizen teering engagement by RWE employees and through finanSince 1 September 2016, the RWE Foundation has been cial assistance. operating in a new form as the innogy Foundation for Energy and Community (innogy Stiftung für Energie und Gesellschaft The energy transition is associated with shifts in energy gGmbH). The innogy Foundation supports projects, collabogeneration that will lead to the shutdown of plants. We are rations and campaigns that focus on the energy transition in participating in shaping the structural change so that the the context of region, digitalisation and education. The fountransformation can be organised in such a way as to be dation regularly provides information transparently in its maximally smooth-running for the affected regions, our annual reports about projects, successes and finance. employees and for us. Partnership with non-profit AfB for inclusive employment Organisation, management and RWE has been actively supporting a partnership with performance measurement AfB gGmbH for several years. AfB is a non-profit company that creates jobs for people with disabilities by reconditioning Allocation of resources in compliance with rules used computers. AfB collects the devices from all RWE locaWe want to use the resources available to us effectively tions and takes them to the nearest AfB branch. The devices and in conformity with our compliance objectives. We have are processed there and then sold to individuals, businesses defined rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline and public agencies. On-site sales at RWE locations allow on Donations and Sponsorship which applies throughout used devices to be sold for private use to our employees. the Group. Promotional gifts and resources that are relevant AfB creates skilled jobs for people with disabilities and according to our guidelines are documented in each case conserves natural resources through the recovery and reuse in a register. These include gifts and resources provided to of used IT equipment. holders of public office, donations and sponsorship measures, and consultancy and intermediary contracts for the Supporting structural change in areas RWE Group without innogy SE and for innogy SE. For inforwith opencast mining mation on donations and sponsorship see GRI 201-1, A contribution to a broad spectrum of jobs and training page 34. places in other companies can be made in areas around former opencast-mining sites by the development of building Promotion of volunteering engagement by our land and industrial zones. Research institutions and leisure employees amenities can also be expanded. These developments will See GRI 203-2, page 37. contribute to safeguarding the future in the region over the long term. Our objective is to remain a dependable partner Promotion of education on energy and engineering issues for local people and communities, even after opencast mining “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generleaves an urban area after its planned development. We are ate enthusiasm among young people for energy and technotherefore collaborating with the region to shape the struclogical issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future tural change by supporting initiatives which drive forward 37 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix economic and structural development in the regions. Together with municipalities and administrative districts, These include the Future Agency Rhineland Mining Region RWE has already made available a total of several million (formerly Innovation-Region Rhenish Mining Area (IRR)) and square metres of industrial land in the Rhineland Mining joint ventures between local authorities, such as the Inde­ Area over recent years. Following subsequent capital land Development Company, the Special Purpose Association expenditure, new jobs have been created here. In 2018, Zweckverband Tagebaufolge(n)landschaft Garzweiler and the RWE reached several agreements with a number of the Terra Nova Special-purpose Association. Our contribution towns in the mining district. Examples include the agreeranges from providing specialist and financial assistance, ment with the communities of Grevenbroich and Jüchen through cooperation on master plans and individual projects, and Duisburger Hafen AG to develop a joint local authority to research into sectors of the future. industrial zone on recultivated land from Garzweiler opencast mine with an area of initially approximately 42 hectares (ha) For example, RWE is involved in projects to safeguard the in connection with the development of a container terminal to Weisweiler energy and industrial site and its immediate promote integrated freight transport – combination of goods surroundings. These measures include expansion of the traffic on road and rail – on an area of approximately 8 ha. “IGP Eschweiler” industrial zone and the development of the “Grachtweg” joint local-authority industrial zone. In An important part of structural change in the region is 2018, we developed businesses from the sectors food resource-efficient construction. RWE is playing a proactive production, logistics, information technology and medicine/ role in shaping this. In 2018, RWE joined together with Indecosmetics in these two areas alone. They are currently planland Development Company to drive forward the Factor X ning to create several hundred new jobs there. The intention Project. A number of pioneering projects for resource-effiis to continue along this trajectory during subsequent years. cient buildings are currently being realised in Inden with the For this purpose, we participate in the master planning construction zones “Seeviertel” (Lake Quarter) in Inden and spearheaded by the Future Agency Rhineland Mining Region the “Neue Höfen Dürwiß” in the local-authority area of (Zukunftsagentur Rheinisches Revier) of the neighbouring Eschweiler. The “Am Lützeler Hof” development zone in local authorities for downstream industrial use of the land Inden was an additional project in 2018. This development will used for the Weisweiler lignite-fired power plant after the soon be continued in Bedburg with a resource-conservation Inden opencast mine is no longer viable. settlement in which Factor X houses in greater density will also be prefabricated. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported  As an operator of energy infrastructures, we help to ameinnogy has operations with residential customers. Details liorate fuel poverty in the countries where we are operating. for the United Kingdom can be found under We carry out appropriate activities in the regions where GRI 203-1 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 42. GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact We promote volunteering by our employees and implement RWE “Aktiv vor Ort” – Active on Site projects). The amount our social responsibility under the umbrella of the Group-wide contributed to these projects totalled some € 1.2 million Corporate Volunteering Programme known as Companius during the period under review. (including RWE “Aktiv-vor-Ort” – Active on Site). Targeted formats help us allocate employees to a volunteering role For information on promoting education and on Companius appropriate for them. In 2018, more than 1,500 employees projects in the area of providing aid for refugees see throughout the Group dedicated their time to providing GRI 413-1, page 81. assistance on more than 780 Companius projects (including 38 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges to do everything possible to prevent modern slavery occurBy complying with local framework conditions, national and ring. We are committed to upholding human rights throughtransnational regulations, and international standards, we out RWE. align our supply chain towards processing business transactions in a fit and proper, ethical and safe approach. Together with our products, we are part of additional complex supply chains. Our customers also demand corresponding We source a substantial proportion of goods, plant compostandards in their supplier relationships and pass them on to nents and services from business partners who – like us – are us. This process gradually develops sustainable supply chains based in the European Union. These businesses therefore which are supported by sector-specific or sector-overarching operate within the robust legal framework that is in place in assessments by external institutions. Successful participation the EU. We have implemented management systems and in assessments like this has meanwhile become a prerequisite control systems in order to ensure compliance with legislation for obtaining orders in an array of different sectors. and safeguarding of standards on environmental, employee and social concerns, human rights and the prevention of We have implemented management and controlling systems corruption. However, we cannot ultimately guarantee that to meet these challenges. They ensure maximum compliance all potentially negative impacts can be completely excluded with statutory legislation and safeguard the standards that in the upstream value chain. we expect from our suppliers. Nevertheless, the challenges we have described mean we are ultimately unable to fully A key factor relates to compliance with our regulations on guarantee that all the potential negative impacts are comoccupation health and safety especially when we commispletely excluded by our efforts. We are therefore continuously sion third parties to carry out aspects of the maintenance working on improvements and cooperating with other comwork on our plants or to handle hazardous substances. panies and organisations in order to address the challenges. Care also needs to be exercised when procuring fuels and Organisation and management derivatives in trading markets. When transactions are carried Procurement processes include fuels, services and goods. out on trading markets, issues such as money laundering or In order to provide a better overview, the workflow is financing terrorism need to be excluded. The conditions for presented in terms of services/goods, which are procured by extraction of the hard coal imported for our power plants are the central purchasing department, and combustion fuels, a top priority alongside their impacts on the local population. which are procured on the wholesale market. The sustainability of the biomass we use is also a concern. Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all National and international standards are becoming increascontractual relationships of the central Purchasing ingly concrete in relation to the expectations for sustainable Department supply chain management. The risk of human rights violations The production of goods and the provision of services in in globalised supply chains tends to be low for companies our supply chains should take place under comparable conwhich essentially have their business operations in countries ditions to those prevailing in our own company. We expect with a reliable statutory and regulatory framework. National partners in a business relationship with RWE to accept the action plans are in place internationally for business and principles of our Code of Conduct as a basis for cooperation. human rights or such plans are being prepared. Their aim is This is implemented by incorporating the principles for to implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and behaviour included in the RWE Code of Conduct into the Human Rights supported by the United Nations. In Decemcontractual relationships. Our principles for behaviour ber 2016, an appropriate action plan was adopted in Germany address issues including human rights, labour standards, by the Federal Cabinet and it is currently being implemented. the environment, anti-corruption, and money laundering. The Modern Slavery Act in the United Kingdom requires us 39 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The procurement conditions are managed centrally by Group the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not Procurement. innogy has its own Procurement Department known when a transaction is concluded. There are therefore which operates in accordance with comparable standards only direct supplier relationships to a limited extent between (for further information see GRI 414 innogy Sustainability RWE and the producers. This means we are only able to exert Report 2018, page 102). Group Procurement is assigned indirect influence on the production conditions. organisationally to RWE Power AG and reports to its Chief Financial Officer. The platform for procurement activities is Before we enter into any business relationships in the provided by our Group Procurement Guideline. This defines wholesale market, we review all potential trading partners. uniform principles applicable throughout the Group for carThe review takes place in a standardised and multistage rying out procurement. process that takes account of the RWE Code of Conduct. We use international databases and information systems in The compliance rules and principles must be complied order to see whether there is any potential misconduct. with for all procurement transactions alongside the RWE All our trading partners are checked in this way. Since 2014, Code of Conduct. The supplier or service provider is obliged we have also had access to the information garnered in the to adhere to these regulations. We review business relationBettercoal Initiative for the procurement of hard coal. ships with business partners if it becomes known in the public domain that they have breached the principles of the Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain UN Global Compact. We then take appropriate measures In order to support sector-wide development of standards, that we consider necessary and put them into action. For RWE already joined forces with other large purchasers of example, when deploying employees from subcontractors it hard coal to launch the Bettercoal Initiative in 2012. The is important to observe the aspects of labour law pertaining objective of Bettercoal is continuous improvement of the in the individual country of deployment. A risk assessment conditions under which hard coal is produced and transfor specific product groups is used as a basis for the regulaported. To this end, Bettercoal developed a globally recogtions to be observed by suppliers and they are explicitly nised standard for production of hard coal and uses it as a agreed in separate contractual clauses. basis for audits. The high aspirations of Bettercoal do not simply relate not only to environmental standards but also Supplier management is a key building block within the to social standards. They are also expressed in the principles strategic procurement process for Group-wide procurement. established in the Bettercoal Code. The aim of Bettercoal One of the objectives of supplier management is to safeis to bring about significant improvements and create standguard and improve the supplier service and to identify and ards in all the important production countries through coopermanage supplier risks. If there are any problems in relation ation with local producers. to the business relationship, we involve our suppliers and work together with them to generate improvements. For Standards in the procurement of certified biomass example, we have implemented an escalation process for inciAlongside fossil energy sources, RWE will again be refocusing dents in the area of occupational safety in order to develop on biomass as a combustion fuel in future. One such fuel suppliers. Suppliers can also be quarantined if there is a relates to wood pellets for use in dedicated biomass power repeat and depending on the severity of the incidents. plants. RWE also uses biomass for co-firing plants as a substitute fuel for hard coal. Environmental and socially ethical Review of trading partners on the wholesale markets extraction and production methods also have to be guaranKey elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard teed in this area in order to establish biomass as a sustainable coal, gas, LNG and biomass, as well as trading in combustion alternative to fossil fuels. Appropriate rules and regulations fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised products are enshrined in the relevant national legislation and these with defined quality attributes on international wholesale must be complied with. In the Netherlands, these requiremarkets. These markets are the most important source of ments have been defined in law since January 2018. As a procurement. Raw materials traded in these markets often complement to this, RWE has further agreed additional change ownership several times after they have been first requirements with environmental organisations. Uniform rules offered for sale by the producers. Generally, it is only possiand regulations may follow throughout the EU in future. ble for us to identify the immediate upstream owner, while 40 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) as an industrial Our Code of Conduct and hence the principles of the UN Global standard promotes compliance with sustainability criteria Compact are explicit constituent elements of individual conalong the entire supply chain for the wood pellets imported tracts in direct business relationships. by us. Since its establishment, RWE has been involved in SBP initiative. All the biomass supplied by our trading comAll the business partners accredited for our trade were pany RWE Supply & Trading has SBP certificates or comparareviewed for compliance with our Code of Conduct before ble certificates such as GGL, FSC or PEFC. They prove that engaging in business relationships. In line with the Code, the pellets meet national sustainability standards in Europe. the individual trading processes are based on standard We are also Chain-of-Custody certified and pass on certificontracts usual in the market. cates that are provided by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and by the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest During the year under review, Group Procurement not includCertification (PEFC). ing innogy purchased goods, services and plant components with a volume of around € 1.7 billion (2017: € 1,9 billion). In Procurement of uranium 2018, the procurement volume for fuels was some € 4.2 billion Analogous to the additional procurement procedures, RWE (2017: € 6.8 billion; in contrast to 2017, the procurement also makes the same demands on business partners for volume for the fuels in 2018 does not, however, include the responsible business practices equivalent to its own standfuels of the discontinued innogy operation). We regularly ards when procuring uranium. These requirements have been monitor the proportion of the purchase volume in which the defined in the RWE Code of Conduct. Part of this code relates requirements of our Code of Conduct are a constituent eleto the principles of conduct which address a number of issues ment of the contractual relationship. During the year under including the topics of human rights, labour standards, the review, the corresponding level of coverage of RWE Group environment, anti-corruption and money laundering. Respect Purchasing without innogy met its target of 100%. for these principles of conduct is – in common with the principles of the UN Global Compact – a constituent element of Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain each new contract which RWE concludes with suppliers. Bettercoal uses a central database to provide its member companies with information about coal producers who are RWE has purchased uranium within the framework of longcommitted to Bettercoal. This database includes information term supply contracts with established international supply from key potential supplier countries for Europe. A self-assessand trading companies for uranium. These companies proment by the coal producers is complemented by regular Betduce the material in different regions of the world or source tercoal audits carried out on-site by independent experts. In it as intermediate traders. Since the operation of our nuclear 2018, RWE was also involved in the audits as an observer and power plants is time-limited, uranium was last procured thus played a role in monitoring the quality of the audits. several years ago and no further procurement looks likely to be necessary. This enables Bettercoal to guarantee a binding continuous improvement process, which defines the potentials for Measures and performance measurement improvement identified in the audits. Implementation is Code of Conduct as a constituent element of tracked by assessors. The names of the producers which all contractual relations stated their readiness to participate in the Bettercoal improveMore than 7,000 suppliers are registered in our supplier ment process are published on the Bettercoal website. portfolio for procurement in the framework of business and plant operation. Some 280 of these suppliers are strategiBettercoal pursues a country-based approach. Focus councally relevant. We use an initial appraisal of potential suppliers tries are currently Colombia, South Africa and Russia. In based on a self-assessment to gather information on matters 2018, additional working groups were set up for Colombia including environmental protection, occupational safety and and Russia. One of the aims is to support preparations for compliance. We are in regular and close communication with the audits and the implementation of potentials for improvestrategically relevant suppliers. ment identified at the producers. Bettercoal pursues the goal in the individual supply countries of including the majority of producers in the improvement process. 41 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In addition, RWE representatives meet up with representaProcurement of certified biomass tives of coal producers independently of concrete supply RWE has collaborated with other energy utilities, pellet relationships and critical civil society in order to identify suppliers and certification organisations in working out a additional initiatives for generating positive development. practical test of the Dutch Sustainability Protocol for BioAs a consequence, RWE was part of a delegation which visited mass initiated by the Dutch Government. Colombia in April 2018 and held discussions there with various stakeholders. The regular discussions on imported coal On 31 December 2017, the Ministry of Economics and Cliwere continued in Germany and the Netherlands. mate published the final test protocol for sustainable solid biomass. This protocol can be used in order to demonstrate Hard coal by supply countries sustainability in the context of SDE + support. Proportion in % 2018 2017 In 2018, all the biomass traded by our trading house RWE Germany 23.1 16.2 Supply & Trading GmbH was provided with Sustainable United Kingdom 1.0 5.5 Biomass Programme certificates or comparable certificates Colombia 2.2 8.6 such as GGL, FSC or PEFC. Up to now, the United Kingdom and Poland 0.0 0.4 Denmark have recognised the standard of the SBP certificaRussia 42.4 44.2 tion system as conforming with national sustainability criteria. South Africa 6.1 7.5 USA 23.5 13.8 Declarations on the UK Modern Slavery Act Other 1.7 3.8 Our Group companies RWE Supply & Trading GmbH and RWE Generation SE also operate in the United Kingdom. They therefore regularly publish a Declaration of Compliance relating to the UK Modern Slavery Act on their national Internet pages. GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers In order to promote competition, all capital expenditure they are commissioned. In 2018, the proportion of local projects and procurement procedures are offered in tender suppliers in the order volume was approximately 27%. The documents with appropriately neutral formulations and cost-benefit analysis undergone by our suppliers focuses placed internationally in the market. If local suppliers are particularly on criteria of sustainability and occupational competitive due to their local proximity or for other reasons safety, and energy efficiency and environmental standards. 42 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Management of the Compliance Management System to Compliance with the law and legislation is a duty and is part prevent corruption at RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE of the corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches of the law Power AG, RWE Nuclear GmbH and RWE Supply & Trading mean that the company can suffer major and severe reputaGmbH is carried out by the Chief Compliance Officer of tional damage as well as causing serious disadvantages for RWE AG. Compliance officers inside Germany and in other communities, countries and companies. The topic of anticountries ensure uniform implementation of compliance corruption is a top priority for us in this context. This is principles for prevention of corruption at these companies. because apart from the risk of reputational impairments for innogy SE also has a Compliance Management System and the company, corruption can restrict economic growth, has its own Chief Compliance Officer. reduce equal opportunities and contribute to an increase in poverty. RWE therefore bases all its activities and business The RWE Code of Conduct forms the platform for our interdecisions on established internal rules for compliance. The pretation of compliance. The Code prohibits any form of company does not tolerate any corruption or other breaches corruption and is binding on all our employees. The Code of of the regulations. Compliance requirements are also factored Conduct is given concrete form by other Group guidelines. in when making decisions about entering into business relaOrganisational regulations such as the double-checking tionships with suppliers or business partners and in the allo(four eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisation cation of donations and sponsorship. concept and licensing regulations provide support for compliance with the guidelines. The appropriateness of the The energy industry is a sector defined by regulatory deciunderlying internal controlling system is regularly reviewed sions, continuous change and projects with high order volby the Internal Audit Department. umes. This also impacts to a greater or lesser extent on the value chain of RWE. The risks of corruption described above The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG regularly reports to can therefore not be excluded in our supply chain. RWE AG the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG on has implemented comprehensive systems for avoidance of issues relevant to compliance. corruption within the framework of Compliance Management in order to ensure the best possible compliance with statutory Measures and performance measurement legislation. At this point, we will describe the organisation The CEO writes personally to each manager with a request and measures of the RWE Compliance Management System to report on the implementation of the Code of Conduct in without innogy. innogy has its own comparable in-house their area of responsibility. This management survey is carsystem and reports on this system in the innogy Sustainability ried out once a year in order to create transparency in relaReport. tion to compliance with the Code of Conduct and provide an overview of compliance awareness at RWE. Communication Organisation and management measures during the course of the year such as training sesPrevention of corruption is a particularly important topic sions, publications on the Intranet and notices support comfor the Compliance Management System. We want to avoid pliance awareness among employees. corruption completely in all our processes and we are committed to raising the awareness of our employees and At RWE and innogy, we regard adherence to the compliance managers throughout the company. requirements as very important. Various indicators are used for carrying out measurements at RWE and innogy. The feedback rate for the management survey at RWE (without innogy) provides an indicator for compliance awareness. We strive to generate a feedback rate of 100% and this was achieved in 2018 and 2017. 43 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption The identification and assessment of compliance risks took In 2018, an update and expansion were implemented for place in a two-stage process. This process was launched in the risk scenarios in the sphere of corruption and the areas 2012 with the central determination of the risk profiles for the of foreign trade/export control and money laundering. Risk Group companies. A second step focused on working out assessments were carried out for the RWE companies on the detailed corruption risk scenarios. These were discussed and basis of these updated and expanded risk scenarios. developed within the framework of risk workshops in the individual Group companies. The compliance officers carried out We do not explicitly report on the established risks, since this detailed analysis across the Group and in 2016 the results these values are subject to specific confidentiality constraints. generated from the Group perspective were aggregated They are confidential as it is business-relevant information. centrally before the spin-off of innogy was completed. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures  Internal media within the Group inform our employees about the Compliance Department. These are calibrated according behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and to the risk of corruption associated with the relevant activalso highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. Our ity. The Executive Board is also integrated in this training employees also receive compliance training each year on a concept. The rollout of the new training concept for the web-based training programme with a changing focus topic. RWE companies was commenced in 2018. Participation in this programme is obligatory for all employees. Employees without any PC access receive instruction We do not explicitly report any quantitative data since these from their supervisors. In addition, the employees also take values are subject to specific confidentiality constraints. part in attendance training sessions that are organised by They are confidential as it is business-relevant information. 44 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Our aim is to contribute to ensuring that the volatile feed-in Secure supply with electricity at all times is one of the from solar and wind power plants can be smoothly intemost important enablers for the smooth-running operation grated in the energy system. Consequently, we have one of of our economy. Power plants make a key contribution to the most flexible and most powerful power plant portfolios this. Conventional power plants are indispensable even with in Europe. If – despite all our efforts – a blackout should further expansion of renewable energy. This is because the occur in the electricity grid or in parts of this grid, we also main growth of renewable energy will take place through have power generating capacities that are in a position to wind and photovoltaics, but these energy sources are not support reinstatement of the grid systems without the need always available. Conventional power plants are necessary for any external supply of electricity. These primarily include to provide compensation when renewable feed-ins fluctuate pumped-storage power plants. Furthermore, a trial has demondue to weather conditions or time of day. The expansion and strated that lignite-fired power plants from the secured integration of renewable energy and decentralised generatisland operation supplied from opencast mines have once ing units into the overall system is placing increasing again been able to supply power to the electricity grid. demands on the performance of conventional power plants and the distribution grids. The long-term development of Reserves are available if capacity bottlenecks occur in the requirement for conventional generation and secure Germany. One of them is the legally-mandated security power-plant output depends on a number of factors including standby in Germany to which RWE will contribute a total of demand-response development, expansion of renewable five lignite-fired units with an output of around 1,500 MW. energy, and expansion of grids, storage facilities and load management. RWE offers all types of balance outputs from its power plant portfolio in order to equalise any instability within an equiOur power plants supply electricity and heat to meet the librium and this contributes to a stable electricity supply. demand of consumers. At the same time, they help to compensate for the fluctuations of renewables and provide the Alongside stable feed-in of an adequate amount of generating physical equilibrium at all times between feed-in and consumpcapacity, a powerful electricity grid is necessary to guarantee tion necessary for a stable electricity supply. security of supply. The integration of renewable energy requires expansion of the transmission grid in a north-south Organisation and management direction, as well as newly dimensioned distribution grids RWE strives to provide high availability for its power plants and more dynamic load control in order to integrate decenparticularly at times when their output is urgently required. tralised renewable generating units. The aim of our subsidiary The availability is controlled by the responsible divisions. innogy is to continue keeping grid outage times at a low The executive boards of RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG level in spite of increased technical requirements. The averand RWE AG are regularly informed about the availabilities, age number of minutes per year and customer for which grid and planned and unplanned shutdowns. outages occur (SAIDI Index) serves as a key performance indicator in the area of security of supply, see Availability and Reliability in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 45. 45 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement In 2017, RWE had already realised a battery storage project In 2018, RWE was once again able to rely on a broadlywith lithium-ion technology at the Herdecke site, which based generation portfolio. This provided a robust mainstay became operational at the beginning of 2018. The battery in the German electricity system for covering electricity storage with three times 2,600 kVA is initially being used for demand and provision of secure generating capacity. Our the provision of primary balancing energy. RWE participated thermal power plants made an important contribution to in the Quirinus research project sponsored by the EU and compensating for the fluctuating feed-in from wind and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia aimed at integrating photovoltaic systems (PV) by provision of the necessary renewable energy into the existing distribution grid. The system services. objective is to secure coordinated feed-in of renewable energy into the distribution grid level supported by The entire capacity of Rhenish lignite-fired power plants can “Demand Side Management” of large consumers. In 2018, be reduced to less than half its output (by around 5,000 MW) a virtual power plant was installed as part of this research or, by the same token, fired up to full capacity within the project in the Rhineland Mining Area on a test site near the space of half an hour. This means that our lignite-fired Inden opencast mine together with partners. It is made up power plants are now comparable with combined-cycle gas of a traditional cogeneration power plant, a flywheel generturbine (CCGT) power plants operated with natural gas. ator, which converts electrical energy into mechanical In special situations, the capacity of the lignite-fired power energy and vice versa. There is also an active pump gallery plants in the Rhineland Mining Area can be reduced to 20% of the opencast mine and therefore a consumer that draws of the nominal output. It is therefore obvious that lignite is a high electricity requirement from the grid. The elements able to provide the necessary capacity to meet requirements are connected by advanced control technology and they are of time and need. used to simulate the unstable electricity grid of the future as it is increasingly defined by volatile feed-in. On 1 October 2017, we transferred units P and Q of the lignite-fired power plant Frimmersdorf to legally mandated For information on our capacities and our generation see security standby and on 1 October 2018 the two units E and also the Appendix, page 91 and the RWE Annual Report F of the lignite-fired power plant Niederaußem. This reserve 2018, page 43. RWE also publishes comprehensive and now comprises around 2 GW of power plant output across timely data online about electricity generation in its power Germany to which RWE has so far contributed 4 units with plant portfolio at www.rwetransparent.com and at around 1.2 GW. www.eex-transparency.com. 46 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges for companies using equipment and systems with flexible The reduction of existing obstacles and the exploitation time and power capability in their production processes of additional potential for efficiency and flexibility on the where the requirement for electricity can be shifted within demand side in the energy market is a topic that is the a day or a week. subject of increasingly intensive debate at European and national level. They are becoming the success factor in the Our Flex2Market Model – another example – is ideal for comenergy transition. These flexibilities need to be intelligently panies which have production flexibilities or emergency networked and controlled. An enabler for this is identifying power units such as those that are gaining greater imporconsumers in the market who are prepared to adjust their tance in computer centres, and which would like to make consumption behaviour, for example by proactively switchoptimum use of these opportunities. For this purpose, we ing off, throttling back or switching on their production control and market these flexibilities on the Intra-Day Market machines. We are able to give our customers technical supor as standard energy in the secondary and minute reserve port for this control. The appropriate demand for electricity market. We are also teaming up with our customers to develop is taken out of the market in bottleneck situations or as holistic concepts for leveraging flexibility potentials, which necessary made available to the electricity market in the provide an optimum commercial link-up with the use of form of an additional generation offering. When prices are production flexibilities, generating plants and (battery) high on the balancing energy market, it may be worthwhile storage facilities. for our customers to market their flexibilities. We therefore help to optimise the electricity costs and performance RWE Supply & Trading GmbH also offers an electronic trading requirement of the customer. The market for flexibility is a platform and automatic trading mechanisms. These are key subject area for RWE. There is potential for growth here, intended for industrial customers and distributors who want particularly with industrial customers. to procure part of their energy requirement on the exchange with precise requirements for the day or hour. Furthermore, as Organisation, management and performance a service for our customers, our trading subsidiary takes over measurement direct marketing of power generation from renewable energy Marketing of flexibilities that is subsidised under the Renewable Energies Act (EEG). RWE Supply & Trading GmbH has a broad product range which can leverage potential flexibilities with industrial and innogy SE also offers its customers energy-efficient products commercial customers in the context of the energy transiand services. For these see GRI 302 in the innogy Sustaintion. For example, it offers our industrial customers and ability Report, page 56. Furthermore, innogy also offers distributors price-signal supported load management. This service packages for the management of photovoltaic sysmeans that a time shift in consumption loads to more tems and wind turbines. For more information on this see favourable market-price phases enables costs for sourcing GRI 305-5 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 71. electricity to be reduced. The model is ideal in particular 47 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Increasing flexibility and efficiency at conventional plants RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the In order to further increase the flexibility of our power Group is able to contribute to shaping the energy system of plants, we are running a number of research projects to test the future. We want to be involved in shaping a more climatenew materials and procedures for identification and forefriendly electricity supply in the course of the transformation. casting of material behaviour under changing loads. This will Our objective is also to assist in continuing to meet the need enable us to facilitate even more frequent and faster load for energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable changes, more frequent and faster start-ups and shutdowns, prices. Our ambition can be realised through a continuous and a lower minimum load than today. In this context, intestream of innovations that address the challenges of our grated heat storage facilities also appear to be extremely core business and are directed towards achieving the best interesting in coal-fired power stations. They offer very possible solutions for the energy system of the future. If promising potential for increasing flexibility and for temporal there is a lack of innovative capability, there is a risk that it uncoupling of renewable electricity generation and feed-in. may no longer be possible to secure the profitability of the Against this background, we are engaging with electricity company to the same extent in the future. storage in high-temperature heat-storage power plants. To this end, we are drawing up a concept study and developing Organisation, management and performance the basic engineering for carrying out a pilot project on the measurement storage of renewable electricity in a high-temperature heat Continuous research and development storage facility, which will be integrated in an existing hard We are working in different research and development procoal-fired power station operated by RWE. grammes, primarily on technology and plant concepts that are directed towards advanced and sustainable application. Furthermore, we see emission reduction and protection of Here we draw on the competences of our employees and resources as an ongoing challenge directed towards making on the expertise offered by our partners at universities, our plants even more climate friendly. Examples of this are research institutions and in industry. A top priority in this approaches for efficiency enhancement and advanced develarea is also promoting the ideas of our employees to achieve opment of flue-gas desulphurisation, origination of measures this ambition. Our research and development projects are for reducing mercury and nitrogen oxide emissions, and the engaged in a wide range of research fields and we are continadvancement of techniques for capture and use of CO2. At ually registering new patents. In 2018, 600 employees worked our Innovation Centre in Niederaußem, we piloted for example full-time or part-time on more than 360 R&D projects and one of the most efficient CO2 scrubbers in the world for filed applications for patents on 134 inventions. around 8,500 operating hours in 2018. This system uses a detergent to extract carbon dioxide from the flue gas of the RWE also invests in a Group-wide network of experts who power plant and it can be used to increase food quality. analyse existing fields of technology on a continuous basis, Furthermore, we cooperate with numerous national and and identify and evaluate new developments. international partners in the development of opportunities for using CO2. For example, we are setting up a pilot system For details on research and innovation at innogy SE see the at the innovation centre in Niederaußem over the next three innogy Sustainability Report, page 51. years within the framework of the EU project ALIGN-CCUS for manufacturing less emission-intensive fuels from CO2 and hydrogen generated by electrolysis. Other pilot plants are designed to use new technical procedures in the manufacture of basic chemicals for the chemicals industry from the same starting materials in the projects MefCO2, OCEAN and LOTER.CO2M. 48 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Facilitating use of lignite as a material raw materials in gasification systems. In particular, we are Lignite is Germany’s most abundant domestic natural committed to the “Initiative Carbon Chains IK2” in this conresource by volume and it can be used for the production text. The Fraunhofer Gesellschaft is the lead for this initiaof energy sources and basic chemicals. Lignite is ideal for sotive which bundles together the activities by all the German called material use because it contains carbon and hydrogen. lignite mining areas affected by structural change. In coopThis means it can be used in the production of basic materieration with regional universities and companies, domestic als for the manufacture of plastics, paints, adhesives, fuels carbon sources and the production of products containing and numerous other chemical products. This technology also carbon are being investigated and pilot plants are driving paves the way for the material use of waste and biomass, forward technological development. The first conceptual and therefore increasingly forms the entry point into the caroperations have already started this year. bon-based circular economy. Projects are currently being prePractical implementation will start from 2019. pared to investigate applications of this nature for multiple SHUTDOWN AND DECOMMISSIONING OF POWER PLANTS AND REINSTATEMENT OF OPENCAST MINES GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI-Standards 2016) Challenges The parties in the new Dutch Government have also stated By 31 December 2022, the last nuclear power plants will in their coalition contract that generation of electricity from have been shut down in Germany. Instruments have been coal should come to an end in the Netherlands by 2030. introduced and measures have been put in place to meet However, the implementation has not yet been defined. CO2 targets at national level. These will impact on our therThe United Kingdom has also defined an exit from coal-fired mal, non-nuclear power plant portfolio. The decision on power generation by 2025 but the tool has not yet been legally-mandated security standby has already been taken agreed here either. in Germany. By October 2019, 2.7 GW of lignite-fired power plants in Germany will be transferred to this reserve. In each Organisation and management case, the final shutdown will take place four years later. Power plants can be shut down on the one hand for economic For details see Availability and Reliability, page 44 and or technical reasons. Preparations for decisions on shutdown GRI 305, page 59. are managed by the generation divisions. On the other hand, power plants are shut down as a result of statutory or As stated in the coalition contract, the Federal German other regulations. Whatever the reason, the relevant countryGovernment has set up a commission “Growth, Structural specific regulations are taken into account and the process Change and Employment”. This commission had the task of is supported by the responsible supervisory authorities. drawing up an action plan by the beginning of 2019. The objective for the action plan is to include proposals for overHence, the intended shutdown of a power plant in Germany coming structural change in the regions affected by the must be notified to the responsible regulatory authority, the energy transition, additional climate protection measures for Federal Network Agency and the transmission grid operator attaining the climate protection goals for 2020 and 2030, responsible for the system with a lead time of at least one and a plan for gradual reduction and ending of generating year. The system relevance of the notification must be electricity from coal in Germany. For the recommendations reviewed by the grid operator and approved by the Federal of the report by the commission see GRI 305, page 59. Network Agency. Whether the affected power plant is to be In 2019, the coalition partners want to pass a law to guaranshut down permanently or only temporarily, for example tee achievement of the climate protection goals. during the summer months, is not relevant. An appropriate level of provisions is set aside for the shutdown and decommissioning of the nuclear power stations and for recultivation of opencast mines, as well as for measures in the water industry. 49 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix After the last unit at a power plant location has been shut the first time in 2018 as the “Report by the Federal German down, RWE will strive to achieve a subsequent use for the Government pursuant to Article 7 of the Act on Transparency occupied land at the site as far as possible. We work together of Costs relating to Shutdown and Decommissioning of with the local community affected in advance of the final Nuclear Power Plants and Packaging of Radioactive Wastes decommissioning of a power plant to develop a concept for (Transparency Act)” on the application of provisions for the follow-on use of the land previously occupied by the power business year 2017. plant. The decommissioning is carried out to meet the requirements of the follow-on use in accordance with the Lignite relevant applicable country-specific standards. Provisions for RWE has developed a concrete timetable in response to the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, recultivation of requirements defined for us in relation to reducing CO2 emisopencast sites and the water management measures are set sions specifically with regard to lignite. This timetable takes aside in accordance with our statutory obligations. This is account of a step-wise reduction in emissions in harmony coordinated by the appropriate specialist department of the with the energy transition and a long-term and socially finance division. acceptable structural change. Even without the impacts anticipated from the recommendations by the Commission Nuclear energy for Growth, Structural Change and Employment published at The remaining lifetime of the German nuclear power plants the beginning of 2019, this timetable already envisages a is defined in the Nuclear Power Act (Atomgesetz, AtG). reduction in CO2 emissions of 15% by 2020, up to 50% by This means for RWE nuclear power plants that they will be around 2030 and 100% by the middle of the century. decommissioned gradually by year-end 2022. The individual power plants impacted are Gundremmingen Unit C (as at As part of the introduction of legally-mandated security 31 December 2021) and the Emsland nuclear power plant standby in Germany, the transfer of eight lignite-fired units (as at 31 December 2022). to this reserve was contractually agreed. This relates to the RWE power-plant units Frimmersdorf P and Q (transferred In 2017, new legislation was introduced in Germany regulaton 1 October 2017), Niederaußem E and F (transferred on ing responsibility for disposal of nuclear waste. After payment 1 October 2018) and Neurath C (will be transferred on of a sum amounting to a total of € 24.1 billion by the opera1 October 2019). After each power plant has spent four tors of nuclear power plants into a state-managed disposal years in the reserve, these units will be finally shut down. fund, the state will take responsibility for the processing and The power plants on security standby are no longer permitfinancing of intermediate storage and a final repository to ted to operate actively in the market. However, they are hold radioactive waste. The companies will continue to be reserved for the scenario that electricity production includresponsible for shutdown and decommissioning the power ing all regular security measures (such as redispatch, control plants and the proper packaging of radioactive waste. RWE energy, interruptible loads, grid reserve and capacity reserve) is forming provisions to meet these obligations. They are would be unable to meet the demand. very conservative on an international comparison and take into account a high level of precaution against the risks of The provisions in lignite mining to enable reinstatement of cost increases. Additions to the provisions are made while use for the land occupied for production are a rolling system the plants are being operated. The provisions encompass in key areas. Recultivation projects and measures relating to the costs of all stages after operations have finished includwater management are largely already carried out while ing shutdown, disposal of the fuel rods and disposal of the operations continue so that provisions are constantly being radioactive waste from operation through to final decommisused for this purpose. At the same time, new provisions are sioning. Companies are required to provide transparency on formed each year to take account of the ongoing decommiscosts. The Act on Transparency of Costs relating to Shutsioning. The tasks being adopted from lignite extraction down and Decommissioning of Nuclear Power Plants and cover a timeframe that extends in part significantly beyond Packaging of Radioactive Wastes defines how companies the discontinuation of lignite mining itself. However, they have to report these costs. In this context, a report was are without question finite. presented to the German Federal Parliament (Bundestag) for 50 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Existing contracts and licensing documents are used to The Gundremmingen B Unit was shut down on 31 December determine the expected costs underlying the provisions. 2017 and the application for the first decommissioning Comprehensive empirical values from the past are also availlicence has already been submitted. We anticipate that this able. At the planning stage of the mining operations, the licence will be granted in the first quarter of 2019. In the responsible regional state authorities are already intensively meantime, the preparatory measures for decommissioning involved. The issues being addressed include those relating were carried out here. to geology and water management. The mining authorities as the responsible supervisory authority have a rolling The decommissioning work at the Mülheim Kärlich nuclear programme of iterative reviews in accordance with statutory power station continued in 2018. The control centre building regulations in order to assess whether there is a need to prowas demolished and a start was made on the cooling tower. vide financial security in addition to the provisions available. Dismantling the large components is particularly important in the timetable for decommissioning nuclear power plants. Measures and performance measurement Orders were therefore awarded for dismantling the steam Nuclear energy generators and steam converters to specialist industrial comThe shutdown and decommissioning operations at the Biblis panies for the sites at Mülheim-Kärlich, Lingen (KWL) and site were continued in 2018. Some changes were made Biblis, and work started in 2018. The work for decommisincluding adjustments to residual operation, the removal of sioning the reactor pressure vessel and installations at the some systems no longer required, various decommissioning above sites has currently been put out to tender. measures and the installation of infrastructure primarily for processing materials resulting from decommissioning. In We continued to keep stakeholders informed about the indian estimated 16 years, it will have proceeded such that the vidual steps in the ongoing process at all the sites throughout remaining sections of the buildings will no longer come 2018. Furthermore, information about the repatriation of the under the scope of the regulatory regime of the Atomic reprocessing waste from England to the fuel-cell intermediate Energy Act. In 2018, the temporary storage facility was comstorage facility in Biblis was provided in 2018 and preparapleted at the Biblis site for storage of low and intermediate tions were made for the transfer of the site storage facilities radioactive waste until final storage in a federal repository. to the German government’s own storage company GesellThe facility will then be operated by the German state’s own schaft für Zwischenlagerung mbH (BGZ) on 1 January 2019. intermediate storage company BGZ Gesellschaft für Zwischenlagerung mbH from 2020. The reallocation of responsibility for disposal of nuclear facilities adopted by the Federal Government involved the In 2018, applications pursuant to Article 7 Section 3 of the transfer of responsibilities for intermediate storage and a Atomic Energy Act were made for decommissioning of the final repository for radioactive waste to the state, utilisation plant components for Units A and B excluded from the first of provisions held by the nuclear energy companies and licence to the responsible licensing authority, Hessen Minissetting up a new fund to finance the disposal of nuclear matetry for Environment, Climate Protection, Agriculture and Conrial. The fund was established with a total of € 24.1 billion. sumer Protection (HMUKLV). When the anticipated licence On 3 July 2017, RWE paid in its share of € 6.8 billion. This is granted in 2019, all the licences necessary pursuant to was made up of a baseline amount including interest and a Article 7 Section 3 of the Atomic Energy Act will be available risk supplement amounting to some 35.5%. for decommissioning of the Biblis nuclear power plant. 51 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Hard coal been launched for the Frimmersdorf power plant site. This The two units A and B of the hard coal-fired power plant involves the town of Grevenbroich and the Rhine District Voerde were shut down in March 2017. Measures for safeof Neuss. The consultation is addressing the future opportuguarding the site and the first preparatory works for decomnities for usage of the areas. Ultimately, it will involve develmissioning have commenced, and in October 2017 RWE puroping sustainable and structurally effective post-utilisation chased the land and buildings at the power plant site from facilities for the power-plant location. RWE has reviewed STEAG. RWE is talking to the town of Voerde about future various development options at the Tilbury site in the United options for making use of the land. Kingdom. While the decision has already been made not to develop a new gas-fired power plant at the site, the feasibility Lignite analyses for open gas turbines and battery options are still On 1 October 2017, the first four out of five units were being considered. transferred to legally-mandated security standby with Frimmersdorf P and Q and on 1 October 2018 with Niederaußem In 2017, independent experts were already looking at the E and F. This means that the two units no longer participate completeness and appropriateness of the mining-related in the electricity market and are only available if called up by provisions set aside on 31 December 2016 for lignite activithe grid operator to meet demand in bottleneck situations. ties in the Rhineland lignite mining area. The Arnsberg district The last two units at the Frimmersdorf site will then finally council as the responsible supervisory authority made the be shut down on 30 September 2021 after the four-year three expert reports public in September 2017. The miningstandby period as reserve and on 30 September 2022 the related provisions are reported in the RWE Annual Report units E and F in Niederaußem will finally be shut down. 2018, page 54. Against this background, a planning consultation has already 52 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS GRI 302 ENERGY (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Group-wide coverage with energy-efficient audits or Energy is a valuable resource. Inefficient energy consumpmanagement systems tion leads to unnecessary burdens for the climate, environWe implemented the Energy Efficiency Directive throughout ment and communities throughout the world. It results in the Group by the required deadline in 2016, with energy avoidable additional costs for the company. Additional to audits or a certified energy management system and complying with statutory legislation and licensing regulaincluded energy management in control processes. In 2007, tions we implement cost-efficient measures for environmenRWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG had already estabtal protection and energy efficiency. They are based on a lished an Environmental Management System in conformity conscious and responsible approach to the environment and with ISO 14001 with the aim of bringing about a sustainable the use of energy in our office buildings, vehicle fleets, improvement in energy efficiency and environmental protecopencast mining facilities, power plants and refinement tion, and reducing the use and consumption of energy at operations. For example, the replacement of non-controllathe German operational facilities. In 2013, the Energy Manble pumps with energy-efficient controllable new pumps is agement System was integrated in conformity with ISO frequently only cost-effective if they are defective. 50001. The two systems have so far been successfully recertified. This process was last carried out in 2016. The level of This is because higher levels of energy efficiency will make coverage by certified Energy Management Systems was 79% an important contribution to achieving the European climate for the RWE Group (without innogy) in 2018. protection targets. As producers of electricity and heat, we are able to make a particular contribution to this by making Increasing the efficiency of conventional power plants our power plants more efficient. This allows us to reduce One of the ways we will achieve a higher level of efficiency CO2 emissions per unit of electricity or heat produced. At in the production of electricity is by modernising our conventhe same time, we are reducing the consumption of tional power plant portfolio. Furthermore, we will achieve resources, the fuel costs and the expenses involved in CO2 efficiency increases by shutting down older plants, see certificates. An increase in efficiency is also a key topic for Shutdown and decommissioning of power plants and the distribution grid. For details see innogy Sustainability reinstatement of mining areas, page 48. In addition, there Report, Availability and Reliability, page 45. We supply is the option of further use of potential sourced from cominnovative products and services with a high level of effibined heat and power in our plants and the use of heat ciency so that our customers can also adopt a responsible derived from electricity to cover own requirements. approach to energy. For details of innogy products see the innogy Sustainability Report GRI 302-5, page 56. Already since 2008, we have been monitoring the overall efficiency of energy use from our conventional plants. On The European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) has been the consumer side of the plant, this includes the primary enshrined in national law within our key markets in the EU. energy use for power generation and the purchase of elecThis legislation requires all large companies to carry out an tricity from outside sources for own use by the plants. Conenergy audit or to introduce and operate an Energy Manageversely, the production side balances this with generated ment System in conformity with ISO 50001 or an Environelectricity, and steam and heat products for our customers. mental Management System in conformity with EMAS. As a result, continuous monitoring using our advanced operating management systems enables us to implement rapid Organisation, management and performance countermeasures as necessary as well as maximally high utimeasurement lisation of the primary energy sources used in all operating Our energy management is part of the integrated managestatuses of the plants. Furthermore, data analysis yields valment system, see GRI 307, page 68. uable findings for research and development requirements. This continual improvement is being reviewed annually by For information on the offerings to our customers see our external certifier in energy and environmental manageEnergy-efficient products and services, page 46. ment audits. 53 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Average generation efficiency of thermal power plants by during the year under review, while the lower electricity genfuel and region eration tangible in all generating technologies compared At 41.6%, we succeeded in slightly improving the average with the previous year also exerted a negative impact. efficiency of our power plants compared with 2017 (41.5%). Current market conditions can exert a positive and negative Energy losses during distribution influence here on the mode of operation and hence the effiDistribution grids are operated by our subsidiary company ciency of the power plant portfolio. A renewed increase in innogy SE, see innogy Sustainability Report, Availability the use of gas-fired power plants exerted a positive impact and Reliability, page 45. Energy consumption within the organisation Unit 2018 2017 Primary energy consumption1 million GJ 1,177 1,345 Energy consumption of the sites TWh 8.8 9.4 Energy consumption of the grids TWh 0.04 7.7 1 Fossil fuels used, not including biomass. Figure for 2017 was corrected retrospectively for RWE without innogy. Efficiency of energy use of thermal power plants¹ in % 2018 2017 Germany Lignite 37.0 36.9 Hard coal 38.2 38.3 Gas 62.5 61.7 Waste 46.4 46.2 United Kingdom Hard coal 31.8 39.7 Gas 55.9 55.6 Netherlands Hard coal 45.4 45.4 Gas 62.5 61.9 1 Power plants in Hungary and Turkey are not included. 54 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 303 WATER (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Minimising risks associated with water Water is essential for life and it is not an unlimited resource. The Executive Board has appointed specialist coordinators for In regions with restricted or endangered water supply, manuprotection of rivers and surface waters. A record is kept of the facturing companies are exposed to the risk of production interfaces between RWE activities and water that exert or can failures. Furthermore, their water consumption may pose a exert an impact on rivers and surface waters. The type of risk to the supply situation for the environment and indeed impact on the water is also determined. We monitor cooling the local population. Nevertheless, wherever water is availawater intensively as a precautionary measure in order to idenble in abundance, the impacts of production may impair the tify significant populations of legionella bacteria at an early condition of water bodies and sources. And this therefore stage and as necessary take countermeasures using approved exerts negative impacts on the environment and society. As biocides. We record environmental impacts for rivers, surface an industrial operation with a requirement for water at our waters and groundwater on the basis of existing licences, limplants we believe that we have an obligation to take a its and expert reports, and the operating results of the previresponsible approach to water. Our operations affect water ous year. The relevance of the results is evaluated by the interconsumption and the use of water when it is withdrawn from nal specialist departments and a group of experts taken from the rivers and surface waters. Naturally, there are also government agencies, associations and external specialists. impacts when we discharge wastewater into these waters. It Their evaluation is then presented transparently by analysis of goes without saying that we comply fully with the statutory the environmental impacts in relation to the potential level of regulations for these activities. damage and frequency or probability of occurrence. We assess measures already introduced for minimising risks and accident In areas subject to flooding, heavy rainfall and similar events avoidance on this basis. If this action is not adequate, other can put the smooth-running operation of our plants at risk. measures are developed and introduced. We therefore take appropriate measures in order to avoid or minimise risks to electricity supply and potential costs. For example, the Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, Nature and Consumer Protection of the state of North Rhine-WestOrganisation, management and performance phalia manages the monitoring of compliance with targets measurement defined in the lignite plan for Garzweiler in a monitoring workA top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water ing group. The targets relate to water management and the exerts minimum impact on natural resources when we supenvironment, and assessing the impacts of the Garzweiler ply our thermal power plants with cooling water. Keeping opencast lignite mine. This includes conserving groundwater our opencast facilities dry by withdrawal of groundwater is resources, safeguarding the water supply, and preserving the an operational necessity and therefore unavoidable. We wetlands and surface waters. attempt to make these interventions in a maximally environmentally friendly way. Anchoring environmental protection in business processes See GRI 307, page 68. Group-wide coverage by environmental management See GRI 307, page 68. Compliance with licensing regulations See GRI 307, page 68. 55 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Protection of rivers and surface waters discharge. Furthermore, we avoid environmental impacts We want to contribute to preserving water as a habitat and owing to the use of methods such as recirculation in the to maintaining the biotopes dependent on it. Our objective power plants, intensification of usage for pumped water is to avoid negative consequences arising from our intervenfrom opencast mines, the use of collected rainwater and the tions in surface waters and ecosystems or – where this is not reuse of process water. viable – to minimise such impacts as far as possible. We mitigate unavoidable negative consequences to the maximum Protection against flooding extent feasible. We also provide the best possible protection All operating plants are protected against flooding in conagainst adverse impacts for aquatic habitats and other ecoformity with statutory regulations. Heavy rainfall in opencast systems linked with such habitats. This objective is assisted mines can be managed without major damage since water by discharging water into the groundwater and into rivers retention systems have been designed to cope with correand surface waters in a structured process while complying sponding levels of precipitation. with the statutory limits defined by the authorities during GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal by source in million m³ 2018 2017³ Water Cooling water consumption net¹ 232.4 259,3 Water consumption net² 235.1 262.4 Water withdrawal Groundwater 518.5 603.5 Surface water 1,175.1 1,607.4 Seawater/brackish water 2,943.3 3,190.9 Drinking water 2.8 3.1 Other sources 4 25.7 29.2 Total water withdrawal 4,665.3 5,434,1 1 Figure includes wastewater in public drains/third-party and evaporation/losses. 2 Figure includes net drinking water and cooling-water consumption. 3 Figures for 2017 for RWE including innogy, from 2018 the figures are given for RWE without innogy. 4 Including rainwater, wastewater and service water. Figure for 2017 was adjusted retrospectively to match a new definition. 56 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges and to deal with the types of intervention. A concrete survey The protection of species through the preservation of habiof the species is carried out using specialist mapping in tats is one of the biggest global challenges of the present advance of each intervention or an evidence-based potential day. The negative impacts entailed by the extinction of speanalysis is implemented. Concrete species protection meascies on humans and nature are immense. This rapid and radiures are then derived from this data. At the same time, an cal loss of species by displacement and destruction of the ecological evaluation of the habitats based on special evaluhabitats they require for existence is caused and accelerated ation methods is carried out before and after the intervennot least by industrial companies. Our activities also result tion. On the one hand, this work yields a mitigation requirein direct and indirect interventions in ecosystems. Wherever ment based on landscape and environmental parameters feasible, we therefore avoid or minimise these impacts. As and on the other hand functionally appropriate measures far as possible, we take appropriate nature conservation are developed. We also promote biodiversity in the course of measures to mitigate unavoidable or irreversible negative reinstating opencast mines by designing, promoting and consequences. This affects our opencast mines, the maintemaintaining special and diverse habitats. In this connection, nance of our transmission lines, and the construction and a biodiversity strategy was drawn up in 2018 for the areas in operation of plants for generating renewable energy. Consethe Rhenish Lignite Mining Region. Future measures for proquently, we promote species through selective measures – moting diversity of species will be implemented even more primarily within the framework of our recultivation activities. selectively for the fields of agriculture, forestry and rivers Recultivation can therefore frequently achieve positive and lakes on the basis of this strategy in recultivation and effects in relation to biodiversity. for ecological areas outside recultivation. The impact of measures is scientifically investigated and their design is For more information on biodiversity in the divisions optimised as necessary or their application is expanded if of Renewable Energies and Grid & Infrastructure see they are successful. innogy Sustainability Report, page 52. Likewise, we contribute to preserving diversity by installing Organisation, management and performance fish ladders at our run-of-river power plants and use technimeasurement cal measures to protect the aquatic animal world at offshore Protecting biodiversity wind farms. When procuring our biomass, we ensure that it Compliance with regulations governing biodiversity is a precomes from sustainable sources, see GRI 204, Page 38. requisite for meeting the licensing regulations covering our business. The regulations governing biodiversity are defined Reinstating habitats for our opencast mines in a number of sources including the We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining by special operational plans for species protection approved by recultivating the extraction sites. This approach enables us the mining authorities. We meet these regulations using to return rehabilitated areas of land to agriculture and other internal controlling systems and exceed the requirements uses while also creating space for nature conservation where with more extensive measures. Since 2015, RWE has had a we can strategically foster biological diversity. The objective Biodiversity Policy. This guideline establishes the approach of recultivation is to reinstate the development potential of of RWE to the protection and promotion of biodiversity as the landscape while taking account of the typical conditions the company carries out its business activities. Biodiversity of the surrounding environment and if possible improve them. is also an area covered by environmental management, see Development of forest and creating agricultural land are key GRI 307, page 68. Our measures are very diverse within building blocks for this. However, structuring new habitats this framework. We protect species diversity strategically if for nature conservation and protecting species are also an natural habitats are disturbed by our activities. The same important component of recultivation. RWE has established approach continues as we reinstate substitution habitats or a reputation with its approach on recultivation: A diverse facilitate the population of existing habitats. The specific landscape made up of forest, extensive lakes, ponds, wetprotection measures are individually designed to match the land biotopes, meadows and flower strips, as well as special requirements for the affected species and types of habitat biotopes exceptionally rich in species came into being at the 57 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix former extraction sites in the Rhineland lignite mining areas. classified as “endangered” or “under threat from extinction” They offer new habitats to numerous endangered animal according to the Red Lists in North Rhine-Westphalia. and plant species. For information on the effects of recultivation on local communities see GRI 413, page 81. Examples for recultivation areas in the Rhineland Mining Area where animal and plant species under threat find a new The quality of reinstatement of opencast mines is continuhome are the River Inde water meadows, the Kasterer See ally being enhanced. A total area of around 22,700 ha has lake and the Elsbach Valley. These areas are also popular been recultivated in the Rhineland mining area. Around recreational amenities. 8,400 ha of this have been returned to woodlands, forests and green corridors, around 12,500 ha are being used for One example of our species protection activities is provided agricultural purposes, and around 650 ha were reinstated for by the region around the Hambach opencast mining area. water management. Recultivation in the Rhineland lignite Comprehensive measures are implemented here on former mining area also encompasses highly diverse and speciesagricultural land or in managed forest covering an area of rich habitats. Special biotopes make a particularly important around 1,500 ha with the aim of safeguarding the stock of contribution here. They are deliberately established on species living in the old-growth forest located in the area account of their extreme and rare site conditions and they about to be developed for opencast mining. The objective can be regarded as “hot spots” of species diversity. They of the recultivation after the completion of lignite opencast include habitats with extremely low-nutrient, dry or moist mining is to preserve areas of forest and to manage them in living conditions. The recultivation research office carries out accordance with a natural approach. regular investigations on important issues. Scientific investigations on recultivation included special biotopes and bats The corollary is recultivation defined primarily by reforestain 2016, rivers and lakes, and field birds in 2017, and insects tion on the Sophienhöhe hill. This has already been in existand pioneering species in the River Inde water meadows in ence for many decades after opencast mining finished at the 2018. As a result of many years of research into recultivaHambach mine by around 1,500 ha of forest, which has tion, around 3,000 animal species and around 1,500 plant been reforested by planting around 10 million trees. Overall, species have been identified over the entire recultivation a greater forest area has been recultivated than was present process. Many of these recorded species are very rare and in the land taken over for mining operations. GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas  Nature conservation areas are designated on the basis of of some 1,620 hectares. These are distributed over approxithe German Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG) mately 66 ha of nature conservation area, approximately and they are the responsibility of various authorities. In the 1,554 ha of landscape protection area and some 0.56 ha of administrative district of Cologne, these areas are managed protected landscape elements. The largest contiguous land by the district government as a higher nature conservation area is the recultivated Sophienhöhe Forest covering an area authority provided that the areas have not already been desof 1,500 ha. This is located on the overburden dump of the ignated as the responsibility of the regional districts or Hambach opencast mine. municipal city authorities. RWE Power AG and RWE Generation SE are owners or leaseholders of parcels of land Continuous surveying for all our parcels of land would take throughout Germany. The actual number of these parcels of up a disproportionately high input of resources. Furtherland and designated conservation areas around our locamore, it is by no means certain that the digital data required tions is undergoing continuous change. For example, confrom the authorities for such an updating process would be servation areas are currently located alongside the operatsufficiently up to date to provide an accurate determination. ing area of our Hambach opencast mine. They cover an area 58 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity The operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and and to conserving natural ecosystems. We compensate the plants for generating electricity and for the production of use of land for our opencast mining activities by recultivatlignite inevitably result in our impacting on natural ecosysing the extraction sites (see GRI 304, page 56). The tems. Harmful substances are released during the generaexpansion of the grid and the building and operation of tion of electricity and heat at our power plants or the operaplants for generating renewable energy also exert impacts tion of our opencast mines, and they could lead to negative on biodiversity. For more information on this see innogy impacts on the environment and biodiversity. We are thereSustainability Report GRI 304, page 52. fore committed to maintaining the purity of air and water Biodiversity of habitats protected or restored In 2016, five landscape protection areas located in the Rhineuse as a mining site. Alongside the quality of our recultivaErft district were designated under the legislation. They tion, this diversity also contributed to the designation of concover the recultivated areas of the former Bergheim, Fortuna servation areas. and Frimmersdorf opencast mines. These areas were protected in order to preserve, develop and reinstate the effiEcological comparative analyses provide evidence that biociency and function of the balance of nature, and to conserve coenoses in recultivation have at least an equivalent diversity biotopes and habitats for certain species of wild animals and of species to those in high-value reference habitats located in plants. They were placed under protection owing to their other areas of North Rhine-Westphalia. The numbers of spediversity, characteristic features and beauty, as well as the cies in recultivation are frequently above the numbers before special significance of the cultural history of the landscape opencast mining took place. This applies in particular to minand its particular significance as a recreational amenity. This ing districts in overwhelmingly agricultural areas. One reason conservation success is also due to the quality of our recultifor this large diversity of species is the very diverse habitats vation. and microstructures that are created in the course of agricultural and forestry recultivation, as well as in the comparaThe new conservation zones cover an area of around 3,398 tively low level of fertiliser at the new sites. The biodiversity ha. The age of the designated areas of opencast mine means footprint for recultivation shows that designing a new landthat we are not aware of any listings as conservation zones scape also provides big opportunities to upgrade the ecologoriginating from before the period of opencast mining activiical characteristics that extend far beyond the scope of ties. The renaturalised post-mining landscape of today is in “proper reinstatement of use”. fact structurally more diverse than was the case before its 59 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 305 EMISSIONS (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Similarly by comparison with 1990s, Germany would like to Greenhouse gas emissions achieve a reduction of at least 40% in its greenhouse gas The electricity and heat generation from the power plant emissions by as early as 2020. The aim is to have a reduction portfolio of RWE is defined by a number of parameters in these emissions of at least 55% by 2030. Alongside the including the use of the fuels lignite, hard coal, gas, uranium national target, sector-specific reduction targets were also and biomass. To some extent, bioenergy has a better greendefined for 2030 in the Climate Protection Plan 2050 in Gerhouse-gas footprint than fossil-based energy. We intend to many. This includes targets for the energy sector. Achieveachieve complete climate neutrality for these emissions over ment of these targets presents particular challenges for electhe long term in order to achieve a sustainable alignment of tricity generation. This is because the exit from nuclear our business model and as a contribution to limiting the energy also has to be completed by the end of 2022, which consequences of climate change. Our corresponding corpohad not been decided when the target was defined. rate decisions in this area are significantly influenced and defined by the regulatory and legislative framework. Additional countries in which we also operate have likewise partly defined their own targets – Turkey, for example, has In December 2015, virtually all the countries in the world made a voluntary commitment under the Paris Climate joined together in the Paris Climate Agreement (COP 21) to Agreement. make a commitment to limiting the global rise in temperature to significantly below 2 degrees celsius compared with Investors include the topic of climate protection in their the pre-industrial level, and to work towards a limitation of company assessment. In their procurement processes, our less than 1.5 degrees celsius. The countries made national customers too are increasingly taking into account the susreduction commitments to achieve this aim. The objective of tainability aspect and the carbon intensity of the electricity the European Union is to reduce the emission of greenhouse we generate. NGOs and initiatives are continuously stepping gases by at least 40% by 2030 compared with the baseline up their efforts to promote short-term shutdown of older year of 1990. The European Emissions Trading Scheme (EUcoal-fired power plants in order to achieve climate targets, ETS) provides a central controlling instrument for this purboth against the background of greenhouse-gas emissions pose. The system defines an upper limit for emissions for and against that of other emissions. We are pursuing a stratindividual sectors of the economy – such as the energy egy geared to the long term which is oriented towards the industry and energy-intensive industries – that falls each currently applicable legal framework conditions and those year. The reform of the ETS came into force as a directive in anticipated in the future. the first half of 2018. The amount of CO2 certificates issued is scheduled to fall by 2.2% each year from 2021 to 2030. Other Central importance for innogy relates less to direct CO2 emismeasures are supposed to contribute to reducing the current sions and more to the upstream and downstream value chain. certificate surpluses in the market. In parallel with ETS reform, the EU Commission also resolved to share the burden between Other emissions the member states in order to achieve the greenhouse gas Apart from the emission of greenhouse gases, the electricity reduction target for 2030 in the sectors outside emissions and heat generation from the power plant portfolio of RWE trading known as the Effort Sharing Decision. Overall, greenalso releases other emissions into the air and water bodies. house gas emissions in the non-ETS sectors are projected to Compliance with limits defined under licensing regulations is fall by 30% by 2030 compared with 2005. Germany is supnecessary for sustainable alignment of our business model. posed to reduce its emissions in the non-ETS sectors by 38%. Our corporate decisions are therefore strongly defined by the regulatory and legislative framework that undergoes The Netherlands wants to achieve a 49% reduction comcontinuous development. pared with 1990 in their greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Details of this are to be defined in a new national climate Emissions produced during electricity and heat production and energy agreement in spring 2019. The emission reducin conventional production units include sulphur dioxide tion in the UK envisages a fall of 37% by 2020 and 57% by (SO2), mercury (Hg), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and dust. Dust 2030, in each case by comparison with 1990. and fine-dust emissions are also produced in the course of 60 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix operating our opencast mining facilities and these can be a Our European fossil-fuel power plants are subject to the burden on the surrounding areas. These materials reduce European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS). Reporting on the quality of the air breathed in and can exert a deleterious CO2 emissions from these power plants is made to the effect on health. We use air purification measures to avoid national emissions trading offices and these in turn report to risks in these areas. the responsible EU authorities. Rights and obligations of the emitters are regulated in detail at the level of the member Noise emissions are also of key importance for innogy SE. states so that additional corporate regulatory standards are For more information on this area see innogy Sustainabilrendered obsolete. The European Emissions Trading Direcity Report GRI 305, page 64. tive is one of the regulations applicable for this area at European level. The relevant national regulations based on this Organisation and management directive are applicable in Germany, the Netherlands and the RWE strives to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions proUK, which are now being amended by national lawmakers duced in the course of electricity production in harmony following the current ETS reform. with the existing and developing European and national climate protection targets and in accordance with the defining The CO2 data relevant for reporting are calculated in the regulatory framework, the European Emissions Trading opencast mines, at the relevant power-plant locations, and Scheme and the legally-mandated security standby in Gerwhen fuel is purchased. They are then collated centrally in many. In this connection, decisions on shutting down power the course of reporting. The Group Management is inteplants also need to be taken into account alongside the grated in the course of reporting for the audit of the annual increased use of biomass in the Netherlands. financial statements. We have defined the target in the existing portfolio as The emissions generated by RWE are determined in operareducing our CO2 emissions from electricity generation in tional terms by the use of our power plants in association Germany, the Netherlands and the UK by 55 – 65 million with development in the energy markets. The prices for fuels metric tons of CO2 by 2030 in comparison with 2015. Alongand CO2 certificates determine the costs at which power side the shutdown of power plants, we will achieve this also plants are able to offer the electricity they produce on the by continually increasing the proportion of biomass co-comwholesale market. The demand for electricity determines bustion in the Dutch hard coal-fired power stations. The when and which power plants are used. More expensive expansion of renewable energy will reduce the operational power plants are correspondingly only deployed when there hours and hence the CO2 emissions here and in our other is high demand in the electricity market and they emit correpower plants. Additionally, we are looking to reduce CO2 spondingly lower levels of greenhouse gases and other polemissions produced as a result of generating electricity from lutants owing to the lower number of operating hours. In lignite. On the basis of the lignite roadmap that has been 2018, the generation margins meant that lignite-fired power pursued up to now, the emissions from lignite will have plants were used for the most operating hours ahead of gasbeen reduced by approximately 15% by 2020 compared fired and hard-coal power plants and after nuclear power with 2015 as a result of transferring power plants to security plants. The additional expansion of renewable energy, which standby. Emissions will continue to fall up to 2030 owing to has priority feed-in in Germany, for example, means that the the decline in the number of operational hours in the wake operational hours and the associated emissions for all other of expanding renewable energy, efficiency enhancements, power plants are continuously declining. additional modernisation of our power plant portfolio and by discontinuation of the Inden opencast mine and the assoClimate protection and climate-protection measures consticiated shutdown of the Weisweiler lignite-fired power plant. tute key elements of our corporate strategy. In this connecThe resultant fall in emissions by 2030 will then be a total of tion, the coordination of decision-making and preparing the up to 50%. According to the current lignite roadmap, elecgroundwork are in the hands of Group Strategy, which intetricity generation from lignite and therefore the associated grates all the relevant divisions and reports to the Executive emissions will have ceased entirely by the middle of the cenBoard of RWE AG. tury. A decision still has to be made on how this roadmap can be adjusted in detail on the basis of the statutory impleWe also use appropriate risk management to safeguard the mentation of the recommendations of the Commission financial risks associated with emissions trading. Risks are “Growth, Structural Change and Employment”. reduced by concluding appropriate hedging transactions. 61 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix We also sell most of the electricity generated by our power Reduction of our own CO2 emissions plants in forward transactions and hedge the prices for the We use CO2 emissions from plants subject to the European fuels and emission allowances required. Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) as an indicator for greenhouse gas emissions. We report on emissions from our Establishing environmental protection in business gas-fired power plant in Turkey together with the EU-ETS processes emissions in the total CO2 output for the RWE Group. The responsible approach to natural resources and promotion of the use of environmental technologies is one of the Due to the restriction on lignite mining to the lignite stocks principles governing conduct at RWE and this principle is available in the licensed opencast mines, the associated CO2 enshrined in the RWE Code of Conduct. In 2018, the proviemissions are limited to the operation of our lignite-fired sions of the RWE Code of Conduct were applicable for the power plants. The State Government of North Rhine-Westentire RWE Group without innogy SE. See also GRI 307 phalia took the key decision about future lignite mining at Environmental Compliance. innogy has its own identical the Garzweiler II opencast mine in July 2016 and reduced Code of Conduct. the lignite stocks of Garzweiler II licensed under planning legislation by approximately one third. In terms of planning Group-wide coverage for environmental management law, this decision still has to be implemented by a lignite See GRI 307, page 68. planning amendment procedure. Compliance with licensing regulations In Germany – our most important generation market – an See GRI 307, page 68. accelerated exit from coal-fired electricity generation is emerging. In January 2019, after a long period of deliberaMeasures and performance measurement tion, the Commission “Growth, Structural Change and Emissions over the medium and long term at RWE can be Employment” set up by the German Federal Government influenced by the ongoing development of the power plant submitted a concept on the country’s climate goals in the portfolio. This relates to modernisation and efficiency energy sector. The concept addressed the issue of how the enhancement for the existing power plants and the replacecountry can achieve the goals without incurring structural ment or shutdown of existing power plants, just as much as breakdowns, social hardship or putting security of supply at a change in fuel, for example hard coal to biomass. Since risk. The commission included representatives from industry, 2012, measures such as decommissioning of coal-fired power unions, academia, associations, citizens initiatives and enviplants or a reduction in the capacity utilization of coal-fired ronmental organisations, and it recommended that Germany power plants have facilitated a significant reduction in CO2 discontinues coal-fired electricity generation by 2038 at the emissions of 34%. Additional planned measures are prelatest. However, the commission stated that a review should sented under Organisation and management (GRI 305). be carried out in 2032 to ascertain whether this objective was attainable and whether the final date might even be Reduction of financial risks brought forward to 2035. Financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected in our risk management. We reduce these risks by Furthermore, the commission defined milestones for the exit concluding appropriate hedging transactions. Furthermore, from coal. The portfolio of lignite-fired and hard coal-fired we sell most of the electricity from our power plants in forpower plants needs to be reduced to 15 GW generating outward transactions and hedge the prices for the fuels and put respectively by the end of 2022 through shutdowns or emission allowances required. modifications. Compared with the end of 2017, this corresponds to a reduction of at least 12.5 GW, of which nearly 5 Most of the emissions are hedged by the purchase of EuroGW comes from lignite and 7.7 GW from hard coal. The figpean Emission Allowances (EUAs) on different exchanges. ures include shutdowns that have already taken place or have Furthermore, we only use a very small amount of certified been announced. They also include lignite-fired units that Emission Reduction Units (CER), which originate from our had not yet been transferred to standby operation at the end own CER projects or are purchased on different exchanges. In of 2017. In 2030, only lignite-fired power plants with total 2018, we emitted 116.9 million metric tons of CO2 from our output of 9 GW and hard coal-fired power plants with total EU plants. This was covered by an estimated 115.6 EUAs, in output of 8 GW should be left in the market (not including addition to 1.3 million certificates allocated free of charge. reserves). Furthermore, the commission advises that emis62 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix sions allowances amounting to the additionally saved CO2 tional costs would be incurred in order to preserve the Hamvolumes should be eliminated from the national auction bach Forest, if this is even technically possible. Furthermore, budget. Otherwise, the certificates no longer required for the substantial capital expenditure is necessary in order to conshut-down power plants would still be available to other parvert opencast mines and power plants to a new operating ticipants in the European Emissions Trading System and concept. We are only able to reliably assess the overall burwould permit them to generate additional emissions. den we will be subject to once the German Federal Government has submitted concrete plans and has engaged in disThe commission also proposes that in the years 2023, 2026 cussions with us. As far as we are concerned, the fact that the and 2029, the German Federal Government should carry out commission has recognised the necessity of reasonable coma review of the measures implemented up to those points. pensation payments for power-plant operators is a positive The factors analysed by this review should include the sign, as is the fact that they explicitly included incorporation impacts on security of supply, the level of the electricity of the consequential costs for opencast mining operations. price, climate protection and structural development in the affected regions, and if necessary countervailing measures Measures for optimising the power plant portfolio comprise ought to be instituted. Furthermore, there is a recommendaboth modernisation and efficiency enhancement for the tion for policymakers to implement the shutdown roadmap existing power plants and the replacement or shutdown of in consultation with the operators and grant them appropriexisting power plants, just as much as a change in combusate compensation payments. The commission also believes tion fuel, for example coal to biomass in the Netherlands. We that it is desirable for Hambach Forest to be preserved. In carry out systematic reviews and adopt the available options relation to the resettlements in the opencast-mining regions, for optimisation of the power plant portfolio. In the past, we the states are requested to enter into a dialogue with the have significantly increased the efficiency of our power affected stakeholders in order to avoid social and economic plants and expanded the proportion of gas-fired generation. hardship. It is important to take measures to prevent comSince 2013, we succeeded in removing around 70% of the pulsory redundancies and unreasonable social and economic installed capacity of electricity generation from hard coal out disadvantages, for example by providing government fundof the grid or converting the capacity to biomass combusing for mitigation. tion. In 2018, these measures were continued and additional activities to reduce CO2 emissions are planned for 2019. The proposals by the commission have encountered overwhelming consent from policymakers and stakeholder Since spring of 2017, work has been carried out to facilitate groups. Positive emphasis was placed on finding a broadlythe use of 80% biomass as a fuel in future instead of coal at based consensus in order to create planning certainty for our Dutch Amer 9 power plant. In 2018, conversion of the companies, employees and regions. Analysts are therefore power plant to biomass combustion continued. This will assuming that the German Federal Government will implereduce the CO2 emissions from the power plant to the level ment the key items contained in the concept put forward by of a modern combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power the commission. This would have serious consequences for plant. The necessary retrofitting measures are currently our Rhineland lignite business. As part of the security underway at the Eemshaven power plant to allow 15% biostandby, RWE has already prematurely removed four powermass combustion from 2019. RWE is thereby already making plant units from the grid and a further unit will follow at the an important contribution to the sustainability of the energy end of September 2019. This renders additional shutdowns system in the Netherlands. In order to avoid shutdown of all the more difficult and they will create burdens that far the plants in the course of the planned exit from coal in the exceed the revenues lost from electricity. For example, we Netherlands, we are currently reviewing complete converwould straightaway have to cut significant numbers of jobs sion of the power-plant units to biomass by 2025 (Amer) and set up social compensation programmes for those and 2030 (Eemshaven). employees affected. If opencast mines had to close down earlier than the scheduled time, new recultivation concepts In relation to lignite-fired power plants, the Frimmersdorf P would have to be drawn up and the mining provisions would & Q units were transferred to legally-mandated security have to be increased owing to the earlier utilisation. Addistandby on 1 October 2017 and the two power-plant units 63 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Niederaußen E and F were transferred on 1 October 2018. power plants. This is achieved by a number of measures In 2019, the power-plant unit Neurath C will follow. By 2020, including installation of modern firing technologies for NOX this will enable us to achieve a reduction of around 15% in reduction and optimised separation processes, for example the emissions caused by generating electricity compared for mercury, in our power plant portfolio. At the Coal Innovawith 2015. tion Centre in the Rhineland lignite mining area, we are currently working on advanced procedures for capturing merOther options for taking action on reducing greenhouse gas cury by adding furnace coke to the flue gas. In 2017, a pilot emissions are provided by carbon capture and use or storplant was set up for this purpose at unit K of the Niederage. Alongside affordability, a prerequisite for rolling out außem power plant. It was tested in a pilot operation over a projects involving carbon capture and storage (CCS) would period of several months. The results from the pilot plant are be an appropriate legal framework and creation of acceptextremely promising. They are due to be verified for continuance for this technology in the public domain. However, the ous operation at a large-scale demonstration plant that is existing statutory framework conditions and the lack of planned to go into operation at the beginning of 2019. The acceptance mean that implementation of CCS projects in building and the facility technology at the pilot plant have Germany is currently not possible. Nevertheless, RWE is conbeen completed and most of the electronic and control systinuing to carry out research into the necessary technolotems have been installed. The startup of individual compogies. We are using our CO2 scrubber in the Coal Innovation nents has been implemented and completion and commisCentre at the Niederaußem power plant to work on making sioning are planned as the next stage. CO2 separation for generating electricity from fossil fuels and for other industrial processes more efficient. innogy is Since the 1980s, we have been using flue-gas desulphurisadriving forward climate-friendly electricity generation with tion systems to capture SO2 from the flue gas. This process the expansion of renewable energy. involves the SO2 being scrubbed out with the assistance of a limestone solution. We have been continuously developing Reduction of other emissions this and we are using the process on an industrial scale. Primary emission reduction measures such as optimisation of firing technology and secondary emission reduction measures In August 2017, the EU Commission enacted the findings on such as dust removal and desulphurisation mean that emisthe best available technologies for large combustion plants sions of mercury, sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOX) with a four-year transition period for existing plants. We will and dust emissions comply with the statutory limits for these strive to achieve compliance with EU regulations at the substances in our plants in all operating states. During the upper end of the emission bandwidths defined. reporting period, no incidents relating to protection against air pollutants, events relevant for spills or limit breaches Reduction of air pollutants: dust and noise occurred at our sites that would have led to consequences Legislation requires opencast mines to be structured and under administrative law during the reporting period. operated so that harmful environmental impacts are avoided if this is possible with the current level of technology. If enviAs the year progressed, additional capital expenditure was ronmental impacts are unavoidable, they should be kept to a deployed in order to reduce NOX emissions from the Aberminimum using the latest technology available. We are able thaw power plant in the United Kingdom. The power plant is to fully comply with these obligations. These environmental now able to make use of a broader range of coal qualities. In impacts connected with the operation of opencast mines are combination with capital expenditure in a low NOX burner primarily dust and noise pollution. We adopt suitable meastechnology in 2015, the NOX emissions will be reduced by ures to reduce these emissions that take into account the half. The power plant will thereby meet the requirements of operational conditions and local circumstances in a case by the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) after the Transitional case approach. Noise emissions are reduced by the use of National Plan (TNP) runs out. low-noise machinery, equipment and installations, encapsulating drive units, the use of noise-optimised rollers, setting In the course of our research activities we are working on up protective ramparts and walls, or putting in place plantfurther reduction of pollutant emissions that occur during ing schemes across sound propagation pathways. In addithe production of electricity and generation of heat at our tion, the works necessary during the night-time period are 64 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix restricted to the absolute minimum for normal operations, face. Measures were also developed that exert a targeted e.g. by minimising the use of earth excavators and transport impact on the creation and dissemination of fine dust. times for large items of equipment. When procuring new These include cleaning facilities for the lignite conveyor auxiliary equipment, a top priority is ensuring compliance belts and sprinklers on bunker equipment and coal excavawith the sound power level defined in the German Machine tors. The individual methods are always carried out in conNoise Prevention Regulations (32nd BImSchV). We take a sultation with the supervisory authorities. Furthermore, number of measures to reduce dust emissions (dust precipioperations monitoring stations at opencast mines are availatation) including treatment of open surfaces to prevent the ble 24/7 for any citizens who may have issues, so that shortremoval of dust. The action here includes covering with term remedies can also be implemented if there is an incimaterials that will not be blown away, spraying large areas dent of acute noise pollution. with water and other methods of binding dust to the surGRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions balance Free allocation of Shortage of in million metric tons of CO2 CO2 emissions CO2 certificates CO2 certificates 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Lignite & Nuclear 79.4 88.5 0.7 0.7 78.7 87.8 European Power of which: 1 38.6 43.3 0.6 0.6 36.9 41.3 Germany2 13.0 14.1 0.6 0.6 12.4 13.5 Netherlands/Belgium 12.1 13.8 12.1 13.8 United Kingdom 12.4 14.0 12.4 14.0 Continuing innogy operations RWE Group 118.0 131.8 1.3 1.3 115.6 129.1 1 Including the CO2 emissions of our gas-fired power plant in Denizli, Turkey, which in 2018 amounted to 1.1 million metric tons (previous year: 1.4 million metric tons). Since Turkey does not participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need any emissions allowances for these quantities. 2 Including figures for generating capacities of plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2018, these power plants emitted 2.0 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 3.1 million metric tons). in million metric tons 2018 2017 CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS¹ 116.9 130.4³ CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with GHG Protocol)2, 4 120.4 135.6 1 Figures for CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS include emissions from RWE less CO2 emissions from the Turkish power plant in Denizli, which amounted to 1.1 million metric tons in 2018 (previous year: 1.4 million metric tons). Since Turkey does not participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need any emissions allowances for these quantities. 2 EU ETS quantities plus emissions from power plants which are not subject to EU ETS. 3 Data for 2017 were adjusted to the new reporting structure. 4 The figures for CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with the GHG Protocol) also include the emissions from innogy. 65 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in million metric tons 2018² 2017 CO2 emissions Scope 2 1 5.0³ 1.0 1 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties outside the Group in our own grids. Rise in the figure for 2018 compared with 2017 through increased electricity procured by innogy from third parties outside the Group. 2 Data for 2018 were calculated on the basis of the new reporting structure. 3 Calculation on the basis of countries with principal share (Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Hungary). GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in million metric tons 2018² 2017 CO2 emissions Scope 31 188.7 84.0 1 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2: They are produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties outside the Group, the production and transmission of the fuels used and the consumption of gas that we have sold to our customers. Rise in the value for 2018 compared with 2017 through increased electricity procured by innogy from third parties outside the Group. 2 Data for 2018 were calculated on the basis of the new reporting structure. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity in t/MWh 2018 2017¹ Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS 0.670 0.658 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 0.684 0.677 1 Data for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively to the new reporting structure. GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See reduction of our own CO2 emissions in GRI 305, page 61. GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Negligible amounts of ozone-depleting substances, which primarily relate to chlorinated hydrocarbons, are used in core processes at RWE so that there is no separate recording process for them. GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) and other significant air emissions  Absolute emissions Unit 2018 2017¹ NOX emissions thousand mt 71.4 82.8 SO2 emissions thousand mt 28.1 38.3 Dust emissions mt 2,063 2,370 1 Figures for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively to the new reporting structure. Specific emissions in g/kWh 2018 2017¹ NOX emissions 0.41 0.41 SO2 emissions 0.16 0.19 Dust emissions 0.01 0.01 1 Figures for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively to the new reporting structure. 66 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Power plant residues are produced at our lignite-fired power As an energy generator we do not simply consume raw plants in the form of ash and FGD gypsum. The ash is largely materials. Waste management is also part of a responsible eliminated in residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in approach to resources. This enables us to comply with the accordance with approved plans. Most of the gypsum prolicensing regulations. Wastewater and waste are avoided as duced from the flue-gas desulphurisation (FGD) system is far as possible. Unavoidable waste is disposed of properly in recovered. Ash and gypsum from the hard coal-fired power accordance with the statutory regulations. We ensure that plants is mainly forwarded for material recovery. A small all safety regulations are complied with and relevant precauamount is disposed of. tions are taken. We treat residual materials and waste from our nuclear Organisation, management and performance power plants which occur while they are being operated as measurement well as when the power plants are decommissioned. TreatEnsuring sustainable waste disposal ment and disposal are carried out in accordance with the Comprehensive waste management ensures that the waste statutory regulations, see Shutdown and decommissiongenerated is transferred in accordance with the regulations ing of power plants and reinstatement of opencast for reuse, recycling or disposal. This applies in particular to mines, page 48. Only a small part of the entire mass of special waste which must be treated and disposed of in comthe nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radioactive pliance with the high statutory requirements. The environmaterials when they are operational. The greatest propormental management system described under GRI 307, tion of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of page 68 also regulates waste so that comparable standards decontamination measures so that it can be released by the are implemented here. government authorities and then returned to the normal materials cycle. The remaining residue as radioactive waste – The requirements defined in waste legislation have to be only around 1% of the total mass of a nuclear power plant – taken into account for the disposal of the waste generated in is destined for disposal in a final repository. This material the course of our operations. Owing to the varying composiprimarily includes components near the core of the reactor. tion of waste and the resulting potential for hazard, waste is Until the material has been consigned under statutory reguclassified into two categories: hazardous and non-hazardous lations to a final repository operated by the government, waste. Furthermore, a distinction is made in between recovthese waste materials and spent fuel rods will in future be ery and removal of waste in the course of disposal. Waste kept at an intermediate storage facility under the responsisubsequently undergoes further appropriate treatment along bility of the German Federal Government. these lines. For example, special disposal pathways and procedures are applicable for hazardous waste such as solvents, Avoid waste alkalis or acids. Verification of disposal has to be provided for The principle of avoidance, recovery and disposal provides the responsible authorities. This waste record-keeping for hazthe platform for our waste management. Our top priority is ardous waste is carried out using the statutory electronic avoidance of waste. This conserves resources and protects waste management system (eANV) in accordance with the our employees and the environment. All organisational units German certification regulation. are therefore continually reviewing the possibility of avoidance for the waste that is produced within their area of During the project phase, the new-build and the maintenance responsibility. This already happens in the course of the of plants, an internal system evaluates the potential harm planning and procurement process. caused by waste disposal and appropriate protective measures are provided. Disposal information systems are used for We continuously reduce the quantity of waste as much as organising disposal services. These information systems guarpossible. One of the ways we do this is by optimising our antee compliance with all the applicable statutory and conplants. Nevertheless, a distinction is drawn for the waste tractual conditions in the disposal of the waste generated. actually incurred between reuse, recycling and other uses of waste, for example recovery of energy. Disposal is only permissible if recovery is not technically feasible or is not commensurate with commercial requirements. 67 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Process wastewater and so far there have been no breaches with regulatory impliOur internal wastewater treatment facilities and their regular cations. This process enables us to avoid negative impacts for monitoring ensure the prevention of potential contaminants. the natural environment and health. The prescribed limits are monitored by government agencies GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination The pollutant concentrations for wastewater discharged from systems and in the course of regular in-house and independoperational facilities are limited by the licensing authorities ent monitoring surveys carried out by government agencies. with specification of monitoring values. These values are Compliance with the permissible monitoring values ensures defined in the relevant permits under water legislation. Monithat the wastewater discharges are not in contravention of toring of these values is carried out by in-house monitoring the water management targets for surface waters. GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Power plant residues from our coal-fired power plants domiplans. The process of flue-gas desulphurisation of our coalnate the generation of waste. The ash from hard coal-fired fired power plants generates gypsum. Most of this gypsum power plants is reused in applications such as road and track is passed on for recovery. Furthermore, other waste is proconstruction. Almost 100% of the ash from the lignite-fired duced in the course of our operations. This waste is forpower plants is eliminated in power-plant residue deposits warded for reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal. of RWE Power AG defined in accordance with approved Waste¹ Unit 2018 2017 Ash thousand mt 6,344 7,746 Ash recovery thousand mt 1,054 1,299 Gypsum thousand mt 1,517 2,052 Gypsum recovery thousand mt 1,057 1,347 Radioactive operational waste from nuclear power plants mt 225.2 273.4 Spent fuel rods mt 180.7 274.2 1 Figures in 2017 for RWE including innogy, from 2018 the values are shown for RWE without innogy. GRI 306-3 Significant spills During the reporting period, no serious events involving spills of harmful substances were recorded in the regular internal survey for RWE. 68 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Officer reports to the Executive Board and the Audit ComThe operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and mittee of RWE AG. innogy has established its own equivalent plants for generating electricity and for the production of Environmental Management System and reports separately lignite inevitably result in our impacting on natural ecosyson this in the innogy Sustainability Report. tems and having effects on the environment. Substances are released during the generation of electricity and heat at our We assess our environmental performance on a regular basis power plants or the operation of our opencast mines, and and use these results to initiate systematic improvements. they could lead to negative impacts on the environment. In the regions where we are operating, strict environmental A process of continuous training for employees, internal legislation and licensing regulations define the framework audits and certification enables us to identify and evaluate for our operating activities there. We have to ensure compliexisting risks systematically, and roll out appropriate measance with legislation and avoid the risk of serious negative ures. Comprehensive statutory regulations are already in impacts on ecosystems. Concrete environmental challenges place for environmental protection in the countries where in the fields of energy (GRI 302, page 52), emissions we are active. Our activities here partly extend beyond the (GRI 305, page 59), water (GRI 303, page 54), biodiverobligations arising from legislation or licences for the operasity (GRI 304, page 56), and waste (GRI 306, page 66) are tion of opencast mines and power plants. presented under the individual topics. We describe environmental challenges in the supply chain under procurement An integrated management system was introduced for RWE (GRI 204, page 38). Generation SE and RWE Power AG in order to manage our key activities with environmental relevance. Alongside comOrganisation and management pliance, this encompasses the areas of energy, water, biodiAlongside acting in accordance with the law, rules and proversity, emissions, and wastewater and waste. The structural cedures, we describe our aspiration for environmental prorequirements for the management of occupational health tection in our principles for good conduct defined in the and safety, the environment and energy are largely similar. RWE Code of Conduct along the following lines: We are comWe therefore deal with them together in an integrated mitted to a responsible approach to natural resources and management system for reasons of synergy. we promote the use of environmentally friendly technologies. Since 2018, the provisions of the RWE Code of Conduct Establishing environmental protection in business have been applicable for the entire RWE Group without processes innogy. innogy has its own identical Code of Conduct. In the course of Group-wide environmental protection management, the relevant emission data are surveyed and The Group Guideline on Environmental Management regucalculated at the individual sites, before being collected and lates the requirements for a Group-wide management sysprocessed in a central department for licences and environtem based on ISO 14001 in order to meet these aspirations. mental protection. Integrated compliance reporting to the The Chief Environmental Officer of RWE AG bears responsiExecutive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG probility in relation to these aims. The RWE companies appoint vides the framework for the Chief Compliance Officer of Environmental process owners in the executive management RWE to report serious environmentally relevant events. and corresponding environmental management officers, and review, assess and improve the appropriate Environmental Measures and performance measurement Management Systems on a regular basis. The Chief CompliRegular audits in the non-certified companies safeguard ance Officer of RWE AG bundles the compliance areas compliance with the requirement to set up and maintain an defined at RWE – alongside environmental protections these Environmental Management System. In this connection, we include competition and anti-trust law, corporate and capialso strengthen the environmental awareness of our employtal-market law, employment law, health and safety, and data ees through training courses other information formats, and protection – and coordinates and consolidates them. As part in direct dialogue. of integrated compliance reporting, the Chief Compliance 69 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Group-wide coverage for environmental management prised of the proportion of the employees covered by the In its Group-wide guideline, RWE AG makes a commitment environmental management system and the level of impleto ensure that all the Group companies (without innogy) mentation. In 2018, the level of coverage for environmental that are wholly owned by RWE AG or holdings in which a management amounted to 100%. 89% of the environmental controlling interest is held to set up, implement, maintain management systems in the Group was externally certified. and improve an Environmental Management System in We aim to achieve 100% coverage, either through external accordance with the international standard DIN EN ISO certification or auditing. During the reporting year, no seri14001:2015 taking account of country-specific and statutory ous environmentally relevant events were identified in an regulations. internal survey for RWE (without innogy). At innogy, the level of coverage for environmental management was 92%. The level of coverage by our Environmental Management 49% of the environmental management systems were exterSystem provides us with a performance indicator. It is comnally certified. GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations During the reporting year, no significant monetary and non-monetary sanctions were reported for the environmental area in an internal survey for RWE (without innogy). 70 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) For information on the general Management Approach on of prequalification. Relevant criteria are also used in the tenprocurement see GRI 204, page 38. der process and benefit analysis in order to assess the offers of our suppliers. Depending on the tendered requirement, environmentally relevant criteria are interrogated from the suppliers in the course GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screen using environmental criteria The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a purchasing department for commissioning disposal services constituent element of contractual relationships for all new in order to establish the suitability of the supplier. In such and existing direct suppliers. Additionally, the suitability of cases, compliance with the defined criteria can be reviewed suppliers is evaluated on the basis of hazard potential as in supplier appraisals and used for future tender processes part of prequalification during the procurement process. A in the framework of the internal appraisal system. separate work instruction and a checklist are used by the GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken We can report on the number of suppliers for goods, serensure conformity with potential compliance risks. Procurevices and plant components who were audited for ecological ment has to deal with an exceptional situation when proaspects. The audits carried out in the context of Bettercoal curement is carried out in the wholesale markets. An can also be reported, see GRI 204, page 38. An overview appraisal is not possible here due to an absence of direct of the producers audited is provided on the Bettercoal supplier relationships. website. We regularly carry out audits of all suppliers to 71 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix SOCIAL TOPICS GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges results, a large number of measures were implemented in We are working together with our employees to master the relation to many aspects of the handling and management challenges of the energy transition. The growing business of applications. pressure being exerted on the RWE Group and the changes occurring in the energy market have also made a cultural Establishment of new mindset and working practices change necessary at our company. If we failed to take action Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of here, we would put our future performance at risk. The reaworking within the RWE Group. The programme “New Way lignment of our company has not yet been completed. It of Working” (NWoW) has been designed to achieve this. We requires increased flexibility from our employees and opens are defining new standards for our working practices and up the possibility of new functions. We have therefore promoting the skills of our employees. A common working launched an array of different programmes so that they are culture is also being developed in the three areas of Operatin a position to achieve the best possible outcome. We are ing Excellence, Universal Process Management and Leaderjoining forces with our employees to structure our working ship and Alignment. Our intention is to use these and other culture. This is intended to ensure that we remain competimeasures to enhance employee satisfaction, customer satistive and attractive. faction and improve the financial results. Organisation, management and performance The NWoW programme has meanwhile been expanded to measurement 16 operational projects in RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Socially acceptable and responsible restructuring Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Currently 60 Our iSWITCH GmbH has already been established in the experts and 6,000 employees are working within the NWoW RWE Group. This platform promotes and supports many colcontext. Other projects are currently in the pipeline. leagues in relaunching their careers within the framework of an internal Group-wide job market. Secondments of employIn addition to these 16 projects, other initiatives are running ees from the iForce enable us to cover temporary personnel in the area of Management & Alignment with the aim of bottlenecks. This unit was established so that internal expanding the skills of managers. As executive managers act resources could be used instead of external agency staff as role models for the RWE management profile, they also on a temporary basis. iSWITCH also offers targeted career lay the foundation stone for successful introduction of development and helps staff to achieve further qualificaNWoW at the individual locations. tions. It also assists them in taking advantage of short-term (project) activities and accompanying staff on work experiWe measure the success of our NWoW projects particularly ence in different segments (divisions) of the Group. The by analysing leadership quality and employee and customer framework conditions are defined in a collective bargaining satisfaction. agreement. The offer from iSWITCH is open to colleagues at RWE companies and innogy SE. For more information see Defining objectives through the Code of Conduct and innogy Sustainability Report, GRI 401, page 80. RWE Social Charter Our Code of Conduct and the RWE Social Charter were Several tools are available to measure the success of the jointly adopted by the European Works Council and the internal job market including the number of internal and Executive Board in 2010. They define standards for the relaexternal applicants for each job. Additionally, we also record tionship of governance with employees and for the conduct the throughput times within iSWITCH GmbH, alongside the between the employees themselves. The RWE Code of financial result and utilisation of capacity. In order to further Conduct and the innogy code of Conduct apply to all our improve the offering, a survey was carried out of the regisemployees. The RWE Social Charter is valid for all employees tered candidates and applicants. On the basis of these of the RWE Group. 72 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover RWE Group without innogy1 Unit 2018 2017 Fluctuation rate % 5.5 5.4 External hirings FTE 825 413 1 Data for 2017 were shown retrospectively for RWE without innogy. We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data ularly report on the age structure and the breakdown of on fluctuation rate and external hirings because the benefit employees by gender. is not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We regGRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees The principle of equal opportunities applies at RWE. This contracts, particularly in the case of those working on a means that all employees are treated equally – irrespective short-term basis, if for example certain statutory deadlines of whether they are full-time, part-time or fixed-term. Howor reference dates cannot be complied with. ever, there may be deviations for employees on fixed-term GRI 402 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges states that the Executive Management and the Works Council We intend to make any necessary restructuring and staff should cooperate together in an atmosphere of trust. RWE relocations socially acceptable and in a responsible manner. has gone beyond these statutory regulations and in 2010 Our aim is to be perceived as an equal partner in order to defined its commitment to open and trusting cooperation in avoid dissatisfaction among our employees and to counterthe RWE Social Charta adopted by the European Works act increased turnover. We are therefore continually in disCouncil and the Executive Board. This charter sets out cussions with the employee representative bodies in the opportunities for participation in processes of change for Group and with the unions. In Germany, the Works Constituemployee and union representative bodies. Apart from the tion Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG) covers the situGroup Works Council and the European Works Council, there ation at RWE. We base our actions on this legislation. are other forms of employee representation across the Group, at company level and at operational level. Specific Organisation, management and performance interest groups, such as spokesperson committees, repremeasurement sentative bodies for people with disabilities, and youth and Cooperation beyond the statutory regulations in an apprentice representations are also included. atmosphere of trust The Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG) regulates the comprehensive information, consultation and co-determination rights of the Works Council. It GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We comply with all information disclosure obligations and include employee representatives at an early stage. 73 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges refinement. The Group Guideline regulates uniform GroupAs an industrial company, occupational safety and main­ wide terms and overarching provisions for occupational health taining health are particularly important among the topics and safety. Furthermore, management and coordination are that are of concern to our employees. Our workforce and laid down for occupational health and safety. the employees of our subcontractors often carry out their assignments at workplaces that are subject to special Organisation of healthcare management requirements for occupational health and safety. In particuThe functions of healthcare management are situated with lar, these include activities in the area of opencast mining, the Company Medical Centre and the Department of Health in technical areas at our power plants, and at transmission & Safety. The Company Medical Centre bundles the organilines or wind turbines. These areas of application are subject sation of all the medical and emergency medical resources to particular accident risks and health hazards for our alongside the social counselling service. The services for the employees and the employees of subcontractors. So as to RWE Group without innogy SE are provided on the basis of protect them, we are committed to sustainable development service contracts. of occupational health and safety. The further robust develop­ ment of a respectful management culture in an atmosphere The Health & Safety Department develops and initiates of trust is absolutely essential for strengthening our culture health prevention packages in cooperation with the Comof occupational health and safety – we have recognised that pany Medical Centre in the context of Occupational Health the topics of management and personnel development need Management. The management personnel within the Comto be more tightly dovetailed and are currently working at pany Medical Centre are separate from the Chief Company improving these interfaces. Medical Officer. The Chief Company Medical Officer carries out the functions and responsibilities in accordance with the Good occupational health and safety generates high levels relevant regulations. The Chief Company Medical Officer is of quality and demonstrates a good business policy. Sustain­ responsible for additional functions, in particular the strateable prevention also exerts a positive impact on the motivagic alignment and management of the entire area. Detailed tion of employees, the quality of their work, the image of the organisation of healthcare management has been defined company and the satisfaction of employees. This is another within the framework of the Workplace Safety Management reason why we strive to comply with high standards and conSystem. Since the employees of the Company Medical Centinually carry out improvements in this area. tre are part of the organisation of RWE Power AG and have contracts of employment with this company, healthcare Organisation and management management is part of the integrated management system Our objective is for every employee to be healthy and to of RWE Power AG. remain so. We are committed to using all the available opportunities to aid the recovery of sick employees as Organisation of Health & Safety quickly as possible. This applies equally to occupational The management of occupational safety and Company safety, in other words to the avoidance of accidents and to Health Management (CHM) is carried out by Health & Safety. the promotion and retention of health. The Health & Safety Department (H&S) is situated at RWE Power AG and also operates on the basis of a Service Level The organisation and safeguarding of uniform, harmonised Agreement for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply standards for occupational health and safety at RWE are & Trading GmbH. The department is also responsible for defined in a Group Guideline on the basis of the relevant legal H&S reporting in the RWE Group and in this function reports regulations. The guideline includes fundamental provisions regularly to the Executive Board of RWE AG. A regulated for defining occupational health and safety policy and for organisational structure ensures that the decentralised occubasic and procedural organisation. Drawing up RWE workpational safety departments throughout the company are place safety standards and advance definition of targets in included in H&S reporting. innogy has a dedicated H&S occupational health and safety provide the platform for this. Department that operates on the basis of comparable standGroup programmes directed towards establishing a culture of ards. Reporting here is in the innogy Sustainability Report. occupational health and safety will continue to undergo 74 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The structural and process organisation of Health & Safety years, RWE has established and expanded a reliable system is ensured through acknowledged management systems of Workplace Safety Subcontractor Management (WSSM). including international standards and rules. Corresponding Apart from reducing the accidents and work-related stresses regulations are defined in a guideline valid throughout the for our subcontractors, the focus is on joint development of Group. RWE has defined the target of ensuring that all an H&S culture. In order to achieve this, we support our subGroup companies have certifiable management systems for contractors from the tender stage to carrying out the work, occupational safety. Currently, certification has been conas well as in the final phase of continuous improvement. In ferred in 76% of the companies. 2018, we carried out H&S workshops, highlighted specific safety performance and intensified cooperation between the Continuous improvement of occupational safety H&S experts at RWE and subcontractors. The occupational safety management systems cover the relevant management and business functions including the In 2017, the Health & Safety Departments of RWE and definition of targets, structures and processes, rules and innogy already developed the “Safety Academy” game. This tools relevant to occupational health and safety. The objecinvolves small teams working together and answering questive is to make the best possible contribution to achieving tions interactively about Health and Safety. Situations from the corporate goals. The relevant processes for Health and routine work every day are also trained in action fields. This Safety are systematically analysed and continuously interactive game was awarded a prevention/promotion prize improved using the Plan Do Check Act cycle. The integrated in each case by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Associaapproach is applied for relevant activities that extend across tion for the Energy, Textile, Media and Electronics Sectors management systems. These include management reviews, (BG ETEM) and the Employers’ Liability Insurance Associaaudits, analyses and event notifications. tion for Raw Materials and the Chemicals Industry. The game has meanwhile become an established and accepted teachMeasures and performance measurement ing tool in the administrative sector. In 2018, the campaign Continuous improvement of occupational safety “Thinking about Risks” was also launched for recording and The measures described here relate to RWE without innogy. evaluating events and accidents. innogy carries out its own comparable measures under its own responsibility. Since 2017, a uniform classification of all Continuous improvement of health events and accidents relating to RWE’s own employees has The Company Medical Centre is continuously analysing been implemented along an accident pyramid with the health data available inside and outside the company, idenintention of ensuring development and alignment with intertifying the need for action and deriving concrete measures national Health & Safety (H&S) standards. In parallel, an for the adjustment and completion of its service portfolio assessment of potential has been carried out using a risk and for prevention and healthcare promotion campaigns. matrix. We want to use long-term establishment of a probabilistic approach to assist our employees in achieving better In 2018, the focus was on the metabolic syndrome, which is identification and assessment of safety risks. To this end, we regarded as the key risk factor for arterial diseases, in particparticularly promote independent responsibility in employular coronary heart disease (characterised by a number of ees and raise their awareness of the issues so that they are factors including obesity, high blood pressure and lipometabetter able to assess the safety risks. bolic disorder). Additionally, all doctors were trained in 2018 for the focus campaign on diagnosis and therapy for sleepWe focus systematically on investigating events and acciing disorders planned for 2019 and the necessary workflows dents with a high potential for risk. For this purpose, we were set up for this. deploy an independent, interdisciplinary analysis team in order to determine causes and derive suitable measures. In Moreover, the Company Medical Centre runs an annual flu addition, we also support the subcontractors working for us injection programme for all employees. As necessary, this with analysis and implementation of measures. can include individual vaccination advice, setting up a vaccination plan and may include any additional vaccinations necOur objective is to treat the employees of our subcontracessary on an individual basis. Starting in October and contintors in the same way at all times as RWE’s own employees. uing into the first quarter of the following year, all employees We therefore take account of the number of subcontractor can have a flu vaccination. Since the vaccination provides the accidents in the LTIF rate. Over the course of the past ten most effective protection against infection with the influenza 75 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix virus, information and communication to employees will be fulness are being expanded. These programmes are stepped up in order to gradually expand the proportion of intended to promote the skills of our employees, mastering employees who take advantage of the vaccine. crises and providing staff with an opportunity for personal development by drawing on their own competences as a We use the Work Ability Index (WAI) as one of our tools to platform for development. Furthermore, a training concept obtain more in-depth information on the performance of our involving blended learning was developed which communiemployees and provide them with effective support. This cated content for occupational health and safety as a mantool is based on self-assessments by our employees and agement function. gives an insight into the extent to which they see themselves as able to carry out their work currently and in the Health indicator future. By the close of 2018, feedback had been provided a A key indicator of health in the workforce is the healthtotal of some 27,000 times by the employees who took part related absenteeism rate. This reflects the periods of in the survey. absence due to sickness including absence as a result of accidents and due to rest cures. It is calculated as a function The Health and Safety Culture tour was continued in 2018. of the scheduled working hours for all employees. The The tour originates from the “Development of Health and health-related absenteeism rate of the RWE Group without Safety Culture (DOHSC)” project that came to an end in innogy was 6.5% in 2018. 2017. This empowers managers to discuss issues relating to occupational health and safety together with their team. In selected areas, the health-protection indicators relevant to controlling were summarised in a basic indicators portfoThe aim of Company Health Management (CHM) is to prelio. This portfolio provides the business with an overview of sent our employees with a wide range of offers and needsthe health scenario in the company. It is broken down into based measures to promote their health. Thematic focuses cause and effect indicators. The cause indicators such as are made up of mental, physical and social health. The development of employee capacities, average age, increased sphere of mental health offers a burgeoning area of action performance rate and Work Ability Index, and other indicaowing to the intensified concentration of work and tors present potential causes for the health quota. The increased psychological burdens. Against this background, effect indicators show the actual periods of absence. offerings related to stress competence, resilience and mindGRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities The key performance indicator we use for occupational therefore report by regions but analogous to operational line safety is the number of accidents with the loss of at least controlling. The special hazard and stress requirements are one day of work for every one million hours worked (Lost therefore taken account of within the segments and internaTime Incident Frequency, LTIF). This indicator includes coltional comparability is ensured. Data on the type of injuries, leagues at subcontractors. In the reporting year 2018, RWE the injury rate, the absentee rate (Lost Day Rate, LDR) and succeeded in achieving an improvement in the number of work-related fatalities are surveyed in anonymised form for occupational accidents compared with the previous year and reasons associated with data protection regulations. These achieved an LTIF of 1.9 (2017: 2.29). The LTIF for RWE withdata cannot therefore be reported by gender. Reporting on out innogy was 2.2 (2017: 2.49). Our goal is to bring about occupational diseases and the absentee rate is also not posa sustainable increase in the health quota and reduce the sible for the same reason. LTIF rate. As a result, RWE's health management is currently also an important focus in raising awareness of stress and Unfortunately, we had to report a total of two fatal occupaoccupational exposure. We intend to achieve an LTIF of 1.8 tional accidents in the business year 2018. In March 2018, an at RWE without innogy by 2019. RWE employee suffered a fatal accident at the Inden opencast mine. While carrying out electrical work on a switchgear Reporting in accordance with this controlling model is carried system, he was electrocuted and suffered injuries that out on the basis of operational controlling of occupational resulted in his death. Another fatal accident occurred at the health and safety in the operating segments. We do not Neurath power plant in October 2018. An employee of a sub76 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix contractor was working there and fell down 17 metres into a the causes of the accidents and appropriate measures were container filled with a lime suspension while carrying out derived. Lessons Learned as a result of these investigations maintenance work. He died at the site of the accident. Analyare being implemented in operational workflows throughout sis teams were immediately deployed in both cases to clarify the Group as appropriate. Accidents and days of absence in 2018 by division Number of Number of Occupational accidents¹ Commuting accidents² RWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG³ 93 52 RWE Supply & Trading GmbH 2 1 RWE AG (other) 0 2 innogy Grid & Infrastructure Division 144 118 innogy Renewable Energies Division 11 3 innogy Retail Division 38 10 innogy other (Gastro, interdisciplinary functions, etc.) 6 9 RWE Group 294 195 1 Including employees from subcontractors. 2 Only own employees. 3 Up to 2017, integrated reporting was provided on the generation business. GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Activities of our employees and our subcontractor employbines. We believe that all hazards can be avoided by taking ees are often associated with particularly high requirements preventive action and implementing appropriate protective for occupational health and safety – most particularly in the and safety measures. We organise training sessions and area of our power plants and opencast mining facilities, and workshops in our regions in order to focus attention on in the case of innogy SE at transmission lines or wind turHealth and Safety. GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Organisation, management and performance Our company is only as strong as the knowledge and skills of management our employees. Lack of training and education would lead to Recruitment of new employees an impairment of the performance of the RWE Group. We will We are an important economic factor in the regions where only be able to continue mastering the future challenges prewe have operations in the energy sector. So as to ensure sented by the energy business by having professional and that we continue to reinforce this perception of an attractive dedicated employees and managers. Our aim is therefore to employer in potential employees, we are proactive in engagcontinue recruiting talented young people to work at RWE, ing with them. We inform them about the activities and the promoting our employees, supporting them in their individopportunities for employment and a career at RWE. This proual development, and furthering their careers on the basis of cess includes a range of different tools including our Career their individual strengths. We believe that it is important to Portal to provide information to schoolchildren, students, be perceived as an attractive employer. We continue to give graduates and prospective employees with career experiour employees advanced training so that they are always ence. The aim is to help them make a start on the career ladfamiliar with the latest technical developments. der in the world of work or give them advice on changing 77 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix jobs at RWE, and to get in contact with them. The site addiEvery year, more than 200 young people start their training tionally provides them with useful information about RWE in the RWE Group. This means that they are part of more as an employer, gives them assistance with making applicathan 600 apprentices in the Group (without innogy). 95% of tions and other helpful advice. We focus our on-site activithese trainees work at companies in Germany. If you comties on selected universities and fairs in Germany and pare the number of German apprentices with the full-time abroad, as well as offering an intensive exchange of views jobs in Germany, the apprentice ratio of the RWE Group through personal interviews. without innogy was 4.2% in 2018. We offered 39 places in our entry-level qualification “I can do it!” (“Ich pack’ das!”) Women continue to be less inclined than men to take up in 2018. Here we help young people who have not yet found a technical career. We are therefore especially committed a training place and give them the knowledge to enable to motivating young women to explore technical careers at them to achieve the necessary level to embark on basic an early stage. One example is our engagement with the training. We have been providing this one-year programme nationwide Girls’ Days, which have involved more than 100 for the past 16 years and up to now we have helped almost participants in 2018. These events enabled school girls to 1,200 participants. The placement rate into basic training, find out about careers in the technical area. jobs and advanced measures is the key performance indicator for high-quality engagement by our trainers in the comPromotion of training pany. This was 80% in 2018. The RWE Group has a long track record of vocational training. In Germany, we focus primarily on the dual vocational Career training and development training system. This involves theoretical instruction being We offer a range of training sessions and courses for developgiven at vocational colleges alongside on-the-job training in ing personal skills. At the same time, we promote the acquisithe company. Overall, we offer training in nine cities for a tion of knowledge and skills which lead to further personal total of 18 apprenticeship vocations in craft, engineering development within the Group. We help managers to enable and commercial occupations, and other areas where we enatheir employees to take advantage of opportunities on a daily ble young people to undergo a high-quality vocational trainbasis – opportunities to try out new things, implement proing. We offer training that extends beyond our own specific jects and collaborate with different people so that they can needs. In addition to carrying out training on its own behalf, learn from each other. We aim to structure personal and RWE also supports external companies through activities for ongoing challenges strategically as careers unfold in order to collaborative training ventures, for example by making trainpromote the development potential of our employees. RWE is ing capacities available in our training workshops or by carcommitted to a culture of lifelong learning and to facilitating rying out training for small companies. the best possible development of the skills of our employees. GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Our employees have access to a broad spectrum of developportal of RWE offers attendance training courses, blended ment opportunities and advanced qualification. These range learning, web-based learning, videos and much more. Certififrom IT skills and project management, through specialist cates are issued for training courses in specific areas. In topics such as technical training courses, occupational safety 2018, approximately 28,000 training courses were booked and compliance, to management training sessions. The HR through the HR portal for RWE without innogy. 78 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges generations and cooperation in mixed-age working teams. Deep-seated changes like demographic change, skills shortWe also offer strategic packages for knowledge transfer and ages, migration, changes in values and the individualisation workshops. of life concepts mean that our society is becoming more and more diverse. Our objective is to use the diversity of our RWE addresses the challenges presented by changes in the workforce at RWE as an opportunity for cultural transformaworld of work. These result from changed behaviour and tion, to recruit talents and to convince our employees about mindsets of employees and from the advance of digitalisaour merits every day. An open and respectful culture appretion. We provide support for this road route by making workciates diversity and this is therefore advantageous for our places more flexible in terms of time (partly through partcompany and for our employees. time opportunities) and location (e.g. home office). At the same time, we are digitalising workplaces and structuring We are a company operating on the international stage our facilities to meet current needs. In future, we will conwhere employees from different cultural backgrounds work tinue to assess whether ongoing digitalisation of processes together. Our stakeholder groups and customers have an is a sensible option. international profile. This is why good cooperation and intercultural communication are important for the success of our RWE is committed to providing refugees with vocational company. qualifications. Since 2015, we have given a total of 270 people a wide range of different opportunities for gaining a As a technological company, increasing the proportion of foothold in the world of work. The focus for our approach is women in the company continues to be a challenge. Furtherprovided by internships (148), work experience sessions more, the demographic change is also an important issue (36), entry-level qualifications (36), training places (22), temfor us because society is getting older and this entails new porary appointments (24) and a twin-track degree course challenges in the world of work and for our company. with in-service training (4). For further information on commitment to refugees see GRI 413-1, page 81. Organisation, management and performance measurement RWE held its Diversity Week at a total of five locations in Establishment of diversity management in the Germany and abroad. It has demonstrated just how diverse organisation the workforce already is today. The week also highlights how Our commitment to diversity in the company culture is the activities in the various subsidiary companies contribute enshrined in our Social Charter. We make it clear in the charto promoting a culture of inclusivity. This year, we organised ter that we reject any form of discrimination and we require an RWE Diversity Community Event for the first time in order a working environment free of prejudice. Our diversity manto create an informal network and hence bring colleagues agement plays a key role here. together from all areas of the Group who are driving diversity forward. We interpret diversity management as a long-term management function in order to deploy the right competences at We are committed to topics related to gender and disability the correct place in the company. The different personalities in the workplace and we engage in a continuous exchange and capabilities of each individual are a central focus and of knowledge in the ENEI network, one of the biggest diverthey are regarded as an opportunity to learn from each sity networks in the English-speaking world. The active other. This gives every employee the opportunity to fully members include other corporations, ministries and NGOs. exploit their potential, irrespective of their age, their genThe exchange is carried out through workshops, online trainder, their origin, but also independently of their beliefs, dising sessions and discussion groups. ability and their sexual orientation. RWE also engages proactively in the networks Woman We engage with age structures and age-appropriate employCareer Index and it is a founding member of the Charter of ment in the company, analyse the requirements of different Diversity. 79 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Equal remuneration for women and men ferent hierarchical levels within the Group have taken part Men and women at RWE are paid the same for equivalent in the initiative. We have also launched a Mentoring Proactivities. The compensation is based on the typical activigramme for women in MINT professions and the RWE ties allocated to the remuneration groups. Gender is not Female Leader Initiative, which promotes networking for mentioned at all in our compensation guidelines and is irrelwomen managers within the RWE Group. evant for remuneration. The amount of pay is therefore dependent on qualifications, the activity being carried out The proportion of women in management positions was and the experience of the employees. around 15% for the RWE Group without innogy SE at the end of 2018. It was 20% for innogy SE. The percentage was The employee representatives ensure that equal treatment 29% for the first management level below the Executive is maintained in the sphere of pay as in all other areas. The Board of RWE AG. The percentage was 19% at the second assignment to a tariff or salary group is linked to the job promanagement level below the Executive Board of RWE AG. file and is not dependent on gender. At the Supervisory Board meeting held on 23 June 2017, In 2017, the Act to Promote Transparency of Pay Structures the Supervisory Board passed a resolution defining goals for (Entgelttransparenzgesetz) came into force in Germany. The the compliance period to 30 June 2022 in the form of target objective of the act is to implement the requirement of quotas. These amount to 0% for women in the Executive equal pay for women and men for equal or equivalent work. Board. A target quota of 30% was defined for the first manAgainst this background, pay regulations and structures are agement level. The target quota of 20% women in the secto be made more transparent for employees. Important ond management level takes account of the current appointbuilding blocks of the law are an individual entitlement to ment situation and the difficult conditions in the information for employees and the reporting obligations for employment market. equality and equal pay. RWE implements all the statutory regulations and answers all enquiries from employees within The number of women on the 20-strong Supervisory Board the defined framework. of RWE AG is currently six, of which three are drawn from the employee side, see GRI 102-22, page 18. This means that Appointing more women to management positions the statutory regulations have been implemented. During We provide women with strategic support for entering our the year under review, no women were present on the Execcompany structure and climbing up the career ladder. Our utive Board of RWE AG. objective is to increase the greater proportion of women in management positions. For this purpose, we have successPromotion of inclusiveness fully continued our Executive Mentoring Programme for In March 2014, the Executive Board of RWE AG adopted the women and our training directed towards preparation for RWE Inclusiveness Action Plan for the German Group compataking up membership on supervisory boards together with nies and resolved to roll it out. RWE uses this plan specifithe Fidar network (Women in Supervisory Boards). cally to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in all the company’s activities. The agreed targets will continue The Women’s Network at the RWE Group including innogy to be implemented in the companies of the RWE Group withSE brings approximately 500 women at 14 locations out innogy SE. Their sustainable impact is demonstrated in together. Group-wide communication on the latest chalthe constant employment rate for people with disabilities, lenges in the energy industry is promoted at annual conferin the package of internship places for young people with ences and working groups, and motivation is provided to disabilities and the sustainable, barrier-free establishment enable women to develop their individual career paths. We of workplaces for people whose ability to take part in the will continue to support them with more initiatives, for workplace is compromised. Our community and social example the MINT Women initiative. This initiative brings responsibility towards people with disabilities is defined together women in our company who have taken scientific across Europe through the Social Charter and the Charter and engineering degrees and strengthens the profile of of Diversity. This commitment will continue to be implewomen in professions where they continue to be underrepmented in a practical way by campaigns to raise awareness resented. Furthermore, it offers them a knowledge exchange and strategic measures in human resource development, platform and supports them with career development and training, employment and health measures and appropriate through networking activities. Around 160 women from difworkplace design and a barrier-free approach. Employee 80 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix representatives also play a role in structuring and monitoring career and health, alongside combining career and children the implementation of inclusion here. The ratio of employor caring duties. For combining “Career and Children” there ees with disabilities at RWE in Germany was 9.4% in 2018 are additional packages for (prospective) parents including (2017: the correct value is 6.3%, rather than 1.4% published the Lumiland daycare nurseries located close to the compain the report in 2017). This means that we have complied ny’s premises. Employees are now also able to make use of with the statutory quota of 5.0%. nursery places in Essen, Dortmund and Cologne. Parent and child offices are also available, and a central mediation centre Combining work and private life for childminders, nannies, emergency mothers and au pairs Combining work and private life is a top priority at RWE and is also available – even in situations when private childcare the company promotes getting the work-life balance right is suddenly not available at short notice. within the framework of the individual national circumstances and the specific opportunities available in the Group compaThe spectrum of Career and Care services includes services nies. Framework conditions like mobile working and flexible for the care of relatives. For example, employees can get working hours including management positions, and up to advice from an online portal about subjects like patient 24 months of unpaid special leave all contribute to making instructions and long-term care insurance, or they can also it easier to combine career and family. The Thielkasse health obtain expert advice at on-site events. We also provide supscheme is a joint venture by RWE AG and innogy SE that port for our employees in selecting care services or organising offers employees additional benefits to help them combine support in the home. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Proportion of gender in the RWE Group without innogy2 Age structure of the RWE Group without innogy1 in % 2018 2017 in % 2018 2017 Proportion of women in the company 11.2 10.3 Proportion <20 years 1.4 1.2 Proportion of men in the company 88.8 89.7 Proportion 20-24 years 4.6 4.4 Proportion of women in management 15.3 15.0 Proportion 25-29 years 6.3 5.5 positions1 Proportion 30-34 years 7.7 6.9 1 Encompasses the first four management levels. Encompasses RWE AG, RWE Proportion 35-39 years 8.3 7.4 Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Proportion 40-44 years 7.7 8.2 2 Figures for 2017 were presented retrospectively for RWE without innogy. Proportion 45-49 years 11.2 13.9 Proportion 50-54 years 21.5 23.3 Proportion 55-59 years 22.7 21.3 Proportion ≥ 60 years 8.6 7.9 1 Figures for 2017 were presented retrospectively for RWE without innogy. A survey of data on minorities is subject to the individual national regulatory standards. Differentiation is therefore RWE Annual Report 2018, page 196 and the RWE only possible on the basis of gender and age. For disclowebsite. The career profiles of the Members of the Execusures on the composition of the Executive Board and the tive Board and the Supervisory Board can also be found Supervisory Board see here. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men RWE pays women the same salary as men when they are in carried out, independently of gender. The employee repreequivalent positions. We observe the principle that employsentatives also ensure that the principle of equal treatment ees at RWE receive remuneration on the basis of the activity is observed. 81 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Dialogue with neighbouring residents and other Wherever we have operations, our actions exert an impact stakeholders affected on local communities. Our power plants and opencast mines We engage in a lot of different stakeholder dialogues to offer jobs and therefore support the structure of the individcommunicate information and to involve neighbouring resiual regions. In some places, this has already been happening dents and other groups who are affected by our business for a long time. We temporarily take over very large areas of activities. This is primarily related to our opencast mines and land for our opencast mines. This is associated with serious our power plants. For more information on integrating our changes in the profile of the landscape. In some cases, these stakeholders see GRI 102-43, page 22 and GRI 102-44, operations may necessitate resettlements of individual vilpage 23. lages or parts of local settlements. Furthermore, employee, supplier and customer traffic associated with our plants also Public interest in paying visits to opencast mines and power exerts an impact on the neighbourhood. plants increased once again in 2018. During the past year, around 55,000 visitors took part in tours through the faciliOrganisation, management and performance ties and recultivation areas of RWE Power. Over the past ten measurement years, RWE has welcomed around 600,000 visitors. Providing We want to operate in a socially ethical way at our operating visitors with a transparent and factual picture of its operalocations and be perceived in a positive light. With this in tions is a top priority for RWE. mind, we enter into dialogue with neighbouring residents and other groups which are impacted by our business operaFurthermore, we maintain contact with neighbours as part tions or whose activities exert an impact on the business of our donation and sponsoring activities. We focus on proactivities of RWE. Wherever we have operations, we want to moting youth work in regional associations and supporting cooperate with the local communities where we are working. local heritage and customs. GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes At all our major locations, we exchange views with the from apprentices to the executive management, take part in people living in the region. We regularly analyse the needs team and individual projects to help displaced people. So far, of communities and the impacts on the environment within a total of 239 members of staff have given a helping hand. the framework of the licensing procedure in Environmental and Social Impact Assessments. A detailed disclosure of the Our aim with the programme “3malE” Education with Energy, results is not practicable owing to the large number of is to motivate young people for topics related to energy and licensing procedures. engineering. We also discuss the energy supply of the future with them. In 2018, 825 experiment kits were loaned to Companius cooperates with its long-standing collaboration 119 schools and two nurseries, 18,000 teaching packs were partners to develop volunteering projects in order to deliver sent to teachers, and 24 members of staff went into schools aid to refugees. Employees throughout the entire RWE Group, as energy ambassadors. 82 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities The operation of opencast mines is unavoidably associated munity life can be continued with familiar social structures with interventions in the landscape and with the resettleand similar cultural life. Socially acceptable resettlement ment of local communities. RWE is very much aware of the cannot be achieved without this input. impacts of these interventions for the region. Since the 1940s, more than 40,000 residents have been Structuring resettlement with a consensus resettled in a socially acceptable way. So far, 35 new and When people are being resettled, the important issues assovibrant localities have been created as a result in this prociated with this topic are not simply about fair compensation cess. In 2018, around 160 properties were acquired in four for their material assets. Intangible assets like tradition, localities alongside additional agricultural and other parcels community and a sense of belonging also play a key role. So of land. that these needs can be met as far as possible, RWE has been committed for decades to the offer of community resettleStructuring new landscapes ment with the aim of finding solutions that are ethical and Extraction of lignite by opencast mining inevitably leads to socially compatible. The people being resettled are involved a temporary impact on the landscape. However, a key attribon many levels in the process from the planning stage to ute for lignite opencast mining in the Rhineland is that implementation. They receive comprehensive support through simultaneous and sustainable reinstatement of the original the relevant government agencies, local authorities, and use is a constituent element of the operating processes. most importantly from our company. Their requirements also Recultivation is therefore part of opencast operations play a central role within the framework of the required throughout the entire lifecycle. It takes account of the envilicensing procedure. They are involved in selecting the locaronmental requirements and the leisure and recreational tion of the resettlement site and they play a key role in needs of the local community. Today, forested areas more designing the new village. This ensures that the majority of than 80 years old can be found in recultivated former openthe people being resettled are always involved in the resettlecast mining districts, for example in Ville. Moreover, water ment of the community. Vibrant new settlements can be meadows have been created along with areas of fertile agricreated in accordance with the ideas of the citizens. They cultural land. For more information on reinstatement of can be provided with appropriate infrastructure where comopencast mines see GRI 304, page 56. CATASTROPHE/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges as a whole. Security management is therefore a central manAs the biggest power producer in Germany, RWE provides agement function at RWE. A major incident, involving for electricity as a product. If power were not available, a modern example a cyber-attack on electricity grids or power plants, industrial and service society would not be conceivable in its can lead to complete supply outages, with extremely negapresent form. We are therefore a constituent element of the tive impacts on public life, and pose a threat to health and basic services known as critical infrastructure. According to life in power plants and the surrounding area. Such an incithe government’s definition, this includes “organisations, dent can also constitute a threat to the economic future of institutions and facilities with important consequences for the company as a going concern. This means that it is necesthe governmental apparatus. If an electricity outage occurs sary to adopt appropriate planning measures and implement or supply bottlenecks impact negatively over an extended relevant training programmes in order to cater for a broad period of time, public security would be subject to substanspectrum of potential incidents – including incidents with tial disruption or dramatic consequences would be entailed.” a low probability of occurrence but entailing substantial We are aware of our macroeconomic responsibility to society impacts. Prevention of incidents like this is the primary goal. 83 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Organisation and management Measures and performance measurement As an operator of critical infrastructure, reporting pathways to Integrated crisis organisation has been established for meetthe government agencies involved are defined in legislation. ing the challenge of crisis situations. The organisation comWe work together with government agencies to make prepaprises central and local crisis staffs that introduce counterrations for the scenarios entailed in an emergency. Exercises measures depending on the individual incident. These crisis simulating emergencies are carried out at local level and staffs are supported by crisis management plans. In addition, these generally take place in cooperation with the authoricrisis exercises are carried out regularly to deal with different ties operating on the ground there, for example the police scenarios. and fire service. In 2018, our group-wide Cyber Security Awareness campaign In accordance with the Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting “Human Firewall” was continued. A focus of the campaign Ordinance (AtSMV), the operators of nuclear facilities in the was the phishing module with various waves. Employees Federal Republic of Germany must report any notifiable receive an apparent introductory email in accordance with events occurring to the relevant responsible state supervithe usual approach adopted by attackers with prepared sory authorities. The aim and purpose of the official reportattachments. The click rates on these attachments were measing procedure is to monitor the security status of these plants ured in order to monitor the effectiveness of the campaign. and to make improvements using the knowledge obtained from the reported events in the framework of the superAnother focus was the protests at the Hambach opencast visory procedure. mine and Hambach Forest, some of which were violent. Alongside increasing preventive safety measures (e.g. surveilHowever, the commitment of the Group extends beyond lance), emergency and crisis-management plans were also these statutory requirements. RWE is a member of the modified in order to protect people, facilities and processes. German Cyber Security Council (Cyber-Sicherheitsrat Deutschland e.V.), the Alliance for Cyber Security (Allianz The notifiable events occurring at the sites of our nuclear für Cybersicherheit) of the Federal Ministry for Security in power plants were also reported to the relevant supervisory Information Technology (BSI) and UP KRITIS of the BSI. The authority in 2018 in accordance with the regulations of the latter is the initiative for cooperation between business Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting Ordinance (AtSMV). and the state to protect critical infrastructures in Germany. The general public was also informed about all notifiable events through press releases. Out of a total of seven Group Security reports directly to the Executive Board of nuclear power plants operating in Germany in the year 2018, RWE AG. As part of its management function (governance), two nuclear power plants are operated by RWE Power AG RWE defines Group-wide regulations for security. Business (Emsland and Gundremmingen-C). A total of ten events at Continuity Management (BCM) and crisis management are a these two nuclear power plants were reported to the responconstituent element of this model. An integrated approach sible supervisory authority. In 2018, a total of five reportable also entails establishment of management for information events occurred at the nuclear power plants no longer in security and IT security governance within Group Security. operation. All the events were classified under the reporting category N (Normal), none were allocated to the reporting Processes critical for our business are identified in Business category E (Express). Impact Analyses and appropriate measures are taken. BCM plans are developed on the basis of these analyses. They Furthermore, all notifiable events were classified in the Interminimise the impacts of outages at these facilities and pronational Nuclear Event Scale (INES). Classification in accordvide effective reinstatement. The effectiveness of these ance with INES is intended to provide the general public plans is reviewed on a regular basis. with immediate and uniform information about the safety and technical status of events. All fifteen events relevant for RWE were classified as 0 on the INES scale (none or only very low importance for technical safety). 84 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) See for general Management Approach on procurement are applied when we assess the offers submitted by our supGRI 204, page 38. pliers during the course of the tender process and the costbenefit analysis. The regulations governing the contractual Depending on the requirement put out to tender, suppliers relationship with individual suppliers are explicitly agreed in are also interrogated on criteria such as compliance with separate contractual clauses on the basis of a risk assessstatutory regulations and RWE’s internal rules for minimum ment for specific product groups. wage within the scope of pre-qualification. Relevant criteria GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria We interpret impacts on society in many different ways. To there are no direct supplier relationships, RWE has adopted this end, we have developed a range of different measures a variety of different measures in order to ensure that our in order to ensure that our suppliers act in conformity with suppliers act in accordance with the Code of Conduct, the social and ethical principles, and in accordance with the law. national legal system and internationally recognised principles for compliance with social and ethical principles. WherWe are only able to report on human rights in the context ever possible, the standards are implemented through our of audits carried out by Bettercoal, see GRI 204, page 38. contractual agreements and our compliance procedures An overview of the producers audited by Bettercoal is proembedded in the initial processes. vided on the Bettercoal Website. We regularly audit all our suppliers for conformity with potential compliance risks. Approximately 1,400 suppliers were evaluated for occupaAn exceptional situation arises when procurement is carried tional safety where procurement procedures involved hazard out in the wholesale markets. Here an appraisal is not possipotential in the pre-qualification procedure to assess their ble due to an absence of direct supplier relationships. Since suitability, see GRI 204, page 38. GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken The RWE Purchasing Department does not maintain any before any orders are awarded. In the case of existing supbusiness relationships with suppliers if there is information pliers, the review is performed centrally in the vendor in the public domain indicating that they breach the princiaccounts section. ples underlying the Global Compact. RWE is committed to implementation of the Global Compact. We work together with external organisations in order to improve standards in our supply chain as far as possible. Information “in the public domain” relates to all generally One example of this is the Bettercoal audit process for coal accessible sources from which information can be obtained. suppliers. They were audited e. g. in relation to working Press reports containing merely the suspicion of a breach practices, social impacts of coal mining and cooperation with are not sufficient in this case. Rather, we rely on legally suppliers to develop continuous improvement plans. An admissible or officially confirmed facts. Furthermore, we use overview of the producers audited by Bettercoal is available published negative lists (World Bank Listing of Ineligible on the Bettercoal website. We regularly check all suppliers for Firms and Non-Responsible Vendors) drawn up by the World conformity with potential compliance risks. Bank based in Washington/USA. When suppliers are in contention for being included on the list of RWE’s suppliers, the background check is carried out by the relevant purchaser 85 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICY (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges We have therefore made a commitment to strict neutrality in A secure supply of electricity at all times is part of public relation to political parties and we do not make any donaservice. As part of this obligation, the operation of power tions to political parties, or organisations and foundations plants is subject to a large number of statutory and downwhich are closely related to political parties. Employees have stream regulations in the EU, at national and partly also at the opportunity to report breaches of the Code of Conduct regional level. Political decisions leading to changes in existthrough various channels, see GRI 102-17, page 16. ing regulations or implementation of new regulations therefore exert a major influence on our business activity. AdditionMeasures and performance measurement ally, developments at international level outside the EU also The Group Communications & Public Affairs Department exert an indirect influence, for example at international level. at RWE AG coordinates our contacts. The Department Head reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. RWE mainOrganisation and management tains two liaison offices in Brussels and Berlin as points of RWE bases its actions on the applicable legal framework contact. Since 2010, we have been entered in the Transparconditions and ensures compliance with the existing regulaency Register of the European Union. We publish a number tory standards. It is equally important that we explain our of disclosures there including the costs for our liaison office actions here and inform others about the impact of existing in Brussels which amounted to € 2 million during the period and planned legal and sublegal regulations. A top priority under review. We would welcome establishment of a Transhere is objective fact-based presentation. We also participarency Register in Berlin based on the Brussels model. On pate in dialogue at the political and community levels, both request, we already disclose voluntarily information about our in direct personal contact and through the media and the budget, the number of employees and other information. Internet (social media channels). Communication with our stakeholders provides us with helpful ideas for aligning our In 2018, we had direct contact with politicians, for example entrepreneurial activities. Particularly at the present time through discussion formats in Berlin and Brussels. Topicwhen the company is undergoing change, it is important to related “Power plant Talks” were held at the sites of nuclear discuss expectations and assessments for the future of the power plants and a dialogue has been established with energy supply with as many external stakeholders as possilocal-authority politicians in the Rhineland Mining Area. ble so as to reflect the diversity of different positions. At the Furthermore, we communicate indirectly through the associsame time, dialogue gives us the opportunity to provide ations we belong to, for example the German Association of better communication of corporate decisions and the underEnergy and Water Industries (BDEW). See also GRI 102-13, lying motives. This approach means that we also believe part page 13. of our role is to act as advisors for a successful energy transition which achieves a balance between climate protection, In 2018, the main themes in discussions with politicians competitiveness and certainty of supply. We believe we have related to the energy transition and general climate protecan obligation to provide answers for our stakeholders and we tion policy. The Winter Package from the EU Commission want to be a credible partner in the discussion on an equal was a particular focus in the EU. The focus in Germany was level. This enables us to meet the expectations of transparon the Climate Protection Plan 2050 and the future of coal ency placed on us by society, see GRI 102-43, page 22 and on national implementation of the tightening of the EU and GRI 102-44, page 23. emissions regulations for power stations (BREF LCP). In the Netherlands, we engaged with a number of topics in discusOur conduct in relation to policymakers is clearly regulated sions with government including renegotiation of a national in the Code of Conduct, see GRI 102-16, page 16. We energy agreement, exit from coal and the minimum price state there that dialogue with representatives of governfor CO2, and the role of co-incineration of biomass as a ment institutions and political parties is indispensable as far contribution to the Dutch CO2 reduction strategy, see as we are concerned. However, we want to avoid giving the GRI 102-43, page 22 and GRI 102-44, page 23. appearance of exerting undue influence in these contexts. 86 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In the United Kingdom, we engaged in discussions about new European emissions regulations (BREF LCP) and on Brexit, the British capacity market, implementation of the national climate protection policy. GRI 415-1 Political contributions  RWE has made a commitment to neutrality in relation to cal parties, or organisations or foundations which are closely political parties and we do not make any donations to politirelated to political parties. GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELLING (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Organisation, management and performance We provide customers with a secure and reliable supply of measurement electricity, gas and heat at all times. It is only possible to Transparent product labelling reach an informed decision about a product if it is transparWe want to provide all our customers with comprehensive ently labelled. There are different statutory regulations on and transparent information about the energy mix of the labelling in the countries where we supply customers. Particindividual product and the associated environmental ularly detailed regulations on the labelling of electricity are impacts. As part of various marketing activities, innogy SE on the statute book in Germany. is committed to a high level of customer satisfaction, see GRI 417 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 107. GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Electricity labelling is an instrument for increasing market sions and radioactive waste in accordance with the statutory transparency in the electricity market. All electricity bills regulations. Furthermore, the data are also published on the issued by the RWE Group including innogy SE throughout Internet pages of RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, for innogy SE Europe include information on the energy mix, CO2 emiscorporate customers and for innogy SE residential customers. GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI STANDARDS 2016) GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (in accordance with GRI Standards 2016) Challenges Organisation, management and performance Integrity, honesty, acting in accordance with the law and measurement respect for our fellow human beings and the environment The principles of general compliance and the Compliance form the basis of our entrepreneurial activity. We are subject Management System are defined by the Chief Compliance to laws, regulations and comparable rules and procedures. Officer of RWE AG for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE These conditions and the RWE Code of Conduct form the Power AG, RWE Nuclear GmbH and RWE Supply & Trading framework for carrying out our operations. Any breaches GmbH. An independent Chief Compliance Officer has been may entail significant consequences for the financial result appointed for innogy SE. This officer is responsible for the and reputation of RWE. Individual employees may also be Compliance Management System at innogy SE, see the personally liable. A top priority for our employees and subinnogy Sustainability Report GRI 205, page 43. contractors is that their conduct and actions should be in accordance with the law and ethical principles. We have The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG is supported in defined these principles for conduct with binding effect in complying with his functions and responsibilities at the level the RWE Code of Conduct. of RWE AG by Compliance Managers and at the local level by the Compliance Officers of the individual RWE companies. 87 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The focus of activity for the content is on prevention of corfrom the affiliated national companies of the RWE Group ruption, see GRI 205, page 42. Alongside this function, are in turn bundled within the employment law function. measures for export control compliance and prevention of They are responsible for all matters relating to personal and money laundering are developed further and implemented. collective legislation. The employment law experts also organise the engagement of external consultants for all the The compliance function at RWE AG has taken on a coordicompanies in relation to issues of employment law and any nating and consolidating role for other compliance areas associated matters. defined for RWE such as competition and antitrust law, company and capital market law, employment law and enviAnti-competitive behaviour ronmental protection, occupational health and safety, and It is important for our company to be perceived as trustwordata protection. The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG thy and transparent. We earn this trust through fair conduct. bundles these compliance areas within integrated compliRWE also keeps within the law and complies with legislation ance reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit Commitin competitive situations. Our efforts are directed towards tee of RWE AG. However, responsibility for operational conensuring that all our business activities are in accordance tent always remains with the functions bearing individual with the conditions of fair competition at all times. We also responsibility for areas such as legal affairs, employment observe regulatory and anti-trust requirements for unbunlaw and Group data protection. The legal departments of dling. Our operations are based on these rules. In this way, RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE Supply we therefore meet our responsibility as a major player in the & Trading GmbH provide legal advice on issues relating to economy. company law in conjunction with investment management and joint ventures, in the context of M&A transactions and In order to prevent anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, project finance. The Legal Department is also responsible we raise the awareness of all employees and management for dealing with basic issues relating to energy law, legal including Members of the Executive Board to this issue. issues and procedures in regard to merger monitoring, comAttendance events, online training sessions and individual petition and trademark law. The department also provides needs-specific specialist presentations are held within the support for procurement, property management and the Group on the requirements relating to conformity with IT Department. All the internal experts in employment law behaviour in accordance with competition legislation. GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Our Group-wide survey on fines due to incidents of corruption revealed that no sanctions had been incurred in this area. 88 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix APPENDIX 89 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ASSURANCE REPORT Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Non-financial Reporting and Sustainability Information1 To RWE AG, Essen We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Independence and Quality Control of the Audit Firm sustainability disclosures denoted with (hereinafter the We have complied with the German professional provi“Sustainability Information”) and the separate non-financial sions regarding independence as well as other ethical group report pursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) requirements. 3 HGB ( Handelsgesetzbuch : German Commercial Code ) (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”) contained in secOur audit firm applies the national legal requirements and tions with blue font of the Corporate Responsibility Report professional standards – in particular the Professional Code “Unsere Verantwortung 2018” of RWE AG, Essen, (hereinafter for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors the “Company”) for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte BuchDecember 2018 (hereinafter the “Sustainability Report”). prüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer Responsibilities of the Executive Directors (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements The executive directors of the Company are responsible for to quality control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsthe preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der ance with the principles stated in the Sustainability ReportWirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maining Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereinafter tains a comprehensive system of quality control including the “GRI-Criteria”) and the Non-financial Report in accorddocumented policies and procedures regarding compliance ance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to with ethical requirements, professional standards and appli289e HGB and for the selection of the Sustainability Inforcable legal and regulatory requirements. mation to be evaluated. Practitioner´s Responsibility This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance concluthe selection and application of appropriate methods of sion on the Sustainability Information denoted with and sustainability reporting and non-financial reporting as well the Non-financial Report contained in sections with blue as making assumptions and estimates related to individual font of the Sustainability Report based on the assurance non-financial disclosures which are reasonable in the circumengagement we have performed. stances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have considered necessary Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an to enable the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is audit on external sources of in-formation or expert opinions, free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. referred to in the Sustainability Report. 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report and issued an independent practitioner`s report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent practitioner`s report. 90 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance QQ Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements data in the consolidated financial statements and in the (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than group management report Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued QQ Evaluation of the presentation of the information by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perQQ Inspection on sample basis of relevant documentation form the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude and other pieces of evidence with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Assurance Conclusion Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurQQ the Sustainability Information denoted with in the ance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from that causes us to believe that 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the QQ the Sustainability Information denoted with in the relevant GRI-Criteria, Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from or 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 has not been QQ the Non-financial Report contained in sections with blue prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the font of the Company’s Sustainability Report for the period relevant GRI-Criteria, from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 has not been or prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ QQ the Non-financial Report contained in sections with blue 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. font of the Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 has not been In a limited assurance engagement the assurance proceprepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ dures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected Intended Use of the Assurance Report depend on the practitioner’s judgment. We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perperformed for purposes of the Company and the report is formed amongst others the following assurance procedures solely intended to inform the Company about the results of and further activities: the limited assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We do not sustainability organization and of the stakeholder assume any responsibility towards third parties. engagement QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Essen, 11 March 2019 Sustainability Report regarding the preparation process, the internal control system relating to this process and PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH selected disclosures in the Sustainability Report Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft QQ Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Report QQ Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Michael Conrad ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch Sustainability Report public auditor 91 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix KEY SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS Economic performance indicators Installed capacity Power generating capacity1 Nuclear Renewable Pumped in MW Gas Lignite Hard coal energy energy water, Other Total 2018 Total 2017 Lignite & Nuclear 400 10,255 – 2,770 7 27 13,459 14,297 European Power 13,686 – 7,210 – 331 2,679 23,906 24,727 Of which: Germany2 3,767 – 3,6753 – 55 2,375 9,872 10,125 United Kingdom 6,676 – 1,560 – 55 304 8,595 8,541 Netherlands/Belgium 2,456 – 1,975 – 221 – 4,652 5,274 Turkey 787 – – – – – 787 787 Continuing innogy 235 – 10 – 3,955 137 4,337 4,245 operations RWE Group 14,321 10,255 7,220 2,770 4,293 2,8444 41,7034 43,269 1 as at: 31.12.2018 2 Including generating capacities which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. At the end of 2018, these plants taken together generated a net output of 2,986 MW, including hard coal-fired power plants with a total output of 783 MW. 3 The hard coal-fired power plant Bergkamen (720 MW) is still including in the figure; we sold our 51% share in the plant on 1 January 2019. 4 Including low generating capacities at RWE Supply & Trading. Power generation by primary energy source Nuclear Renewable Pumped Power generation Lignite Hard coal Gas energy energy water, Other Total in billion kWh 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Lignite & Nuclear 67.2 74.2 – – – – 21.8 30.3 – – 0.2 0.7 89.2 105.2 European Power – – 27.4 29.3 47.2 52.9 – – 1.1 1.1 2.3 2.4 78.0 85.7 Of which: Germany¹ – – 13.0 13.3 5.5 7.4 – – 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.4 21.5 23.8 United Kingdom – – 0.5 2.6 33.2 32.4 – – 0.4 0.4 – – 34.1 35.4 Netherlands/Belgium – – 13.9 13.4 5.5 9.3 – – – – – – 19.4 22.7 Continuing innogy – – – – – – – – 8.8 9.3 – – 8.8 9.3 operations RWE Group 67.2 74.2 27.4 29.3 47.2 52.9 21.8 30.3 9.9 10.4 2.5 3.1 176.0 200.2 1 Including electricity purchases from power plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2018, this electricity amounted to 5.0 billion kWh (previous year: 6.3 billion kWh), of which 2.3 billion kWh (previous year: 3.5 billion kWh) was generated by hard coal-fired power plants. 92 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Unit 2018 2017 R&D costs 1 € million 116 182 Proportion of women in the company2 % 11.2 10.3 Proportion of women in management positions3 % 15.3 15.0 Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high risk of corruption4 % 12.2 10.5 1 In accordance with the RWE Annual Report page 24. 2 Data for the RWE Group without innogy, Data for 2017 were adjusted retrospectively. 3 Encompasses the top four management levels; from 2018, only RWE AG, RWE Generation, RWE Power AG, RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. 4 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Environmental performance Indicators1 Environmental Performance Indicators1 Unit 2018 2017 Specific NOX emissions g/kWh 0.41 0.417 Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.16 0.197 Specific dust emissions g/kWh 0.01 0.017 Ash 8 thousand mt 6,344 7,746 Gypsum8 thousand mt 1,517 2,052 Primary energy consumption 9 million GJ 1,177 1,3457 Water consumption² m3/MWh 1.53 1.447 CO2 emissions EU ETS 3 million mt 116.9 130.47 CO2 emissions Scope 14 million mt 120.4 135.6 CO2 emissions Scope 25 million mt 5.07, 10 1.0 CO2 emissions Scope 3 6 million mt 188.7 84.0 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS mt/MWh 0.670 0.6587 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 mt/MWh 0.684 0.6777 Share of the Group’s power generation accounted for by renewable energy % 5.6 5.6 1 All plants were included where RWE is the operator of the plant. 2 Difference between the water consumption of the plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters; up to 2015, excluding power plants with seawater cooling, including cooling-tower losses. 3 Plants which fall under the scope of the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) including figures for generating capacities which are not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2018, these plants emitted 2.0 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 3.1 million metric tons). 4 Scope 1: EU ETS amounts plus the emissions from plants which do not fall under the scope of EU ETS. The values for CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in accordance with GHG Protocol) also include the emissions from innogy. 5 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties in our own grids. Increase in the value for 2018 compared with 2017 as a result of increased amounts of electricity purchased by innogy from third parties outside the Group. 6 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the production and distribution of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. Increase in the value for 2018 compared with 2017 as a result of increased amounts of electricity purchased by innogy from third parties outside the Group. The data for 2018 were calculated on the basis of the new reporting structure. 7 Figures for 2017 were adjusted to the new reporting structure. 8 Figures for 2017 for RWE including innogy, from 2018 the figures will be shown for RWE without innogy. 9 Fossil fuels used without biomass. Figure for 2017 was corrected retrospectively for RWE without innogy. 10 Calculation on the basis of the countries with principal share (Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Hungary). 93 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Social performance indicators Social performance indicators Unit 2018 20171 Workforce2 FTE 15,556 17,154 Fluctuation rate % 5.5 5.4 Training days per employee (Germany) 3.5 3.7 Health ratio % 93.5 93.5 Work-related and commuting accidents LTIF 3 1.9 2.295 Work-related and commuting accidents without innogy LTIF3 2.2 2.49 Fatal work-related accidents 4 2 3 1 Data for 2017 were shown retrospectively for RWE without innogy. 2 Employees and apprentices of the RWE Group without innogy. Data for 2017 adjusted retrospectively. 3 Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all accidents resulting in at least one day of absence for every 1 million hours worked); Data from 2012 including reports known to us from third-party companies (subcontractors). 4 Incl. Employees of innogy and partner companies (subcontractors). 5 Data including innogy. 94 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix PROGRESS REPORT ON THE GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants ence. The table also highlights the measures that have been to make a contribution to the worldwide implementation of taken during the period under review and the specific results its ten principles. These have been adopted word for word in obtained (achievements). The implementation of the ten the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the principles also assists us in making the Sustainable Developguidelines, programmes and management systems (sysment Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 a tems) which we have also introduced to support the implereality. The table presents the most relevant SDGs for us out mentation of the ten principles within our sphere of influof all the 17 goals: The table shows the individual objectives to which we make a contribution: Principle Systems Measures Results Contribution to SDGs Principle 1: Support for ILO core standards are Assessment and audit of Compliance with principles 5.5: Ensuring full and human rights defined in the Social suppliers (pp. 39) 1 – 5 assured through effective participation Charter national legislation in of women and their Principle 2: Elimination Co-founder and member Europe, cooperation with equal opportunities of human rights RWE Code of Conduct of the “Bettercoal” initiathe unions, and RWE’s own to take up manageviolations (p. 16) tive, independent auditprinciples which apply to ment roles at all levels ing of coal mines, appliMinimum standards in all employees of the comof decision-making in Principle 3: Ensuring cation of information for restructuring measures for pany political, business and freedom of association standardised and multithe European companies public life; stage process for “CounPay and social benefits Principle 4: Abolition of of the RWE Group terparty Risk Assessabove the relevant 8.5: By 2030, achievall forms of forced Supplier Management ment” of potential national average ing productive full labour (p. 38) suppliers (p. 39) employment and 2 extensive self-assessPrinciple 5: Abolition of decent working condiments and the results of 6 child labour tions for all women on-site audits available and men, including through Bettercoal young people and On-site participation of people with disabiliRWE as an observer in the ties, and the same independent Bettercoal pay for equivalent auditing process (p. 40) work Principle 6: Elimination Diversity Management Diversity Week presented Percentage of women in of discrimination (p. 78) diversity and activities to management positions promote an inclusive culwas around 15% for RWE Women’s network at RWE ture (p. 78) AG without innogy (p. 79) and innogy (p. 79) RWE Diversity CommuPercentage of people with nity Event (p. 78) severe disabilities was 9.4% for RWE employees Initiative MINT women in Germany (p. 80) (p. 79) 39 places in preparation RWE Female Leader Initifor training with a placeative (p. 79) ment rate of 80% (p. 77) Entry-level qualification “I can do it!” (“Ich pack‘ das!”) in preparation for training (p. 77) 95 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Principle Systems Measures Results Contribution to SDGs Principle 7: PrecautionEnvironmental manageAnnual audit for setting Level of coverage for 7.1: By 2030, achieve ary environmental proment (pp. 68) up environmental manenvironmental managegeneral access to tection agement systems in conment related to the Group: affordable, reliable Energy management formity with ISO 14001 100%, of which 89% exterand modern energy (p. 52) (p. 69) nally certified (p. 69) services; Strategy to reduce the Recording the interfaces Level of coverage with cer7.3: By 2030, double CO2 emissions (p. 49, 60) of activities with water tified energy management the rate of increase Financial risks associated bodies and determining systems for the RWE Group for energy efficiency with emissions trading are the impacts (p. 54) (without innogy): 79% worldwide; presented in risk manage(p. 52) Since 2015, RWE has a 9.4: By 2030, modment (p. 35, 61) Biodiversity Policy (p. 56) Reduction of CO2 emisernise infrastructure Biodiversity strategy for sions by 34% since 2012 and upgrade indusland in the Rhineland lig(p. 61) tries in order to make nite mining area (p. 56) them sustainable with Around 3,000 animal spemore efficient use of The responsible approach cies and 1,500 plant speresources and to natural resources and cies verified over the entire increased use of clean promotion of the use of recultivation programme and environmentally environmentally friendly (p. 57) compatible technolotechnologies are defined gies and industrial These include more than in the RWE Code of Conprocesses, with all 200 animal and more than duct (p. 68) countries taking 180 species of fungus and Surveying environmenplant, which are listed as measures in accordtally relevant criteria in “at risk” or are classified as ance with their indisupplier management as “under threat from” vidual capacities; part of pre-qualification according to the Red List 13.1: Strengthen the (p. 70) of the State of North resilience and the Rhine-Westphalia adaptability in Principle 8: Initiatives to Initiative for Education Offerings for use of flexirespect of climatepromote greater enviwith Energy 3malE bilities through the Flex2 related risks and naturonmental responsibility (researching, discovering Market Model (p. 46) ral catastrophes in all and experiencing energy) the states. 825 experiment kits were (p. 36, 81) 15.5: Take prompt lent to 119 schools and 2 Energy blog www.en-fornurseries (p. 81) and significant measmer.com on current topures in order to ics in the energy industry reduce deterioration of natural habitats, to Distribution of fact-based bring the loss of bioknowledge on social logical diversity to an media end and to protect species under threat Principle 9: DevelopStrategy to reduce CO2 Research on using lignite Modernisation of the by 2020 and to prement and dissemination emissions (p. 49, 60) as a material (p. 48) power plant portfolio vent their extinction. of environmental tech(p. 34, 52, 60) Financial risks associated Research on increasing nologies with emissions trading are the flexibility and effiConversion of existing presented in risk manageciency of conventional power plants to biomass ment (p. 35, 61) plants (p. 47) co-combustion in the Netherlands (p. 34) Research and developResearch on storage ment (p. 47) technologies and powerto-X technologies (p. 34) 96 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Principle Systems Measures Results Contribution to SDGs Principle 10: Anti-corRWE Code of Conduct and Updating and expansion Feedback rate for the man16.5: Significantly ruption measures Group Guidelines for preof corruption risk scenaragement survey is 100% reduce corruption and vention of corruption and ios and risk assessments (p. 42) bribery in all its forms organisational regulations of RWE companies (p. 42) (p. 43) Compliance Management Management survey for System for anti-corruption implementation of the (p. 42) Code of Conduct (p. 42) Training of the workforce with a web-based training programme and onsite training (p. 43) Employees and third parties outside the company such as suppliers or business partners have the opportunity to contact an independent external ombudsperson by phone or email in relation to negative environmental, social and human-rights issues, as well as on working practices (p. 16) 97 Our Responsibility 2018 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CONTACT AND IMPRINT Publisher RWE Aktiengesellschaft Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany Contact persons Dr Jens Wiggershaus Dr Christine Negrini Miriam Athmer Corporate Responsibility Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany Phone +49 201 12-15593 E-mail responsibility@rwe.com Editorial deadline 08 March 2019 The Report is available in English and German; both versions can also be accessed via the Internet for download at www.rwe.com. Concept, text, layout and implementation in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich www.akzente.de Translation Tristam Carrington-Windo Stay in Dialogue. responsibility@rwe.com RWE Aktiengesellschaft Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany www.rwe.com
