20 June 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, With our eighth annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to reaffirm Ecolab’s support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We also confirm our continued endorsement of the UN CEO Water Mandate. Ecolab is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. Our company delivers programs and services to the food, energy, healthcare, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. Fundamental to our approach is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, environmental and social benefits align. With this communication, we express our continued intent to advance the principles of the Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate within our sphere of influence. Our 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report further describes our actions to integrate those principles into our strategy, operations and customer interactions. This information is available to stakeholders through our website at www.ecolab.com/sustainability. Sincerely, Douglas M. Baker, Jr. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ecolab Inc. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING PERIOD: 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER 2018 IMPLEMENTING THE TEN PRICIPLES INTO STRATEGIES AND OPERATIONS At Ecolab, sustainability is core to our purpose and business strategy. We deliver sustainable solutions that help companies around the world achieve business results, protect the environment and enhance the well-being of people and communities. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and the communities in which we operate. VALUES The work we do matters: We make the world cleaner, safer and healthier. We protect vital resources. Ensure water and energy are available everywhere. Our products and services prevent disease and infection. Keep food supplies safe. Protect the places where people eat, sleep, work, play and heal. We touch what is fundamental to quality of life: We keep people healthy. We enhance well-being. We provide assurance, so life can be lived fully. We help our customers succeed. Reduce risk and worry. Free them to grow. How we work matters, too: We work with purpose. When there’s a goal, we reach it. When there’s a problem, we solve it. We work safely. Take care in all we do. We strive to do what’s right, what’s fair, what’s honest. We take action together. In teams. Teams made stronger by diverse perspectives. We find inspiration and energy in what we do and how we do it. In growing, learning and celebrating together. In making a difference and serving the greater good. OUR PRINCIPLES ECONOMIC: Drive economic growth for our customers, employees, shareholders and communities. ENVIRONMENTAL: Promote stewardship of natural resources and protect the environment. SAFETY: Ensure safe processes that protect our employees, contractors, customers and communities. SOCIAL: Enhance the well-being of people and communities. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 2 SUSTAINABILTY GOVERNANCE Ecolab’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee of the Board, of which the CEO is a member, oversees all sustainability matters. The SHE Committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing the company’s SHE and sustainability policies, programs and practices that affect, or could affect, Ecolab employees, customers, stockholders, and neighboring communities. This Committee reports to the Board of Directors and provides updates to the Board on the company’s implementation of and progress against its sustainability goals. Ecolab’s sustainability strategy is governed by the Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT). The SEAT is made up of 10 members of the company’s executive leadership including the Vice President of Corporate Sustainability. The SEAT meets with the Corporate Sustainability Team on a quarterly basis and is responsible for operationalizing sustainability across the company, coordinating and communicating company policy and decision-making related to sustainability, setting annual goals and metrics for key sustainability priorities, sustainability outlook assessment, and risk management. Outputs of these quarterly meetings are reported by the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility to the SHE Committee of the Board. The Board of Directors then receives an annual presentation from the SHE Committee on the company’s progress against its sustainability goals, and implementation of projects and related activities. More information is available on page 11 of our 2018 GRI Report. TRANSPARENCY & DISCLOSURE In 2018, Ecolab continued to advance our commitment to transparency and disclosure of our environmental, social and governance practices and performance. Ecolab’s 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report was prepared in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards. Ecolab’s 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report and GRI Index can be found on Ecolab’s website. Ecolab has completed third-party verification by Bureau Veritas North America (BVNA) of its publicly reported 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report. BVNA completed its Limited Assurance level evaluation of the Report in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 and against the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. The assurance practitioners selected for this engagement were qualified to perform the services and were impartial and independent from the management systems and reports being audited. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 3 On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, BVNA has found no evidence that: the information and data included in the Report are not accurate, reliable and free from significant error, material mistakes or misstatements; the Report is not a fair representation of Ecolab’s activities over the reporting period; the information is not presented in a clear and understandable manner, and allows readers to form a balanced opinion regarding Ecolab’s performance and position during the 2018 reporting period; the Report has not been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and includes appropriate consideration of the profile disclosures, management approach disclosures and performance indicators to meet the requirements of GRI Standards Core Requirements. It is BVNA’s opinion that: Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information, and has implemented underlying internal assurance practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete and accurate; and Ecolab’s executive management supports the development of processes for the embedding of sustainable management concepts and practices in the company. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MATERIALITY AND RELEVANCE ASSESSMENT PROCESS We employ a multifaceted process to determine material sustainability issues that align with our company’s and customers’ key business drivers and inform our corporate strategy and reporting of these issues as required in our 10-K and GRI Index. Ecolab’s annual enterprise Assessment of Significant Business Risks provides the foundation for assessing the materiality of issues to our business and our shareholders. The Assessment of Significant Business Risks is conducted using a survey tool designed to identify strategic, operational, financial and compliance-related risks to the company. Risks are documented along with the likelihood and impact of their occurrence. An audit-services vice president manages the process, and the results are presented to the Executive Management Team and Ecolab's Board of Directors. The most significant business risks are reported publicly through the company’s annual 10-K filing. These risks and opportunities did not change significantly from the previous reporting period. For more information our materiality assessment, please refer to pages 11-16 in our 2018 GRI Index. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In order to garner a comprehensive understanding of risks and opportunities, we engage in an ongoing dialogue with a diverse set of stakeholders to assess the relevance of sustainability-specific issues. Our annual stakeholder-engagement process includes employees, customers, investors and relevant external groups. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 4 EMPLOYEES We strive to make Ecolab a place where talented and capable people are inspired, motivated and fully engaged in their work. Our associates drive innovation, support business growth and provide personally-delivered service and on-the-ground support at more than 1 million customer locations. The perspectives of our associates are critical to our success and inform our business strategy. Our annual Assessment of Significant Business Risks process includes interviews and surveys of leadership across business units and functions, including: Operation heads across businesses Human resources Supply chain and procurement Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) and product development Marketing Finance, risk, legal and regulatory affairs CUSTOMERS Our relationships with many of the world’s biggest brands give us a unique opportunity to understand the risks and opportunities facing a wide range of industries all around the world. We learn from our customers — the challenges they face and the results they desire — and we use this knowledge to drive innovation and help them achieve their business and sustainability goals. What matters to our customers, matters to us. In addition to our daily interactions, we employed the following strategies to inform customer-specific risks and opportunities in 2018: Annual enterprise business reviews: Every year, we conduct a thorough review of our partnerships with each customer to measure our impact over the past year and assess key business drivers to shape future strategies. Active participation in industry organizations, including AISE, American Chemistry Council, American Cleaning Institute, American Hotel and Lodging Association (AHLA), Association for Iron and Steel Technology (AISTech), Corporate Eco Forum, Food Marketing Institute, Greenview, Grocery Manufacturers Association, Household and Commercial Products Association, International Tourism Partnership, National Association for Environmental Management, National Association of Manufacturers, National Restaurant Association, Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics, Steel Manufacturers Association, and the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council. INVESTMENT COMMUNITY As a publicly traded company, we place a priority on the opinions of our shareholders. We engage in dialogue with our stakeholders each year at our annual shareholder meeting. Ecolab is focused on constantly improving stockholder value. Every year, we work aggressively to improve our growth, profitability and market positions in order to provide our stockholders consistent, reliable, and superior earnings growth. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 5 SOCIETY Our ability to provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments is strengthened through our partnerships with reputable global NGOs. Through these partnerships, we strengthen our understanding of global trends impacting our business, customers and communities around the world. In 2018, we actively engaged with relevant organizations, and these partnerships influenced our assessment of our company’s risks and opportunities related to society. Our NGO partnerships in 2018 included the UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate, Alliance for Water Stewardship, The Nature Conservancy, The Project WET Foundation, and World Resources Institute. OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We are dedicated to supporting partnerships and programs that fulfill the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. While we support several goals, our efforts are primarily devoted to Goal 6 — to ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all — where we believe we can have the greatest impact. Our technologies help customers save billions of gallons of water each year. Our Water Risk Monetizer, a publicly available tool, helps businesses determine the true value of water so they can make the business case for water stewardship. And our In the Blue diagnostic tool helps customers assess where they are on a four-stage water maturity curve, so they can adopt smart water management strategies and get to a truly circular water model. Our partnerships are aligned with these goals. We have close relationships with a range of NGOs, other organizations and programs that support water stewardship and access to safe, clean water, including the Alliance for Water Stewardship, Project WET, the CEO Water Mandate, The Nature Conservancy and the Minnesota Headwaters Fund. Ecolab sponsored the China Urban Water Blueprint, a report from The Nature Conservancy that analyzes the state of water resources in China’s 30 largest and fastest growing cities and offers science-based recommendations for natural solutions. Ecolab’s funding also supported The Nature Conservancy’s efforts to protect key lands and waters in Minnesota, Shanghai, and Monterrey, Mexico. For more on these efforts, see page 22 in our 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 6 ROBUST HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT POLICIESAND PROCEDURES Principle 1: Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a socially responsible company, Ecolab has concern for the well-being of people and communities. We conduct business fairly and ethically, respect human rights and comply with laws and regulations. Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct guide the way we conduct business internally and with our customers, suppliers and within the communities in which we operate. As a global company, Ecolab is committed to enhancing the well-being of people and communities around the world. Our employees’ human rights are respected across our global operations and we are committed to respecting the international human-rights standards defined by the United Nations Global Compact. We aspire to create an inclusive and respectful work environment; one in which employees recognize each other’s worth and dignity. As stated in our Code of Conduct, any conduct that detracts from the worth and dignity of our employees is contrary to our values and has no place in our culture. We also are committed to showing respect to people and cultures in all of the countries where we do business. CODE OF CONDUCT Ecolab adopted its initial Code of Conduct policy in 1976. The policy was last amended on November 29, 2012. The Code of Conduct applies to all Ecolab officers, directors and employees. Ecolab intends to promptly disclose on our website should there be any further amendments to, or waivers by the board of directors of, the Code of Conduct. Ecolab’s Code of Conduct contains detailed human rights aspects of relevance to our operations. All employees and board members receive the Code of Conduct during their onboarding program and are required to complete an online refresher course on an annual basis. The Code of Conduct is re-certified by employees as part of the annual training process. The Code of Conduct is available in 27 languages. The excellent reputation Ecolab enjoys is one of our greatest assets. It provides a solid foundation upon which to build trust with our customers and communities. Our Code of Conduct serves as a guide for how to act and make decisions as an employee of Ecolab. Each employee is responsible for demonstrating the company’s values and following its Code of Conduct. How we work really does matter — to our coworkers, customers and communities. Our Code of Conduct is available on Ecolab’s website. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 7 OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY As a global company, Ecolab is committed to enhancing the well-being of people and communities around the world. The full details of Ecolab’s Human Rights Policy, launched in 2013, are published on Ecolab’s website. ALIGNMENT WITH GLOBAL HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Ecolab supports the efforts of human rights organizations to end violence and atrocities in Central Africa (the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries: Republic of Congo, Central Africa Republic, South Sudan, Zambia, Angola, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda). Our Policy Statement on Conflict Minerals is available on Ecolab’s website. We do not have any facilities that are certified to the SA8000 Standard. However, in accordance with our Human Rights Policy and related programs, Ecolab operates in alignment with the policies and procedures outlined in the SA8000 Standard which seek to protect basic human rights of workers. Ecolab does not currently have a formal relationship with a body which enforces the Global Sullivan principles. As a company with a presence in South Africa, we support and subscribe to the principles. We also adhere to Employment Equity and Black Economic Empowerment legislation in South Africa, which is designed to enforce the Global Sullivan principles. ETHICAL SOURCING Our Ethical Sourcing Standards are the foundation of our global supply chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the health, safety and human rights of their associates. We will not conduct business with suppliers who do not support the fundamental principles of human dignity and rights of workers to fair and equitable treatment. Suppliers must meet our standards regarding forced labor, child labor, health and safety in the workplace, fair pay, harassment, diversity and ethics, and environmental policies. We require that our suppliers identify and act swiftly to eliminate any unacceptable conditions or practices in their facilities. We base our supplier requirements on international standards including the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Conventions of the International Labor Organization, including its Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In 2018, we did not identify any operations with actual or potential negative impacts for labor practices in our supply chain. (GRI 414-2) Ecolab participates in SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), which is a non-profit membership organization dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. The purpose of the web-based platform is to share information and audit results on four pillars: (1) labor standards; (2) health and safety; (3) environment; and (4) business integrity. As a member, Ecolab is committed to conducting audits annually and sharing these results within SEDEX. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 8 Principle 2: Human Rights Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is Ecolab’s policy to disclose any human-rights controversies that may relate to labor issues, child employment, female or minority rights infringement or other issues pertaining to human rights. Globally, Ecolab has implemented programs in various regions to assess conformity and ensure our responsible sourcing policies are in place and in practice. Human rights issues identified within the UNGC framework are incorporated in Ecolab’s Code of Conduct policy. In North America, where 45 percent of our employees are located, 100 percent of our operations have been subject to human-rights reviews or human-rights impact assessments in 2018. We are committed to upholding the highest legal and ethical standards, regardless of when and where we conduct business. Available in 27 languages, our Code of Conduct serves as a guide for how to act and make decisions as an employee of Ecolab. We expect all our employees to make good decisions on behalf of Ecolab and do their jobs ethically and in compliance with the Code and the laws of the countries where we do business. The Code contains detailed human-rights aspects of relevance to our operations. As part of this commitment, all new employees are required to read the Code and acknowledge compliance with it upon hire and are required to complete an online refresher course on an annual basis. The Code of Conduct is recertified by employees as part of the annual training process to certify completion and compliance to follow the human rights requirements. Globally, Ecolab is a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and has put in place programs in regions to assess conformity and ensure our policies – including policies related to human rights – are in place and in practice. The UN Guiding Principles are a set of guidelines for States and companies to prevent and address the risk of adverse impacts on human rights. Aligned with the UN Guiding Principles, Ecolab undertakes a compliance and ethics assessment to better understand human rights related risks. (GRI Indicator 412-1) SUPPLIER SCREENING We follow a rigorous supplier-screening process that includes the Ethical Sourcing Survey, annual compliance training for our associates (which is documented) and efforts by our Quality Function to continue to stress the importance of human rights through physical audits. We communicate our expectations to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes language around forced labor practices and expectations. To reinforce its expectations, Ecolab utilizes an Ethical Sourcing Survey to screen high-risk suppliers. The high-risk suppliers are identified by utilizing third party reporting (e.g. Human Rights Watch, Transparency.org) and internal feedback from regional leaders along with other internal criteria. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 9 Ecolab’s Ethical Sourcing Survey covers employment practices, safety practices, wages and compensation, child and slave labor, and working hours and serves as a benchmarked survey of our ethical sourcing practices. The survey results are reviewed and evaluated for any responses that that are identified as possible red flags. There are established mitigation steps that eliminate the risk at the supplier’s level or lacking supplier improvement, remove the deficient supplier from the approved supplier list. In 2018, we did not identify any operations or suppliers with actual or potential negative human rights impacts. We continue to evaluate our suppliers for any negative human rights impacts via the Ethical Sourcing Survey. We utilize a Supplier Code of Conduct hotline to facilitate reporting by anyone concerned about potential violations. Ecolab communicates our expectations to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct and Policies. Ecolab also has published and communicated to its suppliers its expectations around Slavery and Human Trafficking. The policy statement is a reaffirmation of Ecolab’s approach to combating human trafficking. In order to ensure full understanding of these expectations, Ecolab publishes this policy in ten languages. Our global Anti-Human Trafficking policy can be found online on our Supplier Code of Conduct page and is available for direct download here. For additional information on how Ecolab addresses and supports the efforts of human rights organizations and upholds Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct, please refer to GRI indicator 414-1 in our 2018 GRI Report. CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY Ecolab supports the efforts of human rights organizations to end violence and atrocities in Central Africa, specifically the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries. A major driver of this violence is the natural abundance of the minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, collectively referred to as “conflict minerals,” with armed groups fighting for control of mines in this region and using forced labor to mine and sell the minerals. From the data that we did receive in 2018 we believe that none of the necessary conflict minerals (3TG) contained in our in-scope products directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the DRC or an adjoining country. The 2018 supplier response for Conflict Minerals has been further refined and the response rate has increased significantly from previous years. We communicate our expectations to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes language around labor practices and expectations. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 10 ROBUST LABOUR MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Principle 3: Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Ecolab recognizes an employee’s right to form or join unions. However, we encourage them to make an informed decision on the matter. Where employees have chosen to be represented by a labor union, we fulfill our bargaining obligations as defined by the law. Only a small percentage of our employees are currently covered under trade unions or collective-bargaining agreements. In the United States, 624 employees are covered by collective-bargaining agreements. This is approximately 2.9 percent of the U.S. employees. Approximately 26 percent of employees covered by a collective-bargaining agreement are in Texas; approximately 60 percent of employees covered are in Illinois; and approximately 14 percent of employees are in Georgia. (GRI 102-41) Ecolab had four United States-based collective-bargaining agreements in 2018. For these agreements, a minimum of 60 days’ notice prior to the contract end date is required to propose any changes to the contract agreements. All collective-bargaining agreements contain a specified notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation. (GRI 402-1) We adhere to National Labor Relations Board protocols to support employee rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. We have not identified any United States-based operations at which freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at risk. We are unable to report on violations or risks of our suppliers. (GRI 407-1) Principle 4: Labor Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Ethical Sourcing represents a global supply-chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the health, safety and human rights of their employees. Suppliers must meet standards regarding forced labor, child labor, health and safety, fair pay and harassment in the workplace. A statement about Ecolab’s commitment to protecting human rights is available online: Human Rights Policy. In 2018, Ecolab did not identify any operations or suppliers with actual or potential negative impacts for forced labor practices in our supply chain. We continue to evaluate our suppliers for any negative forced labor impacts via the Ethical Sourcing Survey. For additional information on how Ecolab addresses and supports the efforts of human rights organizations and upholds Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct, refer to GRI 414-1 in our 2018 GRI Report. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 11 Ecolab communicates our expectations to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes language around forced labor practices and expectations: Supplier Code of Conduct. Ecolab has also published and communicated to its suppliers its expectations around Slavery and Human Trafficking. The policy statement is a reaffirmation of Ecolab’s approach to combatting human trafficking. To ensure full understanding of these expectations, Ecolab publishes this policy in ten languages. Our global Anti-Human Trafficking policy can be found online at: Ecolab Anti-Human Trafficking Policy. Ecolab supports and has a policy regarding the efforts of human rights organizations to end violence and atrocities in Central Africa, specifically the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries. New suppliers are asked about their conflict mineral status upon set-up. While our data for the 2018 reporting year was incomplete, from the data that we did receive we believe that none of the necessary conflict minerals (3TG) contained in our in-scope products directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the DRC or an adjoining country. The 2018 supplier response for Conflict Minerals has been further refined, and the response rate has increased significantly from previous years. Our Conflict Mineral policy can be found online at: Ecolab Conflict Mineral Policy In compliance with new legal requirements, Ecolab published a policy to address the implications of the UK Modern Slavery Act and the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act. Our California Transparency in Supply Chains policy can be found online. Principle 5: Labor Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Ethical Sourcing represents a global supply-chain initiative requiring our direct suppliers to protect the health, safety and human rights of their employees. Suppliers must meet standards regarding forced labor, child labor, health and safety, fair pay and harassment in the workplace. A statement about Ecolab’s commitment to protecting human rights is located on our website. In 2018, Ecolab did not identify any operations or suppliers with actual or potential negative impacts for child labor practices in our supply chain. We continue to evaluate our suppliers for any negative child labor impacts via the Ethical Sourcing Survey. (GRI 408-1) Ecolab communicates our expectations to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct, including language around child labor practices and expectations. For additional information on how Ecolab addresses and supports the efforts of human rights organizations and upholds Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct, please refer to GRI 414-1. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 12 Principle 6: Labor Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We believe the success of our employees and the success of our company go hand-in-hand. We are committed to a culture that leverages our employees' talents by promoting an environment where people can make a difference, be heard, be supported, be developed and be rewarded for their contributions. We strive to make Ecolab a place where talented and capable people are inspired, motivated and fully engaged in their work. ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY Ecolab complies with applicable labor and employment law and does not discriminate. Our recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, transferring, training, corrective action and termination practices are based exclusively on an individual’s qualifications and ability to perform the job. Only criteria which are relevant to the job are considered. Specifically, in order to maintain a work environment that is free from discrimination, all employment-related decisions must be made without regard to gender, race, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identify, religion, age, disability, marital status, veteran status or other personal characteristics or conditions protected by national, state or local law. Respect for others is fundamental to Ecolab’s culture. Disrespect can disrupt the productivity of our employees and threaten Ecolab’s success. To help ensure an environment of mutual respect, Ecolab does not tolerate any form of harassment or other intimidating behavior, including physical, emotional or verbal abuse. We prohibit any form of harassment, whether by an employee, a temporary employee or an external vendor, in which: Submission to the harassment or abusive conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment; Submission to, or rejection of, the harassment or abusive conduct is used as the basis for an employment decision; or The harassment or abusive conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. Violating this policy subjects an employee to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At Ecolab, we believe the best teams are diverse and inclusive – and we are on a journey to create a workplace where every associate can grow and achieve their best. Creating workplaces where every associate can thrive is central to our plan for growth and our overarching focus on attracting, retaining and growing talent. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 13 Our Board of Directors formally reviews our global representation metrics twice a year. Ecolab’s senior leaders are accountable for driving improvement in external hiring and promotions. On a quarterly basis, Talent Councils come together to create differentiated development plans for diverse talent, review talent scorecards for each business, function and region, discuss areas of progress and opportunity, and advise on action plans to drive further advancement. In 2017, Ecolab Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Doug Baker joined more than 150 CEOs from some of the world’s leading companies who affirmed their commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace by signing the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ on 12 June 2017. Along with the other signatories, Baker pledged to take action to cultivate a workplace where diverse perspectives and experiences are welcomed and respected, and where employees feel encouraged to discuss diversity and inclusion. In 2018, we enhanced our recruiting strategy to increase the diversity of our talent pool. We insist on diverse candidate slates to continue growing our talent pipelines and have begun to embed diversity and inclusion into all aspects of the employee experience. Ecolab’s commitment to building an inclusive and engaging workplace is fueled by our ten Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are helmed by more than 335 ERG leaders. Ecolab’s ERGs represent the diverse culture that is Ecolab and provide forums for associates with different perspectives to come together and learn from each other’s experiences and abilities. With more than 4,300 members and 62 global chapters, membership across all ERGs continues to grow, giving associates ample opportunity to develop leadership capabilities, enhance professional skill sets and engage with others. Our ERG membership grew by 25 percent in 2018. Ecolab supports ten employee networks to foster employee development and connections, including the following networks: ACE (Asian Community at Ecolab): fosters active engagement among Asian-affiliated employees, the company, our customers and the community BRIDGES: provides advocacy and leadership to encourage mutual support and high-performing teams across generations CONNECT: brings together young professionals across business units and functions through networking and career development events, community service projects and educational seminars E3 National Chapter: Employee resource group that works to empower, engage and energize female employees through formal and informal mentoring programs, focused development activities and community outreach Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 14 EcoEssence: dedicated to the recruitment, development and retention of African and AfricanAmerican employees EcoMondo: supports Ecolab’s growth through the integration and development of global talent and the support and promotion of cultural diversity and global talent mobility HACER: provides advocacy and leadership to encourage the development of Hispanic Latino associates within Ecolab, our business partners and communities MERGE: works to provide awareness, support, and leadership within Ecolab for veterans, those currently serving, those impacted by military service and supporters PLAN: works to ensure that members have the tools, skills and relationship they need to build successful careers and to gain recognition as experts in their Administrative and/or Operational support role PRIDE: offers support and visibility within and beyond Ecolab for lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender people, or allies of the LGBTQ+ community For more information on diversity and inclusion visit our Workforce Development page. For additional employment data, refer to Ecolab’s 2018 GRI Index and indicators 102-8, 404-1, and 405-1. ROBUST ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Principle 7: Environment Businesses should support the precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our mission is to provide and protect what is vital: clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. With this as our business focus, we operate at the nexus of the world’s most critical business, environmental and social challenges. Our commitment to delivering sustainable solutions has been core to our purpose for more than 90 years and remains the driving force behind our company’s business model. Our sustainability leadership is rooted in our enterprise-wide commitment to operational efficiency and environmental stewardship. We operate with respect for the environment and promote stewardship of natural resources from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers. We have a history of strong environmental performance and have made significant strides in recent years to reduce our environmental impact. As our company grows, entering new industries and geographies, minimizing the impact of our own operations is increasingly important. Fundamental to our business is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, social and environmental benefits align. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 15 We partner with customers across industries, working side-by-side to address complex challenges: With a broad suite of technologies and unparalleled commitment to personally delivered service, we help customers across more than 40 diverse industries make lasting transformations to their operations – and in many cases, to surrounding communities – by improving performance, reducing costs and minimizing environmental impact. We take a total impact approach to product and system development: We take a broad view of the full impact of each of our offerings. With a holistic view of the environmental, economic and social impact of our offerings, we consider how each of our solutions increases efficiency, minimizes use of natural resources, and improves safety – from sourcing to manufacturing to use and through disposal. We’re committed to continuous improvement: Through our Create & Maintain Value (CMV) program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually find more ways to deliver strong business/operations results while saving water, energy and wastewater and prolonging equipment life, for our customers and throughout our own facilities. We do this with consideration for how the impact of our solutions extends beyond the operations/facilities we serve to local people and communities. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE GOALS Sustainability is core to Ecolab’s purpose. Stewardship of natural resources is an integral part of our operational and business strategy, from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers. We are harnessing the power of our leading-edge technology to gain insights into our operations and ensure sustainable growth. Our 2020 environmental goals reflect our commitment to continuous improvement across our global footprint. Ecolab aims to reduce water use by 25 percent and GHG emissions by 10 percent across all manufacturing plants by 2020, against a 2015 baseline. These goals reflect the company’s commitment to continuous improvement across its global footprint, measured by intensity per million dollars in sales. With a focus on locations where our risks and impact are most relevant, we are committed to achieving these targets. ECOLAB’S 2020 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS* 2018 PERFORMANCE Reduce water withdrawals by 25% per $M sales Water withdrawal: -1.4% per $M sales Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% per $M sales GHG emissions**: -8.4% per $M sales Our Water Stewardship position formalizes our global commitment to undertake responsible water stewardship by identifying opportunities for our company and our customers to use water resources in a manner that benefits business, communities and nature. For specific information on Ecolab’s 2018 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 7 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report and GRI Index. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 16 Principle 8: Environment Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our environmental performance achievements are the result of enterprise and facility-level commitments to increasing the efficiency of our operations through actions and investments that result in greater environmental stewardship. Through our Create and Maintain Value (CMV) program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually find more ways to deliver strong business results while saving water and energy, reducing wastewater and prolonging equipment life throughout our facilities. We do this with an eye for how our impact extends beyond our operations to local people and communities. In 2018, we completed 41 process improvement projects that delivered resource reduction outcomes across our global footprint. For example: At our plant in Clearing, Illinois, we installed a top-of-the line water reclaim system. When that system is fully operational, the plant, which is the largest water user in Ecolab’s inventory, will save 100 million gallons per year. Our plant in Garyville, Louisiana, has reduced its daily water intake by 13 percent, reusing filtered Mississippi river water in the production process. WATER STEWARDSHIP We actively seek to improve the use of water resources within our own operations and within the watersheds in which we operate. Our commitment extends beyond our operations to partnerships with thought leaders and leading organizations that support advancement of responsible use of the world’s limited fresh water resources to the benefit of nature, communities and business. Since 2010, Ecolab has partnered with WWF and AWS to develop and launch the International Water Stewardship Standard. As a founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard, Ecolab is committed to collaboration with other businesses at the local level and sustainable water use in its facilities. The AWS Standard is a globally consistent and locally adaptable framework to promote sustainable freshwater use. These certifications further solidify Ecolab’s commitment to water stewardship, the preservation of natural resources and environmental protection. Our Taicang, China, plant became the first facility in the world to be certified under the AWS Standard in September 2015. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 17 At the end of 2017, we achieved our second and third AWS certifications for Ecolab’s manufacturing facilities in City of Industry and Carson, both located in water-stressed southern California. Thanks to steps taken during the AWS certification process and Ecolab’s own water-saving technologies, including 3D TRASARTM Technology, our Carson and City of Industry plants saved a combined total of more than 3 million gallons of water annually, which is equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of more than 10,000 people. Both facilities also worked with other users in the same watershed to drive collective action on water stewardship. The California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC) allowed the two plants to share best practices and current projects with other large companies in the same watershed. For specific information on Ecolab’s 2018 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 8 refer to Ecolab’s 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report and GRI Index, disclosures 301-308. COLLECTIVE ACTION Ecolab collaborates with nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations to advance new solutions and standards for responsible water management, and to build awareness of the environmental impacts of industry. Ecolab is a founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS). Since 2010, Ecolab has dedicated resources, expertise and practical application of principles to assist in the development, launch and implementation of the AWS International Water Stewardship Standard, a global framework to promote sustainable freshwater use. As a founding partner of the AWS Standard in 2010, Ecolab has continuously dedicated resources, expertise and practical application of principles to drive global adoption of the Standard. As a pilot site for the Standard, Ecolab China partnered with the WWF to address the unique challenges of the Taihu watershed area and designed the Taicang plant for environmental sustainability. Ecolab engineers, plant operations managers and associates, along with the WWF, systematically worked through the Standard’s six-step continual improvement framework to achieve responsible water stewardship status for the Taicang plant, which opened in 2012. Benefits reached far beyond the numbers. Moving through the steps of the AWS Standard to achieve certification improved relationships with local government and businesses, reduced system burden through less demand on the Yangtze River, and Ecolab’s team in Taicang paved the way for Ecolab facilities around the world to pursue water stewardship projects and facilitate discussions in their local catchments and communities. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 18 At the end of 2017, we achieved our second and third AWS certifications for Ecolab’s manufacturing facilities in City of Industry and Carson, both located in water-stressed southern California. In September 2015, our Taicang, China, plant became the first facility in the world to be certified under the AWS Standard. Ecolab is pursuing AWS certification at its Garyville, Louisiana, plant in 2019. WATER RISK MONETIZER As a company with deep expertise in water management, and in-depth understanding of the issues facing companies across industries, Ecolab is committed to helping all water users better understand, evaluate and take action to mitigate their water related risks in order to ensure business success and the availability of the world’s fresh water supply for future generations. In 2014, Ecolab partnered with Trucost, the global leader in valuing natural capital, to develop the Water Risk Monetizer. This tool provides a risk-adjusted water price that represents the full value of water to a business based on local level demands and scarcity. In 2015, the tool was enhanced to enable businesses to evaluate potential revenue at risk due to water scarcity. In 2016, the tool was further enhanced in partnership with Microsoft, and continued partnership with Trucost, to deliver a new level of water risk assessment. By adding water quality to the risk equation, the tool now provides a more comprehensive risk assessment and a deeper level of business insights to drive more informed water management decisions. As more businesses and other water users begin to operationalize a risk-adjusted cost of water, they are more equipped to reduce their water use, especially in water-scarce areas where it's needed most. This, in turn, helps the communities in which tool users operate by reducing demand for a scarce and critical resource. Our shared goal is to drive more businesses to use data to inform actionable plans to save, reduce and recycle water. By leveraging the information provided by the Water Risk Monetizer, businesses can take action now to reduce water use, and use the information to factor water scarcity into their decisions to support business growth. More than 3,000 unique users have tapped into the tool, which is available at no cost to the public (www.waterriskmonetizer.com). We continue to strive to help and enhance the information water users require to make informed decisions about water risks. The Water Risk Monetizer’s methodology and modeling approach is informed by an advisory group of experts who provided invaluable advice and counsel throughout the development process. While Ecolab and Trucost alone take full responsibility for the content and calculations of the Water Risk Monetizer, the support of these expert advisory group members has helped ensure that our approach to valuing water risk can be integrated into business decision making. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 19 In partnership with Microsoft and Trucost, advisory group members and Ecolab customers, Ecolab leverages the Water Risk Monetizer to support collective action toward more responsible stewardship of the world’s limited fresh water sources. SMART WATER NAVIGATOR Many companieshave corporate water targets,but all too often they don’t know how totranslate them into real water reductions. From a 2017 Ecolab and GreenBiz survey, we know that 82 percent of companies lack the tools and expertise toachieve tangible results. Repeated in 2019, the survey showed that, although the sense of urgency around water is growing, almost half of companies do not have a clear plan to get from corporate goals to tangible results. In fact, according to numbers compiled by S&P Trucost, corporate water use is increasing globally. That trend must be reversed, because the U.N. projects that under a business-as-usual scenario, the world will face a 40 percent fresh water deficit by 2030. To ensure continued growth in an increasingly water-scarce world – and to help avoid a global water crisis – companies must decrease their water use and build smart, circular water management practices. The Ecolab Smart Water Navigator will help make that happen by bridging the gap between good intentions and effective action. To achieve that, the Smart Water Navigator focuses on the individual facility level. That’s where real waters savings must happen, because all water is local. Depending on factors such as weather patterns, geography and local soil conditions, every location is different, and every individual facility requires solutions tailored to its own situation. Launched in March 2019, the Ecolab Smart Water Navigator is a free online tool that helps companies reduce water usage, energy and cost at the facility level. Offering a practical roadmap for sustainable water management, it is publicly available at www.smartwaternavigator.com. Principle 9: Environment Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies With products and services touching people every day in nearly every corner of the world, we have a responsibility to embed sustainability into every aspect of our innovations. We pay careful attention to ingredient responsibility, human health and environmental impact, without compromising performance. Every Ecolab solution is developed with specific intention: Informed by customer needs Developed to solve particular challenges Designed to conserve resources and help protect the environment Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 20 We want every customer to fully understand and have confidence in the safety, health and environmental attributes of our products. This starts with our commitment to managing the impacts of our products throughout the value chain. We do this by developing programs that prevent or reduce human and environmental exposure to hazards and risks in chemical products through safer solid and liquid chemistry and innovative packaging and dispensing systems. Our approach is driven by: An unparalleled understanding of customer needs Deep expertise in product application and use phase impacts Commitment to comply with, and go beyond, industry, government and non-government standards From concentrated formulations and antimicrobial solutions to advanced monitoring and innovative packaging and dispensing methods, Ecolab leads the industry in developing new, effective solutions that help our customers drive operational efficiency, product quality, safety and compliance while minimizing environmental impact. We leverage our capabilities, expertise and technology throughout our enterprise. By applying learnings and technologies from one industry to another, we are meeting more customers’ needs for resourcesaving solutions. Our health and safety procedures for product formulation start with raw materials. Our product safety team screens all raw materials for chemicals of concern and each raw material is reviewed for regional and global chemical inventory compliance. This process informs final product safety analysis and safety data sheets (SDSs) for all Ecolab products. Building on our product sustainability leadership, we have defined a set of nine measurable product attributes relevant to our customers’ operations to help explain the safety, health and environmental impacts of our solutions. The technical information supporting these attributes is reported through our enterprise chemical management database and thus, is consistent with our Safety Data Sheet literature. In 2018, we participated in the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP). The CFP measures and discloses data on business progress toward safer chemicals, and provides a tool for benchmarking companies as they select safer alternatives and reduce their use of chemicals of high concern. Ecolab conducted this comprehensive benchmarking survey globally, and included all business units in the evaluation. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 21 All of our products and services are evaluated for strict compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In 2017, Ecolab introduced a product sustainability program focused on our Institutional market. As part of this program, key human health and environmental safety attributes relevant to Institutional applications and our customers were defined (e.g., low volatile organic compounds (VOC), biodegradable as used). We are now evaluating most of the Institutional product portfolio against these criteria. Going forward, this data will be made available to our sales associates along with customer-facing documents to provide transparency and enable product sustainability discussions. This will allow our sales team to better assist our customers in selecting products with specific human health and environmental attributes. We expect this program to integrate product sustainability into the product development process as part of the standard business process. With success, we expect to determine if it can be leveraged more broadly across Ecolab markets. (GRI 416-1) Many of Ecolab’s innovative products and services help customers reduce energy use. The benchmark for comparison for each application listed in this section is the historic performance of the technology that was replaced in the year the product was launched. Methodologies are described separately for each application. Examples of the positive impacts of our products and services in 2018 include: PARETO™ MIXING TECHNOLOGY: In 2018, we helped customers globally save an estimated 6.2 trillion BTUs globally using our PARETO Mixing Technology, which enhances chemical performance by optimizing the injection of chemical additives into industrial-process streams. By allowing reuse of warmer process water in papermaking, papermakers avoid the need to heat water from freshwater temperature to process. The methodology used to estimate these reduced energy requirements is based on the quarterly calculated energy savings delivered by the technology based on historical and forecasted marketing and sales data. HVAC PERFORMANCE SERVICES: In 2018, we helped customers in the United States and Canada save an estimated 201 billion BTUs through our HVAC Performance Services. The goal of this program is to maintain HVAC systems at peak performance. Dirty coils and inefficient filters can reduce cooling capacity, causing cooling-comfort or production-climate-control problems while wasting energy and increasing waste from filter disposal. Ecolab achieves these emissions reductions by cleaning cooling and heating coils using an innovative process that recovers the heat-transfer capabilities of the coils. On average, cooling capacity of the system is improved by 50 percent (based on internal national energy data) . This coil-cleaning service is supported by energy audits that document cooling capacity improvements, including energy savings and carbon-footprint reduction due to improved heat transfer and increased airflow/lower pressure drop across the cooling/heating coils. The methodology used to estimate these reduced energy requirements is based on quarterly calculated energy savings delivered by the technology based on historical and forecasted marketing and sales data. APEX™: In 2018, we helped customers in North America and Latin America save an estimated 3.1 trillion BTUs using our APEX warewashing program. By using the APEX program, restaurant owners can minimize rewash while maintaining cleaning performance and operating at a lower wash temperature. The methodology used to estimate these avoided emissions is based on annual sales data for APEX and the assumption that a full-service casual dining restaurant open 364 days per year runs 127,400 racks per year. With the implementation of the APEX system, restaurants see a 10 percent rack reduction of washes. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 22 AQUANOMIC™: In 2018, we helped customers in North America and Latin America save an estimated 1.78 trillion BTUs using our Aquanomic laundry program. By using the Aquanomic program, lodging owners can reduce the number of rinse cycles while maintaining cleaning performance and operating at a lower wash temperature. The methodology used to estimate these reduced energy requirements is based on annual sales data for Aquanomic, water savings documented from field trials and third-party studies and the assumption that a load consists of 100 pounds of linen. 3D TRASAR™ SOLID COOLING WATER: In 2018, we helped customers in North America save an estimated 1.0 billion BTUs though the use of our 3D TRASAR Solid Cooling Water program. The web-based data management platform allows our customers to efficiently optimize operation and maximize performance. The methodology used to estimate these reduced energy requirements is based on annual sales volume and the solids packaging and transportation benefits compared to traditional technology. NALCO BOILER TREATMENT TECHNOLOGY: In 2018, we helped customers globally save an estimated 7.5 trillion BTUs though the use of our Nalco Boiler Treatment Technology. By using Nalco Boiler Treatment Technology, customers are able improve boiler safety and reliability while achieving significant energy savings by reducing scale deposits in firetube boilers, optimizing boiler blowdown and improving condensate return to the boiler feedwater. The methodology used to estimate the reduced energy requirements is based on annual sales data for NexGuard boiler treatment programs and the number of Nalco accounts using Nalco boiler treatment programs and services and 3D TRASAR Boiler Automation. SANITIZING WASH ‘N WALK: In 2018, we helped customers in North America and Latin America save an estimated 319 billion BTUs using our Sanitizing Wash ‘n Walk platform. Sanitizing Wash ‘n Walk No-Rinse Drain and Floor Cleaner/Sanitizer is an EPA-registered cleaner and sanitizer that provides total management of floors and drains in a single product. The enzyme-based floor cleaner formula provides immediate cleaning of all soil types and extended cleaning of organic grease, fats and oils, thereby reducing risks of slips and falls, while the cold-water application saves energy. The methodology used to estimate the reduced energy requirements is based on annual sales data and energy avoided based on 50 percent energy reduction product factor. EXELERATE CIP PLUS TECHNOLOGY: In 2018, we helped customers in the United States save an estimated 70.7 billion BTUs using our Exelerate CIP Plus Technology. The energy savings are based on calculations and testing compared to traditional alkaline cleaners. 3D TRASAR™ TECHNOLOGY FOR MEMBRANES: In 2018, we helped customers save an estimated 12.7 billion BTUs globally using our 3D TRASAR Technology for Membranes. Our 3D TRASAR technology detects and monitors critical operating parameters in real time, allowing customers instant access to system information anytime, anywhere, and determines and executes the correct response to dynamic system changes as they occur. Energy is saved by maximizing throughput and minimizing downtime. Energy savings are based on the difference in kilowatt hours of reject flow at 80 percent recovery and reject flow at 75 percent recovery. PURE COMFORT™ MINERAL PROGRAM: In 2018, we helped customers in the United States save an estimated 204 billion BTUs using our Pure Comfort Mineral Program. The Pure Comfort Mineral Program generates chlorine sanitizer necessary to maintain a safe and balanced pool. Energy savings are based on heating replacement water. SMARTPOWER™: In 2018, we helped customers save an estimated 147 billion BTUs globally using our SMARTPOWER technology. SMARTPOWER combines insights, innovative chemistry and personal service to deliver sustainability savings and better control across warewashing operations. Energy savings are based on annual sales data and water savings documented from market tests with our customers where SMARTPOWER reduced the amount of racks that required rewashing, thus saving water, energy and labor. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 23 ADVANTIS FC PROGRAM: In 2018, we helped customers save an estimated 2.58 billion BTUs of energy globally using our Advantis FC program. This program is a high-foaming, chlorinated alkaline cleaner specially formulated for use with reduced temperature water. Advantis FC provides food and protein processing facilities with excellent cleaning performance against protein and fat soils on stainless steel processing equipment and plant environmental surfaces. Previous processes required sanitation water to be heated to temperatures as high as 145 degrees farenheit. Advantis FC effectively cleans protein and fat soils at temperatures as low as 105 to 110 degrees Fahrenheit. The program improves cleaning performance in plants that cannot achieve or maintain high water temperatures throughout the sanitation shift. More information on how the technologies above also reduce water, greenhouse gas emissions and waste can be found online at our live eROI counter at www.eroicounter.ecolab.com. Our solutions help customers achieve ambitious business and environmental goals. With an unparalleled combination of science and service, we deliver exponential outcomes that benefit customers and communities. Fundamental to our approach is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic and environmental benefits align. We call this our eROI℠ outcome: the exponential value of improved performance, operational efficiency and sustainable impact. eROI Customer Impact Goal: Water Alongside our 2020 sustainability goals introduced in 2015, we set a customer impact goal around water to measure the impact we deliver to our customers: ECOLAB’S 2030 CUSTOMER IMPACT GOAL 2018 PERFORMANCE By 2030, we aim to save our customers more than We helped our customers save 188 billion gallons of 300 billion gallons annually, equivalent to the annual water, equivalent to the annual drinking water drinking water needs of more than 1 billion people. needs of more than 650 million people Every year, we measure our progress against this goal using our eROI Customer Impact Counter. The counter includes all technologies that track savings delivered to customers and have established methodologies. We continue to evaluate opportunities to add new technologies to the counter on an annual basis as available. `` In addition to tracking how much water we save our customers, we also track energy, air, and waste savings in the eROI Counter. In 2018, we helped our customers save: 188 billion 19 trillion 2.4 billion 54 million Gallons of water BTUs of energy Pounds of CO2 emissions Pounds of waste Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 24 In 2016, we had a third-party validate our eROI methodology: Anthesis LLC conducted an independent review of the methodology, data collection and communications of Ecolab’s eROI Calculator & Counter, and based on the results of our review process, it is our opinion that Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of the savings and benefits of its products and services for the stated period and boundaries. Our 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report showcases examples where our partnerships with customers led to exponential outcomes for businesses and the communities in which we operate. Examples of sustainable innovations launched in 2018 include: Digital Food Safety Automation is part of our burgeoning digital program that helps improve food safety outcomes through mobile applications, such as an automated food safety checklist. This saves customers time and provides deeper insight and analytics into food safety performance. MARKETGUARD™ 365 collects and consolidates food safety data for food retail operators through an online portal and mobile app. The tool provides real-time insights into food safety compliance and digitizes food safety tasks and temperature monitoring. Laundry Detergents Plus and Ultra are high-performance detergents designed to help customers tackle the toughest stains while leaving linens clean, white, soft and fresh. OMNI combines chemistry, 3D TRASAR™ Technology, sensors and data analytics to help power and chemical producers improve production efficiency, capture energy savings and avoid production outages. REACH (European Union's Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals regulation) Ecolab is leading significant scientific and regulatory coalition work on REACH, the European Union's Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals regulation. We have successfully met REACH interim deadlines and are on track to meet the final 2018 compliance deadline. It is Ecolab’s intent to comply fully with the REACH regulation. Our commitment includes securing the long-term future of important cleaning, sanitizing and water and energy management solutions customers rely on, helping customers understand their obligations under REACH and working with suppliers to ensure our expectations under REACH are understood. For specific information on Ecolab’s 2018 environmental performance and practices related to Principle 9 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report and GRI Index, indicators 301-308. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 25 ROBUST ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Principle 10: Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Ecolab is committed to maintaining the highest ethical and leadership standards. Our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy applies to 100 percent of our employees, contractors and subsidiaries. First adopted in 1976, our Code of Conduct serves as a guide for how to act and make decisions as an employee of Ecolab. The Code of Conduct was last amended on November 29, 2012. The Code of Conduct applies to all Ecolab officers, directors and employees, and is available in 20 languages. (GRI 102-16) As part of the company’s Internal Audit program, approximately 40 audits are completed each year focusing on internal/financial controls and operational processes, out of an audit population of approximately 145 auditable units (including countries, divisions and departments. Of these units, approximately 65 are individual country operating locations which are audited over a 4-5-year cycle. In these “operational audits”, procedures include testing related to controls relevant to Ecolab’s anticorruption program. In addition, four anti-corruption specific audits were completed in 2018 as part of Ecolab’s anti-corruption program. The Global Compliance department also completes various assessment activities for all regions and all business units, including related to recently acquired operations. Few significant risks were identified, with risks relating to use of intermediaries being the highest risk area identified. (GRI 205-1) Ecolab’s anticorruption policies and procedures are communicated through the annual Code of Conduct training, which is mandatory for substantially all employees and contingent workers globally. They must complete Code of Conduct training on an annual basis (either online or through classroom-style training for plant employees and certify compliance with the Code). All governance body members are required to certify compliance with the Code of Conduct on an annual basis. In addition to the Code of Conduct training, specific online annual anti-corruption training and certification is also mandatory for leaders in divisional and functional key roles, and with market, regional or global responsibilities. More detailed in-person anti-corruption training is provided to senior leaders in many markets within all regions — Europe, MEA, Greater China, Asia Pacific and Latin America. In addition to this training, which is provided to market and regional leaders, certain global business-unit managers receive the anti-corruption training, including managers in the Energy Services business unit. Ecolab’s anti-corruption policies are available in 24 different languages and require all intermediaries operating or exporting outside the United States to sign and maintain current anti-corruption undertakings, thus communicating our policies. In addition, in higher-risk countries, certain intermediaries have received training from company personnel. (GRI 205-2) Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 26 Ecolab has a Code of Conduct Help Line for associates who need assistance or wish to report a possible violation. The Help Line is toll-free and is answered 24 hours a day, seven days a week by an independent company that offers interpretation services in 150 languages. Callers have the option of remaining anonymous, subject to the terms and conditions of Ecolab’s policy and local law. Ecolab also has an online form available for anyone to use anonymously if they wish to submit complaints to the Ecolab Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regarding accounting, internal controls and other auditing matters. Ecolab’s Anti-Corruption Policy also prohibits facilitating payments to government officials to expedite or secure the performance of routine government action. COMMERCIAL BRIBERY In addition to prohibiting bribery of government officials, Ecolab also prohibits bribery and corruption in our commercial dealings. Employees are prohibited from offering anything of value to, or accepting anything of value from, existing or potential customers, suppliers or other third parties to improperly obtain business or gain an unfair advantage for the Company. For additional information on Ecolab’s 2018 practices to support Principle 10 refer to refer to Ecolab’s 2018 GRI Index, disclosures 102-16, 205-1, 205-2, and 415-1. COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT DIRECT OPERATIONS Sustainability is core to our purpose at Ecolab. Stewardship of natural resources is an integral part of our operational and business strategy, from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers. Our 2020 environmental goals reflect our commitment to continuous improvement across our global footprint. Ecolab aims to reduce water usage by 25 percent and GHG emissions by 10 percent across all manufacturing plants by 2020, against a 2015 baseline. We leverage our Create & Maintain Value (CMV) program throughout our manufacturing facilities to drive continuous improvement, with an emphasis on the facilities that have the greatest opportunity for resource savings. This approach mirrors the service we deliver to customers — leveraging the expertise of our Nalco Water service engineers, unique auditing and monitoring capabilities, and customized solutions to deliver substantial reductions in water and energy consumption. Through our Create and Maintain Value program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually find more ways to deliver strong business results while saving water, energy and wastewater and prolonging equipment life throughout our facilities. We do this with an eye for how our impact extends beyond our operations to local people and communities. Refer to page 20 of this document and page 30 of our 2018 GRI report for more details on the projects completed in 2018. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 27 SUPPLY CHAIN AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT Ecolab undertakes an annual water-risk assessment to identify facilities that may operate within water stressed regions, both in the near and long term. The analysis is based on combining our operational water withdrawal and effluent footprint and production metrics with water risk inputs and financial cost valuations from the Water Risk Monetizer tool to inform decisions at an operational level. The Water Risk Monetizer (WRM) is a publicly available global water risk assessment tool that uses best-inclass local water basin datasets and scientific methodologies to monetize water-specific business risks. Rather than recreate existing assessment frameworks that address quantitative water risk, the WRM utilizes leading, publicly available datasets such as those developed by the WRI (2016) and WWF (2016a). Ecolab released the tool in 2014 and launched Version 2 in 2015 to incorporate revenue at risk. Version 3, released in the spring of 2017 and used for our 2016 reporting year footprint analysis, addresses incoming and outgoing water quality risk and its potential impact on operating costs and provides a deeper level of business insight and action planning. More than 3,000 unique users have tapped into the tool, which is available at no cost to the public (www.waterriskmonetizer.com). Ecolab continues to actively refresh the tool with updated data as available and evaluate opportunities to improve the WRM with enhancements and new features. WATER RISK ASSESSMENT In 2018, we evaluated 100 percent of our direct operations. We removed facilities where we estimate for water data and production and are otherwise very small users of water (this includes an estimated 5 percent of water withdrawal and effluent from Offices, Distribution, Warehouses, Flex/R&D and related facilities). We refined our assessment to focus on the remaining 139 manufacturing and campus/ technology center facilities, representing 95 percent of our total global water withdrawal and effluent footprint. This list of facilities was assessed using a variety of risk criteria inputs provided by the WRI Aqueduct Tool and insights available through the Water Risk Monetizer. Using GRI’s definition of water stress1, 52 percent of Ecolab’s total water withdrawal is sourced from areas with “high” or “extremely high” current baseline water stress. To further evaluate our water risk, we also assessed sites in these areas against the following criteria: Future baseline water stress is expected to remain the same or increase (based on IEA 450 climate scenario to 2030 in WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas), 1 GRI uses the following indicator and thresholds to define water stress in an area: “the ratio of total annual water withdrawal to total available annual renewable water supply (i.e. baseline water stress) is high (40-80%) or extremely high (>80%)”. Baseline water stress is assessed using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas: www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct/ Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 28 10-year potential Revenue at Risk is greater than 10 percent (based on Water Risk Monetizer tool)2, and Production volume (i.e. the percentage of each sites’ production out of total production) is greater than 1 percent. Based on these criteria, only three sites representing 8.2 percent of total production volume, and 27 percent of total water withdrawal have been identified as operating in river basins with current and/or future water stress and may be affected by Ecolab’s withdrawal of water. All three of these sites are working hard to mitigate this risk. For example, our City of Industry plant in California received Alliance for Water Stewardship International Water Stewardship Standard certification in 2017, and our Clearing plant in Illinois installed a top-of-the line water reclaim system in 2018 that when fully operational, will save 100 million gallons per year. Overall water risk identifies areas with higher exposure to water-related risks and is an aggregated measure of all selected indicators from the Physical Quantity, Quality and Regulatory & Reputational Risk categories. We expanded this water stress by location assessment to further evaluate water risks and its relation to our business growth by applying further criterion to consider production volume at strategic sites and corresponding potential revenue-at-risk via the outputs from the Water Risk Monetizer. Additional financial analysis that incorporates incoming and outgoing water quality and quantity provides a “risk premium” relative to the price of water for each site. This information enables Ecolab to assess whether any individual sites or a combination of sites could expose the company to water risks, either current and/ or future, that could result in a substantive change to our business, operations, revenue or expenditure. The results of this assessment are reported in our submissions to CDP, available at www.cdp.net. OUR APPROACH TO PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Ecolab’s Product Sustainability Position: Ecolab develops programs that reduce or prevent human and environmental exposure to hazards and risks in chemical products through safer solid and liquid chemistry, packaging and dispensing systems. Ecolab’s product Sustainability team (RD&E Corporate Scientist) and Regulatory affairs (Director Product Safety & Stewardship) closely partner to implement programs such as our Outcome Based Product Sustainability platform. 2 Revenue at risk compares the estimated amount of water a business requires to generate revenue (m3 per USD of revenue) to the business' share of water available in the water basin if water were allocated among water users based on economic activity (contribution to basin-level GDP). If more water is required than the basin share of water allocated, then a proportion of the business' revenue is potentially at risk. Industry type, local water stress and competition (basin level economic activity) are all variables that impact the amount of revenue at risk. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 29 We are committed to safety in our operations and to developing products that are safe for our customers and their intended application. We pay careful attention to ingredient responsibility, human health and environmental impact, without compromising performance. With products and services touching people every day in nearly every corner of the world, we have a responsibility to embed sustainability into every aspect of our innovations. Our health and safety procedures for product formulation start with raw materials. Ecolab’s Product Safety Team screens all raw materials for chemicals of concern and each raw material is reviewed for regional and global chemical inventory compliance, in addition to our beyond regulatory chemical reduction targets. This process informs final product safety analysis and safety data sheets (SDSs) for all Ecolab products. We recognize the need to better understand the impacts of our products and to document and clearly communicate these impacts to key stakeholders. Through a range of programs and initiatives, we continuously work to identify opportunities for improvement. This work begins with our global chemical substance portfolio. We collect information on the substance composition of all of our ingredients. Our state-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system is central to this effort, enabling us to store and manage complete product formulations in our database, down to parts per million (ppm): The system ensures that our products comply with all relevant regulations in the regions where they are sold and is supported by more than 200 subject matter experts in 35 countries. Products and ingredients are reviewed against regional and global restricted substance lists (RSLs) embedded in our ERP system. The broad group of RSLs includes more than 400 lists, both those associated with regulatory compliance requirements as well as lists that exceed compliance requirements, such as those specified by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Our comprehensive database enables us to view, manage and report on our substance portfolio globally. To benchmark these efforts, Ecolab participates in the Chemical Footprint Project, a nonprofit effort with a mission to transform global chemical use by measuring and disclosing data on progress to safer chemicals. Our outcome-based approach to product design is driving Ecolab beyond compliance and will support the increased transparency requested by customers, governments, investors and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Our solutions are evaluated according to key human health and safety criteria and based on clearly defined product stewardship principles so that they can be embedded in the product development process across our organization. For more information, please refer to pages 32-33 in our 2018 GRI Index. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 30 PUBLIC POLICY Ecolab works with policy makers and legislators to identify and support key programs and policy agendas to improve water quality and water efficiency. We also support the development and voluntary implementation of international water standards to improve water stewardship and mitigate our customers’ operational risks associated with water. In addition, we lend our expertise to help shape global standards, partnering with key industry groups to define and implement product responsibility best practices and voluntary standards. At the United States federal level, we have sought to advance provisions to support innovation and drive water reuse and energy efficiency. For example, Ecolab has sought to highlight the use of non-potable water for industrial water reuse programs to achieve greater water savings through legislation. Ecolab is a member of the Environment Technologies Trade Advisory Committee which advises the United States Secretary of Commerce on trade competitiveness issues facing United States environmental solutions providers. Ecolab seeks to enhance our participation in the United States Department of Commerce online Environmental Toolkit, which communicates our most recent solutions with foreign environmental officials and customers attempting to tackle water scarcity and water quality concerns in their respective countries. In 2018, Ecolab continued our work with ongoing management of the CEO Water Alliance (CEWA) in partnership with the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum focused on industrial water usage. The CEWA is a unique platform that brings together CEOs of Indian industries and key government and NGO stakeholders to address the water challenges in India by promoting sustainable water usage. In July, Nalco Water, an Ecolab company, helped lead and participated in the inaugural CEWA Water Dialogue in New Delhi where business, government and civil society leaders came together to discuss effective water management and create meaningful policies. In 2018, Nalco Water, an Ecolab company, continued to identify opportunities for smarter industrial water management throughout the European Union. Nalco Water joined The European Alliance to Save Energy to increase focus on the water-energy nexus in the European Union’s Industrial Emissions Directive. We have engaged the European Commission and national authorities to explain how their national energy reduction programs can use water savings as an additional way to reach efficiency targets based on Energy Efficiency Directive guidelines. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Since 1986, the Ecolab Foundation has implemented community impact programs to support the communities where our employees live and work, focusing on giving to local non-profit organizations in the areas of youth and education, civic and community development, arts and culture and environment and conservation. Since the inception, the company has contributed more than $114 million to non-profit organizations. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 31 In 2018, Ecolab committed $16.9 million to local communities through corporate giving, in-kind donations and the value of employee volunteerism. Through our Community Relations Council, 60 percent of our United States manufacturing locations have implemented local community engagement programs. Through corporate giving initiatives, 100 percent of our United States corporate facilities have implemented local community engagement programs. Globally, all Ecolab employees have access to team volunteer grants to implement community volunteer programs through approved partners. Specific examples of how our commitment to giving back impacts local communities include: Through a $250,000 grant to the Saint Paul Public Schools district, whereas St. Paul is home to Ecolab’s global headquarters, and we have more than 30 years of partnership with the district, Ecolab supported the Ecolab Teacher Grants Program. The Ecolab Teacher Grants Program is a continuation of the previous Ecolab Foundation Visions for Learning grant program that provided $2.1 million over the past 10 years to educators throughout the district, positively impacting 1,220 classrooms. The Ecolab Teacher Grants Program encourages projects that align with the district’s new Strategic Plan Focus Areas and Student Outcomes, such as college and career paths, effective and culturally relevant instruction, increasing academic growth in reading and math for all students, and decreasing disparities in achievement based on race, ethnicity, culture and identity. 23,733 students benefited from these grants in 2018. 58 percent of the Foundation’s funds in 2018, more than $7.4 million, was committed to organizations that support youth education and development, one of the Foundation’s main focus areas. 239 grants were awarded to organizations that support youth through such well-known organizations as Boys and Girls Clubs and Junior Achievement, but also to local after-school and inschool programs in the 18 major communities where our employees live and work. Additional youth outreach globally is mentioned below through our partnership with Project WET. In 2018, the Ecolab Foundation awarded a $5 million grant to the University of Minnesota in support of environmental sustainability research and education. This as an investment in our future innovators and leaders and a model for public-private partnerships that can make measurable progress on sustainability and help address a fast-changing world that is increasingly strapped for resources. In 2018, Ecolab provided $1.2 million of direct and indirect funding for grants to community partners that work with Saint Paul Public Schools where 70 percent of students are eligible for free or reduced-price lunch. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 32 Ecolab has targeted partnerships with schools on the West side of St. Paul where Ecolab supports programming at Humboldt Schools, Riverview West Side School of Excellence, and Cherokee Heights Elementary School. Examples of directly funded initiatives include college preparatory and access programs (AVID and College Possible), S.T.E.M. in class and out-of-class offerings and subsidized admission to performing arts organizations. As part of Ecolab’s global philanthropic program, Solutions for Life, Ecolab and the Project WET Foundation co-created the Clean and Conserve Education Program. Since launching the partnership in 2014, this free curriculum has reached more than 7.47 million individuals in 88 countries with its fun, hands-on lessons about water conservation and healthy hygiene practices. The Clean and Conserve curriculum is available in Spanish, Mandarin and German in addition to English and includes an activity guide for teachers (also in Canadian French and Brazilian Portuguese), a children’s storybook, an activity book for elementary and middle school students and a science project guide for high school students. These resources along with training videos can be downloaded free of charge at www.projectwet.org/cleanandconserve. In 2018, Ecolab Foundation staff in partnership with Project WET, created an Employee Activity Guide, available in seven languages, tailored to employees so they can easily take a handful of the Clean and Conserve activities into schools and community organizations where they live to share about healthy hygiene and water conservation practices. Additionally, Ecolab signed on as the lead sponsor for the interactive online site www.discoverwater.org (currently available in English and Mandarin) that helps teach children about the role of water in our lives. The “Soap and Water Science” activity is one of the Clean and Conserve program lessons that teaches children how to protect themselves from germs with fun, online activities. Our grantmaking through the Ecolab Foundation impacting our four areas of strategic giving: Youth & Education, Civic & Community Development, Arts & Culture, Environment & Conservation, positively impacts the clients served by nonprofit grantees. In 2018, 100 percent of grantees who received operating grants noted that they serve ethnically diverse populations. LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS We are committed to empowering our employees to give back in communities where we have significant operations. To facilitate local engagement and impact, we have Community Relations Councils in 17 regional locations around the United States totaling 112 employees. Our local employees are most in touch with the needs of their communities. Community Relations Councils enable trained local Ecolab employee volunteers to administer Ecolab Foundation Nonprofit Grant program to deserving recipients in their communities where they believe our contributions can have the greatest impact. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 33 In 2018, these committees helped administer 454 grant applications, resulting in 384 grants to non-profits and schools totaling $1.6 million. Ecolab recognizes the contributions our individual employees make in their communities through Matching Gift, Dollars for Doers and Community Leadership programs, where applicants apply for a grant for their volunteer work and board leadership involvement at qualifying nonprofit agencies. In 2018, 477 grants were distributed under these programs totaling more than $207,675. Ecolab’s Team Volunteer Grants encourage associates worldwide to gather in groups of five or more to volunteer with select global NGOs that help provide basic needs support to individuals and families in need (housing, food), as well as educational initiatives. In 2018, the seventh year of the program, the number of Team Volunteer projects grew by 27 percent. The Ecolab Foundation matched these volunteer efforts with grants to these organizations totaling more than $420,000 (44 percent increase from 2017). In 2018, Ecolab associates around the globe volunteered more than 66,370 hours, which has a value of more than $1.6 million. ECOLAB’S SOLUTIONS FOR LIFE Solutions for Life, a philanthropic program launched in 2014, enhances the company’s mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world. The program aims to address urgent challenges with innovative solutions, strategic partnerships and employee volunteerism. Through Solutions for Life, Ecolab supports the work of two strategic global nonprofit partners: The Nature Conservancy The Project WET Foundation PROJECT WET Through our partnership with the Project WET Foundation, children from China to the Philippines, from Mexico to the United States are learning about water conservation and hygiene through water-and hygiene-focused curriculum for youth, called the Clean and Conserve Education Program. Educators and Ecolab associates around the world have downloaded the materials to share in their communities. This free curriculum has reached more than 6.8 million individuals in 72 countries with its fun, hands-on lessons about water conservation and healthy hygiene practices. The Clean and Conserve curriculum is available in Spanish, Mandarin and German in addition to English and includes an activity guide for teachers (also in Canadian French and Brazilian Portuguese), a children’s storybook, an activity book for elementary and middle school students and a science project guide for high school students. These resources along with training videos can be downloaded free of charge at www.projectwet.org/ cleanandconserve. Additionally, “Soap and Water Science” teaches children how to protect themselves from germs with fun, online activities at www.discoverwater.org. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 34 THE NATURE CONSERVANCY Ecolab continues to support its partnership with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) “Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe.” Below are region-specific examples of the impacts we help with through our partnership with TNC. Global Sponsor of The Nature Conservancy’s Urban Water Blueprint: analyzed 2,000 water sources and 530 cities worldwide. 71,354 views to-date. United States MINNESOTA HEADWATERS FUND Ecolab was an initial funder of the work with The Nature Conservancy’s (TNC) Minnesota Headwaters Fund, that began in 2014, to support high-impact conservation projects to protect clean water in Minnesota’s lake and rivers which has a 10-year goal to protect 200,000 acres, impacting 1.4 million people. To date the fund has helped protect 759-acres made possible through the support of Ecolab, and the work in 2018 included the three top watersheds (Pine River, Rum River and Crow Wing River) in the Mississippi headwaters, a critical water source to the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul. Work also focused on the Saul River, St. Croix River and additional waterways in Southeast Minnesota in 2018. Mexico MONTERREY METROPOLITAN WATER FUND In Monterrey, Mexico, support from Ecolab Foundation helped implement reforestation, soil restoration, and other upstream conservation activities that are improving water infiltration and regulating surface water flows to reduce flood risk and protect the water supply for 4.5 million people downstream through the Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund (FAMM). Ecolab support established a tree nursery that is critical for providing enough high-quality plants for the restoration in the Cumbres de Monterrey National Park (CMNP). In 2018 the nursery provided 60,000 saplings to support reforestation activities in the CMNP and generated local job opportunities and being self-sustaining. The main geographical focus is CMNP, prioritized based on hydrological modelling because it provides over 60 percent of the water used Monterrey’s metropolitan area, both surface water and groundwater. China With Ecolab’s support TNC made progress on groundbreaking work focused on sustainable water systems in China. This includes making headway on the development of source water protection programs for the Dongjiang River Basin, the Qiandao Lake Basin and the exploration of a “sponge city” program in Shanghai. These projects use nature to create a more resilient water systems and will serve as critical demonstration sites, showing not only the physical connections between nature and cleaner water, but also how to engage stakeholders around a common purpose through innovative funding and governance frameworks. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 35 CHINA URBAN WATER BLUEPRINT Ecolab supported the development and publication of the groundbreaking China Urban Water Blueprint report, which analyzed the state of water in China’s 30 largest and fastest growing cities which informed TNC China’s decision to start two new water funds. The report offers science-based recommendations for natural solutions – including reforestation and improving agricultural practices – that can be integrated alongside traditional infrastructure to improve water security for people and nature. It provides a roadmap for action for water security through natural solutions, paving the way for new partnerships and subsequent work on source water protection. DISASTER RESPONSE As the world’s leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products and solutions, Ecolab is very proud of our in-kind donation program where we annually donate needed cleaning and health and sanitizing products to organizations in areas where natural disasters have occurred, benefiting thousands. In 2018, more than 617 pounds worth of Ecolab product donations went to worldwide relief efforts in partnership with World Emergency Relief and Good360, our disaster response partners, to areas affected by the hurricanes and earthquakes. We set up and staffed supply pick-up centers at our offices in Florida. Donations were distributed in Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas as well as distributed around the globe to locations such as Indonesia and Moldova. VOLUNTEER METRICS In 2018, Ecolab employees around the globe volunteered in their communities: Total 2018 volunteer hours globally: 66,500 Total 2018 volunteer events globally: 280 Visit our Community Involvement page for more information. TRANSPARENCY Ecolab is committed to transparency in how we report our environmental performance and in how we measure and document the sustainability benefits we provide to customers. n addition to our annual Communication on Progress, Ecolab’s comprehensive 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report and GRI Index, for reporting period 1 January through 31 December 2018, has been completed in alignment with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards Core framework. Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 36 For 2018, Ecolab advanced its dedication to transparency by completing third-party verification by Bureau Veritas North America (BNVA) of its publicly reported 2018 Global Water withdrawal in accordance with Bureau Veritas Assurance Procedures and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (basis for Bureau Veritas assurance procedures). GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was conducted include the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Based on the verification process and procedures conducted, BVNA found no evidence that the Water withdrawal assertion is not materially correct; is not a fair representation of the Water withdrawal data and information; and is not prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (basis for Bureau Veritas assurance procedures), and for Corporate Reporting on Carbon and Water on Behalf of Investors and Supply Chain Members. It is in BVNA’s opinion that Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of Water withdrawal for the stated period and boundaries. We also completed the CDP Water Information Request in 2018. Additional information is available in our CDP online submission, available at cdp.net. Externally, Ecolab’s eROI program measures and documents the resource savings we provide to customers through our innovative solution across a comprehensive set of sustainability categories that include water, energy and waste. By linking environmental and social metrics to cost savings, we demonstrate the triple-bottom-line benefits of sustainability, and help customers track their own progress toward their internal water goals. eROI also helps to catalyze our internal research and development efforts by measuring Ecolab’s full impact across the industries that we serve and identifying new opportunities to help solve sustainability challenges for our customers, many of which are water related. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------2019 Ecolab USA Inc. Ecolab Global Headquarters 1 Ecolab Place St. Paul, MN 55102 www.ecolab.com | 1 800 392 3392 Ecolab 2019 Communication on Progress 37
