Sustainability is in our nature Our commitment to sustainability 1 It is not only about supplying sustainContent 4 Global megatrends able seafood to consumers; it is about 6 Cermaq's strategy becoming stewards of the world’s and focus areas ocean and aqua­culture environments. 19 Value chain 20 Research and innovation — The Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship initiative (SeaBOS) 22 Key partnerships CEO It is time to step up our actions and make ocean sustainability a perspective global priority. Responsible aquaculture and salmon farming is a part of Partnership is crucial to develop solutions to the the solution, and Cermaq has the ambition to contribute SDGs and make progress on ocean sustainability. both by producing more high-quality healthy seafood In 2018, Cermaq was the first company to join the UN and by working in partnerships to improve ocean health Global Compact Action Platform for Sustainable Ocean and governance. Business. For the first time, business is taking a leading role in developing solutions for the sustainable use of The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), agreed on the ocean in the UN. The Platform engages UN partin 2015, set the agenda for where we want to be in 2030. ners, businesses, governments, academia and NGOs to To achieve these goals by then we need to act, we need to develop solutions by 2020, over a period of three years. improve, and we need to change. And above all; we must With our partners, we are actively working to drive the all contribute. necessary change and progress needed to put ocean sustainability at the top of priorities globally. In Cermaq, we have identified five SDGs where we truly can make a difference and we have integrated Research and innovation are the basis for improvethese goals in our strategy. These are first and forement in the salmon industry. It is also a driver for most Goal 14: Life Below Water, but also Goal 2: Zero sustainable performance over time. Our R&D work is Hunger, Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth, described on page 20, with concepts such as iFarm being Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, and explored as one of our solutions for the future. Goal 13: Climate Action. For each of these, we have identified actions and priority areas in our operations and in Our farming operations belong in their local comour value chain. munities. That is where our value creation takes place and that is where our employees live. The Cermaq team Cermaq’s approach is based on the pillars of transof dedicated and engaged colleagues makes me proud parency, partnerships and performance. We believe a of all we have achieved. It also makes me hopeful that company which openly reports its results has a stronger we will succeed not only in continually improving our basis for dialogue with stakeholders, developing trust production of healthy and sustainable food but also coland a better ability to actually make progress on material laborating with partners and stakeholders to strengthen topics. In 2017, Cermaq was ranked as the most transocean management on a local and global scale. parent salmon farming company in the world. We will continue our work to enhance transparency in our own operations, in our industry and in our value chain. Geir Molvik, CEO Cermaq Group 3 Global A profound change of the global food and agriculture system is needed to nourish megatrends today’s 765 million hungry and the additional 2 billion people expected by 2050. — UN Sustainable Development Goal #2 Aquaculture will play a larger role 71 % of the planet is ocean but only Unbalanced diets in seafood consumption in the 2 % of the world’s food production contribute to health coming decade comes from the sea challenges worldwide 53% 2016 47% FAO SOFIA (2018) 2% Over 1.9 million adults are overweight and could benefit from a 71 % ocean 29 % land more nutritious and 2 % seafood production 11 % arable land balanced diet – World Health Organization (2014) 38 % 2030 62 % With a population of 8.3 billion people by 2030, we’ll need… #Fish2030 50% 40% 35% more energy more water more food Wild catch Aquaculture — National Intelligence Council (2012) — United Nations The global food challenge: Adverse impacts on agriculture due to climate change Percentage change in crop yields between present and 2050. -50 % change +100 % change No data — World Resources Institute 3°C warmer world scenario 4 The solution Fish farming is central to being able to cope with climate change, ensure social responsibility, sustainability goals and while reducing environmental impact. – Former UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon (AquaVision 2018) Benefits of farmed salmon Small carbon footprint A carbon footprint measures the total greenhouse gas emissions Efficient feed conversion caused directly and indirectly by Feed conversion ratio (FCR) measures the production of one kilo of the efficiency of different protein proedible product. duction methods. It demonstrates the kilograms (kg) of feed needed to increase the animal’s bodyweight by 1 kg. 2.9 Farmed Atlantic Salmon 1.3:1 1.9:1 2.8:1 6–9:1 2.7 Farmed Atlantic Chicken Pork Cattle* Lamb Salmon (no data) Chicken * The FCR of cattle production has a larger range due to the varying types of feed used. Varying feed costs for the industries considered above have an influence upon the feed conversion ratios. — Global Salmon Initiative 5.9 Pork High edible yield Edible yield is calculated by dividing edible meat by total body weight. 30 68% 46% 52% 38% Cattle Farmed Chicken Pork Beef Lamb Atlantic (no data) Salmon Lamb (no data) These calculations take into account differences in FCR, differences in edible yields, and the cost of progeny. A carbon footprint is measured in kilograms (kg) of — Global Salmon Initiative carbon dioxide equivalent (kgCO2e) per kg edible part of the product. — Global Salmon Initiative “Worldwide, nearly 60 Low fresh water use million people (14 15.000 3.500 2000 percent of them liters of water liters of water liters of water women) are directly = = = employed in the 1 kg 1 kg 1 kg of beef of rice salmon fisheries and aquaculture sector — United Nations — International Salmon Farmers Association — FAO 2018 — Marine Harvest Salmon Industry Handbook (2018) 5 Cermaq's strategy Our sustainability work is based on five focus areas, each aligned with a corresponding SDG. 6 Focus areas Healthy and Thriving People Responsible Climate nutritious food oceans leadership production action • Product quality • Biodiversity • Safety & workplace • Value chain approach • Adaptation • Fish health & welfare • Biosecurity • Community relations • Certifications • Emissions • Feed ingredients • Blue economy • Human rights • Beyond compliance • Innovation Page 8 Page 10 Page 12 Page 14 Page 16 By aligning our work with the SDGs which we can signifOur approach to achieving progress on our focus areas is icantly impact, we can achieve more progress and pursue based on three pillars: opportunities in collaboration with our customers, local communities, public and private partners. Transparency We are transparent in our work to create trust, ensure traceability and be accountable to our stakeholders. Sustainability in Cermaq means producing healthy and Our audited annual sustainability reports and quarterly nutritious salmon in an environmentally, socially and online performance updates are examples of how we economically responsible manner. Producing sustainable work on transparency. salmon means we work continuously to ensure sustainable practices in all aspects of our operations, throughout the Performance We work continuously to create sustain­ value chain. We do this through the means of partnership, able value through operational excellence, research and transparency, and performance focusing on our highest innovation. impact areas, as outlined in our five focus areas. We focus on our highest impact areas and innovate across disciplines to create shared value with society for the long term. Some measures to achieve this are ASC certification and a dedicated global R&D team. Partnerships We share knowledge and engage in partner­ ships to find solutions to common challenges. This means collaborating on key issues, sharing know­ Being open about results is key to corporate respon­ ledge and engaging in dialogue. Our engagement in the sibility and is a driver of progress. Our quarterly Global Salmon Initiative (GSI), SeaBOS and the UN Ocean and annual performance reports can be found on platform (see page 22) illustrate some of our partnership www.cermaq.com activities. 7 Farmed salmon is rich in healthy nutrients such as marine omega-3, proteins, vitamins and minerals, and is a healthy food choice. Healthy and nutritious food Cermaq is committed to quality, traceability and food ty standards. The salmon diet consists mainly of protein safety at every level, from broodstock to the delivery of and fats. About 30 percent of the feed comes from marine delicious, nutritious food. Salmon is one of the richest sources, such as forage fish, fish trimmings and byprodsources of omega-3 fatty acids, which are known to help ucts. By increasing the share of vegetable ingredients in lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. Experts recomthe feed, the environmental impact on marine resources is mend replacing some meat meals with fish, because it is reduced without compromising nutritional value. Certified a healthier source of protein and a good source for other soy, gluten (from wheat) and rapeseed oil are some of the essential nutrients. It's a healthy change, and an esseningredients used. However, most marine omega-3 today tial one for our planet. comes from fish oil, and Cermaq is engaged in research and initiatives with the salmon industry and feed producTransparency In Cermaq, we hold ourselves and our ers to develop novel sources responding to future needs. salmon to the highest standards, working with third-party certification bodies to build on the reputation for quality Partnerships We work actively with our customers and that our customers expect. Transparency and traceability partners to deliver high quality salmon and create awareis our promise to our customers. We report our sustainaness of the role of sustainable seafood in healthy diets. bility performance quarterly on our web page and actively As business partners to initiatives such as UN Global provide information related to our many certifications. Compact Action Platform for Sustainable Ocean Business and the FReSH program (see page 22), we work together Performance Healthy fish is a necessity in all fish farming with companies in the food sector, research institutions operations and of crucial importance to Cermaq in deliverand civil society to integrate both health and sustainability ing a high quality product. We work continuously to ensure aspects into global food production and consumption. optimal conditions for our salmon and the environment in which they live – in Patagonia, Tofino or the Arctic. Good routines adapted to the different environmental conditions determine the management choices we make SDG2 importance on each farm every day, throughout the whole life cycle of the salmon. Keeping the fish in good condition, in a faIn a growing world population vorable location, are key elements in Cermaq´s fish health with challenges related to obesimanagement. In our operations, we pay great attention ty and hunger, farmed salmon may provide a solution to the growing demand for proto water quality, genetics and stress reducing practices to tein and healthy diets. Farmed salmon is a enhance fish welfare. healthy food choice and is rich in nutrients such as omega-3, proteins, vitamins and Our salmon receive the nutrients they need in each life minerals. stage through the feed. This is crucial to ensure a high quality product. We follow strict regulations and measures to ensure that our fish meet the highest safety and quali8 Cermaq’s fish welfare index (CWI) Salmon as superfood Fish quality depends on fish health and welfare. Cermaq Health authorities and nutrition advisors recommend has a holistic approach to fish welfare and recognizes the eating more seafood. Salmon contains marine omega-3 importance for our salmon to meet its needs at any givfatty acids, vitamin D, iodine, and selenium; nutrients en time, both physiological but also behavioral, in order which are rare in other types of food. In addition, to have good welfare. Based on this recognition, Cermaq salmon provides highly digestible protein. According to Norway has chosen to develop a welfare index which can NOFIMA, farmed salmon today contains over 20 times be used to classify the fish welfare status in each stage more essential fatty acids (EPA and DHA) compared to of the production. The Cermaq Welfare Index (CWI) is chicken, red meat and eggs. Farmed salmon have one based on measurable criteria of the physical environof the highest omega-3 levels of any seafood in the ment in which the salmon lives (including water quality grocery store, with between one and five grams of parameters) and scoring of the fish at an individual level omega-3 per 100 gram serving. and at a population level. Photo — Yuliya Gontar 9 Cermaq depends on healthy oceans to produce sustainable salmon, both in our operations and through our feed supply. Ocean stewardship and Thriving SDG14 is at the top of our agenda. oceans To grow our salmon, Cermaq and the salmon industry parency and sustainable practices in fisheries and aquarely on thriving oceans and healthy marine ecosystems. culture. One example of this is through our participation Ecosystem integrity and access to marine resources are in the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) necessary for us to grow our salmon and for our indusinitiative, established in 2016, together with some of the try to provide the world with healthy seafood. We work world’s largest seafood companies regarded as keystone through partnerships and with strong commitment to actors in marine ecosystems. transparent reporting to build trust, share best practice and drive progress on SDG14. In our operations and through our engagement in the Global Salmon Initiative (GSI) we work together with the Transparency Responsible sourcing is a key measure industry to find solutions to key sustainability challenges to preserve biodiversity and natural resources, and to in salmon farming, including feed and nutrition, biostrengthen resilience to climate change. Our biodiversecurity impacts and implementation of best practices sity impact is monitored and reported on our web page, through standardization. where we also map species present on the IUCN red list in areas of operation. Cermaq monitors the benthic impacts of fish farming, and ensure that we comply with or exceed all fallowing requirements and have good benthic status. Wildlife interaction and sustainability indicators are reported monthly and in some cases weekly for our ASC certified sites. This information can be found on the ASC Dashboard on our webpage. Performance If fish farming is to be sustainable, the industry must depend on sustainable feed resources. To reduce impacts on marine resources, an increasing share of the fish feed comes from agriculture (approximately SDG14 importance 70 percent). Responsible sourcing in the agricultural sector is therefore increasingly relevant for fish farming. The farming practices in the We impact fisheries through our feed supply and to mansalmon farming industry are more age risks in our feed supply chain, we have established a technologically advanced than any other fish farming practice. The salmon farming Supplier Code of Conduct specifically for feeds suppliers. sector may offer knowledge and techno­ Measures include certified sources of the feed ingredilogy transfer to other aquaculture areas to ents used and R&D on optimal fish diets. enhance and encourage a sustainable use of the ocean in the rise of the blue economy. Partnerships We work with our suppliers and the industry to eliminate any Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing from the supply chain and promote trans10 Responsible sourcing of fish feed Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship Cermaq’s Code of Conduct for feed suppliers specifies Initiated in 2016, the Seafood Business for Ocean requirements to our feed suppliers on quality, traceability Stewardship (also referred to as Keystone Dialogues) and sustainability, including social standards. Requirements is an initiative that, for the first time, connects the include that fishmeal and fish oil should only be sourced global seafood business to science, connects wild from regulated and certified fisheries, and raw materials capture fisheries to aquaculture, and connects seafood used should be accompanied by certifications (e.g. MSC). companies all over the world. The ambition is to lead No ingredients shall originate from IUU catch or vulneraa global shift towards sustainable seafood production ble or endangered species, and all soy purchased shall be and a healthy ocean, actively contributing to the UN certified by the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) or SDGs – in particular SDG14. In the first dialogue, a joint equivalent. Type of raw material, country of origin and statement was produced by eight of the world’s largest name of supplier is to be reported regularly. The Code is seafood companies, including Cermaq, committing to available on www.cermaq.com working for ocean stewardship on a set of key areas. 11 In Cermaq, we rely on motivated employees and we want to be a responsible partner for the local communities where we operate, People to earn the trust we need to grow fish in our common waters. leadership Salmon farming is often performed in remote coastal ensuring safe working conditions, respecting human areas, and our operations provide employment in local rights and indigenous peoples’ rights, and working to encommunities. Cermaq contributes to local value creation sure good labor standards in our operations and supply in many ways: we provide jobs, we purchase from local chain. One example of such dialogue is Cermaq Chile’s businesses, support community activities and events, CSR committee, established with members from Cermaq and provide education and learning opportunities in our Chile’s management team and trade unions to discuss areas of operation. key topics on a regular basis. Transparency Cermaq aims to be a responsible comCermaq is a member of the UN Global Compact and we munity partner with a long term perspective. People work to ensure adherence to the ten Principles in our opleadership involves establishing good relations with our erations and supply chain, covering the topics of Human stakeholders including employees, customers, local comRights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We munities and suppliers. Establishing and maintaining encourage our suppliers to do the same and to integrate good relationships based on dialogue, transparency and the UN Sustainable Development Goals in their stratemutual understanding is important to us. Our stakeholdgies. An example of how we work on indigenous peoples er dialogue is reported on our webpage and we provide rights, is the agreement between Cermaq Canada and the quarterly health and safety updates for all our operaAhousaht First Nation, which is based on Cermaq Canations. We conduct community meetings and reach out da’s Principles for First Nations relations. to different stakeholders including trade unions, environmental organizations and authorities, discussing our performance and activities, and responding to requests for information. Performance Important elements of our people leadership include ensuring a safe and motivating workplace. Our performance depends on the wellbeing of our peoSDG8 importance ple, and it is our goal to be an employer of choice, attracting and retaining skilled and motivated employees who Salmon farming contributes want to be part of a growing and innovative industry. to rural jobs and local value We strengthen our health and safety awareness through creation. According to the UN, fisheries and aquaculture support the livelihoods of a clear tone at the top of the importance of safety and 12 percent of the world’s population, and visible leadership. ‘Health and safety first’ is reflected the market value of marine and coastal in Cermaq’s Leadership Principles and performance is resources and industries accounts for about reported monthly to Cermaq’s management. 5 percent of global GDP (FAO 2016). 60 million people are directly employed, with 140 million employed in the value chain. Partnerships An important part of being a responsible partner is being a responsible employer. This implies 12 Community outreach and CSR committee, Cermaq Chile Principles for First Nation Relations, Cermaq Canada The Cermaq Puertas Abiertas program opens our Chilean To guide the development of respectful relationships and facilities to allow the community to learn about our salmagreements with the Indigenous peoples in whose terrion farming practices. In 2017, Cermaq received eighteen tory we operate or propose to operate, Cermaq has estabstudent visits, held fifteen open community seminars with lished a set of principles for First Nations Relations. The 10 aquaculture expert speakers, and hosted five visits from principles include a recognition of traditional territories local authorities. and respecting the diversity of cultures among First Nations, as well as a common commitment to sustainability. Cermaq Chile has also established a CSR Developing a mutually beneficial protocol agreecommittee chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and ment was the goal between the Ahousaht First Nation including Cermaq representatives from the human and Cermaq Canada. To achieve this goal, the Cermaq resources, environment, CSR, and quality fields and four Canada Principles of First Nation relations were used representatives from company unions. to guide the agreement. The principles are available on www.cermaq.com 13 Our aim is to be a responsible salmon farmer with a small environmental footprint contributing to a sustainable blue economy. Responsible production Current practices in food production do not provide uous improvement. All our certifications are approved sufficient responses to properly address natural resource and third party audited by certification bodies we work constraints or the growing demand for food, water and with including DNV GL, Deloitte and Bureau Veritas. energy. A transformation of the global food system is Examples of other standards where Cermaq can supply needed, and the ocean will contribute to a larger share of certified products include the Aboriginal Principles for our food production in the future. Farmed salmon is an Sustainable Aquaculture (APSA) certification in Canada, efficient food source, providing a high content of healthy Halal certification in Chile and Kosher certification in nutrients with a small ecological footprint compared Chile and Norway. with other animal proteins. Cermaq has a goal to achieve ASC certification on all our sites by 2020. Transparency Customers and stakeholders can be confident that Cermaq is working actively to meet Partnerships To address the challenges in our global food environmental requirements and operate in a socially system, Cermaq has become a member of the FReSH responsible manner. To lower our environmental program, initiated by EAT and the World Business Counfootprint, we work to optimize our value chain by iden­tcil on Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our goal of ifying, managing and monitoring risk. We seek to build advancing the role of sustainably produced seafood in the trust and improve our sustainability performance by adglobal food supply is a key element in this work. hering to the most advanced standards for sustainable food production and being transparent about our choices. Performance A natural premise for sustainable growth is demonstrating our efforts for responsible farming through certifications and practices beyond compliance with laws and regulations. Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification, Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) and Global G.A.P. are some of the third party SDG12 importance certifications which drive our commitment to continFarmed salmon is an efficient food source, providing a high content of healthy nutrients with a small ecological footprint compared with other animal proteins. High energy and protein retention, high edible yield and a relatively small carbon and freshwater footprint makes sustainably farmed salmon a responsible food choice. 14 Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification The UN Global Compact Action Platform for Sustainable Ocean Business Cermaq has ASC certified sites in all production regions, and was the first Company that obtained ASC certification in Chile. The standard Cermaq is a founding partner of the UNGC includes more than 150 indicators related to seven principles: Ocean platform which focuses on growth, 1. Comply with all applicable national laws and local regulations innovation and sustainability, exploring how to 2. Conserve natural habitat, biodiversity and ecosystem function best protect the health of the ocean in the rise 3. Protect the health and genetic integrity of wild populations of the Blue Economy. It aims to mobilize the 4. Use resources in an efficient and responsible manner private sector to take tangible action, make 5. Manage disease and parasites in an environmentally investments and form partnerships to leverage responsible manner the ocean as a resource to deliver on the SDGs. 6. Develop and operate farms in a socially responsible manner 7. Be a good neighbor and conscientious citizen 15 Farmed salmon is a climate friendly food source, providing a solution to the world’s food needs in the coming years. Climate action The production of food is a major part of our climate Efficient energy use is important to Cermaq and we are challenge and contributes to a significant amount of taking steps to lower emissions on our sites. Initiatives global greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from food include connecting to land based electricity from hydroproduction and impacts of climate change on agriculpower on sea water sites in Norway, implementing low ture and the food system will deeply affect the way we emission solutions on hatcheries, implementation of a produce food in the future. Currently only 2 percent of carbon and energy management program in Canada and our food consumption comes from the sea. Sustainable use of renewable energy on sites in Chile. In line with aquaculture will need to play a larger part to respond to global climate agreements, we are working to reduce our climate change and to reach the UN Sustainable Develemissions by setting a science based emission target. opment Goals. Partnerships A large part of emissions from salmon proGrowing sustainably is Cermaq’s long term strategy. This duction is in the supply chain, through the feed producinvolves adapting to climate change and increasing retion and in transportation to markets. Cermaq is working silience while, at the same time, playing a natural part in with feed suppliers to encourage climate friendly feed the low carbon future by providing climate friendly food solutions, and engage with partners in the Global Salmon to our customers. Initiative (GSI) to encourage the production of oils rich in marine omega-3 from novel sources to build resilience. Transparency We communicate our energy use and Increasing filletation instead of transporting whole fish is emissions in our annual report and conduct annual reone way to reduce transport emissions as well as encourporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), describaging low carbon solutions in our supply chain. ing our strategy and initiatives, targets, risks and opportunities. In addition, our ASC certified farms provide climate accounting at a farm level. Performance Growing sustainably means that we need to farm our fish within the environmental boundaries of the ecosystems in which we operate, build resilience to SDG13 importance climate change and anticipate developments in enviBeing at the forefront of sustainronmental conditions. Our fish is directly affected by able aquaculture, salmon farming climate risks such as rising sea water temperatures, algae has the potential to drive innovation in blooms, ocean acidification and extreme weather events. climate friendly seafood going forward. The We therefore engage heavily in research and developproduction of food accounts for a significant ment initiatives e.g. working together with partners in part of global greenhouse gas emissions. Farmed salmon has a small carbon and water the development of closed cage solutions, environmental footprint compared to other sources of monitoring, and vaccine development. protein, and can contribute to a solution to the climate challenge. 16 Carbon and Energy Management Program, Cermaq Canada Replacing diesel with hydropower, Cermaq Norway Cermaq Canada has developed a Carbon and Energy ManMany salmon farming sites are located in remote aragement Program (CEMP) for its entire operation in aligneas, depending on diesel generators for their power ment with the ISO50001 Energy Management Standard. The supply. In Cermaq Norway, a project is ongoing to main objectives are to reduce GHG emissions and energy use, implement hydropower electrification on farms with enhance social license to operate, and lower operating cost. proximity to the shore and access to power connecThe plan includes a company wide target of 5% of tion. In 2017, five farming sites were connected to emission reductions in 2018 based on a 2014 baseline, the the grid, leading to an decrease in CO2 emissions by program has identified KPIs and assigned a dedicated Energy 804 tons annually. Of the five sites, one is located in Team to drive progress on specific activities. The program Nordland, the Oksøya farm, and four are located in also uses an energy tracking tool, where energy consumpNorway’s northernmost county, Finnmark: the Ytre tion and emissions is recorded for tons of fish biomass Koven, Skinnstakkvika, Kråkevik and Slettnes farms. produced by year, facilities, group of fish, growth stage and feed consumption, to enable measurement of progress. 17 Cermaq’s The table below provides a summary of each of Cermaq’s five focus areas with material topics, their importance to each corresponding SDG and indicators material topics that we report on. Our performance is available on www.cermaq.com Healthy and Thriving People Responsible Climate nutritious oceans leadership production action food • Product quality • Biodiversity • Safety and workspace • Value chain approach • Adaptation Material • Fish health and welfare • Biosecurity • Community relations • Certifications • Emissions • Feed ingredients • Blue economy • Human rights • Beyond compliance • Innovation topic In a growing world popThe salmon farming Salmon farming contribFarmed salmon is an The production of food is Importance for SDGs and Cermaq ulation with challenges industry is more technoutes to rural jobs and local efficient food source, a major part of our climate related to obesity and logically advanced than value creation. According providing a high content challenge and contributes hunger, farmed salmon most other fish farming to the UN, fisheries and of healthy nutrients to a significant amount may provide a solution practices. Our industry aquaculture is supporting with a small ecological of global greenhouse gas to the growing demand may offer knowledge and the livelihoods of 12 perfootprint compared with emissions. Farmed salmon for protein and ensure technology transfer to cent of the world’s popother animal proteins. has a low carbon footprint healthy diets. Farmed other parts of aquacululation and contributes High energy and protein compared to other sources salmon is rich in nutriture to enhance and ento about five percent of retention, high edible of protein. Salmon as a susents such as omega-3, courage a sustainable use global GDP (FAO 2016). yield and a relatively small tainable food source offers proteins, vitamins and of the ocean in the rise of Cermaq relies on carbon and water foota solution to balancing the minerals, and is a healthy the blue economy. motivated employees and print makes sustainably global food system. food choice. As a salmon farming a good dialogue with local farmed salmon a responsiBeing at the forefront Healthy fish is a necompany, Cermaq decommunities. We seek to ble food choice. of sustainable aquaculture, cessity in all fish farming pends on healthy oceans contribute to local value Efficient use of Cermaq and the salmon operations of crucial to produce sustainable creation in many ways: by resources and responsible farming has the potential importance to Cermaq in salmon, both through our providing jobs, purchasing practices are prerequisites to drive innovation in delivering a high quality operations and through from local businesses, for sustainable growth. climate friendly seafood product. A healthy fish our feed supply. Sustainsupporting community Through advanced certifigoing forward. Cermaq given nutritious feed able farming is at the core initiatives, and providing cations, Cermaq demonand the industry engage increases the quality of of our operations. education and learning strates high standards and actively in research and the salmon. opportunities. builds trust. innovation to respond to the needs of the future. • Raw material ingredients • Feed sourcing and sup• Injuries, lost days, • Fallow time, benthic • Energy consumption Material indicators • Customer health and plier assessment absence impact • GHG emissions (Scope safety assessment • IUCN red list species • Senior management hired • Water withdrawal and 1, 2 and 3) • Fish mortality with habitats in areas of from local community recycled input materials • Energy reduction initi• Medicine use operation • Local community en• Non-compliance with atives • Animal species and • Wildlife interactions gagement programs environmental regula• Financial implications, breed type • Vaccination program • Community complaints tions other risks and oppor(Cermaq specific and GRI) • Non-compliance with • Fish escapes • Non-compliance with • Climate change risks tunities due to climate product health & safety • Sea lice counts societal regulations and opportunities change • Fines for product • Area Management • Incidents of violations • Whistle blowings non-compliance Agreements involving indigenous • Anti-corruption training peoples’s rights • Incidents of corruption • Economic value gener• ASC certification ated and distributed • Country-by-country financial and organizational data UN SDG More details can be found in our sustainability report on www.cermaq.com 18 Value chain Salmon farming follows the same life cycle that take place in the wild. Eggs are harvested from broodstock fish and are grown in fresh water to smolt size. Smolts are entered into sea water to grow to full size. Then they are carefully harvested and processed, and shipped to customers worldwide. 1 The eggs are harvested 4 Harvesting is conducted from broodstock fish, sewith a strict focus on anlected for qualities such as imal welfare and quality. strong health, fast growth The harvest process is and low early maturation. quick and it takes only hours until the fish is on its way to the customer. 2 Salmon spend the first 5 Our sales offices supply part of their life in fresh salmon to our customers water. From egg to smolt, in more than 70 countries, the fish spends about 14 365 days a year. months in a land based hatchery. After hatching, the salmon lives in freshwater tanks on land. 3 Smolts are then entered 6 The fish is transported by into sea water to grow to sea, air and land worldfull size (4-6 kg), for a pewide from our production riod of 14-20 months. The regions in Canada, Chile fish has plenty of room, and Norway. taking up 2.5 percent of the pen volume. The location and use of the sites follow strict governmental regulations and require favourable environmental conditions. 7 The final step is a healthy and nutritious meal. Cermaq provides the world with 2.5 million daily salmon meals. 19 Research and When we solve a problem or overcome an obstacle, innovation everyone benefits. We encounter many challenges and opportunities as we Our global team takes part in setting the overall research deepen our knowledge in sustainable salmon farming, agenda for the industry through participation in indusand as an industry leader it is our responsibility to take a try research funds and national research organizations. proactive approach to meet these challenges. Our research Cermaq is a partner in two Centers of Research Based focuses on fish health, farming technology, fish genetics Innovation (SFI) established by the Research Council of and nutrition/feed to ensure that our salmon is strong Norway: CtrlAqua and EXPOSED. A main objective of and healthy and our operations are at the forefront of these centers is to enhance innovation through long term sustainable salmon farming. research and close cooperation between research-intensive enterprises and prominent research groups. CtrlAqua Cermaq runs more than 50 research projects on an annufocuses on research on closed containment systems, and al basis. We have our own R&D site in Colaco (region X) in EXPOSED explores opportunities for expansion into new Chile, in Bergen and in Finnmark, Norway. The projects areas currently unavailable for fish farming. are run by dedicated R&D teams, including six researchers in Cermaq’s global R&D team who works closely with research personnel and operational experts in each of the operating companies. Some of our research We are seeking innovative ways to use new technology to • In Finnmark, Cermaq has four R&D licenses for the Arctic drive sustainability and efficient use of resources in our Salmon Research Centre for the period 2015-2020. The operations. Initiatives and research capabilities include: center does research on optimal feed for salmon farming in an Arctic environment, and is a cooperation between • The concept iFarm is a sensor based technology which Cermaq, EWOS, NOFIMA, the University of Nordland, and take an individualized approach to raising fish by using the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. automatic image processing. This technology would • Cermaq's R&D Center in Colaco has offices, laboratory give us comprehensive information about each indivi­ and net pens of semi-commercial size. The facility can be dual salmon, while lowering fish stress through reduced used for trials on fish feed, vaccines, non-pharmaceutical handling. treatments, genetics and technology assessment. 20 Cermaq's concept iFarm is a sensor based technology allowing for individualized farming. 21 Cermaq's partnerships on different levels G C Ocean Platform UN Food sector od indust e afo ry S n indus lmo tr S a y Cermaq Partners Objective Global UN Global Compact Action Cermaq was the first Patron to join this initiative in February 2018, with the goal of developing Platform for Sustainable holistic global solutions for the sustainable use of the ocean. The first business driven initiative of its Ocean Business kind in the United Nations, the initiative aims at developing roadmaps for the maritime industries in close dialogue with governments, academic institutions, NGOs and the UN. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action-platforms/ocean Food sector FReSH program The Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH) initiative is a joint program between EAT and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Launched in January 2017, the program is designed to accelerate transformational change in global food systems. www.wbcsd.org/Projects/FReSH Seafood industry Seafood Business for Established in 2016, SeaBOS represents ten of the world’s largest seafood companies with the Ocean Stewardship ambition to lead a global shift towards sustainable seafood production and a healthy ocean (SeaBOS) focusing on SDG14. www.keystonedialogues.earth Salmon industry Global Salmon Initiative Cermaq is a founding member of GSI, which was established in 2013. GSI is an industry initiative (GSI) aiming to find solutions to common sustainability challenges in the salmon industry. As of August 2018, it represents 15 companies accounting for 50% of global salmon production. The objective is to solve industry challenges on three key areas: feed and nutrition, biosecurity and standardization. www.globalsalmoninitiative.org 22 We want to make a difference – and with local and global partners, it is possible to achieve more progress on set priorities. Partnership is crucial to finding solutions to the SDGs and committed to ten principles for ocean stewardship. This inimaking progress on ocean sustainability -which is what our tiative connects the global seafood business to science, wild business depends on. capture fisheries to aquaculture, and European and North American seafood companies to Asian companies. In our partnerships, we work on five levels to strengthen sustainability performance and drive change: in our own Our third level of partnerships is the food sector through operations; in the salmon industry; through the seafood the FReSH program, led by the World Business Council for value chain; and in the wider food sector. Additionally, we Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and EAT. In FreSH, work to enhance ocean governance and sustainability at a companies in the food sector work to define how the food global level with the UN Global Compact. system can incorporate both the health and sustainability aspects of food production and consumption. Our approach to driving SDG progress in business Cermaq’s partnerships grow out of our operations, where We also engage in global partnerships to support the the closest level is the salmon industry, which collaborates sustainable use of the ocean. In 2018, Cermaq was the first on key sustainability issues in the Global Salmon Initiative company to join the UN Global Compact’s Action Platform (GSI). The GSI aims to strengthen sustainable operations for Sustainable Ocean Business, addressing key challenges in the industry by sharing good practice and knowledge, and opportunities for ocean health and productivity. The improving industry transparency, and collaborating to Platform engages UN partners, private sector partners, govenhance the ASC certification process. ernments, academia, and NGOs in an ambitious three-year program. At the same time, Cermaq remains committed The next level of engagement is the seafood value chain. to the UNGC Principles and is an active member, engaging In the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) both in building local UNGC networks and global initiatives. initiative, ten of the world’s largest seafood companies have 23 We must plant the sea and herd its animals using the sea as farmers instead of hunters. That is what civilization is all about – farming replacing hunting. — Jacques-Yves Cousteau, Oceanographer www.cermaq.com 24
