ANNUAL REPORT Lanxess At a glance LANXESS AT A GLANCE Group Structure Segments Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering Intermediates Additives Chemicals Materials Advanced Industrial Additives Inorganic Pigments High Performance Intermediates Materials Rhein Chemie Material Protection Business units Saltigo Products Urethane Systems Leather Liquid Purification Technologies ›› Agrochemicals ›› Plastics and rubber ›› Disinfection ›› Automotive ›› Automotive additives ›› Protection and ›› Construction ›› Construction ›› Phosphorus-­based ­preservation of wood, ›› Medical technology ›› Aroma and flavors ›› Electrical/electronics Applications and b ­ rominated flame ­construction ­materials, ›› Pharmaceuticals retardants coatings and foodstuffs ›› Mining ›› Tire chemicals ›› Lubricants ›› Color pigments ›› Tires and wheel ›› Semiconductors and ›› Materials for l­eather ›› Oil and gas photovoltaics ­production and water ›› Industrial and treatment ­mechanical products Market Europe no. 1–2 Top 3 position No. 1–4 in niches Leading position positions LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Global presence GLOBAL LANXESS PRESENCE AT A GLANCE GLOBAL PRESENCE 54.1% 48.8% 19.7% 22.5% 21.2% 22.7% 16.7% 13.3% 5.6% Germany 31.2% Asia-Pacific North America 16.3% 15.3% 4.9% 5.4% 2.3% EMEA w/o Germany Latin America Employees Sales Capital expenditures LANXESS Annual Report 2018 KEY DATA 2018 LANXESS Group € million Q4 2017 Q4 2018 Change % 2017 2018 Change % Sales 1,635 1,766 8.0 6,530 7,197 10.2 Gross profit 395 385 (2.5) 1,734 1,834 5.8 Gross profit margin 24.2% 21.8% 26.6% 25.5% EBITDA pre exceptionals1) 179 179 0.0 925 1,016 9.8 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1) 10.9% 10.1% 14.2% 14.1% EBITDA1) 147 166 12.9 709 935 31.9 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals1) 72 68 (5.6) 558 595 6.6 EBIT1) 40 45 12.5 299 504 68.6 EBIT margin1) 2.4% 2.5% 4.6% 7.0% Net income (loss) (49) 99 > 100 87 431 > 100 from continuing operations (49) 19 > 100 60 277 > 100 from discontinued operations 0 80 > 100 27 154 > 100 Earnings per share (€) (0.54) 1.08 > 100 0.95 4.71 > 100 from continuing operations (0.54) 0.21 > 100 0.66 3.03 > 100 from discontinued operations 0 0.87 > 100 0.29 1.68 > 100 Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets (€)2) 0.43 0.61 41.9 3.84 4.45 15.9 Dividend per share (€) 0.80 0.9010) 12.5 ROCE3) 9.3% 11.4% Cash flow from operating activities 275 185 (32.7) 568 472 (16.9) Depreciation and amortization 107 121 13.1 4107) 4317) 5.1 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 194 240 23.7 397 497 25.2 Total assets 10,4118) 8,687 (16.6) Equity (including non-controlling interests) 3,4139) 2,773 (18.8) Equity ratio4) 32.8%9) 31.9% Provisions for pensions 1,4909) 1,083 (27.3) Net financial liabilities5) 2,2529) 1,923 (14.6) Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale6) 2,2529) 1,381 (38.7) Employees (December 31) 19,0299) 15,441 (18.9) Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,291 1,328 2.9 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 1.79) 1.5 (11.8) Hire rate of apprentices in Germany 80.0%9) 84.0% Turnover resulting (from voluntary resignations) 2.3%9) 3.1% Specific energy consumption (gigajoules per metric ton of product) 7.2411) 5.05 (30.2) Specific Scope 1 CO2e emissions (CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) 0.2511) 0.27 8.0 Specific Scope 2 CO2e emissions (CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) 0.469) 0.30 (34.8) Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand metric tons) 5.011) 1.0 (80.0) 1) EBIT:  earnings before interest and taxes. 3) ROCE:  EBIT pre exceptionals in relation to capital employed (total assets less EBIT pre exceptionals: EBIT disregarding exceptional charges and income. ­deferred tax assets and interest-free liabilities). ROCE for 2017 as published EBIT margin: EBIT in relation to sales. including ARLANXEO. Capital employed as of December 31, 2018, adjusted. EBITDA: EBIT before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and See “Value Management and C ­ ontrol System” in the Combined Management ­amortization of intangible assets, less reversals of impairment charges Report for details of capital employed. on property, plant, equipment and intangible assets. 4) E  quity ratio: equity in relation to total assets. EBITDA pre exceptionals: EBITDA disregarding exceptional charges and income. 5) N  et financial liabilities: Sum of current and non-current financial liabilities EBITDA margin pre exceptionals: EBITDA pre exceptionals in relation to sales. (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash, cash equivalents See “Value Management and Control System” in the Combined Management and n ­ ear-cash assets. See “Value Management and Control System” in the Report for details. ­C ombined Management Report for details. 2) E  arnings per share from continuing operations pre exceptionals and amortization 6) S  ee “Value Management and Control System” in the Combined Management of intangible assets: earnings per share from continuing operations disregarding Report for details of the financial assets deducted. exceptional charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and attributable 7) N  et of reversals of write-downs of €1 million. tax effects as well as non-recurring earnings effects of the U.S. tax reform in 8) F igure restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement of the previous year. See “Business Performance of the LANXESS Group” in the prior-year figures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ­C ombined Management Report for details. 9) Prior-year figures as published, i.e. including ARLANXEO. 10) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2019. 11) Prior-year figures restated, including ARLANXEO. CONTENTS 02 To Our Stockholders 02 Letter from the CEO 03 Strategy 07 Corporate Responsibility 08 Good for Business, Good for Society 09 Active Stakeholder Dialog 09 Systematic Prioritization of ­Sustainability Topics 13 Good Corporate Governance 19 Employees 30 Resilient Sourcing 31 Safe and Sustainable Sites 38 Climate Action and Energy Efficiency 42 Sustainable Product Portfolio 43 Business-Driven Innovation 44 Valuing Customer Relationships 45 LANXESS on the Capital Market 48 Corporate Governance 49 Corporate Governance Report 56 Report of the Supervisory Board 59 Financial Information 60 Combined Management Report 109 Consolidated Financial Statements 184 Responsibility Statement 185 Independent Auditor’s Report 190 Further Information 191 About this Report 193 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 195 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report 197 GRI Content Index 202 Glossary 205 Sustainability Initiatives and Indices Financial Calendar/Contacts ✓ Audited disclosures of the LANXESS Group NGR that are included in the 2018 non-financial Group report. The Annual Report 2018 is published in print and in PDF format. The print version does not include the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the GRI-related information, this can be found in the PDF version on the LANXESS website under the section Investor Relations. 02 Letter from the CEO LETTER FROM THE CEO 2018 was another very successful year for LANXESS. This is Our strengthened business profile and improved financial situation reflected above all in the figures: With EBITDA of €1,016 million, are also recognized in the most recent ratings from Moody’s, we significantly exceeded the previous year’s good figure again Scope Ratings and Standard & Poor’s, each of which upgraded by 9.8%. But the figures are always just a reflection and result our rating by one notch last summer. of the many different steps and measures that we take to keep making LANXESS a little better all the time. And in this respect, For LANXESS, economic success goes hand in hand with t­ aking 2018 was a very eventful year. on social responsibility. We therefore also focus on strong environ­mental and social commitment. The success of our work We invested significantly in all segments in the past year. When in these areas is confirmed by the fact that we are included in the opportunities present themselves, we supplement or further two Dow Jones Sustainability Indices again this year. Taking on balance out our value chain by way of acquisitions. In 2018, responsibility for people and the environment is an essential part for example, we acquired Solvay’s U.S. phosphorus chemicals of our identity. In 2018, we emphasized this with our renewed business, which makes an ideal addition to our product range. commitment to the principles of the U.N. Global Compact. In another project, we are breaking completely new ground: Together with the Canadian company Standard Lithium, our LANXESS’s excellent performance in the past year is the result of U.S. site in El Dorado is currently examining the technical and unique cooperation by a strong team. The whole Board of Manageeconomic feasibility of producing lithium suitable for use in batment would like to thank each of our more than 15,000 employees teries from the brine obtained there. for their strong motivation, creativity and energy. But our thanks also go to our stockholders, customers, suppliers and partners: The most striking sign of our corporate restructuring was unWithout you, our success would not have been possible. doubtedly the fact that we completed the sale of our 50% stake in the rubber company ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco at the end We have achieved a lot since the start of our strategic realignof the reporting year. With this transaction, which brought us ment. And in the future, we want to keep strengthening the proceeds of approximately €1.4 billion, we reached the biggest things that make us successful: our value-based, responsible milestone in our strategic realignment launched in 2014 – and and reliable action, combined with clear strategic guidelines and did so considerably earlier than originally planned. The proan agile organization. We are convinced that on this basis we ceeds from the transaction strengthen our financial base and are excellently positioned to keep growing profitably and create significantly reduce our net financial liabilities. With this sale, we even more value in the future. Please give us your support with have also succeeded in further reducing our dependency on the this again in 2019. volatile tire and automotive industry and significantly improving our carbon footprint and other sustainability indicators. Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management LANXESS Annual Report 2018 STRATEGY 04 Strategy A strong foundation for the future With the sale of its remaining 50% stake in the rubber company ARLANXEO, ­L ANXESS is opening a new chapter in its history. As a much more clearly distinguished specialty chemicals company, we are initiating the next steps of our successful transformation process and thereby laying the foundations for sustainable, profitable growth. LANXESS 2021 which are developing differently on a regional basis in particular, are driving the complexity of our business. The expectations that In our target scenario, LANXESS will be a much more stable different stakeholders have of the chemicals industry vary and specialty chemicals company from 2021 onward, with ­stronger are subject to constant changes. At the same time, our industry cash flow and a more balanced and sustainable portfolio than must and will make a significant contribution to tackling the crucial in the past. We will have strengthened our regional presence challenges of our time – such as climate protection, scarcity of in North America and Asia, enabling us to participate in the drinking water, and feeding a growing global population – with its growth of these regions. With regard to our sales markets, adaptability and innovativeness. Under these conditions, the key we will have achieved a good balance between stability and to profitable growth and long-term success lies in a clear strategic growth potential. Our businesses will have attained a leading framework, a balanced positioning, an agile organization and, last position in their respective market segments. Starting from this but not least, a corporate culture based on shared values. balanced basis, we will further accelerate our profitable growth. Financial Targets for 2021 Reﬂect Improved Position A CLEAR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK We have successfully developed our core business over the EBITDA margin pre exceptionals past years and are therefore keeping to the cornerstones of our (average margin over a business cycle) 14–18% corporate strategy with complete conviction: Value-based, responsible and reliable action, combined with clear strategic guidelines, serves as our compass. Cash conversion > 60% We are continuing to build on balanced value chains, sustainable, competitive sites, and our strengths in mid-sized markets Margin volatility with generally above-average growth rates. Here, we offer our LOW customers an attractive combination of the professionalism of a global chemicals group and the agility and proximity to customers of a specialized niche provider. In the years ahead, we intend to further optimize this outstanding platform, which will also involve 2–3% pts taking advantage of the opportunities of digitalization. We will continue to pay particular attention to maintaining a balance in our portfolio. First, we must further reduce our ecoTHE POWER OF CHANGE nomic dependency on individual sectors or correlating markets by increasing our presence in attractive customer industries. Second, We are pursuing our target scenario in an environment charwe want to achieve a better regional balance within our portfolio by acterized by increasing complexity and a rapid pace of change. continuously increasing the share of sales in the growth markets Protectionist developments in major global economies, political of Asia and North America. In addition, developments such as the tensions, and volatile currencies and commodity prices on the “circular economy” will change the benchmarks for sustainable one hand, and ambitious global climate protection targets and products, which will likewise result in potential to further develop the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals on the other, our portfolio. form the environment of conflicting priorities in which business We are aware that the path to success depends not only strategies have to prove themselves now and in the future. Trade on a clear strategy, but also on the right attitude and corporate sanctions and protective tariffs are also affecting the highly gloculture. For this reason, we once again took extensive meabalized chemicals industry. Increasing regulatory requirements, sures in the reporting year to demonstrate a team-oriented and LANXESS Annual Report 2018 A strong foundation for the future 05 performance-driven culture throughout the Group. Each and every In line with our strategic guidelines, we can and want to employee at LANXESS is called upon to think entrepreneurially, ­ evelop into an even stronger company that is sustainable in d act in a solution-oriented way, and keep committing to their work every respect. We are convinced that in this way we will be able every day. LANXESS aims to be a company where a wide variety to create even more value – for our shareholders, our customers, of talented individuals work together in a safe, productive, and our employees, and for society. inspiring environment. Our Strategic Guidelines Raw materials Sites Costs Value chains Sales markets Growth & balance Our value chains We manufacture Our costs are We strengthen We focus on We are leveraging originate from sustainable products competitive across eﬃcient and specialty chemicals long-term growth globally liquid raw at competitive and the value chain. integrated value markets with higher potential in Asia material markets. sustainable networked chains. proﬁtability. and the U.S. and sites. balancing our regional sales split. OUR TRANSFORMATION IS We develop our businesses PROGRESSING RAPIDLY Part of the cash inflows from the ARLANXEO sale will be invested in our organic growth. In order to further improve the We carry out active portfolio management positioning of our existing business areas and take advantage At the end of the reporting year, we completed the sale of our of future growth potential, we have identified a wide range of 50% stake in ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco. Originally, a lockup investment opportunities that together unfold considerable potenperiod until 2021 had been agreed for both partners. With this tial – the planned projects are expected to generate an average transaction, which was completed as of December 31, 2018, the return on capital employed (ROCE) of 20%. One focus area biggest milestone in our strategic realignment launched in 2014 is the optimization and expansion of facilities at several sites has been reached earlier than originally planned. We received around the world in order to make them more competitive and roughly €1.4 billion in cash from Saudi Aramco for our stake. In taktherefore more sustainable. A second focus area is our regional ing this step, we have not only further reduced our dependency on growth strategies. We have adjusted our regional organization the volatile tire and automotive industry, but have also significantly and adopted investment budgets with a five-year horizon for the improved our carbon footprint and other sustainability indicators. North America and Asia-Pacific regions. In the previous year, we had already significantly expanded The main efficiency-enhancing measures in the past fiscal year our portfolio of specialty additives and strengthened our regional include the previously announced closure of the former Chemtura presence in North America with the acquisition of Chemtura. We site at Ankerweg in Amsterdam, Netherlands, in November 2018 will systematically continue on this path: Our focus is on targeted and the decision to discontinue production at the Rio Claro site in portfolio measures that enable us to supplement or balance out Brazil. We sold the production site in Reynosa, Mexico, in the second our value chain. In February 2018, we successfully purchased the half of 2018. Of the total planned cost synergies of €100 million U.S. phosphorus chemicals business from the Belgian chemicals from the integration of Chemtura, another approximately €40 million group Solvay, including its production site in Charleston where were generated in fiscal year 2018. We now expect the remaining around 90 employees manufacture intermediates and additives €30 million to be generated by the end of 2020. for flame retardants and other products. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 06 Strategy Transformation in Three Stages 2014 2016 2017 2021 ACCELERATE Improve strengths Competitiveness IMPROVE Drive growth 1 REPAIR Realignment Resilience We tap new potential WE THINK AHEAD Together with the Canadian company Standard Lithium, our U.S. site in El Dorado is currently examining the technical LANXESS aims to be a enduringly successful chemicals comand economic feasibility of extracting lithium suitable for use in pany. The basic requirement for this is to think about and practice batteries from brine. Standard Lithium has developed an innosustainability in an integrated way in all of its dimensions and in a vative method for the extraction of high-purity lithium directly societal context. The challenge of very deliberately considering from brine. The company will use the existing infrastructure on the effects of all decisions – including the non-financial dimension our plant premises to construct and operate a pilot facility for – and finding the right balance between “today” and “tomorrow” this purpose. motivates us and is reflected in a large number of specific targets. The development of the biotech startup IMD Natural SoluThese relate to topics such as climate protection, constant further tions, which we acquired in the previous year, has already prodevelopment of our processes, continuous investments to keep gressed to an advanced stage. The company focuses on research our sites competitive and sustainable, and regular analysis of our and development of natural substances with an antimicrobial product portfolio – from raw material production through to waste effect for the food and beverage industry. Its core product is a management. Motivated, high-performing teams, good customer glycolipid compound extracted from mushrooms that is effective relationships, and market-oriented innovation management repagainst bacteria, fungi, and yeasts. We expect this to give us the resent the stable foundation for our actions. opportunity to offer our customers an addition to our material Our path is confirmed not only by our continued inclusion in protection and disinfectant portfolio that is based on natural the two Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI World and DJSI substances. Europe and our “A–” ranking in the Carbon Disclosure Project, but also by the significant progress made in relation to our own Our business is financially sound sustainability goals. Detailed information on these goals and the The improved positioning is also to be reflected in LANXESS’s organizational structures, management tools, and measures that financial figures. Starting from fiscal year 2021, we are aiming for we use to address sustainability at LANXESS can be found in the an average operating earnings margin – measured in terms of following section of this Annual Report. EBITDA pre exceptionals – over the course of a business cycle of between 14% and 18%. At the same time, the margin in any year should move around the average level by no more than two to three percentage points. A sound investment-grade rating will continue to constitute a strict goal of our conservative financial policy. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 08 Corporate Responsibility Good for business, good for society Sustainability and responsibility are success factors for our business activities. Continuously evolving organizational structures and management tools enable us to take account of general social outcomes when making decisions and to make the best possible use of human, natural, and financial resources in the interests of sustainable development of our Group. Thinking and acting sustainably and in an integrated manner We therefore pressed ahead with the development of corre­ supports our business goals in a variety of different ways – from sponding processes and tools intensively again in the reporting higher resource efficiency to good relationships with our stake­ year. For example, we performed a systematic analysis for the first holders, increased risk awareness, and permanently advantageous time to determine in which areas and to what extent our priorities cost structures. We now view sustainability in a broader context for sustainable development – formulated in the material topics than we used to just a few years ago. In addition to the outputs (see page 10) – support or conflict with the SDGs. The ­analysis of our business activities, we also take account of our impacts, showed that our activities are particularly closely ­correlated i.e. the general social effects of our actions. Our explicit goal is to with SDGs 12 (Responsible Production and Consumption) and continuously improve our understanding of these impacts – both 13 (­Climate Action). Detailed information can be found in the positive and negative – and create added value for our company ­Corporate Responsibility/Sustainable Development Goals section and for society. In particular, we aim to achieve further significant of the LANXESS website. In another major project, we estab­ progress in our material sustainability topics in line with the U.N. lished the methodological basis for an extensive risk analysis of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and thereby support our s­ uppliers from a sustainability perspective that we will perform the “2030 Agenda.” Our products and solutions therefore make in the coming year (see page 31). relevant contributions to tackling challenges such as more environ­ What all our initiatives have in common is that they originate in mentally friendly mobility, access to clean water, and feeding a an active dialog involving both internal and external stakeholders. constantly growing global population. At the same time, we are We are firmly convinced that a dialog-oriented approach encour­ working to continuously improve our resource efficiency and avoid ages integrated thinking, improves the quality of our business or at least minimize emissions in the air, soil, and water. decisions, and thus makes a significant contribution to fulfilling our guiding principle “Good for business, good for society.” ✓ Audited disclosures of the LANXESS Group NGR that are included in the 2018 non-financial Group report. ✓ In the corporate responsibility section of this Annual Report, we fulfill our obligation to issue a non-financial Group report. The non-financial disclosures required in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB and shown separately in the layout were prepared by the Board of NGR Management and reviewed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG. The non-financial report and the associated data collection processes have undergone a review with limited assurance in line with the auditing standard ISAE 3000 (revised) by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on behalf of the Supervisory Board. The audit report can be found on page 193 of this report. The reporting year is 2018. The report covers the Group companies that are also included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless indicated otherwise, the disclosures apply to continuing operations. References to disclosures not included in the Combined Management Report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG or in the consolidated/single-entity financial statements of LANXESS AG represent further information and do not form part of the non-financial Group report. Within the non-financial report, we generally use the international standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the framework for the materiality analysis and reporting on management approaches and on general and topic-specific disclosures. Information on our business model can be found in the Combined Management Report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG on page 60 of this Annual Report. Information on environmental protection provisions can be found in Note [15] to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal year 2018. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Active Stakeholder Dialog 09 Systematic Prioritization of Sustainability Topics ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER DIALOG SYSTEMATIC PRIORITIZATION OF ✓ ­SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS NGR Relevant stakeholders for LANXESS are groups, institutions, or individuals with whom we maintain a direct or indirect relaIdentifying the main effects of our actions and incorporating tionship through our business activities and who therefore have our stakeholders’ concerns into our strategy forms the basis of an interest in our actions. Our main stakeholder groups are cusour sustainability management. Our materiality analysis in line tomers, capital market representatives, suppliers, the media, and with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is representatives from politics, public authorities, and non-governa key tool for systematically prioritizing the wide range of action ment organizations (NGOs). We engage in intensive dialog with areas and using resources as effectively as possible. The results all of these groups. Firstly, to promote mutual understanding and also influence the structure of our external reporting on the topic build trust with an open and constructive exchange of views. And of corporate responsibility. ­secondly, to continuously identify topics that are important in view We performed our last materiality analysis in fiscal year 2017. of our environment and our corporate responsibility. This was based on the four principles of sustainability context, One particular highlight of our dialog activities was the ­materiality, completeness, and inclusion of stakeholders. As a result, round-table discussion on the Sustainable Development Goals that we defined seven material sustainability topics that were confirmed we organized in December 2018. The focus was on the analysis by the Board of Management and the Corporate ­Responsibility we performed in the reporting year to determine in which areas Committee and also formed the relevant management framework in and to what extent our priorities for sustainable development fiscal year 2018. The topic of good corporate governance forms the support the SDGs. We discussed both the evaluation methods basis for all of our business activities. A detailed description of our themselves and the results obtained with them with expert external process for determining material topics can be found in the Corporate stakeholders. The dialog also served as an opportunity to outline Responsibility/Material Topics section of the LANXESS website. possible development paths for the chemicals industry together In addition to our materiality analysis, we came up with a – particularly with regard to SDG 12. definition of materiality for the non-financial Group report – the conAn overview of the main topics and dialog forums for each reletents of which are integrated into this section of the Annual R ­ eport vant stakeholder group and other specific activities in the reporting – in accordance with Section 289c, Paragraph 3, ­Sentence 1 of year is provided in the Corporate Responsibility/­Stakeholder Dialog the German Commercial Code (HGB). The relevant disclosures section of the LANXESS website. in this context are those that are necessary in order to understand the business performance, the business results, the position of the Group, and the effects of our activities on non-financial aspects. For us, this means environmental issues, employee issues, human rights, and anti-corruption. We identified social issues as not ­being material for the purposes of understanding Group’s business performance, business results, and position. As part of our management of opportunities and risks, we have implemented a wide range of risk-mitigating measures. With regard to the non-financial aspects of the CSR Directive Implementation Act defined as relevant for the non-financial Group report, as well as the aspect of social issues, a net risk analysis shows no material risks in connection with our own business activities or with business relationships, products, and services that are very likely to have serious negative effects. Detailed information on our opportunity and risk management system can be found in the Combined Management Report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, starting on page 98 of this Annual Report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 10 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Material Topics NGR orporate Governan od C ce Go Valuing Resilient Customer Sourcing Relations Safe and Business-Driven Sustainable Innovation Material Sites Topics Sustainable Climate Product Action and Energy Portfolio Eﬃciency Energized Employees and Performing Teams We have formulated specific goals for all key topics. These are extent to which certain targets are achieved. In an i­nternal working based on the goal of using our operating activities to achieve an ingroup, sustainability experts critically examined the ­existing goals crease in value for our company, our stakeholders, and ­society. Some and indicators, fleshed these out where necessary, and also defined of the variable compensation of the first and second management a number of new goals in the reporting year. level below the Board of Management therefore depends on the LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2018 Page Resilient Sourcing Our value chains start from a diverse, sustainable raw material portfolio. We engage with our suppliers and relevant stakeholders to improve the working and environmental conditions in the global supply chains. Sustainability Establishment of a systematic Share of suppliers 2019 The methodology behind the analysis was 31 standards in ­sustainability risk analysis to evaluated developed and agreed upon in the reporting procurement evaluate all suppliers year and will be implemented in 2019. Identification and reduction of Sustainability risk score Ongoing 31 sustainability risks in the supply from 2020 chain LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Systematic Prioritization of ­S ustainability Topics 11 LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals ✓ NGR Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2018 Page Safe and Sustainable Sites We manufacture sustainable products at competitive and sustainable chemical sites. Continuous process improvements and investments are ­f undamental for our sustained success. We care about the community. Uniform standards and Integration of all sites (except Degree of coverage in Ongoing until As of December 31, 2018, our ­matrix 14 processes worldwide Rustenburg) into the global matrix relation to sites the end of ­certificate covered 50 certifiable ­companies certificate (ISO 9001 and ISO 2025 with 92 sites in 23 countries. A total of 23 of 14001) these sites belong to ­ARLANXEO. In relation to the number of employees, this equates to 83% coverage of our matrix certificate. Due to the acquisition of Chemtura, we still have some site certificates and a region certificate; these will also be transferred to our matrix certificate. As of the reporting date, a total of 96% of our sites had ISO 14001 certification. Global process safety Continuous reduction in incidents Number of reportable inOngoing No incidents at LANXESS relating to facility 32 relating to facility and process cidents relating to facility and process safety (ARLANXEO: 1 facility safety and process safety safety incident). Continuous reduction in environNumber of reportable Ongoing 15 environmental incidents at ­L ANXESS, 32 mental incidents environmental incidents of which 11 occurred at acquired C­ hemtura sites (ARLANXEO: 0 environmental incidents). Continuous reduction in Number of reportable Ongoing 3 transportation incidents at LANXESS 32 ­t ransportation incidents transportation incidents (ARLANXEO: 1 transportation incident). Climate Action and Energy Efficiency Climate action based on efficient energy use is the right thing to do for society and also a key to delivering financial performance in the long-term. Emissions1) 25% decrease in CO2e Scope 1 Specific CO2e Scope 1 End of 2025 The specific Scope 1 emissions in 39 emissions in relation to volume emissions continuing operations have increased by sold 8% compared with the base year 2015. Adjusted for ARLANXEO, emissions have decreased by 4% compared with 2015. 25% decrease in CO2e Scope 2 Specific CO2e Scope 2 End of 2025 The specific Scope 2 emissions in continuing 39 emissions in relation to volume emissions operations have decreased by 34.8% sold ­compared with the base year 2015. Adjusted for ARLANXEO, emissions are at the same level as in 2015. 25% decrease in emissions of Emissions of non-­ End of 2025 The absolute VOC emissions in continuing 40 non-methane volatile organic methane volatile organic operations have decreased by 81.5% compounds (NMVOC) compounds (NMVOC) ­compared with the base year 2015. Adjusted for ARLANXEO, emissions have decreased by 9.3% compared with 2015. Energy efficiency1) 25% increase in energy efficiency Specific energy End of 2025 The specific energy consumption in 40 in relation to volume sold ­consumption continuing operations have decreased by 32.1% compared with the base year 2015. Adjusted for ARLANXEO, emissions have decreased by 1.2% compared with 2015. 1) Basis: December 31, 2015 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 12 Corporate Responsibility ✓ LANXESS Corporate Responsibility Goals NGR Topic Goal Indicator Deadline Status Quo 2018 Page Energized Employees and Performing Teams We create a motivating, energetic and health-preserving working environment for all employees, striving for high engagement and impact. We nurture and promote a value-based, performance-orientated culture. We aim to be an attractive employer and to develop peoples’ full potential throughout their professional life. Employee retention High employee retention: Turnover rate on the basis Ongoing until The turnover rate on the basis of resig-­ 23 Voluntary turnover rate of resignations the end of nations was 3.1% in continuing operations. below 3.5% 2023 Adjusted for ARLANXEO, the rate was 3.3%. Employee development At least 80% of apprentices hired Proportion of apprentices Ongoing until 84% (previous year: 80%) of apprentices 21 after completing their training hired in Germany the end of were hired. 2023 Occupational safety Continuous decrease in the Lost time injury frequency End of 2025 The LTIFR was 1.5 in continuing operations. 29 frequency rate per million hours rate (LTIFR) Adjusted for ARLANXEO, the LTIFR was 1.4. worked by > 50 % (reference frequency rate of 2.0 in 2016) Diversity Increase proportion of women in Proportion of women End of 2020 Proportion of women: 19.2% 25 middle and upper management in middle and upper (previous year: 18.3%) to 20% management At least one female Board of Proportion of women on Mid-2022 Not yet achieved 25 Management member the Board of Management Proportion of women in the Proportion of women in Mid-2022 The proportion of women was 13.8% 25 first level below the Board of the first level below the in continuing operations. Adjusted for Management to 15%. Board of Management ­A RLANXEO, the proportion was 11.8%. Increase the proportion of women Increase the proportion Mid-2022 The proportion of women was 19.2% 25 in the second level below the of women in the second in continuing operations. Adjusted for Board of Management to 25% level below the Board of ­A RLANXEO, the proportion was 18.5%. Management Sustainable Product Portfolio Our products are manufactured and marketed so that they do not pose a risk to human or the environment. We systematically evaluate the sustainability of our entire portfolio. Sustainability criteria are applied in the development of products and applications. Analysis of the product 100% of the portfolio analyzed Share of sales of the prodOngoing The entire product portfolio was systemati43 portfolio from a sustainfrom a sustainability perspective ucts analyzed in relation cally analyzed in terms of sustainability. ability perspective to the total portfolio Business-Driven Innovation We drive process, product, application and business model oriented innovation for and together with our customers and suppliers. We help our ­customers to make their business sustainable. Long-term, continuous Developing innovative products Number of product-­ Ongoing until 159 projects in continuing operations were 43 et seq., development of prodbased on the needs and expectarelated projects 2025 aimed at developing new/improving ­existing 66 ucts, applications, and tions of our customers products and applications. processes Continuous further development Number of process-­ Ongoing until 80 projects in continuing operations 43 et seq., of our production processes in related projects 2025 ­concerned process technology issues with a 66 order to maintain competitiveness view to reducing costs, improving efficiency and achieve our climate and or increasing capacity. energy efficiency targets Valuing Customer Relations We value long-term customer relations, build on trust and knowing, understanding and solving the customers challenges. Long-term customer Improvement in customer satisfacCustomer loyalty index 2019 In the 2017/2018 survey, the customer 44 relationship tion and maintenance of customer score loyalty index score in continuing operations loyalty: customer loyalty index > 75 was 75.1. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Systematic Prioritization of ­S ustainability Topics 13 Good Corporate Governance ✓ GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Risk Committee ✓ NGR The Corporate Risk Committee examines and monitors the NGR Only appropriate values, operational guidelines and organiza­ Group’s risk profile and in this context also regularly analyzes the tional structures – summed up as good corporate governance – key opportunities, risks, and corresponding preventive measures enable our employees to act responsibly in their day-to-day work in relation to sustainability. Our opportunity and risk management and thus turn a relatively abstract concept into a specific corposystem is described in detail in the Combined Management Report rate success factor. At LANXESS, good corporate governance starting on page 98 of this Annual Report. is embodied by a values-based and safety-conscious corporate culture, effective management systems and a commitment to Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee internationally recognized principles of responsible management, The members of this committee represent all LANXESS such as the principles of the U.N. Global Compact. ­business units and ensure that all LANXESS’s CR activities w ­ ithin the Group are in line with our strategy. As an interdisciplinary Committees and functions competence center, the committee advises both the Board of To ensure that our values as well as our rules and standards Management and the business units on all matters relating to are observed and continuously developed, we have established sustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and maintaining several specialized committees below the level of the Board of reliable data that comply with current market standards for use Management and the Supervisory Board. in our external CR communications. Compliance organization HSEQ Committee The global compliance organization is the central point of The HSEQ Committee ensures worldwide compliance with contact for all employees on compliance-related issues. It also uniformly high quality management, safety, environmental, energy works with the organizational units to develop measures intended and climate protection standards. It has responsibility for initiating to counter illegal or unethical conduct by LANXESS employees and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ at an early stage and to prevent improprieties. Our compliance guidelines, strategies and programs as well as for defining our management system is described in the opportunity and risk HSEQ objectives and monitoring their achievement. It also defines report on page 99 of this Annual Report. the ­global strategy for our integrated quality and environmental ­management system and our energy management system. Responsibilities at Board Level Supervisory Board report to Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Rainier van Roessel Hubert Fink CEO CFO Board member Board member Compliance Organization Corporate Risk Committee CR1) Committee HSEQ2) Committee Group Compliance Oﬃcers and Senior executives Representatives from business Senior executives local Compliance Oﬃcers units and Group functions › Administering the CMS3) › Reviewing and monitoring › Interdisciplinary competence › Deﬁning the global › Supporting the organization overall risk proﬁle center, advising the Board HSEQ2) guidelines, strategies regarding compliance › Analyzing material risks and of Management on matters and programs › Developing preventive opportunities incl. sustainarelating to sustainability › Setting and monitoring the activities bility topics HSEQ2) goals Continuous development of the sustainability strategy as part of the corporate strategy 1) Corporate Responsibility 2) Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 3) Compliance Management System LANXESS Annual Report 2018 14 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Integrated management system As of December 31, 2018, our matrix certificate covered ✓ NGR A centrally organized management system at LANXESS 50 certifiable companies (companies with staff and in which NGR provides for the necessary global management structures in all LANXESS has a stake of over 50%, as well as ARLANXEO business processes in order to ensure responsible business activ­companies) with a total of 92 sites in 23 countries. A total of 23 ities. Globally, we base our actions on the international standards of these sites belong to ARLANXEO. Not including Chemtura, this ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 for quality and environmental manageequates to 98% coverage in relation to the number of ­employees ment and ISO 50001 for energy management. (not including ARLANXEO: 97%). Taking account of the changes Confirmation of compliance with the standards ISO 9001 and in the Group portfolio, the level of coverage has fallen to 83%. We ISO 14001 is provided in a global matrix certificate. This brings are planning to gradually integrate the new sites into the matrix a whole range of benefits: certificate. In addition, we have gradually had LANXESS AG and all ›› a high degree of standardization of processes Group companies certified in accordance with ISO 50001 for ›› uniform in-house guidelines and instructions energy management in Germany and Belgium. As of Decem›› transparent, efficient, and effective processes and controls ber 31, 2018, the energy management system had reached ›› considerably reduced external expense for the maintenance 100% coverage in these two countries in relation to the number of and optimization of the management system, for the inte­employees. The acquired former Chemtura site in Bergkamen has gration of additional management systems (e.g. ISO 50001, its own certificate and will be integrated into the matrix certificate sustainability standards), and for the integration of new sites in 2019. IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH also has its own certificate. or business units. Our subsidiary LANXESS N.V. in Antwerp, Belgium, was certified and integrated into the matrix certificate in the reporting year. In We ensure that progress in integrating new sites into our Great Britain, energy audits in accordance with ESOS (Energy management system and its performance are regularly reviewed Savings Opportunity Scheme) are required for all sites. After the worldwide by independent external experts. In 2018, we success­ audit requirement was determined in 2018, these audits must be fully passed the certification audit in accordance with the updated conducted by the end of 2019. standards ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015 and the surveillance In addition, LANXESS has other specific management audit in accordance with ISO 50001. No new sites were inte­grated ­s ystems and certifications such as EMAS, RC14001 (RC = into the matrix certificate in the reporting year. The Memphis ­Responsible Care®), OHSAS 18001, and KTA 1401. The status and Sudbury sites acquired in 2016 and our production site in of our certifications can be viewed at any time in the Corporate Joo Koon, Singapore, were integrated into the LANXESS manage­ Responsibility section of the LANXESS website. ment system in 2018 and this process will be completed when they are added to our matrix certificate in 2019. With just a few exceptions, the sites taken on with the acquisition of Chemtura have already been certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and most of them have also been certified in accordance with ISO 14001. These sites will initially continue their certifications independently. As a chrome ore mine, our site in Rustenburg, South Africa, cannot be allocated to LANXESS’s other industry-typical business areas in the matrix certificate. We are therefore aiming for separate certification in accordance with ISO 9001 and 14001 for this site. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Good Corporate Governance 15 ✓ Guidelines for action The term Responsible Care ® stands for the chemical ✓ NGR ­industry’s goal of achieving progress with safety and environmental NGR Commitment to international standards protection, regardless of the legal specifications. We have docu­ and frameworks mented our commitment to the visions and ethical concerns of this With the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,” the initiative from the International Council of Chemical Associations United Nations has established the basis for global economic (ICCA) by signing the Responsible Care® Global Charter. With our progress in harmony with social justice and within the earth’s internal guidelines, we integrate the principles of the Charter into ecological limits. The specific goals of the Agenda are set out our guiding principles and corporate strategy. in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We, too, want Among the internationally recognized principles of business to achieve significant progress in our key issues in line with the activity to which we are committed are the employment standards SDGs (see page 10). of the International Labor Organization, an agency of the United The U.N. Global Compact is the world’s biggest and most Nations. These are aimed at upholding globally recognized social important initiative for responsible corporate governance. Based standards and thereby improving working and living conditions on ten universal principles, it pursues the vision of an inclusive and for all people. sustainable global economy for the benefit of all people, commu­ nities, and markets. As a signatory, we recognize these principles as inalienable rights. We renewed our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact again for 2018. The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Area Human rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption 1 Businesses should support 3 Businesses should uphold 7 Businesses should support 10 Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association a precautionary approach against corruption in all its of internationally proclaimed and the eﬀective recognito environmental challenges. forms, including extortion human rights. tion of the right to collective and bribery. 8 Businesses should underbargaining. 2 Businesses should make take initiatives to promote sure they are not complicit 4 Businesses should uphold greater environmental in human rights abuses. the elimination of all forms responsibility. Principle of forced and compulsory 9 Businesses should encourlabor. age the development and 5 Businesses should uphold diﬀusion of environmentally the eﬀective abolition of friendly technologies. child labor. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 16 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Internal guidelines and regulations ✓ NGR NGR Clear Rules Provide Guidance CorPrinciples of responsible business operations porate and sustainable development Policy Code of conduct applicable throughout the Compliance Code Group requiring compliance with valid laws and international principles Detailed Group-wide regulations Group directives concerning speciﬁc areas of compliance Regulations deﬁned at Standard operating procedures, process instructions operational level The principles of responsible business operations and sus­ We also expect our suppliers to commit to our values and tainable development are expressed in our Corporate Policy, rules, especially the U.N. Global Compact, the ILO Labor Stanwhich defines our general corporate philosophy and the conduct dards and the upholding and promotion of fundamental rights of ­ex­pected of every single employee in relation to our stakeholders ­employees, and to establish adequate systems for ensuring legally in a total of eleven guidelines. compliant and responsible behavior. The LANXESS Supplier Code The LANXESS Code of Conduct, which is applicable of ­Conduct is part of our communication with suppliers. When we throughout the Group, requires all our employees – across all select new suppliers, it is essential for us that they acknowledge ­organizational units, regions and hier­archy levels – to behave the principles contained in this code or have established their lawfully and with integrity. Through correct and proper conduct, own comparable regulations and management systems in line each employee is required to contribute to preventing harm to with the U.N. Global Compact. In addition, we promote responsible LANXESS and increasing the company’s value over the long term. action in the supply chain with our involvement in the Together The code covers issues such as human rights, anticompetitive for Sustainability initiative, which we operate jointly with 21 other behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupa­tional, product international chemical companies (see page 31). and plant safety, and environmental protection. Other Group directives, such as the HSE directives and the guideline on incentives, define the specific application of ­regulations in the individual areas of compliance covered by the code and are binding on all employees throughout the Group. On the basis of these LANXESS directives, more detailed regulations that also take account of local requirements are defined at the operational level in standard operating procedures and process instructions, etc. The applicable directives, standard ­operating ­procedures and guidelines are accessible to all ­employees. ­Employees are also regularly informed of new and updated ­regulations relevant to them. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Good Corporate Governance 17 ✓ Values and culture Our Code of Conduct includes unambiguous instructions ✓ NGR LANXESS’s identity is based on five central values: respect, regarding the respect of human rights. The code, which every NGR ownership, trust, professionalism and integrity. These values apply new employee receives with their employment contract, is also an always and everywhere – and to all employees. We seek to foster aspect of general training measures. In addition, we hold training a corporate culture in which responsible and morally irreproachsessions geared towards specific selected human rights issues able actions and striving for performance do not contradict but such as occupational safety. If there are suspected human rights complement each other. violations, the Integrity Line and Compliance Helpdesk offer our employees and external third parties various ways to notify the Human rights compliance organization – also anonymously if they wish. For the In line with our values and operational guidelines, we are comtime being, the Resource Line is also still available to the former mitted in all our markets and supply chains to promoting respect for Chemtura companies. human rights at all times and systematically preventing child and We have no reports or knowledge of any systematic discrimiforced labor, for example. At LANXESS, human rights and ethical nation against LANXESS employees. This includes discrimination principles apply without restriction, even if they are not stipulated on the basis of race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, in the legislation of individual countries. Our target is formulated origin, religion, disability, trade union membership or political with corresponding clarity: in all areas over which LANXESS has opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect control, there should be no breaches of human rights. We have of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will not tolerate included all relevant information on our commitment and on the verified misconduct and it will result in appropriate disciplinary measures established in the Group to protect human rights in the measures up to and including dismissal. “LANXESS Position on Human Rights.” This document can be All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are viewed at any time in the Corporate Responsibility/Good Corporate subject to a careful due diligence process to ensure that human Governance section of the LANXESS website. rights are also respected by the target company. Significant Direct responsibility for ensuring that human rights are ­suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of s­ upplier ­respected at all times lies with the respective management at assessments in the context of TfS audits that include aspects such our sites, supported by our global compliance organization and as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. The audits also local Compliance Officers. At Group level, human rights are ­subject cover compliance with human rights, including with regard to child to regular evaluation as part of our risk management system. labor and forced labor. In fiscal 2018, we received no reports or Since 2016 we have performed a risk a­ ssessment that specifically other indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. The ­addressed human rights at a total of seven national companies same applies to child labor and forced labor. (Brazil, China, Germany, India, Mexico, South Africa, and the U.S.). We have also established the necessary sales-related The assessments confirm that there is a high level of awareness ­processes to fulfill our responsibilities. This particularly includes of the subject and that functioning mechanisms have been esour processes for central product monitoring and for trade comtablished to prevent violations of human rights. Furthermore, all pliance, especially with regard to regulations for preventing dual organizational units at LANXESS and their business activities use. We also systematically evaluate the impact of our products are subject to regular internal and external audits. It goes without on people as part of our portfolio analysis. saying that these activities also include monitoring respect for human rights and – if necessary – the introduction of suitable measures to guarantee this. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 18 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ Anti-corruption All donations require approval from a member of the Board NGR By signing the U.N. Global Compact, we have undertaken of Management after prior consultation with the compliance NGR to actively counter all forms of corruption. Here too, our target organization. is no incidents. Prevention of corruption is part of our general To enhance our employees’ awareness of these rules of compliance management system. Organizational measures and ­conduct, the issue of corruption is regularly covered by compliance regulations for setting up the compliance management system as training. In addition, we hold specific corruption training aimed at well as responsibilities for implementation, support and continuous exposed professional groups and countries. In total, over 3,000 monitoring of the system are defined in a guideline applicable employees took part in the compliance training sessions in the throughout the Group. The respective site management, supported reporting year. If there are indications of compliance violations, here too by our global compliance organization and local country our employees and external third parties can contact the complicompliance officers, is responsible for preventing instances of ance organization via the established reporting channels – also corruption at all times. anonymously if they wish. A Group-wide directive provides our employees with clear The Corporate Audit function examines and monitors impleguidance regarding incentives. Our employees are prohibited, mentation of our measures to prevent corruption. It applies various either directly or in connection with their professional duties, analytical approaches and scopes here: from offering personal advantages to the employees of other ­companies – in particular when initiating, awarding or handling an ›› Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption as part of order or assignment. Our employees are likewise prohibited from annual audit planning, and general monitoring of the internal accepting such advantages or requesting them for themselves. control system: all business units Exceptions may be made for customary occasional or promotional ›› Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company gifts that are symbolic in nature and of low value. If an employee regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption is offered such gifts, they must immediately notify their supervisor in the standard SAP system: at least 90% of all transactions or the compliance organization. LANXESS may not grant advantages of any kind to public In fiscal year 2018, we received no reports or other indications servants or other officials in Germany or abroad. When comof cases of active corruption by LANXESS employees. Verified missioning service providers who have contact with officials on cases of LANXESS employees being bribed lead to appropriate behalf of LANXESS, employees must likewise ensure compliance disciplinary actions up to and including dismissal as well as conwith the prohibition on corruption. As a basic principle, we do sideration of further legal steps. In fiscal year 2018, we recorded not provide financial support to political groupings or parties. a single-digit number of such cases, but these did not have any LANXESS is involved in large industrial associations, which we further significant effects for LANXESS. regard as ­fundamental to representing our interests. We disclose ­contri­butions and spending on political activities ­transparently; details can be found on the LANXESS Website, Corporate ­Responsibility/Stakeholder Dialog at any time. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Good Corporate Governance 19 Employees EMPLOYEES ›› Enabling growth With increasingly long-term and strategic workforce planning We firmly believe that energized employees and performing as well as a globally managed recruiting strategy, we are teams are crucial to a company’s long-term success. To put this supporting the sustainable growth of our business in line with belief into practice, we launched an extensive HR transformation our corporate strategy. project in 2017 and stepped it up successfully in the ­reporting ›› Developing people year. Taking our corporate strategy, global HR trends and the We pursue continuous talent management and a com­requirements of our business units and Group functions into prehensive training and learning concept with the aim of ­account, we developed a new HR strategy, our “People Strategy,” promoting cross-functional and cross-divisional career and then worked intensively on the strategic realignment of the HR development, ­developing young talent from within our department. This is aimed at strengthening our regions as well as own ranks and strengthening expertise for the LANXESS our specialists and encouraging effective global collaboration. In ­organization of the future. addition, we successfully started to develop modern HR products ›› Enhancing and strengthening the HR function and solutions for current and future needs of internal stakeholders. We promote efficient and standardized HR processes, These chiefly include streamlined, harmonized and digital processes act as a global team with transparent structures and e ­ stablish and systems that improve the efficiency and quality of our HR work. ­modern, digital HR systems and tools. We operate as a Our new HR strategy is striving to energize people and to ­strategic partner for the businesses. facilitate business growth. It is based on four pillars and eight ›› Intensifying dialog strategic action fields that clearly guide our HR work: We strengthen exchange within and outside the HR department in order to create greater transparency regarding HR products and services, to enhance the role of HR as a strategic partner and to address the needs of the various group functions and business units in an even more targeted way. Number of Employees Headcount Full-Time Equivalents Headcount ARLANXEO Full-Time Equivalents ARLANXEO 19,029 18,786.4 19,271 19,016.3 16,584 16,348.0 16,225 16,007.9 16,721 16,495.1 3,746 3,712.3 3,830 3,794.5 3,733 3,700.1 16,584 16,348.0 16,225 16,007.9 15,283 15,074.1 15,441 15,221.8 12,988 12,795.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Targeted recruitment of talents to set up globally uniform recruiting with a clear target-group With regard to the successful growth of LANXESS, strategic approach and to use new recruiting channels. We are particularly recruiting will continue to be a linchpin of the HR strategy. Against interested in approaching talented people actively and personally a backdrop of strong competition for talent in our core markets when doing so. Therefore, we are increasingly using social media and the ongoing pronounced demographic challenges (see also to attract new employees. page 25), we are investing in a distinctive employer brand in order A total of 1,051 new employees joined the Group in the to highlight the advantages of LANXESS as an employer and spark reporting year. A particular focus was placed on experienced enthusiasm for our company among talented people from a wide engineers, IT experts and digitalization specialists. range of functions. In the reporting year, we worked intensively LANXESS Annual Report 2018 20 Corporate Responsibility New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 16 45 33 97 26 73 4 9 31 63 397 30–49 30 46 36 143 26 105 5 9 30 76 506 ≥ 50 2 8 8 20 26 83 1 148 Total 48 99 77 260 78 261 9 18 61 140 1,051 Total Region 147 337 339 27 201 % Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 27.5 27.7 18.4 15.0 50.2 45.5 13.7 12.9 33.7 25.6 23.4 30–49 8.7 4.3 5.7 5.5 16.7 16.4 3.5 2.3 7.5 5.1 6.4 ≥ 50 1.6 1.0 1.6 0.7 10.9 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 2.5 Total 9.2 4.8 5.9 4.2 17.5 16.4 4.8 3.0 11.4 6.9 6.8 Total Region 5.7 4.5 16.7 3.4 7.8 7.6% ✓ Our international graduate trainee program is a fundamental tool for securing talent in Germany. Exceptionally well-­qualified NGR ­Master’s graduates are prepared for challenging specialist and managerial tasks and gather experience abroad during the t­ rainee program. The program is focused on marketing/supply-chain ­management, engineering, controlling & finance and human apprentice ratio ­resources. In 2018, 16 new graduate trainees (six women, ten men) This figure is the ratio of apprentices at LANXESS in Germany. started their career at LANXESS. ✓ Developing specialist staff from within our Apprentices by career path1) NGR own ranks % Training young people has always been hugely important to us, 10 Scientiﬁc (chemical technicians, both in order to safeguard the company’s future and as part of our laboratory technicians, tanners) social responsibility. Vocational training is the basis of our strategy Technical (e.g. industrial mechanics, 19 electricians) of developing specialist staff for the German sites from within our Commercial (management assistants, own ranks. To manage the apprenticeship program centrally, we business IT specialists etc., including 71 established a department in Leverkusen that is based in the People 26 students on combined vocational training and study courses) Management unit and reports to the head of the HR region Germany. It supports our scientific, technical and commercial apprentices as well as our students on dual-study programs. 1) LANXESS in Germany 188 trainees on eight technical, scientific and commercial career paths started their apprenticeships at LANXESS Deutschland GmbH on September 1, 2018. The proportion of female Training will remain a key pillar of our HR policy in the years career starters was around 8% in the reporting year (previous ahead. Against a backdrop of demographic change and our conyear: 14%). stant need for qualified young people, we plan to recruit approx. Taking the new intake into account, there are ­currently 200 apprentices a year in Germany in the next few years. In addi620 ­a pprentices at LANXESS in Germany (as of Decemtion, it is our stated aim to retain (at least) 80% of our apprentices ber 31, 2018). The proportion of female apprentices across all after successful completion of their training. We again reached this years is around 12%. As in the previous year, we invested a total target in the reporting year with a retention ratio of 84% (previous of around €20 million in the vocational training of young talent year: 80%). Outside of Germany, we have also started to offer in 2018. apprenticeship programs on a smaller scale in countries such as Belgium, Spain, the UK, India and South Africa. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 21 To increase the long-term dimension of leadership training Hire rate of apprentices and students on combined work and bachelor’s degree courses at LANXESS1) even more, we offered a “Leadership Practice Day” for alumni, i. e. % for managers who have already completed one or more leadership training courses, for the first time in the reporting year. After a 100 80 81 80 84 successful pilot run in Germany, the Leadership Practice Day is 75 80 to be rolled out worldwide in 2019. In addition to our global leadership training programs, we also 60 offer international training for high-performance employees with 40 high development and leadership potential (LILI – LANXESS International Leadership Introduction) as well as leadership training for 20 shift supervisors at our German plants. Above and beyond global leadership training, we offer regional HR development programs 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 for managers, for example in the Asia-Pacific region. We have 1) LANXESS in Germany set up a regional development center here for managers with high potential. In addition, in China, we offer a highly interactive Each year, with our XOnce program, we give school-leavers training format including business games to middle and top-tier who still do not meet academic or personal requirements for starting management with the INCEPTION program. In some countries, an apprenticeship program immediately the opportunity to qualify we also use leadership training courses specifically tailored to the for a technical or scientific apprenticeship program – regardless of country and its culture, for instance in Japan. whether this is then done externally or at LANXESS itself. Eleven The performance dialog is a key tool for developing our young people took part in the XOnce program in 2018. On average, ­employees. We use it to help our managers and their employees approximately 50% of participants become apprentices at LANXESS to compare mutual expectations regarding tasks, targets and after participating in the XOnce program. ­responsibilities more effectively and to continuously give each other feedback, thus ensuring a lasting improvement in collaboration. The Promoting development worldwide performance dialog was available to all managers in the reporting Only by constantly investing in training our employees and year and was very well received. imparting clear, globally binding values and standards can we as We also launched the first editions of our new training program a company keep on using the opportunities of changing markets “Mindful High Performance” in 2017 and 2018. The aim of the successfully. Wide-ranging management and HR-development program is to provide mindfulness training, resulting in positive tools enable and motivate our employees to act on the basis of effects on performance and well-being. Clarity, focus, authenticity values, rethink issues, implement them quickly and devise soluand emotional intelligence are particular focal points of the s­ essions. tions in a team. We firmly believe that mindfulness training can encourage behavior We have been offering global leadership training programs compatible with our value-based corporate culture. The program since 2016 in order to embed our leadership principles more d ­ eeply runs for ten to twelve weeks – the time it takes for new modes worldwide. Depending on the level of experience of ­participants, basic of behavior to become permanently embedded in the brain. On management techniques are conveyed, refreshed and ­implemented account of the hugely positive feedback from the first group of by the participants in individual measures. Since management participants in Germany as well as the significantly positive effects practice differs depending on the country and cultural environon various aspects of mindfulness – measured via an app and a ment, our training programs also take cultural differences into questionnaire – we decided to include the program in our regular account. A total of 1,004 managers have been trained, including training options for employees and managers in Germany in the 300 managers in 2018. future. A pilot was also launched in Asia in the reporting year, and a test run in the U.S. is planned for early 2019. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 22 Corporate Responsibility In the context of our HR transformation project, we also Employee commitment as ✓ sharpened the focus of talent development at LANXESS in the a key success factor NGR reporting year and set up a new global, cross-divisional and cross-­ Committed employees are the key to strong company perhierarchical talent program. The program is particularly geared formance, successful change and ultimately long-term corpotowards high-performing employees who have the potential to rate success. Accordingly, we intend to pay even more attention develop towards major leadership roles at LANXESS in the next to encouraging the commitment of our employees in the future few years. Employees from 15 different business units and Group through leadership ability, performance management and our functions took part in the first cycle. The aim is to encourage desired corporate culture. Organizational responsibility for the cross-departmental career development and strengthen expertise topics of leadership and performance management lies with the for the LANXESS organization of the future. Key topics include People Management department, which directly reports to the dealing with complexity, new forms of collaboration, and digital management team of the Human Resources department. People and agile management principles. Management works closely together with the Corporate Culture Promoting life-long learning of our employees was also office, also based in the HR department. a high priority for our HR development in 2018. In the EMEA As part of our corporate culture, we regularly ask our employees ­region (excluding Germany), for example, 89% of our employees for feedback. To this end, we use a wide range of surveys to allow ­received training to further their career or skills in the reporting feedback relating to the satisfaction and commitment of the various year. On a­ verage, each employee received 45 hours of training. employee groups. This ­targeted HR development enabled us to fill almost one third For instance, in 2018, we surveyed our managers worldwide of all vacancies in this region with qualified internal applicants. about their satisfaction with what LANXESS offers as an employer. To keep on expanding the learning options for our employees Of the more than 3,000 people contacted, around 2,000 took and make them flexible, digital learning formats are already a core part in the survey – a response rate of around 65%, which is above part of our training portfolio. For instance, in 2018, we p ­ rovided our average for the market. The results were evaluated in detail on employees with 8,223 digital learning formats (2,857 in ­English, the basis of various criteria: for instance, diversity aspects such 2,683 in German and 2,683 in other languages) to improve their as gender-specific perceptions of issues were also assessed. Our IT skills. We will also take more account of the need for digital, offerings relating to pensions, healthcare, the LANXESS bonus and virtual management in our leadership training programs in the work content were rated particularly positively. By contrast, responfuture. For instance, in the reporting year, we revised the leadership dents saw room for improvement in flexibility and development, training course “Leading Leaders,” geared towards employees specifically on issues such as workplace rotation and mentoring. with managerial responsibility for at least two reporting levels, Therefore, we aim to offer more options in these areas in the future. and integrated exercise units that provide training in virtual leader­ We are already taking big steps in this direction with our new, global ship skills. talent program, which is also intended to include aspects such as Leadership at the LANXESS production plants is equally mentoring and encourage international career development, as important to us. Following the successful piloting of our newly well as our new guiding principles on flexible working hours and established basic training for new plant managers, we incorpomobile working (see page 27). rated this into our training portfolio in the reporting year, further In Brazil, we took part in a cross-company survey on commitemphasizing the importance of safety and quality to LANXESS. ment in 2018. 313 employees replied, a response rate of 64%. A second training module specifically for the target group of plant With a score of 92.2, LANXESS did very well compared with the managers is in the planning stage. other participating companies. The results were assessed in detail, International deployments are another key component of our broken down by gender and incorporated into action plans. In systematic HR development. At the end of 2018, 51 employees other countries – including Singapore, Thailand and Turkey – we – i. e. around 1.6% of our specialist and managerial staff – were additionally initiated “pulse checks” on perception of the working working outside their contractual country as expatriates. Along atmosphere and our corporate culture. with targeted global exchange of expertise through deployment of experts and managers, it is our ongoing aim to build up local management with specialist knowledge and expertise and assign challenging tasks to suitable employees at our international sites. At sites outside Germany, 87% of our leadership positions are currently held by local employees. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 23 ✓ Development of turnover over time We regard the turnover rate based on voluntary resignations % as a key indicator for the commitment of our employees. Our goal NGR Total turnover is to continuously keep this ratio below 3.5% over the next five Turnover resulting from voluntary resignations 10.8 years. In the reporting year, the global voluntary turnover rate in 11.0 continuing operations was 3.1%, meaning that we reached our 10.0 target for this year. In Germany, the rate was 1.2%. Adjusted for 8.4 9.0 ARLANXEO, the rates were 3.3%/1.2%. 7.0 8.0 The percentage of employees who left our company of their 7.0 6.1 5.9 own accord within three years of being hired stood at an average 6.0 of 1.2% worldwide in ongoing operations in the reporting year. 5.0 3.3 3.1 4.0 2.9 2.5 2.3 3.0 2.0 1.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181) 1) Continuing operations Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations by Age Group, Gender and Region % EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) % abs. Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 6.9 3.1 6.1 3.1 3.9 8.1 3.4 2.9 12.0 19.9 7.0 118 30–49 2.9 2.5 1.8 1.4 14.8 8.1 4.9 1.3 6.2 5.2 3.5 274 ≥ 50 1.6 1.2 0.6 0.3 7.9 5.1 0.0 1.4 2.4 2.6 1.6 94 Total 3.1 2.1 1.9 1.1 9.9 6.6 4.3 1.5 6.9 6.6 3.1 486 Total Region 2.3 1.2 7.3 2.1 6.7 Total Region (abs.) 58 91 149 17 171 Early Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations by Age Group, Gender and Region % EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) % abs. Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 0.6 1.8 1.7 0.9 3.9 6.2 0.0 0.0 8.7 13.0 3.9 66 30–49 4.1 1.2 0.5 0.5 7.7 5.1 0.7 0.3 1.0 1.8 1.4 111 ≥ 50 0.2 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 15 Total 1.5 0.9 0.5 0.3 3.4 3.2 0.5 0.2 2.2 2.9 1.2 192 Total Region 1.1 0.3 3.2 0.3 2.8 Total Region (abs.) 27 26 66 2 71 Total Turnover (including Reduction Programs) by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 5 13 15 33 4 20 3 8 13 52 166 30–49 23 77 12 54 27 68 23 51 30 107 472 ≥ 50 11 79 28 141 40 62 8 35 2 44 450 Total 39 169 55 228 71 150 34 94 45 203 1,088 % Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 8.6 8.0 8.4 5.1 7.7 12.5 10.3 11.5 14.1 21.2 9.8 30–49 6.7 7.1 1.9 2.1 17.4 10.6 16.2 13.1 7.5 7.2 6.0 ≥ 50 9.0 9.9 5.6 4.8 16.7 7.9 52.5 24.0 4.8 14.3 7.7 Total 7.5 8.3 4.2 3.7 15.9 9.4 18.2 15.5 8.4 10.0 7.0 Total Region 8.1 3.8 10.9 16.2 9.6 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 24 Corporate Responsibility We rate our performance in relevant rankings and competition Ratio of Disabled Employees at German Companies as a further sign of our employees’ satisfaction and the attraction of LANXESS as an employer. LANXESS was named as a top 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Ratio in % 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.9 5.7 employer or as an employer of choice in various countries, e. g. Belgium and China, in the reporting year. One of our global focal points is gender diversity. We are Diversity as a success factor taking various measures to increase the proportion of women in We regard diversity as a strategic advantage. Therefore, we the ­company. We are gearing our employer branding and ­sourcing aim to enhance diversity at LANXESS and use its positive effects for more heavily toward women, making appointment processes more our company and employees. An appreciative organizational culture objective via a multiple-assessor principle, defining criteria for that is open to all people – regardless of age, gender, nationality, identifying talent, and improving opportunities for a better work/ disability or ideology – helps us to become more innovative and life balance (see page 27). We will also use the findings from the efficient and to attract and retain promising talents. Recognizing survey of our managers conducted in the reporting year (see and appreciating diversity is therefore ingrained in our values, our page 22) to optimize these opportunities, for instance. Regional guiding principles as well as our leadership principles. Our diversity and local diversity activities accompany our global measures. For dashboard reflects detailed key-data analyses of three dimensions: example, our Indian national company, which set up the “Breaking age, gender and nationality. This enables us to view the respective the Stereotypes” initiative for career advancement of women in development at the regional, national and global levels and derive 2017, won the “Working Mothers & AVTAR Best Companies for corresponding strategic measures. Women in India Award” in the reporting year. 79nationalities at LANXESS Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) Age Group f m f m f m f m f m < 30 58 167 179 656 58 170 26 65 88 223 1,690 30–49 338 1,049 628 2,584 153 649 140 373 407 1,490 7,811 ≥ 50 124 785 514 2,972 233 787 16 146 45 319 5,941 Total 520 2,001 1,321 6,212 444 1,606 182 584 540 2,032 15,441 Total Region 2,521 7,532 2,050 766 2,572 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 25 Among other things, our diversity measures are ­instrumental Proportion of women % in achieving our target, set in 2012 as part of the DAX 30 self-commitment, of increasing the proportion of women in middle and top management worldwide to 20% by 2020. At Total Workforce 19.5 present, the figure is 19.2%. In addition, the German Act on Equal Participation of ­Women Non Managerial 18.7 and Men in Executive Positions in the Private and the Public Sector commits us to set targets in Germany for aspects such Management Positions 22.4 as the proportion of women at the two management levels below the Board of Management and to determine the target date for attainment of the proportion of women. In 2017, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board approved the targets Proportion of women in management positions with an implementation deadline of June 30, 2022: The propor% tion of women is to be 15% for the first level below the Board of Management and 25% for the second level. Furthermore, at least one woman is to be appointed to the LANXESS Board Junior Management 25.1 of Management in the above-mentioned period. At the end of 2018, the proportion of women at the first management level Top Management 13.5 below the Board of Management was 13.8%. At the second management level, it was 19.2%. Proportion of Women on the Board of Management and at the Top Management Levels Proportion of women 2015 2016 20171) 20182) Target Target date First level below the Board of Management 9.8% 9.8% 11.6% 13.8% 15% June 30, 2022 Second level below the Board of Management 20.5% 25.1% 23.9% 19.2% 25% June 30, 2022 Board of Management (number of women) 0 0 0 0 1 woman June 30, 2022 1) Year when target was set 2) Continuing operations The proportion of women at the second management level below the Board of Management has been fluctuating since 2015 due to M&A activities. In 2018, the proportion of women also fell due to a change in the reporting structure below the Board of Management associated with the introduction of an additional reporting level at the regional level. T  he proportion of women in top management (see the chart above) differs from the proportion of women at the first two management levels below the Board of Management (see the table above) because the definition of top management in the chart is geared towards our LANXESS-internal management grades, whereas the legal definition of the first two management levels was applied in the table. Overcoming demographic challenges ›› People and Health Two regions of commercial significance for LANXESS – Europe, ›› Work and Training especially Germany and Belgium, and the U.S. – are hit particularly ›› Time and Organization hard by the problem of an aging society. Accordingly, competition ›› Career and Family Life for qualified young talent is intensifying. This particularly applies to ›› Saving and Pensions scientific and technical careers. We are countering this challenge with an extensive demographic program called XCare. The program, All services relating to career and family, health and pensions originally designed and implemented for our German companies, is apply to our core workforce. Even so, some individual services in currently being rolled out globally. It is aimed at providing solutions the regions may have differing structures and be locally adapted to the challenges of a rise in the average age of our employees, comto the needs of our employees. Our core workforce includes all bined with an increasing shortage of young talent. The measures we employees with a permanent full-time or part-time employment are bundling under the umbrella of XCare extend to five action areas: contract. As of December 31, 2018, this was 93.5% of our total workforce worldwide. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 26 Corporate Responsibility LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region (also including employees on fixed-term contracts)1) EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excluding Germany) Contract f m f m f m f m f m Permanent contract 520 2,001 1,321 6,212 444 1,606 182 584 540 2,032 15,441 Full-time 459 1,835 960 6,028 435 1,604 181 584 532 2,032 14,649 Part-time 61 166 361 184 9 2 1 8 792 Temporary contract 24 35 153 704 5 6 27 47 20 59 1,080 Full-time 21 34 133 682 2 6 27 47 18 58 1,028 Part-time 3 1 20 22 3 2 1 52 Total 544 2,036 1,473 6,916 449 1,612 209 631 560 2,091 16,521 1) In fiscal year 2018, we employed a total of 90 temporary staff members (11 women and 79 men) at our German companies. People and health Health options worldwide % 100 Our occupational health management is based on raising all employees’ awareness of their own health and motivating them Stress management information 73 to act on their own initiative and adopt healthy behaviors in their Stress management training 74 professional and private lives. In the context of our occupational health management, in Fitness facilities or contributions to 85 external ﬁtness programs the reporting year, we offered our employees at all German sites Health/nutrition provision 97 a medical check-up in order to prevent cardiovascular diseases. More than 1,300 people took up this offer. As it proved so successful we will be offering a medical check-up again in 2019. Coverage is shown in percent for each initiative with regard to the countries and the total number of employees (LANXESS including ARLANXEO). In addition, our employees in Germany received €200 credit for booking a wide range of health-related options on the digital platform “Machtfit” in 2018. LANXESS pays 80% of the costs for We address the topic of occupational safety with our global each course booking until the budget is used up. Around 43% of program Xact (see page 28). our German LANXESS employees have already registered, and as of the reporting date, 8,982 health units had been booked, Work and training with massage, yoga and fitness options proving most popular. In the medium term, illness and retirement – both regular and Where preventive measures are no longer taken in the context early – will mean that many vacancies require filling, especially in of health management, we ensure with our company integration career paths such as chemical production technician, mechanic/ management scheme (BEM) that employees with long-term fitter and engineer. For instance, 42 additional “demographic jobs” ­illnesses in particular can resume work after their recovery. BEM were approved in the reporting year, all of which were utilized. This has proven a great success at all German sites for several years means that we have so far created around 80 demography posinow. In 2018, 40% of invited employees again took up the offer tions. We will again be creating extra jobs in key positions in 2019 of a personal consultation with the site-specific BEM teams. to counter demographic change. We also offer our employees wide-ranging measures to proIn the context of the HR transformation project, we have also mote health and wellbeing at our international sites, e.g. medical started to revise our existing workforce planning process and set check-ups, training on stress management and fitness or dietary up a global strategic workforce planning process. The aim is to options. With the global implementation of XCare, we have also simulate the long-term staffing supply – taking into account retirestarted to give our health concept Xhealth a stronger global focus. ments, natural turnover, etc. – and compare it against our long-term staffing requirements, taking into account the corporate strategy and technological changes. This enables us to identify staff shortages at an early stage and instigate appropriate HR measures. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 27 Time and organization Career and family life Via flexible working-time models, we intend to ease the work­ Work/life balance matters to an ever-growing number of load of employees in all phases of life, e.g. employees with family or e ­ mployees. A total of 7% of our employees in Germany aged older employees, keep their expertise in the company and enhance ­between 20 and 40 made use of the option to take parental leave. our appeal on the labor market. For instance, with the “Flexi 95” Of this figure, 56% were fathers. 89% of the employees who ended project for managers launched in 2017, we are working towards a parental leave period in 2018 returned to a job at LANXESS. an intelligent way of extending part-time employment to senior Our fully occupied Xkids daycare center in Leverkusen has management. In the Flexi-95 model, the level of employment is places for around 50 children aged from six months to six years reduced to 95% with a corresponding adjustment to remuneration, in two preschool groups and one nursery group. In addition, we meaning that a full-time worker is entitled to 13 extra days off per provide our employees with staff places at Cologne daycare centers, year. Given the positive response to the pilot project (71 partici­ emergency childcare places and a Germany-wide agency service pants since 2017), a decision was made in the reporting year to for childcare staff and facilities. fully incorporate “flexitime” into our offering to senior management The statutory maternity rights in Germany and similar models and also launch a pilot project for junior and middle management. in the European Union are by no means standard worldwide. There­ In view of the results of the survey of our managers (see fore, at our sites outside Europe, we are assessing whether we can page 22) and the desire it reflected for more flexible working and introduce or expand country-specific models for our employees. working-time models as well as greater transparency ­regarding Against a backdrop of demographic change, care is a major existing options, we approved global flexibility principles in the issue in Germany. The centerpiece of the LANXESS care model is reporting year under the heading “Xwork – Flexible Work”. We caregiver leave, which allows our employees to reduce their working will develop country-specific guidelines on flexible working condi­ hours by more than their pay during the care period and to work off tions from these principles in 2019 and introduce corresponding the hours commensurate with the pay they received after their ­return. models. Guidelines concerning this for Germany were approved Caregiver leave and time off have been used by 95 ­employees in in the reporting year. These have been communicated and im­ Germany since the LANXESS care model was introduced. plemented since the start of 2019. Options for ﬂexible working hours Options for childcare, maternity/paternity leave and mobile working worldwide and care models worldwide % 100 % 100 Childcare 64 Flexible working hours 92 Paid maternity leave1) 68 Working from home arrangements 87 Paid paternity leave1) 73 Support for care-dependent 51 relatives/care models Coverage is shown in percent for each initiative with regard to the countries and the total number of employees (LANXESS including ARLANXEO). 1) Beyond legal requirements Coverage is shown in percent for each initiative with regard to the countries and the total number of employees (LANXESS including ARLANXEO). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 28 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Saving and pensions Active, ongoing communication is a top priority for us when We continued the long-term account for pay-scale employees it comes to matters relating to safety. The pulse-check survey NGR in 2018 as agreed and as per collective bargaining agreement. The that we conduct every year among all LANXESS employees is outstanding participation rate remained at a high level of around an important tool here. It gives them the opportunity to express 96%. A total of 53% of our employees worldwide and 97% of their personal experience of key aspects of safety at LANXESS. employees in Germany benefit from a reserve-funded pension plan. One aim of the anonymous survey is to determine whether the individual employee is involved in safety work – as intended – or ✓ Xact: Global initiative for greater safety receives positive feedback for safe work. More than 60% of our NGR Our global safety initiative Xact pursues the goal of gradually employees took part in the survey in 2018. For the first time, they lifting the safety culture of LANXESS to a higher level. Starting with were also asked whether their supervisors practice safety. Over top management, all employees are expected to work t­ ogether to 90% of respondents answered the question with “always” or at improve safety in the Group. We are doing this because we firmly least “mostly.” However, the results differed substantially in terms believe that all industrial accidents are avoidable. As a specific of individual regions, organizational units and hierarchy levels. For target for occupational safety, we aim to reduce the lost time i­njury instance, responses to the question on positive feedback from frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) by more than supervisors in the event of safe work were far less affirmative half by the end of 2025 compared to the reference year of 2016 than the global average in countries such as Germany. The pulse(LTIFR of 2.0). check survey again helped us to identify approaches to optimizing Six Xact safety rules, the core principles of safe working at measures in a highly targeted way. LANXESS, address the key points with which all employees – from We also want to reach an improved shared understanding of the factory to the office, regardless of hierarchy and position – can occupational safety with service providers who perform technical make an active contribution to their own safety and that of their services for us, as well as including them in our safety culture. For colleagues. They are derived from the Xact “guidelines and prininstance, our partners must demonstrate that they maintain their ciples,” the worldwide framework for the orientation of our safety own safety-management system and have carried out all safety culture. We revised these guidelines and principles in 2017, and training that is required of all employees who work for us. Regardunveiled them throughout the Group in April 2018 as part of the less of this, we provide personal safety briefings for employees of newly inaugurated global LANXESS Safety Week. our partner companies. As ever, the work of the Xact team is focused on fostering a Indicators for the assessment of occupational safety at positive culture of safety and greater alignment towards behavior-­ LANXESS are the recordable incident rate (RIR: number of based safety. To this end, we developed and piloted a systematic ­incidents per 200,000 working hours that have to be reported process in the reporting year. It is to be gradually rolled out in according to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration) 2019 – starting with Germany and the USMCA region. The fact that and the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR: accidents per million ­personal dialog is key to improving occupational safety is clear from hours worked) for accidents with days lost. The LTIFR in 2018 was recent experience at our site in Liyang, China. In 2017, we set up a 1.5. Adjusted for ARLANXEO, the LTIFR in the reporting year was project there to stabilize working processes, ­strengthen managerial 1.4. As in previous years, no fatal accidents occurred in 2018. The responsibility and raise employee awareness of safety issues. In the RIR, which also includes accidents with no days lost in accordance reporting year, a significant improvement in ­safety awareness and with OSHA rules, was 0.6 in 2018 and in continuing operations more stable processes, such as the permit ­procedure, were noted as well as after adjustment for ARLANXEO. Companies have in the context of an audit. been taking occupational safety increasingly seriously in recent Another major project in 2018 dealt with lock-out tag-out proyears. This increased focus at all hierarchy levels has helped to cesses. These are aimed at fixing important actuators of technical continuously reduce serious accidents on a lasting basis. equipment – such as switches or valves – in a specific position and thus preventing the equipment from being unintentionally restarted during maintenance work, for instance. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 29 ✓ Above the pay scale, and, in most countries, within the pay Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees NGR Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) scale, we also provide a performance-related remuneration component on top of fixed pay. This is the annual performance payment (APP), which goes to employees in countries that p ­ articipate in this 2.5 2.3 2.2 2.0 program. This bonus payment is linked to the Group’s attainment 2.0 1.7 of a defined EBITDA target. Further individual targets in areas such 1.5 as safety and sustainability additionally apply to top management. 1.5 In 2018, we shared around €130 million of our profits for 2017 1.0 with our employees worldwide. Furthermore, through the individual performance payment 0.5 (IPP), managers can also reward outstanding performance of an employee during the year promptly and with no red tape. Around 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181) €10.9 million was assigned for outstanding individual perfor1) Continuing operations mance alone in fiscal year 2018 (including around €7.6 million in ­Germany). At present, around 80% of our employees worldwide Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees That are Reportable in Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR) are entitled to receive the IPP. In relation to this, they also receive a prompt assessment of their performance and their career pros1.5 pects. This further substantial year-on-year increase is attributable to the remuneration integration of the employees taken on in fiscal year 2017. 1.0 0.9 Under the LANXESS stock program that we set up again in 0.8 0.8 0.7 2018, all LANXESS Group employees working in Germany can 0.6 purchase shares at a 30% discount. The shares were purchased 0.5 at an average price of €69.99 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation rate was 60%. As of the reporting date, our employees and directors held around 1% of the LANXESS shares 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181) in total in the context of participation programs. 1) Continuing operations In addition, we offer a long-term incentive program for our managers in Germany. There are similar programs in the U.S., ✓ All accidents as well as significant near-misses are s­ ystematically India and China. The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) NGR analyzed with regard to their cause and possible preventive measures. 2018–2021 consists of four tranches commenced each year, and The results of these investigations are, for instance, incorporated into tracks the performance of the LANXESS share compared with safety updates that are made available to the entire organization. We the MSCI World Chemicals Index, over a period of four years in regard the sharp fall in the LTIFR in recent years as evidence that this each case. The four-year term and the potential growth in value structured transfer of knowledge and the many measures to improve makes this program an attractive long-term incentive and retention occupational safety at LANXESS are having a positive effect. tool. In addition, we have implemented a new Share Ownership Guideline (SOG) for the Board of Management and our top-level Rewarding performance transparently managers. This new guideline emphasizes trust in the strategy and and fairly long-term success of LANXESS. 97% of those eligible participated LANXESS pays its employees worldwide transparent remuin the current program in 2018. neration in line with market conditions that also includes a bonus system geared towards the company’s long-term success. In total, 89% of our employees worldwide receive variable remuneration. As a result of the advancing remuneration integration of e­ mployees who joined our company in 2017 following the acquisition of Chemtura, the figure is rising. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 30 Corporate Responsibility Recognizing, promoting and using good ideas Fair dealings with employee representatives and trade With our ideas management system, we systematically promote unions are also a top priority for us outside Europe. In South the development and implementation of suggestions for improveAfrica, for instance, we comply with International Labour Orgament in order to keep on generating impetus for improving economic nization (ILO) standards with respect to our employees’ freedom efficiency, occupational safety and environmental protection. Many of association. This includes regular exchange between local good ideas were again implemented in 2018. management and trade-union representatives as well as binding, collectively agreed-upon regulations on remuneration and Idea Management working conditions. 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) No. of new ideas 2,807 2,027 2,442 2,262 1,633 Employees entitled to participate 7,532 7,390 7,908 7,655 7,206 TMQ1) 373 274 318 295 267 RESILIENT SOURCING ✓ NGR Savings (€ million) 2.52 2.56 2.26 1.58 0.92 Bonuses (€ million) 1.0 0.95 0.8 0.65 0.34 At LANXESS, raw materials, other materials, equipment and 1) TMQ: rate per thousand employees services are subject to globally standardized requirements with 2) Continuing operations regard to safety and environmental protection. Their procurement is the responsibility of the Global Procurement & Logistics (GPL) Partnership-based discussion group function, the head of which reports directly to the Board of Dialog with chemicals social partners – trade unions and Management member Dr. Hubert Fink. In close coordination with employer associations alike – as a principle of consultation in our internal stakeholders, GPL organizes group-wide procurement, action is the global practice at LANXESS. As part of this, we also establishes corresponding guidelines, and initiates measures to respect the freedom of association of our employees in accordance promote purchasing synergies and sustainable ­behavior by our with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Global suppliers. Compact, and comply with collective bargaining agreements. In the year under review, procurement transactions with around 20,000 suppliers were processed. A global procurement guideline for the entire Group defines our employees’ conduct when Proportion of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements dealing with suppliers and their employees. We have specified % standardized workflows in the context of procurement in more 100 detail in a process description. In our training program for strategic 65 purchasers revised in 2018 (ProTrain), we also give much more Proportion of employees worldwide attention to the topic of sustainability. Based on the principles of Proportion of employees in Germany 92 the U.N. Global Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO), Responsible Care® and other CSR codes, we expect our suppliers to comply with national and other applicable laws and regulations for environmental protection, health and safety at work We regularly seek dialog with employee representative and with regard to labor and recruitment practices. Acceptance of c­ ommittees in Germany, Europe and worldwide, provide information the requirements of our “Supplier Code of Conduct” is an essential on our corporate objectives, and involve employee representatives prerequisite for any supplier wishing to work with us. in organizational changes at an early stage. In view of the complete separation of ARLANXEO, company management and employee representatives jointly devised solutions for a successful spin-off in the reporting period and worked closely together to implement them. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Employees 31 Resilient Sourcing Safe and Sustainable Sites ✓ ✓ In the interests of safe processing at our production facilities, Data from Ecovadis also form the basis for a systematic sustainNGR there is a particular focus on the procurement of raw materials. It ability risk analysis that we will implement in 2019. Taking account NGR is thus essential for suppliers to present an up-to-date safety data of risks in relation to specific goods groups and countries, we want sheet for the procurement of each raw material. In the case of raw to use this tool to identify suppliers with an increased sustainability material deliveries from non-European suppliers, our purchasing risk. Our goal is to cover all suppliers by the end of 2019 and thus department clarifies which obligations have to be fulfilled under calculate a sustainability risk score for LANXESS for the first time. the REACH Regulation. Since the acquisition of Chemtura, we Starting from 2020, we then intend to initiate targeted measures have also being using the raw material tin, which is classified as a to improve the our suppliers’ sustainability and thereby gradually conflict mineral. We purchase tin only from certified dealers who lower our sustainability risk score. These measure could include, can prove that their goods come from a conflict-free source. for example, TfS audits at suppliers with an increased risk. As a founding member of the “Together for Sustainability” (TfS) initiative, our goal is to promote sustainability, increase transparency throughout our supply chain, and thereby further minimize procurement risks. The initiative, which is currently supported by SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE SITES 22 international chemicals companies with an accumulated purchasing volume of more than €300 billion, is aimed at assessing More than ever, acting sustainably in the chemicals i­ndustry and continuously improving sustainability activities in the chemicals means taking responsibility for products and manufacturing proindustry supply chain. The focus here is on human rights, prevention cesses. All over the world, we are seeing a high level of converof child labor, labor standards, occupational safety, environmental gence of environmental and production standards. What used protection, and business ethics. Seven years after it was launched, to be positive distinguishing features in the area of sustainability TfS has established itself in the chemicals industry as the clear are now increasingly essential worldwide to the mere ability to standard for a sustainable supply chain. produce and sell chemical products. Yet we would be failing in our Because the assessment results and audit reports are shared commitment to quality if we simply restricted ourselves to meeting within the initiative, we once again had a significantly increased standards – even if they are more exacting than in the past. Instead, number of sustainability assessments (more than 9,000) and audit our commitment is to make our production safe and sustainable reports (around 1,200) available to us as of the end of 2018. As in every respect, thus ensuring our long-term competitiveness. in the previous year, suppliers whose sustainability activities have Our PTSE Group function, the head of which reports directly been assessed in the context of TfS represent 70% of our relevant to the Board of Management member Dr. Hubert Fink, is responsible procurement volume. The relevant procurement volume comprises for this. PTSE develops and maintains company-wide standards all suppliers from which we procure more than €20,000 of goods that ensure responsible use of chemicals at LANXESS. They define or services per year. In addition, the TfS sustainability assessment requirements and govern responsibilities for health protection, is incorporated into our newly established strategy process, which environmental protection, handling of chemicals, plant safety and must be applied to every contract negotiation or renewal with a safety precautions in the workplace. Continuous training of our purchasing volume of more than €5 million. employees and regular audit-based reviews of our health, safety It is also encouraging to see that our suppliers’ average and environmental management systems are aimed to ensure that ­Ecovadis sustainability assessment of 45 points is above the the requirements are incorporated into our processes systemat­Ecovadis benchmark of 42 points. With regard to our suppliers’ ically and sustainably. weak points, no relevant trend could be discerned in 2018 again. There were two cases in the year under review in which we ended our collaboration with suppliers due to sustainability aspects. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 32 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Uniform standards in production Global hazardous-goods and transport-safety ✓ NGR LANXESS operates a total of 74 production sites and has management system NGR a presence in 25 countries (investments ≥ 50% and 12 wholly-­ With a global hazardous-goods and transport-safety manage­ owned ARLANXEO sites, as of December 31, 2018). Our wide ment system, we ensure that we minimize or entirely avoid hazards. range of products requires the use of many different chemical We coordinate, monitor and review implementation of relevant and technical processes. Uniform standards for planning, building hazardous-goods and transport-safety regulations as well as inand operating plants ensure a high level of process, plant and house regulations centrally in a department that is specifically occupational safety. responsible for this. Handling chemical substances and working with technical Central classification of our products in line with international, equipment involves health and safety risks. We identify these regional and local hazardous-goods regulations ensures that the risks and potential threats systematically worldwide – for new and respective requirements are interpreted uniformly while taking existing plants – and minimize them by implementing defined preregional and local aspects into account. Classification d ­ etermines ventive and protective measures. Experts examine implementation such things as the type of containment (packaging and tanks), of LANXESS guidelines and local regulations for safe operation marking and labeling, the permitted modes of transport and of our plants on-site via targeted spot checks in audits whose transportation routes as well as measures that operational staff ­frequency is geared towards the respective risk profile. C ­ ompliance must take if a transportation event occurs. The corresponding with safety standards must be regularly verified worldwide for classification data is stored in the safety-data system for chemievery plant via audit opinions. In 2018, a total of 34 production cals at LANXESS. In recent years, we have gradually connected facilities (previous year: 37) were examined in the context of HSE an ­increasing number of countries and Group companies to the compliance checks (health, safety and environment), including 15 system, and we continued this process in 2018 by rigorously inte(previous year: 17) in Germany. In the reporting year, the results grating the Australian, Japanese and Korean sites. We will integrate of the inspections again showed improvements compared with the as yet unconnected sites in Argentina, Uruguay and Russia previous years. Furthermore, we completed our gap analyses into the system in 2019. We have already commenced integration for the plants acquired from Chemtura. The gap analyses mainly of the former Chemtura sites; this will be carried out regionally as highlighted the differences in the management-system approaches part of the global introduction of the SAP template FIT. and are now helping to roll out LANXESS management rules and To counter the deficiencies in load securing of general ­cargo standards at the sites. observed in the previous year, the Production, ­Technology, ­Safety We use an electronic reporting system (Incident ­Reporting & Environment Group function and the business units have System – IRS) to record accidents and events worldwide in line worked closely together to establish a load-securing standard for with uniform regulations. Injuries, transportation accidents, LANXESS. This standard was tested in numerous field tests and near-accidents, environmental incidents, instances of damage has already been used successfully at our locations in Brunsbüttel and security-relevant incidents such as theft are documented. and Leverkusen, Germany. For 2019, we are planning to arrange Each event is carefully analyzed in order to draw conclusions as further load-securing training sessions and introduce our new to how we can avoid similar incidents in the future. securing standard at further sites in Germany and abroad. All measures count towards our goal of continuously reducing the number events relating to inadequate system and process Storage management safety. Following the acquisition of Chemtura, we have around A few minor incidents occurred in the 2018 reporting year. 480 warehouses worldwide, operation of which is split roughly No people were injured in any incident. Further information can 50:50 between us and external service providers. We select warebe found in the GRI Content Index on page 199. houses – both our own and those operated by external service ­providers – according to logistics, safety and security, environmental ­protection and cost-effectiveness aspects. We apply a globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into account the substances stored and meets fire protection and occupational health and safety requirements. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Safe and Sustainable Sites 33 ✓ ✓ Environmental responsibility Water Consumption NGR We regard preservation of natural resources – for example in million cubic meters in cubic meters per NGR metric ton of product by using raw materials and energy as efficiently as possible – and Cooling water (absolute) Process water (absolute) identification of further potential for reducing emissions and waste In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption) as an ongoing task in the context of our environmental responsibility 800 60 and expertise. We equip all new production sites in line with the 45.8 600 42.8 45 state of the art, including in terms of environmental standards, 39.0 37.41) 39.3 taking local requirements into account. 400 30 236.4 225.2 212.8 208.6 178.5 Sparing use of water 200 15 54.2 53.1 51.8 59.21) 39.4 As a chemicals company, we rely on water for our production. We use it mainly for cooling, as an input material in ­chemical 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) processes or in the form of steam. In addition, rivers are an 1) Figure restated 2) Continuing operations ­important transportation tool, particularly for our networked sites in ­Germany. Through access to drinking water at our sites, we are also ­meeting our responsibility to our employees. We are aware Production Wastewater in million cubic meters in cubic meters per that our ­responsibility regarding the most precious of resources metric ton of product does not end at our factory gates. Water availability and quality Absolute In relation to volume sold are global challenges that we can face up to locally as a company. In addition to the efficient use of water, wastewater management 80 6.0 5.0 4.9 4.8 5.0 is especially important here. SDG 6 sets out specific action a­ reas 60 4.5 that we gear our operations towards: Access to water, water ­quality 35.8 2.9 and quantity, water management and governance as well as pro40 31.4 31.8 32.4 3.0 tection of ecosystems. 16.3 To enable us to derive context-based measures for LANXESS, 20 1.5 we have performed a water-stress analysis for all our sites. First, we used the Water Risk Map of the World Wide Fund for ­Nature 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181) (WWF). This assessment, which initially takes only the geo­ 1) Continuing operations graphical location of the sites into account, showed that 14 of our sites are in water-stress areas. In a second step, we added a Compared with the previous year, total water consumption production-related risk assessment for 87% of our sites in 2018. decreased in 2018. The amount of cooling water was further Our assessment was based on 27 criteria – including dependency reduced, as was the case in previous years. In the reporting year, on water quality and quantity as well as regulatory challenges – and overall water consumption increased disproportionately to the was set in relation to water consumption at the site. The combiproduction volumes, which means that specific water consumpnation of geographically-related water stress and the production-­ tion increased and the positive trend observed over the past few specific risk forms the basis on which we now derive targets and years was not continued. This effect can be largely attributed to measures. For example, in the reporting year, we included the the higher water intensity of the processes in the new LANXESS Chinese government’s new program for protecting the Yangtze portfolio and the sale of our remaining interest in ARLANXEO. River (Eco-Environmental Protection Plan Covering the Yangtze Another influencing factor was the exceptionally hot summer in River Economic Belt) in our risk assessment and evaluated it within Central Europe, which meant that much more cooling water was our risk-management system. required in our facilities in Germany and Belgium. We are also making major contributions to the water-related SDGs with the products of our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit. In addition, we are committed to our sites at the local level. For instance, in El Dorado (U.S.), we are a long-standing member of the South Arkansas Sparta Aquifer Recovery Initiative. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 34 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ We reduced the volume of wastewater in 2018 in both Compared with the previous year, the total amount of waste NGR ­absolute and specific terms. This development can also be generated once again increased considerably. This is primarily NGR largely attributed to the change in portfolio in connection with attributable to the first-time, all-year inclusion of the Chemtura ARLANXEO. production sites, which we acquired in 2017. In the previous year, Chemtura was included only as of April due to the integration Sustainable waste management ­activities taking place during the year. The biggest share of our Rigorous material-flow management from use of raw materials waste volumes comprises slightly polluted wastewater at our El to product finishing is aimed at ensuring that we use resources Dorado site in the U.S., which is declared as waste. We more than as efficiently as possible and minimize our waste volumes. Where doubled the level of material recovery in 2018. waste is unavoidable, we try to use or sell it as secondary raw materials or energy sources. To keep the amount of waste that Waste for Disposal has to be disposed of to an absolute minimum, we take a wide % 7.2 range of measures to continuously improve recovery in our pro3.3 duction processes. 1.3 To ensure continuous optimization of our material-flow 11.8 manage­ment, we have committed ourselves to achieving the Landﬁlled waste targets defined in the international program Operation Clean Incinerated waste with Sweep (OCS) of the “Society of the Plastics Industry.” OCS aims energy recovery to prevent plastic particles and pellets from entering the maritime Incinerated waste without 76.4 energy recovery environment and having an undesired impact. By joining in 2016, Material recovery we made a commitment to train relevant employees, to implement Waste disposal by other means measures to prevent the release of pellets at our facilities and to require our business partners to also take active steps to prevent pellet emissions. Our goal is to systematically integrate the OCS program’s requirements into LANXESS’s management system Systematic recording of key data and to implement them across the company. To record key data on safety and environmental protection systematically worldwide, we use an electronic data-entry system. Total Waste This enables us to calculate a wide range of HSE performance data in thousand metric tons in kilograms of waste per for each business unit and site worldwide, which is used as a valid metric ton of product Absolute Absolut In relation to volumes sold data pool for strategic decisions as well as internal and external 353.7 reporting. In addition, it maps the progress that we make with our 6,400 360 global sustainability targets (see the table on page 10). Data is 5,600 315 gathered only at production sites where we have investment of over 50%. For 2018, ARLANXEO will no longer be included in our 4,800 270 reporting on environmental and safety issues. Data for both our continuing operations and for ARLANXEO will be included only 4,000 225 in relation to our key performance indicators and target figures. 181.61) 3,200 180 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has been auditing our HSE key data and the requisite 2,400 135 data-gathering processes with limited assurance since 2012. The 1,961.7 current independent assurance report can be viewed on page 1,600 1,301.21) 90 195 of this report. 47.1 45.0 44.1 800 45 298.7 292.4 299.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) 1) Figure restated 2) Continuing operations LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Safe and Sustainable Sites 35 ✓ Environmental and Safety Performance Data* NGR 2016 2017 2018 Continuing ­operations ARLANXEO Safety Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s absence (per million hours worked) (LTIFR1)) 2.0 1.7 1.5 0.6 Volume sold2) in thousand metric tons/year 6,781 7,167a) 5,547 1,651 Energy in petajoules (1015 joules)3) (GRI 302-1) 48.4 51.9a) 28.0 24.9 Direct energy sources Non-renewable 12.6 14.6a) 11.8 3.0 Renewable 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy sources (GRI 302-2)4) Non-renewable 33.8 35.3 14.0 21.9 Other direct energy sources From biomass 2.0 2.0 2.2 0 Water in million cubic meters Total water consumption (GRI 303-1) 264.6 267.8 a) 217.9 62.6 Surface water 92.1 82.9 49.1 38.3 Groundwater 6.8 8.8 5.3 3.0 Rainwater 0.4 0.4 0.4 0 Wastewater 1.0 1.1a) 1.2 0.1 Other water sources 164.3 174.6a) 161.9 21.2 Cooling water in total water consumption5) 212.8 208.6 178.5 38.8 Process water in total water consumption 51.8 59.2a) 39.4 23.8 Atmospheric emissions in thousand metric tons Total greenhouse gas emissions CO2e (GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2) 4,814a) 5,099a) 3,209 1,840 Direct (Scope 1)6) 1,737a) 1,799a) 1,524 229 Indirect (Scope 2)7) 3,077 3,300a) 1,685 1,611 Ozone-depleting substances (GRI 305-6) 0.00182 0.00989 0.00785 0 NO X , SO X and other emissions (GRI 305-7) NO X8) 2.6 2.7 2.9 0.2 SO29) 1.1 1.0 1.0 0 CO 2.0 2.2 2.1 0.2 NH3 0.1 0.1 0.2 0 NMVOC10) 4.7 5.0a) 1.0 3.9 Wastewater in million cubic meters Total wastewater discharge (GRI 306-1) 245.2 244.4 194.8 58.8 Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)5) 212.8 208.6 178.5 38.8 Production wastewater (with treatment) 32.4 35.8 16.3 20.0 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) in thousand metric tons Total nitrogen 0.54 0.55 0.5 0 Total organic carbon (TOC)12) 1.7 1.8 1.5 0.5 Heavy metals11) 0.0049 0.0054 0.0027 0.0026 Waste in thousand metric tons Total weight of waste (GRI 306-2) 299.0 1,301.2a) 1,961.7 42.8 Incineration with energy recovery 81.2 78.3a) 64.9 15.5 Incineration without energy recovery 31.1 28.3a) 25.0 3.8 Landfilling 112.1 130.4a) 140.9 6.9 Material recovery 53.1 60.7a) 231.6 8.7 Other forms of disposal 21.5 1,003.5a) 1,499.3 7.9 Type of waste Hazardous 196.7 578.6a) 718.4 21.4 Non-hazardous 102.3 722.6a) 1,243.3 21.4 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 36 Corporate Responsibility Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data * 2016/2017: The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50%. As LANXESS had an interest of exactly 50% in ARLANXEO, the latter continued to be reflected in the LANXESS Consolidated Financial Statements and was fully consolidated in fiscal years 2016/2017, the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites also continue to be included in our key data for this period. 2018: As discontinued operations, ARLANXEO is shown separately from continuing operations in reporting year 2018. The two columns add up to the annual key figures for 2018. All charts on environmental and safety performance data present the figures for continuing operations for the reporting year. We included the site in Charleston, U.S., acquired in 2018 in the environmental and safety performance data for continuing operations from February 7, 2018. 2016/2017/2018: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e. g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Indirect energy sources are shown in the form of a balance sheet. The volume of energy sold is subtracted from the volume of energy purchased. 5) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 6) The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO2e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2014: 217 kt CO2, 2015: 236 kt CO2, 2016: 212 kt CO2, 2017: 215 kt CO2, 2018: 230 kt CO2 7) All Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, ­f actors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2014 were used for fiscal year 2016, factors from 2015 were used for fiscal year 2017 and factors from 2016 were used for fiscal year 2018. The Scope 2 CO2e emissions are calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method, Scope 2 CO2e emissions for 2018 amounted to 2,081 kt for continuing operations and 1,962 kt for ARLANXEO. 8) Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO2 (excluding N2O – nitrous oxide) 9) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO2 10) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 11) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) 12) Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is calculated as follows: [COD] = [TOC] * 3. For 2018, the COD for continuing operations is 4.5 kt. a) Values restated due to supplementary notifications or change in calculation method LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Safe and Sustainable Sites 37 ✓ Corporate Citizenship Social Activities by Type of Investment1) ✓ NGR Our understanding of sustainable sites also includes being % NGR a strong and reliable partner for the people locally and in the respective region and taking responsibility for development of the social environment. Our social commitment is based on our Charitable gift corporate expertise and objectives and focused on education, 38 Commercial initiative climate protection, water and culture. 52 Community investment Our goals in all these areas are identical: ›› Mobilizing resources and people for social commitment ›› Achieving positive impacts on the company, the environment 10 and society 1) Number of projects: 175 As a company, we aim to play a positive part in improving living conditions, education, training and equal opportunities as We initially assess our projects according to whether they well as health and safety. In addition, we are working to attract pursue purely charitable ends (“charitable gift”), whether we talented persons, engage in extensive dialog with our stakeholders, are investing in the social environment of our sites (“community have a positive influence on employee motivation and constantly ­investment”) or whether we are investing in corporate objectives improve our reputation. such as image, sales and income while also generating social As in the previous year, we provided around €1.3 million value (“commercial initiative”). ­globally for our projects in 2018. The regional focal points of our In total, more than 100,000 (previous year: more than activities in the reporting year were the EMEA and USMCA regions. 233,000) people benefited from our projects. We use a system of performance indicators to measure the social impact of our Social Activities by Topic1) activities above and beyond the number of people who benefit. % For around half of our projects in 2018, we performed an impact assessment, taking into account positive effects in the area around the site and positive environmental effects and impacts on our 27 Education business. Specific feedback from people who benefit from our Culture projects is a key factor in this context. We regard these indicators Climate Protection as important benchmarks for impact-oriented management of 2 Water 2 our measures. 62 Other 7 Impact dimensions of Evaluated Activities and Projects % 1001) 1) Number of projects: 175 Impact on the community e.g. quality of life, well-being or skills 99 Impact on the environment Direct environmental eﬀects or impact 48 on attitude toward the environment Impact on our business e.g. attractiveness as an employer, improved 94 stakeholder relations and perception 1) Number of projects: 86 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 38 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Commitment to education, climate protection, CLIMATE ACTION AND ✓ NGR water and culture ENERGY EFFICIENCY NGR 2018 again yielded numerous examples of how we put our social commitment into practice: We have been working under the With the Paris Climate Agreement, which came into force umbrella of the LANXESS education initiative for ten years now in November 2016, the international community committed to and have initiated more than 500 education projects at our sites limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius above worldwide in order to get young people interested in the natural the pre-industrial level. Accordingly, all signatory nations have sciences at an early age. In the anniversary year, the projects in set ambitious reduction targets. For instance, in Germany, the Germany were devoted to topics including research on water qual“Climate Protection Plan 2050” sets out the interim goal of cutting ity and water pollution, and the digital transformation of society. greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 55% compared with the Two-week school vacation courses with natural-science learning base year of 1990 by 2030. Industry is expected to contribute content were on the agenda in Korea, while in Japan, children towards this with a reduction of between 49% and 51%. explored the chemical composition and wide-ranging uses of However, a progress report at the U.N. Climate Change Conconcrete in play-based workshops. ference in 2018 drew sobering conclusions. Consequently, even For the fourth consecutive year, we held a research compemore drastic measures to reduce global greenhouse-gas emissions tition in China, entitled “Clean Water for a Better Life”. In addition will be required in the decades ahead in order to reach the desired to fostering young academic talent, we also aim to raise public target. The summit also resolved that uniform transparency reguawareness of water problems. Cooperation was a key feature of lations and standards for recording CO2 levels are to apply to all the competition in the reporting year. For instance, the partici­ states in the future. In view of this, companies must also expect pating universities were explicitly asked to seek dialog with other much stricter regulatory requirements for measures and reporting faculties, companies or the media in the context of their research on climate protection in the years ahead. projects. Along with numerous other European chemicals compaAs part of our cultural commitment, we have been sponnies, LANXESS expressly committed to climate protection and soring lit.Cologne as a lead partner since 2010 and the Kölner the associated obligations ahead of the Paris Climate Change Philharmonie for several years. The Ozawa International Chamber Conference. We have been working continuously to decrease Music Academy in Japan, which we also support, gives talented emissions of environmentally harmful greenhouse gases ever young musicians from all over Asia the opportunity of first-class since our company was founded – with considerable success: musical training. Since 2007, we have roughly halved our global scope 1 emissions. Further information on our corporate citizenship activities can With our sites in Germany, we are already meeting the national be found in the Corporate Responsibility/Corporate Citizenship cutback requirement set for 2030. section of the LANXESS website. Even so, we are continuing to work intensively throughout the Group to reduce our CO2 emissions. Back in 2016, we set new long-term targets for CO2 and VOC emissions and for energy consumption: We aim to cut our specific CO2 and VOC emissions by 25% by 2025 (base year 2015). At the same time, our energy efficiency is expected to improve by 25% by 2025. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Safe and Sustainable Sites 39 Climate Action and Energy Efficiency ✓ ✓ One of the measures at the moment is the new steam coGreenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) NGR generation plant at Antwerp harbor (Belgium) that we are using in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents in CO² equivalents, metric NGR in conjunction with other chemicals companies based there. Hot tons per metric ton of product Scope 2 (absolute) commissioning of the steam pipeline started in November 2018. Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold The final tests at LANXESS took place in December. Steam is to 8,000 0.56 be finally introduced to the system in January 2019. The pipeline, 7,000 0.46 0.46 0.49 more than five kilometers long, helps us to reduce our energy costs 0.43 0.45 and reduce CO2 emissions by around 10,000 metric tons each 6,000 0.42 year. Across all participating companies, CO2 emissions are likely 5,000 0.35 0.30 to be down by around 100,000 metric tons per year. 4,000 0.28 In Europe, 18 plants and sites (including five belonging to 2,998 3,077 3,3001) 2,719 ARLANXEO) are subject to European emissions trading. Trading 3,000 0.21 with CO2 emissions rights, known as certificates, is ­intended to 2,000 1,685 0.14 reduce emissions of the environmentally harmful gas CO2 cost-­ 1,000 0.07 effectively. Because all of our plants covered by emissions ­trading are state-of-the-art and compete at the international level, we 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) expect to receive enough certificates from free allocation to ­cover 1) Figure restated 2) Continuing operations the expected CO2 emissions by the end of the third trading period in 2020. Absolute Scope 2 emissions decreased by around a half compared with the previous year. This effect is primarily attributable to the sale of ARLANXEO. A similar trend can also be observed Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents in CO² equivalents, with specific Scope 2 emissions. Compared with the Scope 1 metric tons per metric analysis, a reverse effect can be seen here because ARLANXEO Scope 1 (absolute) ton of product Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold uses a higher number of indirect energy sources. 6,000 0.42 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 5,000 0.35 in thousand metric tons of CO² equivalents 0.29 0.27 4,000 0.26 0.28 Scope 3 (absolute) 0.25 0.251) 3,000 0.21 40,000 1,845 1,643 1,7371) 1,7991) 2,000 1,524 0.14 30,000 27,054 26,618 26,582 1,000 0.07 22,862 20,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) 1) Figure restated 10,000 2) Continuing operations 2015 2016 2017 20181) In 2018, we reduced our absolute Scope 1 emissions. This is 1) Continuing operations largely attributable to the sale of our remaining interest in ARLANXEO and the associated changes to our portfolio. This positive trend was The sale of ARLANXEO has also had a positive impact on also thanks to the reduced use of coal in China and increased use our Scope 3 emissions. of biomass in India and Brazil. At the same time, the ARLANXEO transaction led to higher specific Scope 1 emissions because we generate and use in ongoing operations comparatively more energy from primary energy sources. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 40 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ For more than a decade, we have been participating in the the duration of its work. At the national level, the networks are NGR international climate protection initiative CDP (formerly the Carbon expected to help save 75 petajoules of primary energy and reNGR Disclosure Project), each year sharing data and information on duce greenhouse-gas emissions by 5 million metric tons. With climate protection and the reduction of emissions. We received its p ­ artners, the network@CHEMPARK, in which our sites are an “A–” rating in the assessment for 2018, which puts LANXESS involved, has set a target of making a contribution of 100 gigaamong the top 6% of almost 7,000 companies examined by the watt hours. In the reporting year, we successfully implemented initiative in 2018. These gratifying results gave us encouragement the first two projects, each of which was geared towards more to continue systematically pursuing our climate protection strategy. efficient use of hot steam condensate. For instance, the existing steam heating of the supply air of a production building of our Saltigo business unit at the Leverkusen (Germany) site Other atmospheric emissions was ­supplemented by a heat exchanger to use the residual heat from condensed steam. Through this structural measure, we VOC Emissions can save approx. 3,000 metric tons of steam per year in the in metric tons in VOC, kilograms per metric ton of product future. In a further project at our Leverkusen site, we are using Absolute hot condensate of a network partner in order to pre-heat boiler In relation to volumes sold feed water for our own steam generation. Consequently, we are 12.0 1.2 saving approx. 4,000 metric tons of steam per year. 10.0 0.90 1.0 Furthermore, as an active partner, we have been involved 0.83 since 2018 in the IN4climate.NRW initiative, a new working 8.0 0.69 0.701) 0.8 5.7 platform for industry, science and regional government, the only 5.4 6.0 5.01) 0.6 4.7 one of its kind in Germany to date. The aim of the initiative is to 4.0 0.4 devise strategies for how industry in North Rhine-Westphalia 0.18 can become highly competitive, generate additional growth 2.0 1.0 0.2 and play its part in attaining the Paris climate-change targets. 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) Specifically, the partners will work together in innovation teams 1) Figure restated 2) Continuing operations to address how production processes and value chains can be made climate-neutral on a long-term basis, or what role industry In fiscal year 2018, both absolute and specific VOC e­ missions might play in the development of climate-friendly products. fell by almost 80%. Here, too, the ARLANXEO transaction conScientific partners will perform the requisite studies, while tributed significantly to this improvement. regional government experts work on creating innovationand climate-friendly frameworks. Set up for an initial four years, the Systematic energy management project is receiving €16 million in funding from the regional A high level of energy efficiency improves not just our emisgovernment. sions footprint, but also our cost position, thus ultimately making LANXESS more competitive. In Germany, we have established Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet) in petajoule in gigajoule per metric ton of product an energy management system in line with the ISO 50001 standard. The validity of the certificate was reconfirmed in Absolute In relation to volumes sold 2018. In addition to the Zwijndrecht site, our other Belgium sites were also included in the matrix certificate under ISO 50001 90 9.0 7.46 7.44 in the reporting year. The Bitterfeld and Bergkamen sites in 75 7.14 7.241) 7.5 Germany each hold a local certificate. Outside Germany and 60 51.91) 6.0 Belgium, we are continuing to pursue our strategy of regional 47.3 48.3 48.4 5.05 45 4.5 and local certifications. 28.0 With our Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen 30 3.0 sites in Germany, since the end of 2017, we have been part of 15 1.5 the Energy Efficiency Networks Initiative, established by the ­G erman federal government and leading industry associations. 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182) 1) Figure restated An Energy Efficiency Network consists of 8 to 15 companies. 2) Continuing operations Once a network is up and running, an experienced energy consultant identifies opportunities to increase energy ­efficiency at each company. Based on this analysis, each company formulates an individual reduction target and underpins it with measures. In addition, the network as a whole sets an efficiency target for LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Climate Action and Energy Efficiency 41 ✓ Following the sale of our remaining interest in ARLANXEO, our NGR absolute energy consumption in fiscal year 2018 fell significantly. In continuing operations, specific energy consumption improved significantly in the reporting year. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region in petajoule/% 19.7% 100% 80.3% 63.2% North America Germany 3.5 PJ 14.1 PJ 36.8% 6.2% 8.1% 24.4% EMEA 46.7% 85.7% (excluding Germany) Latin America 28.9% 5.8 PJ Asia-Paciﬁc 1.4 PJ 3.2 PJ Direct energy sources Direct energy sources (biomass) Indirect energy sources Sustainable logistics To transport our rail freight in Germany, we continue to use ✓ We select our transportation solutions individually worldwide the TÜV SÜD-tested Eco-Plus service of the logistics company NGR in line with the principles of safety, punctuality and cost-efficiency. DB Cargo. The power required for transportation is obtained from In doing so, we also take into account the CO2 emissions resulting regenerative energy sources. As a result, we can reduce our CO2 from transportation. In particular, we are eager to step up our use emissions in national rail transportation by almost 75% compared of ships. Furthermore, we are increasingly using comparatively with conventional options. low-emission combined-transport options, where most of the distance involved is covered by train, barge or sea vessel, thus keeping initial and final journeys by road to an absolute minimum. Europe in particular has a strong infrastructure for these types of transportation. However, increased use of rail means that combined transport is even an option for long-distance connections to China. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 42 Corporate Responsibility SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Management of chemicals control regulations Complying with global chemicals control regulations is an In signing the Responsible Care® Global Charter, LANXESS essential prerequisite for the saleability and safe handling of our committed itself to comprehensive product responsibility. This chemicals and products across the whole value chain. ­initiative launched by the International Council of Chemical LANXESS ensures the implementation of binding and voluntary ­Associations (ICCA) made a significant contribution to the develop­ requirements using an electronic safety data system. Safety data ment of the “Global Product Strategy” (GPS). It aims to provide basic sheets in more than 40 languages provide our customers world­information and risk assessments of materials in order to minimize wide with data on the materials and inform them of the protective harmful effects of chemicals on human health and the environment measures required when handling the respective chemicals. We and to manufacture and distribute products in a way avoids harm regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to take account to people and the environment. In line with the above obligations, of new features in the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Clasour product responsibility covers the safe handling of chemical sification and Labeling of Chemicals) in the different countries. materials and products throughout their lifecycle – from research The GHS is a system under the auspices of the United Nations and development, procurement and production, storage and transthat aims to globally harmonize existing classification and labeling portation through to marketing, further processing and disposal. systems from different sectors such as transportation, consumer The “Guideline on Product Safety Management at LANXESS” protection, employee protection, and environmental protection. We stipulates how product responsibility is to be exercised throughout take account of regional aspects in the implementation of the GHS, the Group and ensures collaboration between all of the parties such as the CLP Regulation (Regulation on Classification, Labeling involved. This particularly applies to substances in our product and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) in Europe. portfolio that are classified as hazardous. With the “Central ProdWe explicitly support the goal of the EU chemicals regulauct Monitoring” guideline, we systematically manage the global tion REACH: to ensure a high level of protection for human health monitoring of our products and their application with regard to and the environment. We have so far pre-registered or registered possible health and environmental effects. Our product developers all ­relevant materials for LANXESS with the central European and product safety experts incorporate the experience gathered ­Chemicals A ­ gency (ECHA) on schedule. As of the end of the third into their assessments. Our guideline “Development of New or registration phase on May 31, 2018, around 1,000 materials that Changed Products, Processes and Applications” stipulates that we produce in or import to Europe in quantities of more than one development ideas already have to be examined systematically metric ton per year had been registered in line with the REACH with regard to their potential economic, environmental and soprocess. We systematically evaluate all necessary information on cial impact. In this way, we ensure that unsustainable products, our materials and their uses for the registration. In doing so, we processes or applications no longer occur in our development consider the whole product lifecycle and determine safe conditions process. for use. In the context of the German chemical industry’s volunParticularly in the case of consumer applications – for tary commitment to recording and assessing materials (voluntary ­example, use as an additive in food or animal feed, in contact commitment of the German chemical industry association VCI, with drinking water or food, or in cosmetic, pharmaceutical, or 1997), we always determine an informative basic data set based medical products – it is extremely important to us that our prodon the REACH Regulation that goes beyond the legal requirements, ucts meet high national and international standards, certificates, including for our intermediate products. and quality seals. We thereby actively support our customers with Similar chemicals control regulations to those in the EU now the authorization of materials to be used in contact with drinking also exist in many other countries, and the number of them is still water, for example, or with further processing of our products into increasing. Before manufacturing or exporting our products, we certified goods for end consumers. By intensively exchanging therefore check their saleability under the applicable chemicals information with our customers and suppliers, we achieve greater laws in the countries concerned. We register our materials and transparency and safety throughout the whole product lifecycle. products in accordance with local requirements. We support the responsible authorities’ material assessment programs by supplying all available information and determining new data where necessary. Here we benefit from our experience from the REACH process. We are currently dealing with increasing requirements particularly in the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Turkey and the U.S. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Sustainable Product Portfolio 43 Business-Driven Innovation Comprehensive analysis of our product portfolio Throughout the LANXESS Group, we work intensively with from a sustainability perspective the results of this assessment in order to further improve the susIn order to take effective sustainable action, we need to know tainability performance of our product portfolio. The increased the effects of our business activities – both positive and negative understanding of our products’ capabilities can also provide – as precisely as possible. With a specially developed assessment important impetus for innovation. In addition, it also makes it system, we have established a strategic management tool that clear which areas still show a need for action – which can lead to enables us to systematically assess and improve the sustainability ­specific improvement processes, but can also be aimed at creating performance of our product portfolio with regard to economic, ­acceptance for a certain topic in stakeholder dialog. The following environmental and social aspects. The system analyzes the effects example shows how we derive specific measures from our analysis: and benefits of our products based on criteria that we consider relevant for our company and for society as a whole. ›› With a product line of high-purity polyurethane prepolymers, known as low-free products, our Urethane Systems business Criteria for Our Product Portfolio Analysis unit has once again demonstrated its global technology Impact on society Support for development goals leadership. Using the new products with very low residual Societal acceptance monomer content reduces workers’ exposure to potentially Safety in end use carcinogenic materials. Ecological impact Raw material efficiency in production Energy efficiency in production Emissions and waste balance sheet in production Water risks Impact on the environment during use BUSINESS-DRIVEN INNOVATION Economic impact Registration, evaluation and approval Profitability By developing innovative processes and products, LANXESS Demand trend makes a significant contribution to increasing the company’s competitiveness. At the same time, we help our customers make Based on this list of criteria, we carry out an annual assesstheir business more sustainable. We often advance productand ment of our entire product portfolio – followed by a review by an application-­oriented innovations in cooperation with our customers internal panel of experts – as part of our strategy process. This and suppliers. process has revealed which of our products satisfy the sustainIn the year under review, our Leather business unit reached ability requirements we have defined and can help us to deliver an important milestone with regard to its innovative technology for solutions for key sustainability challenges. recycling waste products in leather production: The pilot facility in use at the tannery Heller-Leder GmbH & Co. KG in Lower Saxony Evaluation Processes successfully completed its test operation. It uses chromium-free shavings, trimming waste, and vegetable biomass to produce List of criteria retanning agents with the brand name “X-Biomer.” In the next step, the technology – which won the German Innovation Award Evaluation of product portfolio for Climate and Environment in 2018 – is to start series production. The Leather business unit is currently planning the construction of the first three production facilities. Review by expert committee We also continuously develop our products in the field of ­high-tech plastics with regard to the requirements of a s­ ustainable Products which satisfy Products which do not world. For example, this is the case for the continuous fiber-­ or exceed our sustainability fully satisfy our sustainability requirements requirements reinforced thermoplastic composites with the brand name ­Tepex. These are becoming increasingly important in lightweight construction of vehicles and can thus be found in a growing number Benchmarking and Stakeholder dialog, speciﬁc of series applications – for example, in front-end and bumper best-practice analyses action plans or termination of production supports, brake pedals, load-through systems, and tank reinforcements. The High Performance Materials business unit is currently developing electromagnetically shielding versions of the composite specifically for components in electrified vehicle drive systems. In this way, we can contribute to further increasing the performance efficiency – and thus ultimately the market appeal – of electric mobility. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 44 Corporate Responsibility High-quality lubricants can also make a significant contri­ VALUING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS bution to more climate-friendly mobility. Such lubricants require additives that firstly reduce friction and secondly protect against Customer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among our wear. With Additin® RC3502, our Additives business unit has most important measures of success. Via a central inquiry managedeveloped a new product to the stage of marketability which comment system, customers can obtain information on our products, bines these properties and thereby significantly improves its applitheir applications and potential risks, and product certificates. cation at the customer. Additin® RC3502 is stable, non-­corrosive Critical feedback from customers gives us valuable information on and free of mineral additives. Thanks to these properties, it makes how we can further improve our products and processes. Based on engines more efficient and long-lasting, as well as reducing the a central CRM system and a uniform complaint management platamount of fuel required. form, each of our business units has its own marketand customer-­ It is not just in our products that we implement targeted develoriented complaint management processes. Shared elements of opments, but also in our research and development infrastructure. these processes include clear targets, for example in relation to For example, in the third quarter of 2018 we started operations at a processing times for customer complaints, a corresponding statisnew laboratory for application development and technical services tical analysis of the complaints received, and structured monthly in the field of polyurethane dispersions (PUD) in Latina, Italy. This reporting to the management of the respective business unit. forms part of our existing development center in the Urethane In the year under review, the majority of the customer comSystems business unit. Sustainability is the driving factor in this plaints that were classified as justified following a review were case, too, as growing regulatory pressure on the use of chemicals attributable to logistics and particularly to the packaging of our is encouraging applied research into water-based technologies. products. In such cases, we always aim to find a sustainable soluTherefore, the establishment of an application technology center tion to the problem that occurred together with our customer and for this purpose is entirely consistent with our commitment to the responsible logistics partner. For example, in 2018 we counenvironmentally friendly technologies. tered corrosion of p-chloride vats in the Additives business unit by We also generate impetus for innovation by means of cooper­ using a different type of seal. Meanwhile, the Leather business unit ations with universities. In the year under review, ­Urethane successfully introduced a system for securing pallets in containers ­Systems extended and expanded its cooperation with the ­Center in line with customers’ needs. This directly resulted in faster and for ­U Mass/Industry Research on Polymers (CUMIRP) at the safer unloading and a considerably lower number of complaints. ­University of M ­ assachusetts Amherst in the U.S. Since October Regular customer surveys conducted by an external service 2018, the business unit has also been involved in Cluster M, which provider bring us important findings about our customers’ loyalty, focuses on research into the mechanics and manufacturing of their expectations, and their perception of our services in compar­polymers and composites. The cluster’s research areas include ison to competitors. Each business unit conducts an anonymous innovations in the field of additive manufacturing technologies and online survey once every two years. In the 2017/2018 survey, the next-­generation 3D printing formulations. As part of this coope­ customer loyalty index score was 75.1, on a par with the previous ration, we are introduced to the latest technological developments year. Based on the results of the customer satisfaction analysis, in the field of 3D printing and additive manufacturing, gain access we will continue to implement targeted measures in the business to unique test equipment, and become part of a powerful industrial units in order to at least maintain this very good level of customer network in this area. satisfaction and keep successfully retaining our customers. In the previous year, we had already gained promising ­access to the German start-up scene with a financial investment in the “High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) III.” This fund pursues the goal of supporting promising start-ups in the technology sector in order to bring inventions to the stage where they are ready for the market. The fund covers a wide variety of topics: robotics, the Internet of Things (IoT), energy, medical and biotechnology, chemistry and software. This investment will help us gain access to new technologies and identify partners for cooperations. Further information on the topic of research and development can be found in the Combined Management Report on page 66 of this Annual Report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 LANXESS ON THE CAPITAL MARKET 46 LANXESS ON THE CAPITAL MARKET LANXESS on the Capital Market On January 23, 2018, the LANXESS stock reached a new all-time high of €74.78. At the end of the reporting period, however, the share followed the downward trend on the overall market and marked a significant decline on an annual basis. The sale of the 50% share in ARLANXEO, the joint venture for rubber business, was evaluated positively on the capital market. Due to the improved risk profile, the rating agencies S&P, Moody’s and Scope ­upgraded their credit ratings for LANXESS. 2018 was a challenging year for the German stock market. Our stock reached an all-time high of €74.78 shortly after the The DAX ended the year down 18.3% at 10,559 points on Decembeginning of the year on January 23, 2018. In the first half of 2018, ber 28. The MDAX , in which the LANXESS stock is listed, showed the performance of our stock largely followed the fluctuations of a comparable development. It ended the stock market year 2018 at the market. Over the rest of the year, the stock price initially marked 21,588 points, corresponding to a year-on-year decrease of 17.6%. a stable sideways movement between €60 and €70 before falling The international, sector-specific benchmark index for LANXESS, significantly in the fourth quarter in step with the overall market and the MSCI World Chemicals Index, also suffered losses and ended the chemical sector. The LANXESS stock ended the stock market the year at a closing price of 294 points, down 13.9% as against year 2018 at €40.20. Despite a positive or stable performance over the previous year. large parts of the reporting period, this represents a decrease of 39.4% for the year as a whole. LANXESS Stock at a Glance 2015 2016 2017 2018 Capital stock/no. of shares1) €/no. of shares 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 Market capitalization1) € billion 3.91 5.71 6.07 3.68 High/low (intraday) for the period1) € 56.50/33.53 63.53/32.90 70.67/59.89 74.78/39.61 Closing price € 42.68 62.35 66.29 40.20 Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and ­amortization of intangible assets2) € 2.03 2.69 3.84 4.45 Dividend per share € 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.903) 1) As of end of year: December 31, 2015; December 31, 2016; December 31, 2017; December 31, 2018 2) E  arnings per share pre exceptionals and amortization of intangible assets: earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and ­attributable tax effects as well as non-recurring earnings effects of the U.S. tax reform in 2017. The figures shown for 2017 and 2018 relate to continuing operations. 3) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2019 Capital Market Information STOCKHOLDER STRUCTURE Class No-par shares ISIN DE0005470405 LANXESS’s stockholder structure predominantly consists WKN (German 547040 ­securities identificaof institutional investors pursuing a growthor value-oriented tion number) investment strategy. As of the end of 2018, the percentage of Selective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM, such investors in the stockholder structure was still around 92% MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and Europe, (previous year: 92%). The remaining roughly 8% of LANXESS FTSE4Good stocks are held by private investors. Investment grade Standard & Poor’s: BBB (stable) In 2018, as in the past, the regional focus of our institutional ratings Moody’s: Baa2 (stable) Scope: BBB+ (stable) investors in 2018 was in the U.S., Germany and Great Britain. The percentage of U.S. stockholders most recently increased slightly to around 41% (previous year: 39%). As of the reporting date, an unchanged percentage of around 22% (previous year: 22%) DIVIDEND POLICY of LANXESS stocks were held in Germany, while the holdings of institutional investors from Great Britain decreased slightly to LANXESS has been pursuing a consistent dividend policy for around 12% (previous year: 16%). years. Our goal remains to increase the dividend each year or at The share of institutional investors from elsewhere in Europe least to keep it at a stable level. At the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting was unchanged year-on-year at around 13% (previous year: 13%). in Cologne on May 23, 2019, the Board of Management and the By contrast, the share of institutional investors from other regions Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of €0.90 per share. rose slightly to around 12% (previous year: 11%). An overview of LANXESS Annual Report 2018 LANXESS on the Capital Market 47 the institutional investors that are required to report a holding of at LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. least 3% of the outstanding LANXESS stocks to us can be found Corporates Index in the BBB range1) in the investor relations section of our website. Basis points 120 100 80 BONDS 60 40 In the fiscal year 2018, we successfully placed a Eurobond in 20 an increasingly restrictive market environment. The €500 million 0 bond has a term of seven years and an annual interest coupon –20 of 1.125%. We used this issue to refinance a Eurobond issued in Jan. 1, 2018 Dec. 31,2018 2011 that we repaid at the end of its seven-year term in May 2018. LANXESS Eurobond 2018 LANXESS Eurobond 2022 This bond has a volume of €500 million and an annual interest LANXESS Eurobond 2026 BBB Corporates, 5 years coupon of 4.125%. LANXESS Eurobond 2021 LANXESS Eurobond 2025 At present, there are thus four LANXESS bonds and one 1) The LANXESS hybrid bond that matures in 2076 is not included in the overview hybrid bond on the market. All existing LANXESS Eurobonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Their respective terms and conditions The development of the LANXESS credit spreads shows can be viewed in the investor relations section of our website. investors’ increased risk aversion in a second half of 2018 that was characterized by economic and political uncertainty. Nonetheless, Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds the credit spread for the LANXESS bonds highlights our still very ISIN/WKN Volume Duration Coupon competitive access to capital market finance. XS1501363425 €500 October 7, 2016– 0.250% million October 7, 2021 XS0855167523 €500 November 21, 2012– 2.625% RATINGS million November 21, 2022 XS1820748538 €500 May 16, 2018– 1.125% million May 16, 2025 Our strategic corporate goal is to maintain an investment-grade XS1501367921 €500 October, 7 2016– 1.000% rating. LANXESS’s creditworthiness has been assessed by the rating million October, 7 2026 agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service for many years already. In 2018, LANXESS was also assessed by a European rating agency, Scope Ratings, for the first time. LANXESS Hybrid Bond (Subordinated)1) Following the announcement of the complete sale of ISIN/WKN Volume Duration our joint venture in the rubber business, ARLANXEO, as of XS1405763019 €500 December 6, 2016–December 6, 2076 ­December 31, 2018, all three rating agencies upgraded LANXESS’s million credit rating in ­August 2018 already. Standard & Poor’s moved Coupon Redemption options its rating up from “BBB–” to “BBB” due to LANXESS’s reduced 4.500% until the first First option on June 6, 2023, and thereafter ­redemption option; subsequent annually; additional redemption rights in cyclicality and improved risk profile, and kept the outlook at stable. adjustment of interest rate as defined special circumstances Moody’s Investor Service emphasized the increased financial flexdescribed in prospectus ibility associated with the ­ARLANXEO transaction and upgraded 1) Simplified  description; see prospectus for full conditions of the bond and the its rating from “Baa3” to “Baa2” with an unchanged stable outlook. associated risks Scope Ratings praised LANXESS’s strengthened financial profile and conservative financial policy and improved its rating from In addition to the absolute price performance, another import“BBB” to “BBB+,” with the outlook remaining stable. This reflects ant parameter for corporate bonds is the relative measurement of the rating agencies’ confidence in the successful implementation the company-specific credit risk in comparison to a reference interof the strategy by the LANXESS management. An overview of the est rate. This credit risk premium is reflected in the credit spread. development of LANXESS’s ratings and their outlooks since 2014 can be found on page 82 of this Annual Report. Detailed information, downloadable publications, and contacts are always available in the investor relations section of the LANXESS website. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 49 Corporate Governance Report The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of good corporate governance, with a view to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein CORPORATE CONSTITUTION report on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Further inforLANXESS AG is a stock corporation established under the mation about corporate governance can be found in the Board of laws of Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German Management’s declaration on corporate governance pursuant to stock corporation law is the two-tier management system with the Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code. This is governing bodies of management board and supervisory board. published in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report This system is characterized by a clear separation between the on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/Corporate management board as the body that manages a company and Governance. the supervisory board as the body that advises and oversees The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of management. Concurrent membership on both boards is strictly LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and prohibited. The management board and the supervisory board responsible corporate governance and control. They place high work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for the benefit value on the standards of good corporate governance, with a view of the company. to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. Board of Management The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has four members. Information about the members of the Board of Management IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GERMAN is available on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Corporate Governance/Board of Management. The Board of Management is appointed to manage and repreAs LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German sent the company. It is responsible for conducting business in the stock exchange, corporate governance at the company is aligned company’s interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The with Germany’s securities and capital market legislation, regulaprincipal tasks of the Board of Management include defining the tions pertaining to codetermination and the German Corporate company’s goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations and sugthe operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging the gestions concerning corporate governance. There is no obligation company’s financing, and establishing an effective risk management to comply with this code. Pursuant to Section 161 of the German system. The Board of Management has a duty to ensure compliance Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management and Supervisory with legislation, regulatory requirements and the company’s internal Board of LANXESS make an annual declaration of compliance, directives. It is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and halfin the past and going forward, with the recommendations and year financial statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code. The the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and current declaration of compliance of March 13, 2019, and the the management report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. previous declarations are published on the LANXESS website The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Manageunder Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. Reasons were ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with given for non-compliance with one of the recommendations of a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting the German Corporate Governance Code valid when the current vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed declaration of compliance was issued. In addition, two suggestions at regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of were not fully implemented. Management that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. The Board LANXESS Annual Report 2018 50 Corporate Governance of Management has not formed any committees. In deciding the The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, composition of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board which, in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership qualities Supervisory Board and the personal qualifications of its members, and diversity in line with its regulations. It has defined an age limit establishes the processes for convening, preparing and chairing for members of the Board of Management. meetings as well as the procedures for voting. By way of implementing the law on the equal representation of The Report of the Supervisory Board details the Supervisory women and men in management positions in the private and public Board’s work. sectors, which came into force on May 1, 2015, the Supervisory Board has set a new a target for the proportion of women on the Goals for composition and skills profile of Board of Management of LANXESS AG for the period starting the Supervisory Board after June 30, 2017. Accordingly, at least one woman should be According to Paragraph 5.4.1 of the German Corporate appointed to the Board of Management by June 30, 2022. G ­ overnance Code, the Supervisory Board should state specific goals for its composition and devise a skills profile for the entire body. Supervisory Board The state of achievement of the goals and completion of the skills The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of profile should be published in the Corporate Governance Report. twelve members, with equal numbers of stockholder represenAt the same time, the Corporate Governance Report should protatives and employee representatives, in accordance with the vide information about what the Supervisory Board regards as the provisions of the German Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockappropriate number of independent Supervisory Board members holder representatives are elected by the Annual Stockholders representing stockholders. Meeting, whereas the employee representatives are elected in accordance with the provisions of the Codetermination Act and Goals for composition, skills profile its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members normally The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG serve for a five-year term. are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills and proInformation about the members of the Supervisory Board fessional experience to perform their duties. They autonomously is available on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/ undertake the necessary training required for their tasks and Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. are supported in their efforts by the company. In addition to the The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Manrequirements applicable to each individual member of the Superagement in its management of the company and to monitor its visory Board such as integrity, commitment, professionalism and conduct of the business. The Supervisory Board discusses the independence, the entire Supervisory Board should be composed company’s business performance and the Board of Management’s in such a way to ensure that the Board of Management receives planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also qualified supervision by and advice from the Supervisory Board. include appointing the members of the Board of Management as The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG has devised a skills well as reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS AG and profile which stipulates that in-depth specialist knowledge and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. experience in the following fields are represented; the chemical Moreover, it resolves on the Board of Management’s proposal industry, particularly international industrial chemistry, managefor the appropriation of the distributable profit and reports to the ment of major international companies, corporate governance/ Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board reaches compliance, corporate strategies, large-scale investments/M&A, its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a different production, marketing and sale of chemical products, key sales majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman markets of LANXESS, research and development, procurement of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on the of raw ­materials, energy and services, HR management/codeterresolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codetermimination, capital markets/investor relations, corporate financing, nation Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. accounting and auditing, risk management and IT/digitalization The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in should be represented. In its current composition, the Supervisory the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the Board fulfills these goals and completes the skills profile. The concerns of the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions members of the Supervisory Board possess the professional and are usually adopted at regularly held meetings. An overview of personal qualifications regarded as essential. They are all familiar the attendance of Supervisory Board members at meetings of with the sector in which LANXESS operates and possess the the Supervisory Board and its committees in fiscal year 2018 knowledge, skills and experience that are crucial to the company. can be found on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/ In its proposals to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for filling Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. vacant positions on the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board takes account of the targets for the composition of the Supervisory Board and, at the same time, endeavors to complete the skills profile for the entire body. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report 51 Independence Diversity applies equally to gender. In accordance with the The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure the law on the equal representation of women and men in manageprovision of impartial advice and supervision to the Board of Manment positions in the private and public sectors, codetermined agement. All current Supervisory Board members are indepenstock corporations like LANXESS AG are required to appoint at dent in the sense of Paragraph 5.4.2 of the German ­Corporate least 30% women and 30% men when filling Supervisory Board Governance Code. In its assessment of employee representapositions that become vacant from January 1, 2016. Existing tives, the Supervisory Board also assumes that their ability to appointments – including those of substitute members – can run act independently is not affected by their status as employees until they end regularly. Four of the twelve members currently of the company or members of labor unions. No member of the serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board are women, Supervisory Board has a personal or business relationship with which represents a proportion of over 30%. The company therethe company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or fore complies with the legal requirements for gender diversity any enterprise affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may and will also take these into account when filling positions on the cause a material and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No Supervisory Board in future. former member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board Composition and work of the also aims for all future members of the Supervisory Board to be Supervisory Board committees independent and free of conflicts of interest. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, ParaAge limit and length of membership graph 3 of the German Codetermination Act and a Nominations The Supervisory Board has defined an age limit for its mem­Committee formed from among its members. The composition bers, which is contained in the rules of procedure for the Superof the ­Supervisory Board committees is shown on the LANXESS visory Board. Supervisory Board members shall not continue to website under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Superserve after the end of the Stockholders’ Meeting following their visory Board/Work of the Supervisory Board. 80th birthday. This also takes into account the maximum length The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares of membership of the Supervisory Board of generally not more the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. In addition, than three full terms of office (15 years) that has been specified it makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are by the Supervisory Board. already included in the company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights Diversity pursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred instead principles of diversity in its composition. LANXESS is a global of the Supervisory Board. It consults regularly about long-term company with a correspondingly wide range of customers and succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, suppliers. LANXESS employees come from many different counthe Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made tries. This is why membership of the LANXESS Supervisory must by the Supervisory Board. also be international. By international, we do not mean merely in The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in the sense of a specific nationality. A different cultural background overseeing the conduct of the business and deals with matters (ethnicity) also plays a role here. Cross-cultural characteristics and relating to the supervision of accounting, the accounting process, experiences, which can also be acquired through education or proeffectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management fessional activity, are crucial. The Supervisory Board membership system and the internal auditing system, as well as auditing, includmust therefore be characterized by an openness to other cultures ing the independence of the auditor and the work ­additionally perand an understanding of international issues and relations. On the formed by the auditor, and compliance. It prepares the Supervisory basis of their various personal and professional backgrounds, the Board’s resolutions concerning the annual financial statements members of the Supervisory Board contribute a broad spectrum of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the of experience and skills. The global reach of LANXESS AG and LANXESS Group and recommends an auditor who the Supervisory the different cultural characteristics of Supervisory Board memBoard then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for bers have been reflected in the composition of the Supervisory appointment. Dr. Janssen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates to is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to and experience in the field of accounting acquired through his the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills professional activities. of the members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the while working abroad for a long period or in an international field. German Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in The company’s Supervisory Board contains members from three Section 31, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. different countries (Germany, Netherlands, U.S.). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 52 Corporate Governance The Nominations Committee comprises solely stockholder REPORTABLE SECURITIES representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory TRANSACTIONS Board to nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the and persons closely related to them are required to disclose transSupervisory Board on the work of the committees. actions in shares or debt securities of LANXESS AG or associated financial instruments if the total volume of such transactions in any given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Reportable STOCKHOLDERS AND securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETINGS The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the December 31, 2018, was less than 1% of all shares issued by Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resothe company. lutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the company. Each share confers one vote. RISK MANAGEMENT AND The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting COMPLIANCE include appropriation of the distributable profit, ratification of the actions taken by the members of the Board of Management and Key characteristics of the risk management system and internal the Supervisory Board, appointment of the auditors and election control system as well as information on compliance can be found of the stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The in the Combined Management Report for LANXESS AG and the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting also resolves on amendments to the LANXESS Group. articles of association, measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Board of ManACCOUNTING AND AUDITING agement and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation Act requires the convening LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain situations. and interim financial statements in line with the International ­Financial All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligiReporting Standards (IFRS), as applicable in the ­European Union. bility to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG are p ­ repared in their voting rights shall be allowed to participate in the Annual accordance with the provisions of the ­German Commercial Code. Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting After being adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board, the rights at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in person, through annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements of a proxy of their own choosing or through a company-nominated LANXESS AG as well as the ­combined management report are pubproxy who acts according to their instructions. lished within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. The c­ ompany’s accounting for fiscal year 2018 was audited by the auditor Price­ waterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft COMPENSATION REPORT (“PwC”), elected by 2018 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The condensed financial statements and interim management report The compensation report, which describes the compensation included in the 2018 half-year financial report was also reviewed by system and the amount of compensation paid to the members of PwC. PwC was appointed following an external tender procedure, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board for their service which last took place in 2016. Mr. Jörg Sechser has been the rein fiscal year 2018, is part of the Combined Management Report sponsible auditor since 2017. The audits are conducted in line with for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. German auditing regulations and in compliance with the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW). The statutory requirements and rotation obligations in Sections 319 and 319a of the German Commercial Code are fulfilled. The auditor has agreed to immediately inform the Supervisory Board of any possible reasons for disqualification or conflicts that may arise, as well as any material findings or events in the course of the audit. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report 53 OFFICES HELD BY BOARD OF MANAGEMENT MEMBERS Offices held by serving Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2018) Member of the Board of Management External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG •C hairman of the Executive Board of Management (joined on January 31, 2018) LANXESS Deutschland GmbH •C hairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. (until December 31, 2018) Dr. Hubert Fink Member of the Board of •M ember of the Executive Board of Management LANXESS Deutschland GmbH • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH Michael Pontzen Chief Financial Officer •M ember of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. •M ember of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. (until December 31, 2018) •M ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. •M ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Board of •M ember of the Executive Board of Management and Labor CURRENTA Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Relations Director • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. •E xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. •C hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. •C hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. •C hairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd. • Member  of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Japan K.K. •M ember of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 54 Corporate Governance SUPERVISORY BOARD OF LANXESS AG Serving members Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber (Chairman since May 15, 2018) • Self-employed consultant • Former Chairman of the Management Board of ALTANA AG Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) (Chairman since May 15, 2018) • ALTANA AG, Wesel1) • Grillo Werke AG, Duisburg1) • ARDEX GmbH, Witten (Chairman of the Advisory Board) • Cabot Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts (U.S.) Birgit Bierther • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Cologne site Further offices: • None Werner Czaplik • Chairman of the LANXESS Central Works Council and of the LANXESS Group Works Council • Member of the LANXESS Works Council at the Leverkusen site Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets • Chairman of the LANXESS Group Managerial Employees’ Committee and Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee; manager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Dr. Heike Hanagarth • Self-employed management consultant • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • aichele GROUP GmbH & Co. KG, Bretten (Advisory Board) • Gilde Buy Out Partners BV, Utrecht, Netherlands Dr. Friedrich Janssen • Member of the Supervisory Boards of various commercial enterprises • Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • National-Bank AG, Essen1) • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman of the Advisory Committee) Pamela Knapp (since May 15, 2018) • Member of the Boards of Management and Supervisory Boards of various European commercial enterprises • Former CFO of GfK SE Further offices: • NV Bekaert SA, Kortrijk, Belgium (Member of the Board of Directors) • Panalpina World Transport (Holding) AG, Basel, Switzerland (Member of the Board of Directors) • Compagnie de Saint-Gobain S.A., Courbevoie, France (Member of the Board of Directors – Conseil d’Administration) • Peugeot S.A., Rueil-Malmaison, France (Member of the Supervisory Board – Conseil de Surveillance) • HKP Group AG, Zürich, Switzerland (Member of the Board of Directors) LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report 55 Serving members Thomas Meiers • S ecretary to the Board of Directors, Board Division 3 “Digitalization/Labor/Members” of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), Hanover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne1) • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne1) Lawrence A. Rosen • Member of the Supervisory Boards of various commercial enterprises • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Post AG, Bonn Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Qiagen N.V., Venlo, Netherlands Ralf Sikorski • Member of the Executive Committee of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hanover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) (Vice Chairman) • Chemie Pensionsfonds AG, Munich1) (Chair) (since January 1, 2018) • RAG AG, Herne1) • RAG Deutsche Steinkohle AG, Herne1) • RWE AG, Essen1) • RWE Power AG, Cologne and Essen1) (Vice Chairman) • RWE Generation SE, Essen1) • KSBG – Kommunale Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, Essen1) (Vice Chairman) Manuela Strauch • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Uerdingen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Theo H. Walthie • Self-employed consultant • Former Global Business Group President for the Hydrocarbons & Energy Business of the Dow Chemical Company Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basel, Switzerland (Chairman of the Board of Directors) 1) S  tatutory supervisory boards The information about offices held refers to memberships in other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2018). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 56 Corporate Governance Report of the Supervisory Board DEAR STOCKHOLDERS, LANXESS closed 2018 with a very strong result despite the association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to environment becoming increasingly challenging. approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed Three of our four segments significantly improved their rethese actions in detail and adopted resolutions on them. sults. The Specialty Additives segment, which contains a large The chairs of the Supervisory Board/Presidial Committee and part of the recently acquired Chemtura businesses, performed Audit Committee and the Board of Management were in regular particularly strongly. The realization of synergies contributed to contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. We disthe improvement in earnings here. In total, the Group posted a cussed the company’s current situation and material transactions. significant increase in EBITDA to €1.016 billion. In 2018, LANXESS reached a major milestone in its transformation with the severance of its volatile rubber business. The PRINCIPAL TOPICS DISCUSSED BY THE remaining share in the joint venture ARLANXEO was sold for SUPERVISORY BOARD ­approximately €1.4 billion in cash. Pension assets were increased by €200 million from these funds and debt was reduced as a result. The Supervisory Board met a total of eight times in the Our stockholders will benefit by a further €200 million from the r­ eporting year 2017. We regularly discussed the sales and e­ arnings buyback of treasury shares. performance of the Group and its segments, as well as the financial 2019 will continue to be influenced by political and economic position. Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated uncertainties. Nevertheless, we are assuming that business will about the overall state of the economy, the situation in the c­ hemical remain stable. LANXESS now has a stronger balance sheet as industry, the performance of LANXESS stock, investment and a sound platform for further growth. Having achieved a more ­acquisition plans and sustainability issues. The Supervisory Board balanced product portfolio, the Group will further consolidate its addressed the following important issues: business through operational improvement measures and the The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 13, ongoing investment program. 2018, was the review of the annual financial statements and During the reporting year, the Supervisory Board duly and fully ­consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2017 and the properformed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the posal for use of the distributable profit. We discussed and approved articles of association and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory the non-financial Group report 2017, which shows the sustainability Board. It regularly advised the Board of Management in its manageaspects pursued by the company. The Supervisory Board also ment of the company and monitored its activity. In the process, we discussed and passed motions for resolution by the Annual Stockwere satisfied at all times by the legality, ­usefulness and propriety holders’ Meeting and reviewed corporate governance matters. of the Board of Management’s work. The Supervisory Board spent The Board of Management then presented the internal control, a particularly significant amount of time dealing with the company’s risk management and auditing systems, and we satisfied ourselves strategic development and the sale of the rubber activities clustered of their efficacy. Lastly, the Supervisory Board decided upon the in the joint venture ARLANXEO to the joint venture partner Saudi variable compensation for the Board of Management members Aramco Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) in the reporting year. for fiscal year 2017 on the basis of the identified target attainment. The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions At the meeting on May 3, 2018, the Supervisory Board of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Man­resolved to reappoint Mr. Matthias Zachert as a member of the agement informed us regularly in written and oral reports about Board of Management and to make him Chairman for the period business performance, the situation of the Group, including the from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2024. The Supervisory Board also risk situation and risk management, strategic development, comresolved to assume the costs of certain security measures for the pliance, management development, the Group’s digitalization benefit of the Board of Management. We also adjusted the rules of projects and current issues. On the basis of these reports, we procedure for the Supervisory Board with regard to sustainability discussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly issues. In addition to a full report on environmental protection and examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by the Board occupational and plant safety, which was subsequently discussed of Management and discussed them at length in meetings of the by the full Supervisory Board, the Board of Management also prefull Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles of sented a divestment project to us. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report of the Supervisory Board 57 The meeting immediately before the Annual Stockholders’ on the company’s website. The stockholder representatives and Meeting on May 15, 2018, served to prepare the Meeting. After ­employee representatives to the Supervisory Board worked together the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, a constituting meeting to elect in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetings at which a new Chairman following the departure of the previous Chairman they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. The Dr. Rolf Stomberg took place. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber was elected members of the Board of Management attended the Supervisory as the new Chairman. The committees were also filled. We also Board meetings unless the Chairman of the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Rolf Stomberg as the Honorary Chairman of the determined otherwise. Supervisory Board. At the meeting on July 31, 2018, we again dealt with the company’s current M&A projects with the Board of Management. Among WORK OF THE COMMITTEES other things, we discussed the possible sale of all the shares in ARLANXEO, the joint venture for rubber business, to Saudi ­Aramco. The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Presidial We also addressed the positioning of LANXESS on the capital Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee market and again looked at the assumption of the costs of certain and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of security measures for the benefit of the Board of Management. the German Codetermination Act. The committees are tasked with In an extraordinary meeting of the Supervisory Board on preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of ­August 8, 2018, the Board of Management gave us a presentathe full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-­ tion on the advanced status of negotiations regarding the sale of making powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. all shares in ARLANXEO. The reasons for the transaction and all The Presidial Committee convened five times during the ­material ­parameters of the agreements were discussed in depth. As reporting year to prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board a r­ esult, we resolved to approve the sale of the shares in ARLANXEO and the decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board proposed by the Board of Management to the joint venture partner at its meetings concerning human resources measures in the Saudi Aramco. company’s Board of Management. At the meeting held on November 8, 2018, the Board of The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt Manage­ment first gave us a report on the current occupational in particular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG, safety situation and provided us with information about the general the consolidated financial statements and the combined manageconsiderations governing the use of the anticipated proceeds of ment report for fiscal year 2017, the quarterly statements issued the ARLANXEO transaction. We also discussed the details of the during fiscal year 2018, and the condensed consolidated finanGroup’s succession planning that we had been given. The results cial statements and interim management report included in the of an employee survey carried out worldwide were also presented 2018 half-year financial report. It also reviewed the ­company’s to us. risk management and internal control systems. Another focus At its meeting on December 6, 2018, the Supervisory Board of the ­committee’s work was the evaluation of the financial and reviewed in full and approved the corporate planning for 2019 ­accounting ­effects of the sale of the shares in ARLANXEO. The proposed by the Board of Management. We also discussed the ­Audit Committee also dealt with the concept for approving non-­ company’s strategic alignment – including sustainability aspects – audit services and the non-financial Group report 2017. Other and ­c apital expenditure policy. As in previous years, ­current ­topics discussed were the significant findings by the internal ­developments in corporate governance were a topic on the ­agenda audit department, ­c orporate planning, compliance and the of the December meeting. After reviewing compliance with the ­determination of the principal areas of focus for the audit of the recommendations and suggestions of the German Corporate 2018 financial statements. The Committee also found out about Governance Code (GCGC), we resolved to issue a declaration of the impact of changes to various IFRS standards on LANXESS’s compliance. The Supervisory Board defined the conditions for the accounting, strategies to hedge currency risks and the recent Board of Management’s variable compensation components for audit of OTC derivatives contracts pursuant to Section 20 of the fiscal year 2019 and dealt with the preparation of decisions about ­German ­Securities Trading Act. The external auditor reported on the membership of the Board of Management. the auditing activities at two of the four Audit Committee meetings. All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees perThe Nomination Committee did not meet in fiscal year 2018. formed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The ­attendance The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees was a the German Codetermination Act did not need to convene. good 97% overall. No member of the Supervisory Board attended The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meethalf or less than half of the meetings of the Supervisory Board and ings and the work of the committees at the meetings of the full the committees of which he or she is a member. An overview of Supervisory Board. the attendance of individual Supervisory Board members at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees can be found LANXESS Annual Report 2018 58 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and GCGC. The joint declarations of compliance made by the Board the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the ­Supervisory Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to ­Section 161 endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no ­objections to raise. of the German Stock Corporation Act can be viewed by stockThe Supervisory Board has approved the annual ­financial stateholders at any time on the company’s website. As expressed ments of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements in the declarations, LANXESS AG complies with the GCGC’s of the LANXESS Group, which were prepared by the Board of ­recommendations and suggestions except in one justified case. Management. The Supervisory Board endorsed the Board of No conflicts of interest on the part of Supervisory Board members Manage­ment’s proposal for use of the distributable profit ­after became known last year. Further information about corporate close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully governance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders. and the Board of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289f of the German Commercial Code. CHANGES IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND BOARD OF MANAGEMENT ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the end of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, the longstanding Chairman Dr. Rolf Stomberg left the SuThe annual financial statements prepared by the Board of pervisory Board. We have thanked him for his professional manManagement of LANXESS AG in accordance with the rules of the agement of our Supervisory Board and the mutual trust achieved German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements in working relationships as well as his contribution to the comprepared in accordance with the International Financial ­Reporting pany’s success. He had a decisive influence on the work of the Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for ­fiscal Supervisory Board since LANXESS was founded. By resolution of year 2018 were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 15, 2018, Ms. Pamela Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, the auditor Knapp was elected as a member of the Supervisory Board until appointed by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in 2023. and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The auditor issued an At the end of his period in office, which was set at one year, unqualified opinion in each case. The auditor carried out the audit on May 31, 2018, Mr. Stephen C. Forsyth left the Board of Manin accordance with Section 317 of the German Commercial Code agement of the company. and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament The Supervisory Board thanks the members of the Board of and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements Management, all of the Group’s employees around the world and regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities and repealing the employee representatives for their commitment and work in Commission Decision 2005/909/EC according to a selection fiscal year 2018. procedure implemented by the company. The auditor responsible for the audit was Mr. Jörg Sechser. The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence Cologne, March 13, 2019 of the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. The Supervisory Board The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 12, 2019. They were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 13, 2019. The responsible auditor was present for the discussions concerning Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated Chairman financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the scope, focus areas and significant findings of the audits and went into particular detail on the key audit matters. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 60 Fundamentals of the Group 60 Group Structure 60 Business Activities 62 Strategy 62 Value Management and Control System 65 Business Processes and Employees 67 Economic Report 67 Legal Environment 67 Business Conditions 68 Key Events Influencing the Company’s Business 68 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 69 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 73 Business Trends by Region 74 Segment Information 77 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals) 77 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 83 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year 84 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 85 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of LANXESS AG 86 Compensation Report 93 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 96 Report Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 96 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 60 Combined Management Report GROUP STRUCTURE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Legal structure Business organization and Group portfolio LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS On December 31, 2018, LANXESS completed the sale of its Group and functions largely as a management holding company. 50% interest in ARLANXEO to the Saudi Aramco subsidiary ­Aramco LANXESS Deutschland GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary of Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, as LANXESS AG and in turn controls the other domestic and foreign agreed on August 8, 2018. All relevant antitrust authorities had subsidiaries and affiliates. already cleared the transaction. In connection with the transaction, the The following are the principal companies wholly owned by 50% interest in ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands, LANXESS AG directly or indirectly: together with the equity investments it held, was derecognized. ARLANXEO has been reported as discontinued operations Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of in accordance with IFRS 5 since April 1, 2018. Since then, our reLANXESS AG porting has focused on continuing operations without ­ARLANXEO. Company Name and Domicile Function Segments While the statement of financial position was not restated for reportAdvanced Intermediates/ ing dates before April 1, 2018, prior-year figures were restated in Specialty Additives/ the income statement and earnings from discontinued operations LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals/ Cologne, Germany and sales Engineering Materials­ shown in a separate line. In the disclosures below, we generally do Advanced Intermediates/ not point out that prior-year figures have been restated in this conLANXESS Solutions US Inc., Production Specialty Additives/ text. In places where this is not the case, this is indicated accordingly. Middlebury, U.S. and sales Engineering Materials Advanced Intermediates/ As a result of the disposal of ARLANXEO, this operation is no Specialty Additives/ longer reported on. In the other four operating segments – ­Advanced LANXESS Corporation, Production Performance Chemicals/ Intermediates, Specialty Additives, Performance Chemicals and ­Pittsburgh, U.S. and sales Engineering Materials Saltigo GmbH, Production ­Engineering Materials – and their ten business units altogether, Leverkusen, Germany and sales Advanced Intermediates there have been no significant changes in the fiscal year 2018. LANXESS N.V., Production Advanced Intermediates/ Our business units conduct their own operations, for which Antwerp, Belgium and sales Engineering Materials they have global profit responsibility. Group functions support our LANXESS Sales ­Netherlands B.V., Sales Amsterdam, Netherlands organization Specialty Additives business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other Advanced Intermediates/ centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the LANXESS India Private Limited, Production Performance Chemicals/ business units and Group functions, the country organizations Thane, India and sales Engineering Materials Great Lakes Chemical ensure the necessary proximity to markets and provide the orga­C orporation, Wilmington, U.S. Production Specialty Additives nizational infrastructure required. On February 7, 2018, LANXESS acquired the U.S. phosphorus additives business from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay The 50% interest in ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Maastricht, including its U.S. production site in Charleston. The site manufacNetherlands, together with the equity investments it held, was tures phosphorus additives and numerous derived products such sold on December 31, 2018. as flame retardant additives and intermediates for agrochemicals. The production facility augments the global production network for phosphorusand bromine-based flame retardants, especially Management and control organization on the U.S. market. The business was integrated in the Additives LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting business unit in the Specialty Additives segment. of the Board of Management, which manages the company, and the As part of the consolidation of our plant network, we bundled Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management with production of lubricant precursors at our Elmira site in Canada the support of an Audit Committee formed from among its members and closed the former Chemtura sites Ankerweg in Amsterdam, to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management shapes Netherlands, and Rio Claro, Brazil, in 2018. We sold the production Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and site in Reynosa, Mexico, in the second half of 2018. organization. As the Group management company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communication with the company’s key stakeholders. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Group Structure 61 Business Activities Details about the scope of consolidation are provided in the We report our application-oriented process and functional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of Decemchemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. ber 31, 2018. Performance Chemicals Business units Inorganic Pigments The segments in brief Material Protection Products The business activities that LANXESS combines in its AdLeather vanced Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading Liquid Purification Technologies Sites Sydney, Australia suppliers of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in Porto Feliz, Brazil the custom synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors Changzhou, Shanghai, Ningbo, China and specialty active ingredients. Bitterfeld, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany Branston, Sudbury, Great Britain Advanced Intermediates Jhagadia, India Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates Filago, Italy Saltigo Singapore Sites Antwerp, Belgium Vilassar de Mar, Spain Liyang (China) Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, Bergkamen, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, South Africa Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen, Germany Burgettstown, Memphis, Pittsburgh, U.S. Nagda, Jhagadia, India Applications Disinfection Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea Protection and preservation of wood, construcBaytown, Bushy Park, Mapleton, U.S. tion materials, coatings and foodstuffs Applications Agrochemicals Color pigments Automotive Products for leather processing and Construction water treatment Aromas and flavors Pharmaceuticals Tire chemicals We have combined our engineering plastics activities in the Semiconductors and photovoltaics Engineering Materials segment. Our solutions based on specialty additive chemicals are comEngineering Materials bined in the Specialty Additives segment. Business units High Performance Materials Urethane Systems Specialty Additives Sites Antwerp, Belgium Porto Feliz, Brazil Business units Additives Nantong, Wuxi, China Rhein Chemie Brilon, Hamm-Uentrop and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Sites Burzaco, Merlo, Argentina Germany Porto Feliz, Brazil Baxenden, Great Britain Nantong, Qingdao, China Jhagadia, India Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Latina, Italy Germany Gastonia, Perth Amboy, U.S. Epierre, France Applications Automotive Trafford Park, Great Britain Construction Jhagadia, India Medical equipment Latina, Italy Electrical/electronics Toyohashi, Japan Mining Elmira, West Hill, Canada Tires and wheels Altamira, Mexico Oil and gas Lipetsk, Russia Industrial and mechanical goods Kaohsiung, Taiwan Chardon, Charleston, East Hanover, El Dorado, Fords, Greensboro, Little Rock, U.S. Applications Polymer additives Phosphorous-based or brominated flame retardants Lubricants LANXESS Annual Report 2018 62 Combined Management Report STRATEGY Sustainability as a basic requirement LANXESS aims to be an enduringly successful chemicals We have successfully developed our core business over the company. The basic requirement for this is to think about and past years and are therefore keeping up our corporate strategy: practice sustainability in an integrated way in all of its dimensions In our target scenario, LANXESS will be a much more stable and in a societal context. The challenge of very deliberately conspecialty chemicals company from 2021 onward, with stronger sidering the effects of all decisions – including the non-financial cash flow and a more balanced and sustainable portfolio than dimension – motivates us and is reflected in a large number of in the past. We will have strengthened our regional presence in specific targets. These relate to topics such as climate protection, North America and Asia, enabling us to participate in the growth constant further development of our processes, continuous investof these regions. With regard to our sales markets, we will have ments to keep our sites competitive and sustainable, and regular achieved a good balance between stability and growth potential. analysis of our product portfolio – from raw material production Our businesses will have attained leading position in their respecthrough to waste management. tive market segments. Starting from this balanced basis, we will further spur on our profitable growth. The improved positioning is also to be reflected in LANXESS’s VALUE MANAGEMENT AND financial figures. Starting from fiscal year 2021, we are aiming for CONTROL SYSTEM an average operating earnings margin – measured in terms of EBITDA pre exceptionals – over the course of a business cycle of To achieve our strategic goals, we need indicators that we can between 14% and 18%. At the same time, the margin in any year use to measure the outcomes of our activities. The most important should move around the average level by no more than two to three indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s percentage points. A sound investment-grade rating will continue key controlling indicator – is EBITDA (operating earnings before to constitute a strict goal of our conservative financial policy. depreciation, amortization, write-downs, and reversals) pre exceptionals. We view other financial performance ratios such as return on capital employed (ROCE), days of sales in inventory (DSI), days Transformation progressing rapidly of sales outstanding (DSO) and the net financial debt ratio as At the end of the reporting year, we completed the sale of company-specific leading indicators or as a basis for monitoring. our 50% stake in ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco. We received a payment of roughly €1.4 billion from Saudi Aramco for our share. Value Management and Control System Part of the cash inflows will be invested in our organic growth. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 One focus area is the optimization and expansion of facilities at EBITDA pre several sites around the world in order to make them more com­exceptionals € million 808 885 995 9251) 1,016 petitive and therefore more sustainable. A second focus area is EBITDA margin pre exceptionals % 10.1 11.2 12.9 14.21) 14.1 our regional growth strategies. Accordingly, we have adjusted Capital employed € million 5,093 5,043 7,479 7,463 5,2042) our regional organization and adopted investment budgets with ROCE % 7.9 8.4 6.9 9.3 11.4 a five-year horizon for the North America and Asia-Pacific regions. Days of sales in Of the total planned cost synergies of €100 million from inventory (DSI) Days 65.4 67.2 67.2 64.7 68.6 Days of sales the integration of Chemtura, another approximately €40 million outstanding (DSO) Days 48.0 47.6 51.1 50.7 46.0 were generated in fiscal year 2018. We now expect the remaining Net financial €30 million to be generated by the end of 2020. liabilities € million 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 Further activities aim to tap into new income potential for Net financial liabilities after deduction LANXESS. Together with the Canadian company Standard of time d ­ eposits and ­Lithium, our U.S. site in El Dorado is currently examining the ­securities available for sale € million 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 technical and economic feasibility of extracting lithium suitable Net financial debt for use in batteries from our brine. The biotech startup IMD Natural ratio 1.7x 1.4x 0.3x 1.7x 1.4x Solutions, which we acquired in the previous year, researches Investment ratio % 7.7 5.5 5.7 6.11) 6.9 and develops natural substances with an antimicrobial effect for 1) Figures restated and as in reporting year 2018 not including ARLANXEO. the food and beverage industry. We see this as an opportunity 2) C  apital employed as of December 31, 2018, adjusted. See “Profitability” for details. to offer our customers a solution based on natural substances complementing our material protection and disinfection portfolio. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Strategy 63 Value Management and Control System Our success is largely reflected by our earning power, hence Company-specific leading indicators our control system is focused on steering this metric. Leading indicators support the timely identification of material changes in the company’s earnings, asset and financial position and the initiation of appropriate measures. Earning power Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values The key indicator for steering the earning power of the for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations LANXESS Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre from our own funds as the starting point for steering the company. exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciThis information is used, for example, to make financing and capital ation and impairments of property, plant and equipment as well expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in as amortization and impairments of intangible assets, subtracting market conditions and the competitive environment, we prepare reversals of impairment charges on property, plant, equipment operational forecasts twice each fiscal year as the basis for upand intangible assets, and excluding exceptional items. The latter dating the full-year budget and the associated key values used to are effects that, by nature or extent, have a significant impact on control the Group. In addition, regular forecasts of the key values the earnings position, but for which inclusion in the evaluation of for our earning power are prepared. business performance over several reporting periods does not Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined seem to be appropriate. Exceptional items may include writecentrally and applied uniformly as they have a major influence on downs, reversals of impairment charges or the proceeds from the the key values. Strategic raw materials have a crucial role in foredisposal of assets, certain IT expenses, restructuring expenses casting. The development of procurement prices is significant to and income from the reversal of provisions established in this the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional differences connection, and reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of time adjustments or purchase price allocations. Grants and subsidies may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our from third parties for the acquisition and construction of property, production sites and customer markets, exchange rate developplant and equipment are accounted for as deferred income using ment also affects the earning power resulting from sales and cost the gross method. In this respect, no adjustments other than for trends, with corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging gross depreciation and amortization are made when calculating strategies. In addition, we draw on continuously updated growth EBITDA pre exceptionals. forecasts for our customer industries and the regions where we Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the do business in order to prepare and review sales and capital exshort and long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre penditure decisions. exceptionals. As part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this benchmark of our company’s success, which are then taken into account in determining employees’ variable Profitability income components. Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently Group’s controlling parameters because they do not permit any we utilize our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital ­direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material expenditure decisions, for example. ­prices are a hallmark of our industry and their fluctuation throughout the year impacts our selling prices. This influences sales but, EBIT pre exceptionals other than through short-term alignment effects, generally has no ROCE = Capital employed impact on the absolute margins that are significant to our profitability. We therefore set sales targets neither for the short nor Capital employed = Total assets medium term. Less deferred tax assets The earnings margins are calculated from the ratios of the Less interest-free liabilities respective earnings indicators to sales. For example, the EBITDA margin (pre exceptionals) is calculated as the ratio of EBITDA (pre exceptionals) to sales and serves as an indicator of relative earning Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for power at Group level and for the individual segments. pensions and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabilities, trade payables and items included under “other non-financial liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,” to evaluate the contribution of our business units. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 64 Combined Management Report In the 2018 reporting year, ROCE was 11.4% and thus above Debt our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after adjustment Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current for comparability. In the previous year, ROCE was 9.3%. The financial liabilities less liabilities for accrued interest, cash, cash capital employed of fiscal year 2018 was adjusted for an amount equivalents and near-cash assets and amounted to €1,923 million. of around €1.2 billion. This results from the financial resources After the further deduction of time deposits and securities available received on December 31, 2018, for the sale of the 50% interest for sale, net financial liabilities as of December 31, 2018, amounted in ARLANXEO less the additional pension funding in Germany. to €1,381 million, compared with €2,252 million at the end of the previous year. The decline resulted primarily from the financial resources received from the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO. Cost of capital The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre our case, from the return on a long-term German government exceptionals. On the basis of net financial liabilities after deduction bond plus a risk premium for industrial companies in the same of time deposits and securities available for sale, the net financial risk category as LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return debt ratio as of December 31, 2018, decreased to 1.4 from 1.7 at expected by investors from an investment in LANXESS shares. the previous year’s reporting date. Equity investors demand a risk premium because of the greater At Group level, we also consider provisions for pensions and risk involved in acquiring shares rather than buying risk-free govother post-employment benefits to be components of debt. Comernment bonds. This is known as a market risk premium and is pared with the end of 2017, they decreased by €407 million to calculated using the long-term excess return generated by a stock €1,083 million. Including this additional component of debt, adjustinvestment over an investment in risk-free government bonds ed for related deferred tax assets of €279 million (previous year: and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an €335 million) and reduced by the receivables relating to pension investment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the market obligations recognized under other non-current assets of €75 milas a whole. lion (previous year: €57 million), the total net debt ratio in relation to EBITDA pre exceptionals was 2.1, compared with 2.6 at the previous year’s reporting date. Capital employment To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two key performance indicators: DSO (days of sales outstanding) Net Financial Liabilities and DSI (days of sales in inventory). These show receivables and € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 inventories in relation to sales for the previous quarter. In fiscal Non-current financial ­liabilities 1,698 1,258 2,734 2,242 2,686 year 2018, DSI was at 68.6 days (previous year: 64.7 days) and Current financial liabilities 182 443 78 633 59 DSO at 46.0 days (previous year: 50.7 days). The development Less: of these performance indicators was influenced by the initial apLiabilities for accrued interest (26) (24) (23) (35) (25) Cash and cash equivalents (418) (366) (355) (538) (797) plication of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” Near-cash assets (100) (100) (40) (50) 0 as of January 1, 2018. Due to the contract assets and liabilities Net financial liabilities 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 shown in this context in the statement of financial position for the less time deposits and first time, the recognized value of inventories was increased and securities available for sale 0 0 (2,125) 0 (542) Net financial liabilities the recognized value of receivables was decreased. after deduction of time Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject deposits and securities to rigorous capital discipline and are systematically aligned with available for sale 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 the product areas that show the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indicators such as pay-back period, net present value and ROCE. The investment rate is an indicator that describes cash outflows for capital expenditures divided by sales. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Value Management and Control System 65 Business Processes and Employees BUSINESS PROCESSES AND Our production facilities are organizationally assigned to inEMPLOYEES dividual business units. The most important production sites are located in Leverkusen, Dormagen, the Uerdingen district of Krefeld Procurement and Bergkamen, Germany; Antwerp, Belgium; Trafford Park, Great LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement ­Britain; Latina, Italy; Baytown, El Dorado and Perth Amboy, U.S.; organization – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a re­Elmira, Canada; Jhagadia and Nagda, India; and Changzhou, Nanliable supply of raw and other materials and services. “Global tong and Ningbo, China. For a detailed breakdown of our producCategories” closely coordinate with our business units to pool their tion sites by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this requirements in the raw materials, technical goods, packaging Combined Management Report. materials, energy, services and logistics segments. Our worldwide procurement network facilitates purchasing synergies, so that we can move efficiently in the market and exploit price advantages. Sales organization We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers We sell our products globally, to several thousand customusing strategies like multiple sourcing. In the reporting period, we ers in around 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s took various measures to prevent delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks longstanding customer base includes leaders in each of its user due to the Rhine’s low water levels, so there were no material industries. We have well-established customer relationships in effects on our business development. all sales regions. To meet our customers’ needs, we have set up Procuring chemical raw materials is a high priority at flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage our sales LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of longthroughout the world through 53 companies owned by LANXESS term contracts. The availability of raw materials has always been itself. In countries where we do not yet have our own company, a crucial factor in facility location decisions. We procure key raw we work with local sales partners. materials and utilities in the form of steam and biomass from the To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they immediate vicinity at several of our production sites. In this way, receive individual support, each of our business units manages we not only minimize the costs and environmental impact of our its own sales organization. Another competitive advantage is detransportation activities, but also reduce the risk of delivery shortrived from having 60 of our own production sites in 19 countries. falls caused by transportation issues in particular. Wherever possible, customers are supplied from production sites Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2018 in the same region, yielding advantages in terms of time and costs. included Albemarle, BASF, BP, Chevron, Covestro, ExxonMobil, INEOS, Invista, Sasol and Shell Chemicals. Among the most important strategic raw materials by far Sales markets for our production operations in 2018 were ammonia, benzene, Because of our broad offering, we have business relationships chlorine, cyclohexane, cyclohexanone, caustic soda and toluene. with a large number of customers all over the world. These cusIn all, strategic raw materials accounted for a procurement volume tomers need an individualized, well-focused approach, which we of approximately €1.6 billion in fiscal year 2018 (previous year: are able to provide because our sales organizations are managed approximately €1.5 billion). This equates to around 53% of our through business units. total procurement spend for raw materials and goods in 2018, LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: auto­ which amounted to approximately €3.1 billion (previous year: motive, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction, electronics, leath€2.7 billion). Our total procurement spend in 2018 was around er products, plastics, pharmaceuticals, food, water treatment and €5.2 billion (previous year: around €4.6 billion). furniture. Shares of Sales by Industry Sector Production % 2018 LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of ­specialty Chemicals ~ 30 chemicals. Our production facilities make anywhere from very small Automotive ~ 20 batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and fine Construction, electrical/electronics, leather products ~ 20 chemicals as well as polymers in quantities of several ten thousand Agrochemicals ~ 10 Others (cumulative share) ~ 20 metric tons. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 66 Combined Management Report In fiscal year 2018, our top ten customers accounted for about Cost trend and employees 18% (previous year: 18%) of total sales. None of our customers Research and development expenses in 2018 totaled accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. 41 (previous year: €118 million, or 1.6% of sales (previous year: €103 million or 35) customers accounted for annual sales in excess of €20 mil1.6%). The Additives, High Performance Materials, Material Prolion. The number of customers in each segment varies widely. tection Products and Saltigo business units together accounted for The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance the largest share of these expenses. Material Protection Products, Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect Urethane Systems, Liquid Purification Technologies and Saltigo the way in which its business often involves custom-tailored soluwere the business units with the highest research intensity as meations in specialty chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower sured by the ratio of research and development expenses to sales. numbers of customers in the Engineering Materials segment, which nonetheless generate relatively high sales, are typical of Research and Development Expenses the high-performance plastics business. No segment can be con2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sidered dependent on just a few customers. Research and development expenses (€ million) 160 130 131 103 118 % of sales 2.0 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.6 Research and development Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO Research and development makes an important contribution toward increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product portfolio through the development of innovative products and proAt the end of 2018, we employed 523 people – against 521 cesses as well as the ongoing optimization of existing production in the previous year – in our research and development laboraprocesses. The sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO to Saudi tories worldwide. Aramco also included the research units for high-performance rubber. Number of Employees in Research and Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Organizational focus Year end 708 585 589 521 523 Our research programs are aligned with the needs of cus% of Group employees 4.3 3.6 3.5 3.4 3.4 tomers in the end markets. We have therefore consolidated our Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO product innovation activities in the respective business units. The business units focus their activities on optimizing products and product quality, as well as on developing new prodFields of activity and patent strategy ucts. The Global Technology & Innovation department within our We focus our research and development activities on marProduction, Technology, Safety & Environment Group function ket-driven projects with a shortto medium-term time horizon. supports and complements the business units’ research and deThe total number of projects in 2018 was 239 after 251 in the velopment activities, with the focus on process innovation. The previous year, 159 (previous year: 166) of which aimed to d ­ evelop emphasis here is on planning new processes and integrating new new products and applications or improve existing ones. The technologies into our existing production processes with the aim remaining 80 projects (previous year: 85) concerned process of achieving cost and technology leadership. Our main research technology issues with a view to reducing costs, improving effiand development units are at the sites in Leverkusen, Dormagen, ciency or increasing capacity. the Uerdingen district of Krefeld and Mannheim, Germany, and The results of our activities are protected by patents, where Naugatuck, U.S. We also operate a center for engineering plastics this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2018, we submitted in Hong Kong. At our research and development sites, we test 41 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2018, the materials such as innovative flame retardants and engineering full patent portfolio included approximately 800 patent families plastics for lightweight automotive engineering applications. covering around 5,535 property rights. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Business Processes and Employees 67 Legal Environment Business Conditions Employees GDP and Chemical Production in 2018 As of December 31, 2018, the LANXESS Group had a toChange vs. prior year Gross Chemical tal of 15,441 employees, against 19,029 at the closing date of in real terms (%) ­domes­tic production the previous year. Not including the employees attributable to product USMCA (formerly NAFTA) 3.0 3.5 ARLANXEO, the number of employees at the closing date of the Latin America 0.5 (0.5) previous year was 15,283. EMEA (incl. Germany) 2.0 1.5 In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of Germany 1.5 0.0 employees as of December 31, 2018, was 2,521, up from 2,582 Asia-Pacific 4.5 4.0 in the previous year. In Germany, headcount rose from 7,312 to World 3.0 3.5 7,532. The number of employees in the North America region Source for 2018 growth rates: IHS Markit increased to 2,050 from 1,929 as of December 31, 2017, while Latin America saw its workforce decline from 850 at the end of the One euro was worth US$1.15 at the end of 2018. The ­value previous year to 766. At the reporting date, we employed 2,572 of the U.S. currency thus grew by 4.2% on the closing price of people in the Asia-Pacific region, which was 38 fewer than at the US$1.20 at the end of 2017. At US$1.18, however, the averclosing date of the previous year. The decline in EMEA and Latin age price for the year was above the previous year’s average America is primarily due to the closure of the former Chemtura of US$1.13. Due to the regional positioning of our business, a sites Ankerweg in Amsterdam, Netherlands, and Rio Claro, Brazil, stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect on our earnand to the sale of the production site in Reynosa, Mexico. ings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot Personnel expenses for the Group in fiscal year 2018 totaled be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place €1,328 million (previous year: €1,291 million). Wages and salaries, in the same currency area. at €1,066 million (previous year: €1,018 million), accounted for the Compared with the previous year, procurement prices for greater part of this figure. Social security contributions amounted raw materials rose slightly, both for aromatics and olefins and for to €159 million (previous year: €177 million), while pension plan organic and inorganic raw materials. The price of toluene and expenses were €90 million (previous year: €85 million) and social chlorine on the procurement markets rose on average for the assistance benefits €13 million (previous year: €11 million). year, whereas the prices of other feedstocks such as ammonia and benzene fell slightly. LEGAL ENVIRONMENT The chemical industry There were no changes in the legal environment in fiscal year Global chemical production was up 3.5%, driven by the 2018 that would have had a material impact on the earnings, asset Asia-Pacific and USMCA regions. and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. Evolution of major user industries BUSINESS CONDITIONS Global automobile production was up 1.5% year-on-year in the reporting year. The development in Europe was positive overall The economic environment despite declining sales figures in Germany. Growth of 1.0% was The global economy performed in line with expectations seen in Asia-Pacific, which is chiefly attributable to the slump in in 2018. While growing populist and protectionist trends such demand in China in the second half of the year. The positive trend as emerging trade barriers in the U.S. market had a dampening in Latin America had little impact on the global trend as this region effect in some areas, temporarily increased oil prices failed to has comparatively less weight than the others. curb growth. Agrochemicals stagnated. Growth in EMEA and the Americas, The generally positive environment led to global economic especially USMCA, was offset by declining performance in the growth of 3.0%, with contributions from all regions, particularly Asia-Pacific economic area and in Germany. Asia-Pacific. The global construction industry grew by 3.0%. This development stemmed mainly from EMEA and Asia-Pacific. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 68 Combined Management Report Overall, development in the customer industries fell short of KEY EVENTS INFLUENCING THE expectations, especially in the automotive sector and agrochem­COMPANY’S BUSINESS icals. However, this had no material influence on the LANXESS Group’s business. The generally positive business performance was mainly influenced by the operating strength of the Advanced IntermeEvolution of Major User Industries in 2018 diates and Engineering Materials segments, as well as the new Change vs. prior year AutoAgro ­Con­ Specialty Additives segment created in the previous year. Higher in real terms (%) motive chemicals struction procurement prices for raw materials and energy were successfully USMCA (formerly NAFTA) 1.0 4.5 2.5 passed on to customers here. Latin America 21.5 1.5 1.5 Business development continued to benefit from the sucEMEA (incl. Germany) 0.5 1.5 3.0 cessful operational integration of Chemtura. The business units Germany (2.5) (1.5) 4.0 acquired in April 2017 contributed positive portfolio effects on Asia-Pacific 1.0 (1.0) 3.0 World 1.5 0.0 3.0 earnings. Currency effects had an unfavorable effect on earnings. Source for 2018 growth rates: IHS Markit With the sale of ARLANXEO completed on December 31, 2018, we have taken a further significant step on the way to becoming a much more stable specialty chemicals company. ­ COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL BUSINESS Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2018 Forecast for 2018 in Annual Report 2017 Actual 2018 Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals • Up slightly on the previous year (€925 million) • €1,016 million • Takes account of expected cost reductions, synergies • Realization of additional cost synergies from the Chemtura from the acquisition of Chemtura, earnings contributions integration and significant earnings contributions from of the businesses acquired in 2017 businesses acquired in the previous year • E xpected sales growth of the global economy and • Global economy and chemical production growing in line cost-effectiveness measures initiated in the integration of with expectations; development of customer industries Chemtura have a positive effect on earnings performance poorer than expected Business development: segments Advanced Intermediates • Business development on a par with the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals up slightly on the previous year: • Demand from customers in the agricultural industry at a €359 million (previous year: €335 million) fairly low level • C ontinued weak demand from the agricultural industry Specialty Additives • EBITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year: due to the Chemtura businesses acquired in 2017 and €343 million (previous year: €267 million) synergies • Development resulted primarily from the successful integration of the acquired Chemtura businesses Performance Chemicals • Business development on a par with the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals significantly lower than expected: €187 million (previous year: €252 million) • Development primarily driven by deteriorated market environment for leather chemicals and downturn in the construction industry Engineering Materials • Slight improvements in business development • EBITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year: €267 million (previous year: €219 million) • High-performance plastics business exceeds expectations significantly Reconciliation • Earnings on a par with the previous year • EBITDA pre exceptionals around the previous year’s level: minus €140 million (previous year: minus €148 million) Raw material prices • Volatile raw material prices with a moderate increase • Still volatile and above the prior-year level overall Capital expenditures Cash outflows for capital • A round €450 million • €497 million expenditures • More project investments in nearly all segments LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Business Conditions 69 Key Events Influencing the Company’s Business Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business Business Performance of the LANXESS Group In the Combined Management Report for fiscal year 2017, we Key Financial Data predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals would be slightly higher in € million 2017 2018 Change % 2018 than in the previous year (€925 million). This forecast took Sales 6,530 7,197 10.2 the expected cost reductions, synergies from the acquisition of Gross profit 1,734 1,834 5.8 Chemtura and earnings contributions of the businesses acquired in EBITDA pre exceptionals 925 1,016 9.8 2017 into account. We specified our expectation over the course EBITDA margin pre ­exceptionals 14.2% 14.1% – of fiscal year 2018 to an increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals at the EBITDA 709 935 31.9 upper end of a range from 5% to 10% compared to the previous Operating result (EBIT) year’s figure. The actual result of €1,016 million exceeded the pre exceptionals 558 595 6.6 previous year’s figure by around 10%. Operating result (EBIT) 299 504 68.6 EBIT margin 4.6% 7.0% – We had expected net income of LANXESS AG in the reFinancial result (80) (114) (42.5) porting year to be substantially higher than in the previous year. Income before income taxes 219 390 78.1 Largely due to a sharp rise in income from affiliated companies, Net income from which was influenced in particular by effects from the sale of continuing operations 60 277 > 100 Net income from ARLANXEO, net income totaled €85 million after €23 million in discontinued operations 27 154 > 100 the prior-year period. Net income 87 431 > 100 Earnings per share (€) 0.95 4.71 > 100 Earnings per share from BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OF continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and THE LANXESS GROUP amortization of intangible assets (€) 3.84 4.45 15.9 ›› LANXESS successfully completes sale of its 50% interest in ARLANXEO ›› Strong operating development of the Advanced InterSales and earnings mediates, Specialty Additives and Engineering Materials In the reporting period, LANXESS Group sales rose by segments €667 million (10.2%) from €6,530 million in the previous year ›› Chemtura business units acquired in the previous year have to €7,197 million. This performance was influenced, in particular, significantly positive impact on sales and earnings by the sales contribution from the Chemtura businesses acquired ›› Sales up on previous year, rising by 10.2% to €7,197 million in 2017 as well as the contribution from the U.S. phosphorus addi›› Improvement of EBITDA pre exceptionals by 9.8% to tives business acquired from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay €1,016 million in February 2018. The adjustment of selling prices driven by raw ›› Earnings per share from continuing operations pre excepmaterial prices also had a positive effect on sales. Overall, portfolio tionals and amortization of intangible assets increased from effects led to a 7.1% sales increase and higher selling prices to a €3.84 to €4.45 4.2% sales increase. By contrast, adverse exchange rate effects in the first half of the year, especially for the U.S. dollar, saw sales decline by 2.0% overall. Increased volumes had a slightly positive impact on sales performance. The initial application of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” as of January 1, 2018, had no material effects on sales. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 70 Combined Management Report Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given Group Sales reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s € million shortor medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is made in this report. 10,000 8,006 7,902 7,699 8,000 7,197 6,530 Gross profit 6,000 The cost of sales increased by 11.8%, to €5,363 million, 4,000 which was slightly disproportionate compared with sales. The integration of the Chemtura businesses acquired in 2017 and of 2,000 the U.S. phosphorous chemicals business acquired from Solvay in February 2018 meant an absolute increase in the cost of sales. In 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 addition, higher procurement prices for raw materials and energy Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO as well as higher volumes led to higher costs. By contrast, the movement in exchange rates, particularly of the U.S. dollar, had Eﬀects on Sales a positive effect on our manufacturing costs. Capacity utilization € million/% of 82% was on a par with the previous year. Gross profit was €1,834 million, up by €100 million or 5.8% 7.1% 7,197 against the previous year. This increase resulted in particular from 6,530 4.2% 0.9% (2.0%) the acquired Chemtura businesses and phosphorous chemicals business. Higher procurement prices for raw materials and energy were also successfully passed on to the market by adjusting selling prices. The change in exchange rates had an inverse impact on earnings performance. The gross profit margin was accordingly lower at 25.5% compared to 26.6%. 2017 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2018 EBITDA pre exceptionals and Sales by Segment operating result (EBIT) Pro­ portion EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Change of Group € million € million 2017 2018 % sales % Advanced Intermediates 1,975 2,207 11.7 30.7 1,250 12.9% 14.1% Specialty Additives 1,611 1,980 22.9 27.5 14.2% 11.2% 995 1,016 Performance Chemicals 1,439 1,349 (6.3) 18.7 10.1% 925 1,000 885 Engineering Materials 1,366 1,576 15.4 21.9 808 Reconciliation 139 85 (38.8) 1.2 750 6,530 7,197 10.2 100.0 500 250 Order book status Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 on fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for long-term forward-looking statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. The business is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts of the Group’s operating result. For additional information, please see “Company-specific leading indicators” in this Management Report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 71 Our operating result before depreciation, amortization, writeThe operating result (EBIT) of the Group totaled €504 million downs and reversals (EBITDA) pre exceptionals increased by compared with €299 million in the previous year. The increase is €91 million, or 9.8%, to €1,016 million in fiscal year 2018, after primarily attributable to the considerable €168 million decline in €925 million in the previous year. Higher procurement prices for exceptionals to €91 million (previous year: €259 million). Depreraw materials and energy were successfully and promptly passed ciation, amortization and write-downs on intangible assets and on to customers in all segments except Performance Chemicals by property, plant and equipment amounted to €432 million (previous adjusting selling prices. The positive overall earnings performance year: €411 million) and included depreciation and amortization of at Group level primarily benefited from the operating strength of the former Chemtura business units and the new production lines the Advanced Intermediates and Engineering Materials segments. of the Saltigo business unit commissioned in January 2018 and The earnings of Specialty Additives were significantly improved write-downs of €15 million, €10 million of which were exceptional by the successful integration of Chemtura. In contrast, earnings items relating to the intended closure of pigment production at the in the Performance Chemicals segment were diminished by the Jinshan site in Shanghai, China. Write-downs for the previous year weak chrome ore business, lower sales volumes due to strikes amounted to €49 million, €43 million of which were exceptional in South Africa and as a result of the closure of Zárate. Earnings items, mainly relating to the discontinuation of additive production performance was also curbed by lower sales volumes in the Inat the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands. On the other organic Pigments business unit, which supplies the construction hand, reversals of write-downs totaling €1 million (previous year: industry, and the sale of the subsidiary International Dioxcide €1 million) were recognized. Inc., North Kingstown, U.S., in the previous year. The significant Other operating result, which is the balance between other change in exchange rates had a negative impact on earnings in all operating income and expenses, amounted to minus €79 million segments. Owing especially to portfolio effects and higher freight compared with minus €245 million in the previous year. Adjusted rates, selling expenses rose by 8.5% to €826 million. Research and for exceptional items, it came to €12 million, which was €2 million development expenses increased to €118 million after €103 millower than in the previous year. lion in the previous year, largely due to portfolio effects. General There were net negative exceptional items of €91 million in administration expenses fell by €19 million to €307 million due the reporting year. They resulted from negative exceptional items primarily to the reclassification of proceeds and equally high costs of €107 million and positive exceptional items of €16 million, with in connection with administrative services for ARLANXEO to other €1 million not impacting EBITDA. The negative exceptional items, operating income and expenses. The Group EBITDA margin pre of which €96 million impacted EBITDA and €11 million did not exceptionals came in at 14.1%, against 14.2% in the previous year. impact EBITDA, largely related to expenses in connection with the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Group, digitalization EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment projects, and the intended closure of production at the Jinshan € million 2017 2018 Change % site in Shanghai, China. The positive exceptional items were priAdvanced Intermediates 335 359 7.2 marily in connection with the discontinuation of production at the Specialty Additives 267 343 28.5 Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands. In the previous year, Performance Chemicals 252 187 (25.8) net negative exceptional items of €259 million resulted from negEngineering Materials 219 267 21.9 ative exceptional items of €267 million and positive exceptional Reconciliation (148) (140) 5.4 items of €8 million. The exceptional items mainly related to the 925 1,016 9.8 strategic realignment of the Group and the optimization of the production network. The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating result (EBIT) was as follows: Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to Operating Result (EBIT) € million 2017 2018 Change % EBITDA pre exceptionals 925 1,016 9.8 Depreciation and amortization/reversals of impairment charges (410) (431) (5.1) Exceptional items in EBITDA (216) (81) 62.5 Operating result (EBIT) 299 504 68.6 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 72 Combined Management Report Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” rate of the previous year largely resulted from the U.S. tax reform for details about exceptional items. legislation passed in December 2017, especially the one-off taxation of retained earnings of foreign investments held by our U.S. Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income companies. € million 2017 2018 Change % Operating result (EBIT) 299 504 68.6 Income from investments Net income ­accounted for using Net income for the reporting year amounted to €431 million, the equity method 0 0 – of which €277 million was attributable to continuing operations. Net interest expense (80) (69) 13.8 Other financial income Of the net income for the previous year of €87 million, €60 million and expense 0 (45) < (100) was allocated to continuing operations. The previous year was Financial result (80) (114) (42.5) influenced significantly by exceptional items associated with the Income before acquisition of Chemtura, the centralization of the Group’s interincome taxes 219 390 78.1 Income taxes (159) (118) 25.8 national chrome value chain in South Africa, the related closure Income after income taxes of the Zárate production site in Argentina, and the intended disfrom continuing operations 60 272 > 100 continuation of production at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Income after income taxes from discontinued Netherlands. In 2018, €92 million of net income was attributable operations 64 251 > 100 to non-controlling interests, compared with €37 million in the preIncome after income taxes 124 523 > 100 vious year, which resulted almost exclusively from Saudi Aramco’s Income attributable to interest in ARLANXEO. Net income from discontinued operations non-controlling interests 37 92 > 100 Net income from increased from €27 million to €154 million and resulted mainly continuing operations 60 277 > 100 from the accounting in accordance with IFRS 5, according to Net income from which the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment discontinued operations 27 154 > 100 of ARLANXEO are not subject to any further amortization or deNet income 87 431 > 100 preciation. In addition, a positive impact was made by the gain from the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO of €90 million. Financial result The financial result came in at minus €114 million in fiscal Earnings per share (from continuing year 2018, compared with minus €80 million for the previous year. ­operations)/earnings per share from Primarily due to the refinancing of a bond that matured in May ­continuing operations adjusted for 2018 on more favorable terms, net interest result improved by ­exceptional items and amortization of €11 million year-on-year to minus €69 million. As in the previous ­intangible assets year, companies accounted for using the equity method did not Earnings per share (or earnings per share from continuing generate an earnings contribution. The other financial result was operations) are calculated by dividing net income (or net income minus €45 million, compared with €0 million in the previous year. from continuing operations) by the weighted average number of The reduction in earnings primarily resulted from the payment LANXESS shares in circulation during the reporting period. Earnof a reduced profit distribution by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, ings per share were €4.71, well above the €0.95 recorded in the Leverkusen, Germany. previous year. Earnings per share from continuing operations were €3.03 against €0.66 in the previous year. We also calculate earnings per share from continuing operaIncome before income taxes tions pre exceptionals and amortization of intangible assets, which Due to the development of the operating result, income before are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards. This income taxes improved by €171 million to €390 million. value was calculated from the earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items, amortization of intangible assets and attributable tax effects. Income taxes Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for In fiscal year 2018, tax expense amounted to €118 million, exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets were €4.45 compared with €159 million the year before. The Group’s tax against €3.84 in the previous year. rate was 30.3%, after 72.6% in the previous year. The high tax LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 73 Business Trends by Region Reconciliation to Earnings per Share from Continuing EMEA (excluding Germany) ­Operations Adjusted for Exceptional Items and Amortization Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) rose by of Intangible Assets €202 million, or 9.9%, to €2,245 million. After adjustment for € million 2017 2018 minor currency and portfolio effects, sales were up by 4.7%. The Net income from Engineering Materials segment reported growth in sales in the continuing operations 60 277 Exceptional items1) 259 91 low-double-digit-percentage range. The Advanced Intermediates Amortization of intangible assets/ segment likewise achieved a sales increase, more than offsetting reversal of impairment charges1) 63 85 the decline in the Specialty Additives segment. The Performance Income taxes1) (31) (46) Chemicals segment achieved the same sales level as in the preNet income from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items and vious year. The positive development in the region resulted from amortization of intangible assets 351 407 the business performance in Switzerland, Belgium and Spain. Number of shares outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 Slightly countervailing was the demand trend in the Netherlands, Earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items Italy and France. and amortization of intangible assets (€) 3.84 4.45 1) Excluding items attributable to non-controlling interests Germany In Germany, the Group generated sales of €1,414 million in fiscal year 2018, up by €165 million, or 13.2%, on the previous BUSINESS TRENDS BY REGION year. After adjustment for minor currency effects and portfolio effects, sales were up by 10.8%. All segments saw positive busiSales by Market ness development, which was driven by Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals. 2017 2018 Change € million % € million % % EMEA (excluding Germany) 2,043 28.2 2,245 31.2 9.9 North America Germany 1,249 15.4 1,414 19.7 13.2 Sales in this region came to €1,524 million, up by €232 milNorth America 1,292 19.2 1,524 21.2 18.0 lion, or 18.0%, on the previous year. After adjustment for currency Latin America 405 9.3 392 5.4 (3.2) effects and appreciable portfolio effects, sales were up by 7.3%. All Asia-Pacific 1,541 27.9 1,622 22.5 5.3 6,530 100.0 7,197 100.0 10.2 segments saw positive business development, which was driven by Specialty Additives and Advanced Intermediates. Sales by Market Latin America % In the Latin America region, sales fell by €13 million, or 3.2%, 22.5 to €392 million. After adjustment for minor currency and portfolio EMEA (excluding Germany) 27.9 Germany 5.4 effects, the decline was 2.0%. This business performance was 9.3 North America 21.2 mainly driven by the Performance Chemicals segment, which 19.2 Latin America posted a percentage fall in sales in the low double-digits. The SpeAsia-Paciﬁc 19.7 15.4 cialty Additives segment also posted a sales decline. The business performance of the two other segments could not compensate for 31.2 28.2 this negative trend. This situation in the region was hampered by the development in Brazil and Argentina, while Mexico provided 2017 2018 positive impetus. In the reporting period, portfolio effects resulted primarily from the Chemtura businesses acquired in 2017 and to a lesser extent from the acquisition of the U.S. phosphorus additives business from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay in February 2018. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 74 Combined Management Report Asia-Pacific Advanced Intermediates Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by €81 million, or 5.3%, to €1,622 million in fiscal year 2018. Adjusted for portOverview of Key Data folio and currency effects, sales rose by 1.1%. This business 2017 2018 performance was mainly driven by the Advanced Intermediates € million Margin € million Margin Change segment, which posted a rise in sales in the low double-digits. % % % In contrast, business declined in the Performance Chemicals Sales 1,975 2,207 11.7 EBITDA pre segment in particular. India and Japan made significant positive exceptionals 335 17.0 359 16.3 7.2 contributions in this region, largely offset by the development in EBITDA 328 16.6 359 16.3 9.5 China and Singapore. Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 218 11.0 232 10.5 6.4 Operating result SEGMENT INFORMATION (EBIT) 211 10.7 232 10.5 10.0 Cash outflows for ›› Advanced Intermediates: Strong operating business capital expenditures Depreciation and 146 155 6.2 p ­ erformance despite a still challenging market environment amortization 1171) 127 8.5 for agrochemicals Employees ›› Specialty Additives: Significant sales and earnings increase as of Dec. 31 3,661 3,687 0.7 from the successful integration of the additives business 1) Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million acquired in the previous year ›› Performance Chemicals: Sales and earnings fall Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of short of a strong previous year due to weak leather and €2,207 million in fiscal year 2018, 11.7% or €232 million more construction industries than in the previous year. In both of the segment’s business units, ›› Engineering Materials: Significant improvement in higher selling prices were realized than in the previous year and earnings as a result of profitable business with plastics led to a 7.8% increase in sales overall. Higher volumes raised sales for lightweight solutions by 3.6%. This was especially due to the good demand in nearly all end markets in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business Sales by Segment unit. Sales volumes in the Saltigo business unit were at prior-year % level as a result of continued weak demand from the agrochemical 2.1 1.2 industry. In addition, the integration of the organometallics oper20.9 21.9 Advanced Intermediates ations acquired in the previous year into the Advanced Industrial Specialty Additives 22.0 18.7 Intermediates business unit had a positive effect of 2.2% on sales. Performance Chemicals Engineering Materials Exchange rate movements had a negative impact on sales at 1.9%. Reconciliation 24.7 27.5 Sales in all regions were above prior-year levels. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates 30.3 30.7 segment was €359 million, €24 million, or 7.2%, above the prior-­ year level. The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit 2017 2018 successfully passed on increased procurement prices for raw materials and energy to customers by adjusting selling prices. In addition, higher sales volumes, especially in this business unit, had a positive effect on earnings. The integration of the organometallics business acquired in the previous year into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit had only a minor effect on earnings. Disadvantageous exchange rate developments had a negative impact on earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals was 16.3%, down from 17.0% in the previous year. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Business Trends by Region 75 Segment Information No exceptional items were recorded in the segment in fiscal EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Specialty Additives segment year 2018. In the previous year, negative exceptional items of was €343 million, a significant €76 million, or 28.5%, above the €7 million were incurred, which fully impacted EBITDA. Please prior-year level. This strong earnings performance was primarily see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. the result of the successful integration of the additives business acquired in the previous year and an earnings contribution from the phosphorus additives business acquired in the first quarter. Specialty Additives Higher procurement prices for raw materials and energy were also successfully passed on to the customers by adjusting selling prices. Overview of Key Data By contrast, adverse currency effects and lower sales volumes in 2017 2018 both business units resulted in an earnings decline. The EBITDA € million Margin € million Margin Change margin pre exceptionals improved from 16.6% in the previous % % % year to 17.3%. Sales 1,611 1,980 22.9 In fiscal year 2018, net negative exceptional items amounted EBITDA pre to €3 million, resulting from negative exceptional items of €15 milexceptionals 267 16.6 343 17.3 28.5 EBITDA 192 11.9 340 17.2 77.1 lion and positive exceptional items of €12 million. Of the negative Operating exceptional items, which mainly related to the strategic realignment result (EBIT) pre of the LANXESS Group, €14 million impacted EBITDA and €1 milexceptionals 167 10.4 207 10.5 24.0 lion did not. Of the positive exceptional items, which related to the Operating result (EBIT) 56 3.5 204 10.3 > 100 discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Cash outflows for Netherlands, €11 million impacted EBITDA and €1 million did not. capital expenditures 83 141 69.9 In the previous year, negative exceptional items in the segment Depreciation and amortization 136 1361) 0.0 totaled €111 million, of which €75 million impacted EBITDA and Employees €36 million did not. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre as of Dec. 31 2,936 2,953 0.6 Exceptionals)” for details. 1) Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million Our Specialty Additives segment recorded sales of €1,980 milPerformance Chemicals lion in fiscal year 2018, 22.9% or €369 million more than in the previous year. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to the Overview of Key Data integration of the additives business acquired from Chemtura in 2017 2018 the previous year. The U.S. phosphorus additives business ac€ million Margin € million Margin Change quired from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay in the first quarter % % % of 2018 also made a positive sales contribution. Overall, portfolio Sales 1,439 1,349 (6.3) EBITDA pre effects led to an increase in sales of 23.2%. Higher selling prices exceptionals 252 17.5 187 13.9 (25.8) also added 2.5% to the rise in sales, with contributions from both EBITDA 190 13.2 184 13.6 (3.2) business units. The negative exchange rate trend in both business Operating units decreased sales in this segment by 2.1%. Sales decreased result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 176 12.2 112 8.3 (36.4) by 0.7% as a result of lower volumes. The sales volumes of both Operating result business units were down slightly on the previous year, with positive (EBIT) 108 7.5 99 7.3 (8.3) volume development in the Additives business unit being more than Cash outflows for capital expenditures 74 76 2.7 outweighed by effects from the closure of former Chemtura sites. Depreciation and Sales in all regions were above prior-year levels. amortization 82 85 3.7 Employees as of Dec. 31 3,880 3,786 (2.4) LANXESS Annual Report 2018 76 Combined Management Report Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment amounted Engineering Materials to €1,349 million, 6.3% below the prior-year figure. Shifts in exchange rates had a negative effect on all business units of the Overview of Key Data segment and diminished sales by 2.8% in total. The sale of the 2017 2018 subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, U.S., of € million Margin € million Margin Change the Material Protection Products business unit in the previous year % % % also had a negative effect of 1.9% on sales. In particular due to the Sales 1,366 1,576 15.4 EBITDA pre shutdown of production of the Leather business unit in Argentina exceptionals 219 16.0 267 16.9 21.9 at the end of 2017, the strikes in our chrome ore mine in South EBITDA 207 15.2 266 16.9 28.5 Africa in the second half of 2018 and lower sales volumes in the Operating Inorganic Pigments business unit, which supplies the construction result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 164 12.0 206 13.1 25.6 industry, sales decreased by 1.7% as a result of volumes. The Operating result Liquid Purification Technologies and Material Protection Products (EBIT) 151 11.1 205 13.0 35.8 business units recorded higher volumes. The selling prices of the Cash outflows for capital expenditures 68 76 11.8 Material Protection Products business unit were slightly above, Depreciation and the selling prices of the Inorganic Pigments business units slightly amortization 56 61 8.9 below the level of the previous year and had next to no influence Employees on sales overall. While higher sales were achieved in Germany, as of Dec. 31 1,976 2,105 6.5 the segment posted constant or lower sales in all other regions. The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre exceptionals of €187 million, a decrease of €65 million or 25.8% Sales in our Engineering Materials segment increased by 15.4% on the previous year. Increased raw material and energy costs year-on-year to €1,576 million in fiscal year 2018. Higher selling reduced the segment’s earnings. Earnings were also diminished prices and increased volumes added 5.9% and 5.3% respectively by the weak chrome ore business in the Leather business unit, to the rise in sales, contributed by the High Performance Materials lower sales volumes in the Inorganic Pigments business unit and business unit in particular. In addition, the increase in sales was the the sale of International Dioxcide Inc. in the previous year. The result of the contribution from the urethanes business acquired in trend in earnings was intensified by disadvantageous currency the previous year, which resulted in a 5.6% rise in sales. Exchange effects. Earnings were improved by higher volumes in our ­Liquid rates had a negative impact on sales of 1.4%. Sales in all regions Purification Technologies and Material Protection Products busiwere above prior-year levels. ness units. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals came in at 13.9%, EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Engineering Materials segagainst 17.5% a year ago. ment rose by a significant €48 million, or 21.9%, to €267 million. In the reporting year, negative exceptional items totaling Especially in the High Performance Materials business unit, higher €13 million were attributable to the segment, of which €3 million procurement prices for raw materials were successfully passed on impacted EBITDA and €10 million did not impact EBITDA. They to customers by adjusting selling prices. The improvement in earnprimarily related to the planned closure of the Inorganic Pigments ings was also due to the contribution from the urethanes business business unit’s production line at the Jinshan site in Shanghai, acquired in the previous year and higher volumes. However, the China. In the previous year, net negative exceptional items of change in exchange rates had a negative impact on earnings. The €68 million resulted from negative exceptional items of €74 million EBITDA margin pre exceptionals for the segment improved from and positive exceptional items of €6 million, with the latter fully 16.0% to 16.9%. impacting EBITDA. Of the negative exceptional items, €68 million In fiscal year 2018, negative exceptional items in the segment impacted EBITDA and €6 million did not impact ­EBITDA. Please that impacted EBITDA amounted to €1 million. In the previous see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. year, negative exceptional items incurred in the segment totaled €13 million, of which €12 million impacted EBITDA and €1 million did not. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Segment Information 77 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals) Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition Reconciliation Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA EBIT EBIT EBITDA EBITDA Overview of Key Data € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 EBIT/EBITDA € million 2017 2018 Change % pre exceptionals 558 595 925 1,016 Sales 139 85 (38.8) Advanced Intermediates (7) 0 (7) 0 EBITDA pre exceptionals (148) (140) 5.4 Strategic realignment1) (4) 0 (4) 0 EBITDA (208) (214) (2.9) Other (3) 0 (3) 0 Operating result (EBIT) Specialty Additives (111) (3) (75) (3) pre exceptionals (167) (162) 3.0 Strategic realignment1) (63) (11) (56) (10) Operating result (EBIT) (227) (236) (4.0) Optimization of the Cash outflows for capital production network 2) (48) 8 (19) 7 expenditures 26 49 88.5 Performance Chemicals (68) (13) (62) (3) Depreciation and amortization 19 22 15.8 Optimization of the Employees as of Dec. 31 2,830 2,910 2.8 production network3) (73) (13) (67) (3) Other 5 0 5 0 Engineering Materials (13) (1) (12) (1) Strategic realignment1) (13) (1) (12) (1) EBITDA pre exceptionals for the reconciliation came to minus Reconciliation (60) (74) (60) (74) €140 million, compared with minus €148 million in the previous Strategic realignment (28) (17) (28) (17) year. This change was mainly due to results from hedging currency Digitalization, M&A expenses and other (32) (57) (32) (57) risks. There were net negative exceptional items of €74 million Total exceptional items (259) (91) (216) (81) in the reconciliation in the reporting year, which fully impacted EBIT/EBITDA 299 504 709 935 ­EBITDA. They resulted from negative exceptional items of €78 mil1) T  he exceptional items mainly related to the integration of Chemtura. The exceptional lion and positive exceptional items of €4 million. The exceptional items of the previous year also related to the purchase price allocation of Chemtura. items largely resulted from expenses relating to the strategic re2) T  he exceptional items essentially related to the consolidation of the production of lubricant precursors and the discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in alignment of the LANXESS Group and digitalization projects. In the Amsterdam, Netherlands. 3) T  he exceptional items essentially related to the intended closure of production at previous year, net negative exceptional items of €60 million, which the Jinshan site in Shanghai, China. The exceptional items of the previous year were fully impacted EBITDA, resulted from negative exceptional items connected to the bundling of the Group’s international chromium value chain in South Africa and the closure of the Zárate site in Argentina in the fourth quarter of 2017. of €62 million and positive exceptional items of €2 million. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. EBITDA is calculated from the operating result (EBIT) by NOTES ON EBIT AND EBITDA adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant and (PRE EXCEPTIONALS) equipment as well as amortization and impairments of intangible assets and subtracting reversals of impairment charges on propIn order to better assess our operational business and to steer erty, plant, equipment and intangible assets. earning power at Group level as well as for the individual segments, EBIT pre exceptionals and EBITDA pre exceptionals are we additionally calculate the earnings indicators EBITDA, and EBIT and EBITDA before exceptional items. EBITDA and EBIT pre exceptionals, none of which are defined by International Financial Reporting Standards. These indicators are viewed as supplementary to the data prepared according to STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION IFRS; they are not a substitute. AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Assets and liabilities ›› Total assets decreased due primarily to the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO ›› Significant decline in net financial liabilities after ­ deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale of €2,252 m ­ illion to €1,381 million ›› Equity ratio down from 32.8% to 31.9% LANXESS Annual Report 2018 78 Combined Management Report Structure of the Statement of Financial Position Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Change € million 10,411 € million % € million % % ASSETS 765 8,687 Non-current assets 6,454 62.0 4,786 55.1 (25.8) Equity 1,693 640 Current assets 3,957 38.0 3,901 44.9 (1.4) Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 879 Total assets 10,411 100.0 8,687 100.0 (16.6) Other non-current liabilities 2,296 1,706 Current ﬁnancial liabilities EQUITY AND Other current liabilities 2,244 2,689 ­LIABILITIES Equity (including non-controlling 3,413 2,773 interests) 3,413 32.8 2,773 31.9 (18.8) Non-current 2017 2018 liabilities 4,540 43.6 4,395 50.6 (3.2) Prior-year ﬁgures restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement Current liabilities 2,458 23.6 1,519 17.5 (38.2) of prior-year ﬁgures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Total equity and liabilities 10,411 100.0 8,687 100.0 (16.6) Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment Prior-year figures restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement of and intangible assets amounted to €497 million, up on the ­prior-year prior-year figures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. figure of €397 million. Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million (previous year: €1 million), depreciation rose by €21 million from the Structure of the statement of previous year’s figure of €410 million to €431 million. The carrying financial position amount of investments accounted for using the equity method As of December 31, 2018, the LANXESS Group’s total assets was €0 million, the same as in the previous year. At €287 million, stood at €8,687 million, €1,724 million or 16.6% less than at the deferred tax assets were down €155 million on the previous year. end of the previous year. This development was attributable in The ratio of non-current assets to total assets decreased from 62.0% particular to the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO. to 55.1% on December 31, 2018. Non-current assets decreased by €1,668 million to Current assets decreased by €56 million, or 1.4%, compared €4,786 million. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipwith December 31, 2017, to €3,901 million. This was due among ment fell by €1,502 million to €4,341 million here. The latter other reasons to the decline in trade receivables by €413 million, or declined chiefly as a result of the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO. 31.4%, to €903 million. At 46.0, days of sales outstanding (DSO) For further information, please see the “Companies consolidated” were below the previous year’s figure of 50.7 days. The decline section of the Notes. in receivables was influenced on the one hand by the disposal of ARLANXEO and on the other hand by the application of IFRS 15 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets from January 1, 2018. Inventories were down by €333 million, € million or 19.8%, to €1,347 million. At 68.6, days of sales in inventory 10,411 (DSI) were above the previous year’s figure of 64.7 days. The 373 588 decline in inventories was driven by the disposal of ARLANXEO, 8,687 Intangible assets and property, with an opposite effect from the application of IFRS 15. The base 2,996 854 plant and equipment 797 effects in working capital that arose as a result of IFRS 15 had Other non-current assets Inventories and receivables 611 2,250 corresponding effects on the key performance indicators DSI and Cash and cash equivalents 445 DSO. Current financial assets rose from €7 million to €598 million Other current assets in the reporting period. The rise was due to the investment of the 5,843 4,341 cash funds from the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO in time deposits and securities available for sale. Cash and cash equiva2017 2018 lents increased from €538 million to €797 million, primarily due Prior-year ﬁgures restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement of prior-year ﬁgures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 79 to the investment in time deposits. The disposal of ARLANXEO’s by €444 million to €2,686 million as of December 31, 2018, was cash and cash equivalents had the opposite effect. Near-cash mainly due to the issue of a new bond of €500 million maturing in assets amounted to €0 million at the end of the reporting year, May 2025. The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets was compared with €50 million at the end of the previous year. The 50.6%, compared with 43.6% as of December 31, 2017. ratio of current assets to total assets was 44.9%, compared with Current liabilities came to €1,519 million, down by €939 mil38.0% on December 31, 2017. lion, or 38.2%, compared with December 31, 2017. Other current Equity fell by €640 million, or 18.8%, to €2,773 million financial liabilities fell from €633 million to €59 million, primarily ­c ompared with December 31, 2017. The decline resulted due to the repayment of a bond that matured in May 2018 in ­primarily from effects from the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO the amount of €500 million. In addition, other current provisions and dividend payments, which were offset by positive comprehen­ fell by €60 million to €465 million. Trade payables declined by sive income. The ratio of equity to the Group’s total assets was €253 million to €795 million. This decline was primarily attribut31.9% as of ­December 31, 2018, compared with 32.8% as of able to the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO. The ratio of current Decem­­ber 31, 2017. liabilities to total assets was 17.5% as of December 31, 2018, Non-current liabilities fell by €145 million to €4,395 million as after 23.6% at the end of 2017. of December 31, 2018. Compared with the end of 2017, provisions At €1,923 million, net financial liabilities were down on the for pensions and other post-employment benefits decreased by figure as at December 31, 2017, of €2,252 million. After deduction €407 million to €1,083 million. The decline resulted primarily of time deposits and securities available for sale, they declined to from the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO. In addition, the €1,381 million. The funds invested in time deposits and securiGerman pension assets were increased by €200 million, which ties came from the purchase price payment received from Saudi further reduced the recognized value of the pension obligations. Aramco for the 50% interest in ARLANXEO. Moreover, other non-current provisions fell from €460 million to The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: €337 million. The increase in other non-current financial liabilities Ratios % 2014 2015 2016 20172) 2018 Equity1) Equity ratio Total assets 29.8 32.2 37.7 32.8 31.9 Non-current assets Non-current asset ratio Total assets 56.6 57.9 45.8 62.0 55.1 Equity1) Asset coverage I Non-current assets 52.7 55.6 82.5 52.9 57.9 Equity and non-current liabilities 1) Asset coverage II Non-current assets 136.7 125.8 182.4 123.2 149.8 Current liabilities Funding structure Total liabilities 32.3 40.0 26.6 35.1 25.7 1) Equity includes non-controlling interests. 2) Figures restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement of prior-year figures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital expenditures In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the In 2018, our capital expenditures for property, plant and following areas: equipment and intangible assets amounted to €517 million, against €409 million in the previous year. Cash outflows made ›› Expansion and maintenance of existing facilities, construcup €497 million of this total (previous year: €397 million). In the tion of new facilities same period, depreciation and amortization totaled €432 million ›› Measures to increase plant availability (previous year: €411 million), with depreciation and amortization ›› Projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply being mitigated by reversals of write-downs of €1 million (prewith environmental protection requirements vious year: €1 million). In addition, the figure for depreciation and amortization in 2018 included write-downs of €15 million More than one-third of the capital expenditures in 2018 went (previous year: €49 million). toward expansion or efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went to maintain existing facilities. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 80 Combined Management Report In regional terms, 54% of our capital expenditures in the In the Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures reporting period were made in Germany, 23% in North America, came to €79 million (previous year: €75 million), €76 million (pre15% in the EMEA region (excluding Germany), 6% in Asia-Pacific vious year: €74 million) of which were cash outflows. By contrast, and 2% in Latin America. Capital expenditures in Germany mostly depreciation and amortization stood at €85 million (previous year: comprised our investments to increase capacity and modernize €82 million). For example, the capital expenditures related to the facilities in all segments, especially investments in the Saltigo Liquid Purification Technologies business unit’s ion exchanger and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business units. Some of production. There were also various smaller investment projects the capital expenditures made in the EMEA region (excluding in the Inorganic Pigments business unit. Germany) were used at the site in Antwerp, Belgium, to further In the Engineering Materials segment, capital expenditures optimize production in the context of realignment to improve optotaled €77 million (previous year: €68 million), €76 million (preerational competitiveness. A portion of the capital expenditures in vious year: €68 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation the Asia-Pacific region related to the construction of a new plant and amortization came to €61 million (previous year: €56 million). for high-performance plastics at the site in Changzhou, China. Some of the capital expenditures in this segment were used in the High Performance Materials business unit for the construction of Cash Outﬂows for Capital Expenditures by Segment a new plant for high-performance plastics of the Durethan and € million 497 Pocan brands at the Changzhou site, China. This compounding 49 facility is set to start production in mid-2019. In addition, the High 397 76 Performance Materials business unit is investing in a further com26 Advanced Intermediates pounding facility at the site in the Uerdingen district of Krefeld, Specialty Additives 68 76 Germany. From the second half of 2019, it will likewise produce Performance Chemicals 74 Engineering Materials engineering plastics of the Durethan and Pocan brands. The 141 Reconciliation 83 Urethane Systems business unit is also investing in production capacity for pre-polymers at the Porto Feliz site in Brazil. 146 155 2017 2018 Financial condition ›› Operating cash flow influenced by increase in net working Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segcapital ment amounted to €168 million (previous year: €156 million). ›› Purchase price from the sale of the 50% interest in At €155 million (previous year: €146 million), cash outflows ex­ARLANXEO of €1.4 billion received ceeded depreciation and amortization of €127 million (previous ›› Net cash used in financing activities of €160 million after year: €117 million). These included cash outflows in connection €545 million in the previous year with the capacity expansion of special-amine production in the ›› Liquidity position remains solid Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit at the Leverkusen site in Germany. In addition, capital expenditures were made in The statement of cash flows shows inflows and outflows of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit at the site in cash and cash equivalents by type of business operation. the Uerdingen district of Krefeld, Germany, in order to expand the production of hexanediol. Capital expenditures of €144 million were made in the Specialty Additives segment (previous year: €84 million). Cash outflows made up €141 million of this total (previous year: €83 million). By contrast, depreciation and amortization stood at €136 million (previous year: €136 million). A significant portion of the capital expenditures went toward the production network for flame retardants in the Additives business unit. In addition, the Rhein Chemie business unit invested in the capacity expansion for dyes of the Macrolex brand. The additional production capacity will be available from the second quarter of 2019. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 81 Cash Flow Statement Investing activities resulted in a cash inflow of €65 million in € million 2017 2018 Change fiscal year 2018, compared with a cash outflow of €22 million in Income before income taxes 219 390 171 the prior-year period. A significant effect resulted from the financial Depreciation and ­amortization/ resources of €1,427 million received from the sale of the 50% reversals of impairment interest in ARLANXEO less divested cash and cash equivalents charges 410 431 21 of €123 million. This was countered by the investment in time Other items 5 (184) (189) Net cash provided by deposits and securities available for sale. In the previous year, ­operating activities – the outflow was influenced by the purchase price payment for continuing operations Chemtura and the returns from money market investments. Cash before change in net working capital 634 637 3 outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant Change in net working capital (66) (165) (99) and equipment amounted to €497 million, up on the prior-year Net cash provided by figure of €397 million. In addition, the addition to German pension operating activities – continuing operations 568 472 (96) assets led to cash outflow of €200 million. Interest and dividends Net cash (used in) provided received totaled €15 million, down €36 million on the previous by investing activities – year’s figure, driven primarily by the payment of a reduced profit continuing operations (22) 65 87 Net cash used in financing distribution by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. activities – continuing At €3 million, cash inflows from the sale of intangible assets and operations (545) (160) 385 property, plant and equipment were above the prior-year level Change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing of €2 million. operations 1 377 376 Net cash used in financing activities came to €160 million, Change in cash and cash against €545 million the year before. One significant effect in equivalents from discontinued operations 192 (112) (304) the reporting year was the placement of a new Eurobond with Cash and cash equivalents a volume of €500 million. The repayment of borrowings had a as of December 31 538 797 259 significant effect on cash outflow in both the previous year and of which the reporting year. Interest payments and other financial disbursecontinuing operations 266 797 531 of which ments of €77 million were on a par with the previous year. An discontinued operations 272 0 (272) outflow of €74 million was accounted for by the dividend paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal year 2017, after €64 million in the previous year. The following comments on the statement of cash flows relate The net increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing to LANXESS’s continuing operations. operations in fiscal year 2018 was €377 million, after €1 million Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in net the previous year. After taking into account currency-related and working capital, increased by €3 million to €637 million in fiscal other changes in cash and cash equivalents of €6 million, cash year 2018. The starting point was income before income taxes and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to €797 milof €390 million, which was up €171 million year-on-year. Net of lion, against €538 million at the previous year’s closing date. reversals of write-downs, the depreciation and amortization of On December 31, 2018, the Group continued to have a solid €431 million were up €21 million on the previous year’s figure liquidity position. of €410 million. The other items in the reporting year included Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from tax payments, effects from currency hedging of intercompany operating activities and the cash used for capital expenditures for loans, and cash outflows for variable compensation as well as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – decreased restructuring measures. by €196 million to minus €25 million. The change in net working capital against December 31, 2017, resulted in a cash outflow of €165 million after €66 million in the Principles and objectives of previous year. The outflow in the reporting period resulted in parfinancial management ticular from the increase in inventories and trade receivables, while LANXESS pursues a conservative financial policy characthe rise in trade payables had a countervailing effect. Therefore, terized by the forward-looking management of financial risks. the net cash provided by operating activities totaled €472 million, Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our busidown on the previous year’s figure of €568 million. ness operations at all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The debt level is largely aligned with the ratio systems of the leading rating agencies for LANXESS Annual Report 2018 82 Combined Management Report investment-grade companies and, along with free cash flow, is the financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing dialog and focus of financial management. In addition to liquidity risk, financial communication with banks, investors and rating agencies are of management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and crucial importance. In light of the announced sale of the 50% interforeign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial est in ARLANXEO in August 2018, the rating agencies Standard & risks that arise and thereby increase planning reliability, partly by Poor’s, Moody’s and Scope Ratings increased LANXESS’s credit using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information about rating. Standard & Poor’s raised the rating from “BBB–” to “BBB” the management of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity and left the outlook at “stable.” Moody’s improved its assessment and risk report.” of the credit rating from “Baa3” to “Baa2” and likewise left the outlook at “stable.” The agency Scope Ratings raised the rating LANXESS Group ratings from “BBB” to “BBB+” over the course of the year and confirmed Access to the capital markets and good relations with German the “stable” outlook. and international commercial banks are essential for achieving our Development of ­L ANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Standard & Poor’s BBB–/stable BBB–/positive BBB–/negative BBB–/stable BBB/stable May 19, 2014 Sept. 24, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 July 31, 2017 Oct. 16, 2018 Moody’s Investors Service Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa2/stable June 20, 2014 July 2, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 Oct. 20, 2017 Aug. 23, 2018 Scope Ratings BBB+/stable Aug. 15, 2018 Financing analysis non-discounted future payments relating to operating leases fell In fiscal year 2018, LANXESS retained a balanced financing to €176 million against €193 million in the previous year. The structure and a solid liquidity position. A bond that matured in May reduction mainly results from the disposal of ARLANXEO. 2018 was refinanced with a new bond with a volume of €500 milAs of December 31, 2018, LANXESS had no material financing lion and a term of seven years. As of December 31, 2018, we items off statement of financial position in the form of factoring, successfully completed the full sale of the shares in ARLANXEO. asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. LANXESS thus received cash and cash equivalents of around The Group’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, €1.4 billion as of the end of 2018. decreased from €2,840 million in 2017 to €2,720 million as of The existing debt issuance program allows the very flexible December 31, 2018. Net financial liabilities – defined as total placement of bonds on the capital market. As of December 31, 2018, financial liabilities net of cash, cash equivalents, accrued interest just under €2.2 billion of the €5 billion financing facility had been and near-cash assets – amounted to €1,923 million at the end utilized to issue bonds and private placements. The volume of the of the reporting year, down from €2,252 million as of Decemdebt issuance program can be adjusted flexibly in line with future ber 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018, moreover, time deposits requirements so as to ensure financial headroom. Capital market and securities available for sale were held totaling €542 million. financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and secuwhich is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate diverrities available for sale amounted to €1,381 million at the end of sification of our financing sources and our strategic alignment. 2018. Of the total financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a fixed Current financial liabilities decreased from €633 million in the interest rate over the term of the financing, which is unchanged previous year to €59 million as of December 31, 2018. The decline from the previous year. Interest rate changes do not have a material is primarily the result of the bond of €500 million that matured effect on LANXESS’s financial condition considering the current in May 2018. We made only limited use of finance leases, which financing structure. The proportion of loans and bonds denomiare reported as financial liabilities in the statement of financial nated in euro averaged 99% in the reporting year, up slightly on position. As of December 31, 2018, the financial liabilities from the prior-year level of 97%. The weighted average interest rate for finance leases were down to €17 million from €61 million in the our financial liabilities in euro was 2.0% at year-end 2018, down previous year. The LANXESS Group uses operating leases mainly on the prior-year figure of 2.7%. for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. Minimum LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 83 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing strucfor sale of €542 million. There are also additional liquidity reserves ture as of December 31, 2018, in detail, including its principal in the form of undrawn credit lines. Money market investments liquidity reserves. are largely made in bilateral instruments at banks and money market funds. Financing Structure Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was asInstrument Amount Term Interest Financial sured at all times in fiscal year 2018. € ­million rate % covenant By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the Eurobond syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion with a term until May 2016/2021 October 2023. The term was extended by one year on the basis of a con(€500 million) 497 2021 0.250 no Eurobond tract option. 2012/2022 November The credit facility remains largely undrawn to date. It is de(€500 million) 497 2022 2.625 no signed as an operating line of credit and to provide funds for Eurobond 2018/2025 capital investment, and complies with the market requirements (€500 million) 492 May 2025 1.125 no of the European syndicated loan market for investment-grade Eurobond companies with a BBB rating. None of our major loan agreements 2016/2026 October (€500 million) 494 2026 1.000 no contains a financial covenant. In total, we had undrawn credit Hybrid bond facilities of around €1.3 billion as of December 31, 2018, as in 2016/2076 December the previous year. (€500 million) 490 2076 4.500 no The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us Private placement 2012/2022 available liquidity of around €2.1 billion. (€100 million) 100 April 2022 3.500 no Private placement 2012/2027 (€100 million) 99 April 2027 3.950 no MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY OF Other loans 34 n/a no ­BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND THE Finance lease 17 n/a no FISCAL YEAR Total financial ­liabilities 2,720 Cash and In the reporting period, LANXESS Group sales climbed by cash equivalents 797 ≤ 3 months 10.2% from €6,530 million in the previous year to €7,197 million. Near-cash assets 0 ≤ 3 months The increase in sales resulted largely from the Chemtura business Total liquidity 797 units acquired in 2017 and from higher sales due to raw mateNet financial liabilities 1,923 rial prices and volumes in the existing operating business of the Time deposits and Advanced Intermediates and Engineering Materials segments. In securities available addition, the U.S. phosphorus additives business acquired from the for sale 542 Net financial Belgian chemicals group Solvay in February 2018 had a pleasing liabilities after portfolio effect on sales. The adverse development of exchange deduction of rates had a negative impact on sales performance. time deposits and securities EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2018 increased by €91 million available for sale 1,381 from €925 million to €1,016 million. This development resulted in particular from the operating strength of the Advanced IntermeThe other loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities diates, Specialty Additives and Engineering Materials segments by subsidiaries in China, which are extended on a regular basis. as well as the successful integration of Chemtura. No refinancing risks existed at the time these financial statements Net income and earnings per share improved considerably were prepared. year-on-year from €87 million to €431 million and from €0.95 to €4.71, respectively. The improvement resulted mainly from the Liquidity analysis development of continuing operations. Positive net income also Around 95% of our cash and cash equivalents of €797 million resulted from discontinued operations. This resulted mainly from are held in Group companies in countries with no restrictions on the accounting in accordance with IFRS 5, according to which the foreign exchange and capital transfers. The remaining approxiintangible assets and property, plant and equipment of ­ARLANXEO mately 5% are held in companies in regulated capital markets are not subject to any further amortization or depreciation. In where cash transfers are restricted. In addition to cash and cash addition, a positive impact was made by the gain from the sale of equivalents, LANXESS holds time deposits and securities available the 50% interest in ARLANXEO of €90 million. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 84 Combined Management Report We view the development of earnings as positive overall. Our net financial liabilities declined after deduction of time We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy deposits and securities available for sale by €871 million to in 2018 as well. In accordance with the consistency principle, we €1,381 million. In fiscal year 2018, the rating agencies Standard essentially applied the same measurement methods and exercised & Poor’s, Moody’s and Scope Ratings raised their assessments the same discretion as in the previous year. The equity ratio fell of our credit rating. Standard & Poor’s upgraded its rating from from 32.8% to 31.9%. Total assets decreased from €10,411 m ­ illion “BBB–” to “BBB,” Moody’s raised the rating from “Baa3” to “Baa2” to €8,687 million, largely as a result of the sale of our 50% interest and Scope Ratings improved the rating from “BBB” to “BBB+.” in ARLANXEO. All three rating agencies continue to assume a stable outlook. Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity We continue to regard our business situation as positive. With position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in the sale of our 50% interest in ARLANXEO, we have taken another the form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total step towards becoming a much more stable specialty chemicals financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a fixed interest rate over the company with a stronger cash flow and a more balanced, more term of the financing, which is unchanged from the previous year. sustainable portfolio. Our financial liabilities are free of financial covenants. KEY BUSINESS DATA – MULTI-PERIOD OVERVIEW Indicators € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Earnings performance Sales 8,006 7,902 7,699 6,530 7,197 EBITDA pre exceptionals 808 885 995 925 1,016 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 10.1% 11.2% 12.9% 14.2% 14.1% EBITDA 644 833 945 709 935 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 402 422 514 558 595 Operating result (EBIT) 218 415 464 299 504 EBIT margin 2.7% 5.3% 6.0% 4.6% 7.0% Net income 47 165 192 87 431 Earnings per share (€) 0.53 1.80 2.10 0.95 4.71 Financial position Cash flow from operating activities 797 692 689 568 472 Depreciation and amortization/ reversals of impairment charges 426 418 481 410 431 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 614 434 439 397 497 Net financial liabilities 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 1,923 Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 1,381 Assets and liabilities Total assets 7,250 7,219 9,877 10,4111) 8,687 Non-current assets 4,101 4,180 4,519 6,4541) 4,786 Current assets 3,149 3,039 5,358 3,957 3,901 Net working capital 1,600 1,526 1,628 1,948 1,455 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,161 2,323 3,728 3,413 2,773 Pension provisions 1,290 1,215 1,249 1,490 1,083 Indicators ROCE 7.9% 8.4% 6.9% 9.3% 11.4%2) Equity ratio 29.8% 32.2% 37.7% 32.8% 31.9% Non-current asset ratio 56.6% 57.9% 45.8% 62.0% 55.1% Asset coverage I 52.7% 55.6% 82.5% 52.9% 57.9% Net working capital/sales 20.0% 19.3% 21.1% 20.2% 20.2% Employees (as of December 31) 16,584 16,225 16,721 19,029 15,441 Figures from 2017 not including ARLANXEO, except statement of financial position items as of December 31, 2017, and key figures for 2017 on this basis. 1) Prior-year figures restated. For background information, please see the “Restatement of prior-year figures” section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2) Underlying capital employed as of December 31, 2018, adjusted. See “Value Management and Control System” for details. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year 85 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of LANXESS AG EARNINGS, ASSET AND FINANCIAL The earnings of LANXESS AG are largely determined by POSITION OF LANXESS AG profit or loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, net interest and general administration expenses. LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding Sales at LANXESS AG stood at €7 million, which was higher company for the LANXESS Group. The principal management than in the previous year. They related mainly to services provided functions for the entire Group are performed by the Board of to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after Management. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. expenses and appropriate shares of the general administration The Group management company is also responsible for financexpenses. ing and communication with LANXESS’s key stakeholders. The General administration expenses increased year-on-year by economic performance of LANXESS AG depends principally on €2 million, or 4.3%, to €48 million. They principally comprised the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group and on personnel and other business expenses not directly related to the development of the chemical industry. The balance of income the services provided to Group companies. The operating result and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting from amounted to minus €46 million, as in the previous year. profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated companies is The financial result, which comprises the balance of income of key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to pay a and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net interdividend. Therefore, especially the statements made in the “Opest position, income from loans included in financial non-current portunity and risk report” in this Management Report apply in assets, write-downs on securities classified as current assets, and principle to LANXESS AG as well. other financial income and expense, rose from €128 million to The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in €240 million. This change was primarily due to the profit transfer accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the of €318 million from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which was German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). €124 million higher than in the previous year. The financial result was negatively influenced by the €4 million deterioration in the net interest position to minus €69 million. Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG Income taxes resulted in expenses of €109 million. These were comprised of tax expenses of €44 million for the reporting LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance period and €65 million for previous years. Net income for fiscal with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged  year 2018 was €85 million after €23 million in the previous year. € million 2017 2018 Change % As of December 31, 2018, the company reported a distribSales 6 7 16.7 utable profit of €127 million taking into account the profit carryCost of sales (6) (7) (16.7) forward of €42 million. In the previous year, a distributable profit Gross profit 0 0 – of €116 million was posted. General administration expenses (46) (48) (4.3) Other operating income 1 2 100.0 Other operating expenses (1) 0 100.0 Operating result (46) (46) 0.0 Income from investments in affiliated companies 194 318 63.9 Income from loans held as financial assets 9 9 0.0 Net interest expense (65) (69) (6.2) Write-downs on securities classified as current assets 0 (1) < (100) Other financial income and expenses – net (10) (17) (70.0) Financial result 128 240 87.5 Income (loss) before income taxes (59) (109) (84.7) Income taxes 23 85 > 100 Net income 23 85 > 100 Carryforward to new account 93 42 (54.8) Withdrawal from other retained earnings 0 0 – Distributable profit 116 127 9.5 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 86 Combined Management Report Asset and capital structure Equity increased by €11 million to €2,011 million, largely of LANXESS AG due to net income of €85 million. This was partly offset by the dividend payment for 2017. The equity ratio was 37.0%, after LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance 39.4% at the end of 2017. with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged The provisions increased by €43 million to €167 million and Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Change related in particular to commitments to employees and to statutory € million % € million % % and contractual obligations. Liabilities increased by €303 million ASSETS to €3,259 million. This was mainly because of the increase in payFinancial assets 980 19.3 997 18.3 1.7 ables to affiliated companies, which were down by €307 million Non-current assets 980 19.3 997 18.3 1.7 on the previous year at €527 million. Receivables from affiliated companies 3,849 75.8 3,061 56.3 (20.5) Other assets Liquid assets and 51 1.0 245 4.5 > 100 COMPENSATION REPORT securities 174 3.4 1,103 20.3 > 100 Current assets 4,074 80.2 4,409 81.1 8.2 Compensation of the Board of Management Prepaid expenses 26 0.5 31 0.6 19.2 The structure of the compensation system and the level of Total assets 5,080 100.0 5,437 100.0 7.0 compensation for the members of the Board of Management are EQUITY AND determined by the Supervisory Board, after preparation by the LIABILITIES Presidial Committee. The appropriateness of the compensation is Equity 2,000 39.4 2,011 37.0 0.6 regularly reviewed by an external personnel consulting company. Provisions 124 2.4 167 3.1 34.7 The criteria for determining the appropriateness of the compenBonds 2,700 53.2 2,700 49.7 0.0 Liabilities to banks 34 0.7 29 0.5 (14.7) sation for an individual Board of Management member include, Payables to affiliated in particular, his duties, his personal performance, the economic companies 220 4.3 527 9.7 > 100 situation, and the success and sustainable growth of the LANXESS Other liabilities 2 0.0 3 0.0 50.0 Group. In addition, consideration is also given to compensation at Liabilities 2,956 58.2 3,259 59.9 10.3 comparable companies and the company’s overall compensation Total assets 5,080 100.0 5,437 100.0 7.0 structure with regard to the ratio between the compensation of the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior executives In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms of time. statement of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated by The compensation structure is also designed to be competitive financial assets and liabilities and by receivables from, and payables in the international market for highly qualified executives and to, subsidiaries. provide the motivation to successfully work toward sustainable LANXESS AG had total assets of €5,437 million as of Decemcorporate development. Two of the three variable components ber 31, 2018, which was €357 million, or 7.0%, above the prior-year are measured according to corporate performance over several figure. Non-current assets were €997 million and primarily included years, and thus set long-term incentives. the carrying amount of the investment in LANXESS Deutschland The compensation system that was introduced for members GmbH, which stands at €739 million, and loans to subsidiaries of the Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual of €198 million. The share of non-current assets in total assets Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010, with decreased from 19.3% to 18.3%. Current assets increased by a majority of 99.10% of the capital represented. The company €335 million, or 8.2%, to €4,409 million and accounted for 81.1% of intends to allow the 2020 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting to vote on total assets, compared with 80.2% in the previous year. Receivables the compensation system after the ongoing legislative procedure from subsidiaries accounted for 56.3% of total assets, compared regarding the Second Shareholder Rights Directive Implementato 75.8% in the previous year, and related principally to short-term tion Act (ARUG II) is complete and the new version of the German loans, financial transactions and claims to profit or loss transfers. Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) is adopted. Other receivables largely consisted of non-disposable time deposits and accounted for 4.5% of total assets compared with 1.0% in the previous year. The share of bank balances and securities in total assets increased from 3.4% to 20.3%. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of LANXESS AG 87 Compensation Report The components of the compensation for members of the base salaries. The target and threshold values applicable to the Board of Management are the base salary; the short-term and payment level are set each year by the Supervisory Board before long-term variable components, which are the Annual Performance the start of a new fiscal year. There is no payment of a minimum Payment (APP), the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) amount. For fiscal year 2018, the maximum payment is capped and the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB); and a retirement at 200% of the individual budget in line with the caps applied for pension. The three variable components APP, LTSP and LTPB non-managerial and managerial staff. If targets are missed to a are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and performance considerable degree, it is possible that no APP payment (0%) will over a number of years. The average compensation mix of 33% be made. In addition, the Supervisory Board reserves the right to annual base salary and 67% variable compensation components, reduce the APP in the event of serious occupational safety and/ assuming 100% target attainment, is strongly aligned with the or environmental problems. company’s performance and long-term value creation. The presThe Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) over several ent service contracts for members of the Board of Management years is another element of variable compensation. This compenset out the annual base salary and caps on the amounts for the sation component is based on the performance of LANXESS variable compensation components. Currently, the contracts do stock against a reference index. The Dow Jones STOXX 600 not provide for a separate cap, exceeding the aforementioned, ChemicalsSM serves as a reference index for the LTSP 2010–2013, on total compensation, even taking into account a possible diswhich was created in 2010, while the MSCI World Chemicals cretionary bonus. Index serves as a reference index for the LTSP 2014–2017, which Changes to the existing Board of Management contracts are was established in 2014. The LTSP is divided into four four-year planned in the near future. Please see “Other” in this compensation tranches. The condition for participation in both LTSP programs report for details. is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares of 5% of the annual base salary. These shares are subject to an Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management average vesting period of five years (LTSP 2010–2013) and four % years (LTSP 2014–2017). The rights granted by the LTSP may be 13 exercised at the end of these periods. The exercise period is three years in general, but five years for the 2012 and 2013 tranches. 33 In the LTSP 2018–2021, in place since 2018, the rights ­granted 18 Annual base salary are exercised immediately at the end of the four-year vesting Annual Performance Payment ­period. Assuming 100% target attainment, the LTSP programs Long-Term Stock Performance provide for a possible payment per tranche of 30% of the individual Plan Long-Term Performance Bonus target income. The maximum payment is 60% of the individual target income. 36 In parallel with the introduction of the LTSP 2018–2021, the Share Ownership Guideline (SOG) was also established in Fixed compensation 2018. Continuously over a period of four years the members of The fixed compensation comprises the annual base salary the Board of Management are obliged to verifiably acquire and and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax hold a minimum amount of shares (SOG target) in LANXESS AG. value of perquisites, such as the use of a company car. The anThe SOG target is 150% of annual base salary for the Chairman nual base salary of the members of the Board of Management is of the Board of Management and 100% of annual base salary for market-oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable the other members of the Board of Management. companies. It is paid each month pro-rata as salary. For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters applied, please see Note [15] to the consolidated Variable compensation financial statements. The annual performance-related component of variable comFor fiscal year 2018, the share-based compensation resulted pensation is the Annual Performance Payment (APP). It is based on in an expense of €58 thousand for Mr. Zachert (previous year: corporate business targets such as attainment of specific targets expense of €935 thousand), income of €113 thousand for Dr. Fink for the LANXESS Group’s EBITDA pre exceptionals. In the case (previous year: expense of €91 thousand), income of €113 thouof 100% target attainment, the individual APP budget for fiscal sand for Mr. Pontzen (previous year: expense of €91 thousand) year 2018 for Mr. Zachert is 125% and for the other members and an expense of €87 thousand for Dr. van Roessel (previous of the Board of Management 100% of their respective annual year: expense of €441 thousand). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 88 Combined Management Report The Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB), which is the third Stephen C. Forsyth, who was left the Board of Management variable component, is likewise aligned with long-term corporate on May 31, 2018, received an annual base salary for his one-year performance. It rewards target attainment only after two successive fixed term on the Board of Management, as well as the APP as fiscal years. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual performance-related variable compensation. However, he did APP target attainment for the fiscal years in question. The exact not participate in the long-term compensation components LTSP amount of the LTPB results from the average individual APP tarand LTPB. get attainment for the two fiscal years. The LTPB for the Board of Management is set by the Supervisory Board and amounts to 45% of fixed annual compensation in the event of average APP target attainment of 100%. Compensation of the Board of Management Payments from LTSP Fixed compensation Variable compensation rights Year Annual Compen­ PerforLTPB Payment Total cash Fair base salary sation mance (multi-year) for previous compen­ values € thousand in kind bonus4) years sation Total 2018 1,200 757 1,950 7022) – 4,609 810 5,419 Matthias Zachert 2017 1,200 73 3,000 1,0801) (41)3) 5,312 737 6,049 2018 550 53 715 3222) – 1,640 330 1,970 Dr. Hubert Fink 2017 475 53 1,100 5281) (13)3) 2,143 246 2,389 2018 550 187 715 3222) – 1,774 330 2,104 Michael Pontzen 2017 525 47 1,100 5281) (13)3) 2,187 246 2,433 2018 650 51 845 380 2) – 1,926 390 2,316 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2017 650 51 1,300 5851) (19)3) 2,567 355 2,922 Stephen C. Forsyth 2018 188 – 186 – – 374 – 374 (June 1, 2017 until May 31, 2018) 2017 263 – 525 – – 788 – 788 2018 3,138 1,048 4,411 1,726 – 10,323 1,860 12,183 Total 2017 3,113 224 7,025 2,721 (86) 12,997 1,584 14,581 1) Payment of 50% each in 2018 and 2019 2) Payment of 50% each in 2019 and 2020 3) Payment in 2017 and 2018, respectively 4) Payment in 2018 and 2019, respectively The aggregate compensation for the Board of Management Retirement pensions was €12,183 thousand (previous year: €14,581 thousand), comOn termination of their service contracts, the members of prising €4,186 thousand (previous year: €3,337 thousand) in the Board of Management receive benefits under the company non-performance-related components, €6,137 thousand (previous pension plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary year: €9,660 thousand) in performance-related components and reaches the age of 60 or 62 or if the beneficiary is permanently €1,860 thousand (previous year: €1,584 thousand) in compounable to work. They are paid to surviving dependents in the nents with a long-term incentive effect. In fiscal year 2018, the event of the beneficiary’s death. performance-related components were based on the EBITDA pre The pension plan for the members of the Board of Manexceptionals achieved of €1,016 million and the resulting APP agement is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contarget attainment of 130%. APP target attainment would have tribution to be made by the company equal to 25% of the annual been 100% for fiscal year 2018 if EBITDA pre exceptionals had base salary and APP. The maximum amount taken into account been €980 million. In the context of the LTSP, a total of 1,860,000 for calculating the APP contribution is that due on 100% target rights were granted to the members of the Board of Management attainment, irrespective of the actual target attainment. Moreover, (previous year: 1,740,000 rights). Regarding the fair value per the members of the Board of Management must themselves pay right of the individual tranches on the reporting date, please see an amount from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5% Note [15] to the consolidated financial statements. of the APP. The members of the Board of Management may The increase in compensation in kind for Mr. Zachert to increase their personal contribution to up to 25% of the APP. €757 thousand (previous year: €73 thousand) and for Mr. Pontzen From the date of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated to €187 thousand (previous year: €47 thousand) resulted from capital – including the interest thereon – may be converted to the security measures in their homes approved by the Supervisory a pension benefit. There are claims arising from provisions in Board of LANXESS AG. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Compensation Report 89 place before 2006 that are granted as vested rights to individual under IFRS accounting rules for this purpose, the net expense members of the Board of Management. If the service contract recognized under HGB accounting rules for this purpose and the ends before the beneficiary reaches the age of 60 or 62, the present value of the obligations under IFRS and HGB accounting company pays certain additional benefits up to a defined ceiling. rules can be found in the following table for the Board of ManageLANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of ment members serving as of December 31, 2018: Board of Management members. The service costs recognized Pension Claims IFRS HGB Year Service Costs Present Value of Net Expense Present Value of the Obligations for Pension the Obligations € thousand Entitlements 2018 749 6,251 979 5,085 Matthias Zachert 2017 775 5,613 1,080 4,106 2018 311 4,058 639 3,306 Dr. Hubert Fink 2017 309 3,626 550 2,666 2018 323 2,298 346 1,768 Michael Pontzen 2017 268 2,108 451 1,423 2018 158 7,370 617 6,699 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2017 157 7,030 504 6,082 Stephen C. Forsyth 2018 – – – – (June 1, 2017 until May 31, 2018) 2017 – – – – 2018 1,541 19,977 2,581 16,858 Total 2017 1,509 18,377 2,585 14,277 As of December 31, 2018, obligations to former members No loans were granted to members of the Board of Manageof the Board of Management totaled €35,261 thousand (previment in fiscal year 2018. ous year: €34,828 thousand) under IFRS accounting rules and The Supervisory Board intends, with the consent of the mem€30,089 thousand (previous year: €27,772 thousand) under bers of the Board of Management, to amend the members of HGB accounting rules. the Board of Management’s service contracts for 2019, in order among other things to more closely meet the demand for long-term Benefits associated with and following Board of Management compensation. The following changes are ­termination of service on the Board of to be made in particular: ­Management The members of the Board of Management have indemni›› The total compensation for the members of the Board of fication rights should their service contracts be terminated for Management is to be capped in the future. defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of ›› The size of the contributions to the company pension plan a material change of control over the company. The terms depend and the compensation in kind is not to exceed a defined on the respective circumstances and include severance payments proportion of the annual base salary. amounting to up to twice the annual base salary or, in the event of ›› The Supervisory Board’s granting of an ad hoc ­discretionary a change of control, three times the annual base salary, plus the bonus to recognize special achievements or to create an APP and LTPB. In the event of departure, LTSP rights are com­additional performance incentive is to be limited to a ­maximum pensated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. amount. No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the ›› The LTPB is to be altered in the future to assess target attainBoard of Management in the event of termination of their service. ment in three consecutive fiscal years. Payments totaling €473 thousand (previous year: €473 thou›› The Supervisory Board reserves the right to withhold or sand) were made to former members of the Board of Management reclaim (“claw-back”) the granted variable compensation in in fiscal year 2018. full or in part in the event of grave dereliction of duty. Other In the past fiscal year, no member of the Board of Management received substantial benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties with respect to their duties as members of the Board of Management. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 90 Combined Management Report Individual compensation in line with the ­recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits and allocations (payments) for 2017 and 2018, in line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The variable compensation components differ depending on the reference period. The amounts of compensation shown also include the maximum and minimum attainable compensation. Compensation Granted Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Target Target Target Target value value 2018 2018 value value 2018 2018 € thousand 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 475 550 550 550 Compensation in kind 73 757 757 757 53 53 53 53 Total 1,273 1,957 1,957 1,957 528 603 603 603 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,500 1,500 0 3,000 550 550 0 1,100 Multi-year variable compensation 1,277 1,350 0 2,700 517 578 0 1,155 LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – – – – 23 – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) 540 – – – 248 – – – LTPB (tranche 2018–2019 ) – 540 0 1,080 – 248 0 495 LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) 737 – – – 246 – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2018) – 810 0 1,620 – 330 0 660 Total 4,050 4,807 1,957 7,657 1,595 1,731 603 2,858 Service cost 775 749 749 749 309 311 311 311 Total compensation 4,825 5,556 2,706 8,406 1,904 2,042 914 3,169 Compensation Granted Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Target Target Target Target value value 2018 2018 value value 2018 2018 € thousand 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 525 550 550 550 650 650 650 650 Compensation in kind 47 187 187 187 51 51 51 51 Total 572 737 737 737 701 701 701 701 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 550 550 0 1,100 650 650 0 1,300 Multi-year variable compensation 517 578 0 1,155 648 683 0 1,365 LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 23 – – – – – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) 248 – – – 293 – – – LTPB (tranche 2018–2019 ) – 248 0 495 – 293 0 585 LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) 246 – – – 355 – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2018) – 330 0 660 – 390 0 780 Total 1,639 1,865 737 2,992 1,999 2,034 701 3,366 Service cost 268 323 323 323 157 158 158 158 Total compensation 1,907 2,188 1,060 3,315 2,156 2,192 859 3,524 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Compensation Report 91 Compensation Granted Stephen C. Forsyth Member of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2017, resigned May 31, 2018 Target Target value value 2018 2018 € thousand 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 263 188 188 188 Compensation in kind – – – – Total 263 188 188 188 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 263 186 186 186 Multi-year variable compensation – – – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – – – – LTPB (tranche 2018–2019 ) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) – – – – LTSP 2018–2021 (tranche 2018) – – – – Total 526 374 374 374 Service cost – – – – Total compensation 526 374 374 374 Allocations Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management € thousand 2017 2018 2017 2018 Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 475 550 Compensation in kind 73 757 53 53 Total 1,273 1,957 528 603 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 2,970 1,950 1,091 715 Multi-year variable compensation 935 2,333 429 408 LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) (5) – (2) – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 940 – 431 – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – 891 – 408 LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – LTSP 2014–20171) – 1,442 – – Total 5,178 6,240 2,048 1,726 Service cost 775 749 309 311 Total compensation 5,953 6,989 2,357 2,037 1) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2014 Allocations Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management € thousand 2017 2018 2017 2018 Annual base salary 525 550 650 650 Compensation in kind 47 187 51 51 Total 572 737 701 701 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,091 715 1,287 845 Multi-year variable compensation 429 408 506 1,244 LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) (2) – (3) – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 431 – 509 – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – 408 – 483 LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – LTSP 2014–20171) – – – 761 Total 2,092 1,860 2,494 2,790 Service cost 268 323 157 158 Total compensation 2,360 2,183 2,651 2,948 1) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2014 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 92 Combined Management Report Allocations Stephen C. Forsyth Member of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2017, resigned May 31, 2018 € thousand 2017 2018 Annual base salary 263 188 Compensation in kind – – Total 263 188 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 525 186 Multi-year variable compensation – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – – LTSP 2010–2013 – – LTSP 2014–20171) – – Total 788 374 Service cost – – Total compensation 788 374 1) Exercise of LTSP tranche 2014 Compensation of the Supervisory Board Payment of the variable compensation depends on how The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members 600 ChemicalsSM during a member’s five-year term. The average of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compenprice of LANXESS stock and the average level of the index during sation of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Board receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half at which the Supervisory Board members were elected are each times, this amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervicompared with the respective average for the 90 trading days sory Board committees is compensated separately in accordance prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion of with the German Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board which the members’ terms end. The variable compensation is members who belong to a committee receive one half of the only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark index. fixed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the Audit The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed a further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage than three times the fixed compensation amount. points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand for Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their exthis five-year period; if it has outperformed the index by between penses in addition and also receive an attendance allowance of 10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation committee meeting they attend, with the exception of meetings is €150 thousand. of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, No variable compensation was paid out in fiscal year 2018. of the German Codetermination Act and meetings of the NomThe expected compensation payable for the current terms of inations Committee. With respect to their membership on the office of Supervisory Board members was valued at €1,310 thousupervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members sand (previous year: €950 thousand) as of December 31, 2018, of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their service and recognized as a provision. on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in None of the members of the Supervisory Board received the amount of €5 thousand each. benefits for services provided personally during the reporting The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term inperiod. No loans or advances were granted to members of the centive based on the company’s performance during the standard Supervisory Board during the reporting year. term of an individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five The following table breaks down the compensation received years). Unlike the fixed compensation component, this variable by each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the compensation component is not paid every year, but only once Supervisory Board. at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, the amount is prorated. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Compensation Report 93 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) Compensation of the Supervisory Board Year Fixed Compensation Attendance Fixed Total compensation as committee allowance compensation ­L ANXESS AG member ­L ANXESS €1) ­L ANXESS AG Deutschland GmbH Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, 2018 181,015 52,626 19,500 5,000 258,141 Chairman (Chairman as of May 15, 2018) 2017 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Dr. Rolf Stomberg, 2018 88,478 22,120 7,500 1,843 119,941 former Chairman (resigned May 15, 2018) 2017 240,000 02) 16,500 5,000 261,500 Ralf Sikorski, 2018 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 Vice Chairman 2017 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Werner Czaplik 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2018 80,000 – 12,000 5,000 97,000 Dr. Heike Hanagarth 2017 80,000 – 9,000 5,000 94,000 2018 80,000 105,254 22,500 5,000 212,754 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2017 80,000 80,000 13,500 5,000 178,500 Pamela Knapp 2018 50,507 25,254 10,500 3,157 89,418 (appointed May 15, 2018) 2017 – – – – – 2018 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Thomas Meiers 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2018 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Lawrence A. Rosen 2017 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 2018 80,000 40,000 19,500 5,000 144,500 Manuela Strauch 2017 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Ifraim Tairi 2018 80,000 40,000 19,500 5,000 144,500 (resigned December 31, 2018) 2017 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2018 80,000 54,746 22,500 5,000 162,246 Theo H. Walthie 2017 80,000 80,000 22,500 5,000 187,500 2018 1,160,000 540,000 220,500 60,000 1,980,500 Total 2017 1,160,000 480,000 183,000 60,000 1,883,000 1) Figures exclude value-added tax 2) Paid through fixed compensation as per Section 12, Paragraph 2, of the articles of association REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 3. We received no reports of direct and indirect equity invest289A, PARAGRAPH 1, AND 315A, ments in the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of ­PARAGRAPH 1, OF THE GERMAN total voting rights. ­COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. Pursuant to Section 289a, Paragraph 1, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 to 9, and Section 315a, Paragraph 1, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 to 9, 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS of the German Commercial Code, we hereby make the following AG through employee stock programs. There are no restricdeclarations: tions on directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 as of December 31, 2018, and is composed of 91,522,936 6. S ections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and and Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is disto the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management tributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the members. Under the provisions of these sections, Board of shares are governed by the German Stock Corporation Act. Management members are appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding five years. Such appointment 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights may be renewed or the term of office may be extended, or the transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under provided that the term of each such renewal or extension employee stock plans are subject to a vesting period before shall not exceed five years. Appointments require a majority they may be sold. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 94 Combined Management Report of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ Conditional capital votes. Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association  The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on states that the Board of Management must consist of at May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Management until least two members. The number of members of the Board May 14, 2023, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, of Management is determined by the Supervisory Board. The to issue – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/or Supervisory Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of convertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income Management and a vice chairman of the Board of Managebonds or a combination of these instruments (collectively ment. Alternative members of the Board of Management referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered or bearer bonds may be appointed. The Supervisory Board may revoke the – with a total nominal value of up to €1,000,000,000, with appointment of a member of the Board of Management or or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the Board impose exercise obligations on, the holders or creditors of of Management for cause (Section 84, Paragraph 3 of the warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants or German Stock Corporation Act). income bonds with warrants, or to grant conversion rights to,  Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors provides that a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or required for any amendment to the articles of association. convertible income bonds with respect to bearer shares of Pursuant to Section 17, Paragraph 2 of the articles of asthe company representing a total pro rata increase of up to sociation, resolutions of the Stockholders’ Meeting require €9,152,293 in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a capital majority defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 5 of is required, a simple majority of the capital stock, unless the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is otherwise required by law or provided by the articles of thus conditionally increased by up to €9,152,293 (Conditional association. The articles of association contain no further Capital). provisions in this regard. Section 10, Paragraph 9 of the  The conditional capital increase shall only be implementarticles of association of LANXESS AG authorizes the Sued to the extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons pervisory Board to resolve on amendments relating solely obligated to exercise, warrants or conversion rights pertainto the form of the articles of association. ing to warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds (or a combination of 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authese instruments) issued by the company or a dependent thorized to issue or repurchase shares as follows: company against cash contributions, or issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent Own shares company, on or before May 14, 2023, on the basis of the  The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on authorization granted to the Board of Management by the May 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, exercise their May 19, 2021, to acquire shares in the company representwarrants or conversion rights or, where they are obligated to ing up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the extent that the company purpose permitted by law. This authorization may also be elects to grant shares in the company in place of all or part utilized by subsidiaries of the company or by third parties on of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. At the discretion increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired granted or if the company’s own shares, shares issued out either on the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of authorized capital or shares in another listed company are of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose used to service the warrant or conversion rights. permitted by law, especially the purposes specifically listed  The Board of Management is authorized, with the apin the authorization. Among other things, it can retire the proval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights shares, sell them other than via the stock exchange or an in certain cases which are detailed in the authorization. The offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against considerBoard of Management will consider other capital measures ation in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied in its deof companies or equity interests in companies or in order cision to disapply stockholders’ subscription rights when to conclude mergers. The Board of Management is further issuing convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants, profit authorized to offer the shares acquired for sale to persons participation rights and/or income bonds (or combinations of who are or were employed by the company or an affiliated these instruments). By way of self-commitment, the Board of company (employee shares). Management undertakes to perform capital measures with LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 95 stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied up to a maximum do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. By way total amount of 20% of the company’s current capital stock. of self-commitment, the Board of Management undertakes This restriction applies when issuing new shares utilizing to perform capital measures with stockholders’ subscription authorized capital, utilizing treasury shares or issuing bonds rights disapplied up to a maximum total amount of 20% of with warrants or conversion rights/obligations on the basis of the company’s current capital stock. This restriction applies which shares must be issued, with stockholders’ subscription when issuing new shares utilizing authorized capital, utilizing rights disapplied in each case. The Board of Management treasury shares or issuing bonds with warrants or converwill be bound by this declaration until a future Annual Stocksion rights/obligations on the basis of which shares must holders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of be issued, with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied Management to implement capital measures under exclusion in each case. The Board of Management will be bound by of stockholders’ subscription rights. this declaration until a future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Management to Authorized Capital I and III implement capital measures under exclusion of stockholders’  Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s subscription rights. articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Management until 8. The service contracts between the company and the memMay 14, 2023, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to bers of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing provisions regarding the potential departure of the members new no-par bearer shares against cash and/or contributions of the Board of Management in the context of a change of in kind up to a total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized control. These are outlined in the compensation report in this Capital I). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription Combined Management Report. Such agreements, albeit rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. However, pursuant with different terms, also exist between the company and to Section 4, Paragraph 3, of LANXESS AG’s articles of assomembers of the first level of upper management. In addition, ciation and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, the the terms for placing bonds under the company’s existing Board of Management can exclude these subscription rights debt issuance program may contain a change-of-control when, for example, the company’s capital stock is increased clause which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition should certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded if the to the €500 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the B.V. in fiscal year 2012 and taken over by LANXESS AG in stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the 2015. The terms for two private placements with a volume of issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital €100 million each made by LANXESS Finance B.V. ­under the stock. debt issuance program in fiscal year 2012 likewise contain  Furthermore, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4, of corresponding change-of-control clauses. These placements LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockhave now also been taken over by LANXESS AG. Equally, holders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, authorized the Board the terms of the bonds with a volume of (i) €500 ­million of Management until May 25, 2022, with the approval of ­(maturity 2021) and (ii) €500 million (maturity 2026) the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 and the bonds stock on one or more occasions by issuing new bearer shares with a volume of (iii) €500 million (maturity 2025) issued by against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2018 under the debt issuance of €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders are program contain corresponding change-of-control clauses. generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized The terms of the subordinated hybrid bond with a volume of Capital is utilized. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4, of the €500 million also issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 articles of association and with the approval of the Supervicontain a change-of-control clause as well. According to these sory Board, the Board of Management can exclude these terms, in the event of a change of control and in connection subscription rights. It can exclude fractional amounts from with certain events that affect its rating, LANXESS AG must the stockholders’ subscription rights in the event of capital pay bondholders an increased rate of interest if the company increases against cash contributions. Subscription rights can does not make use of the right of termination that is similarly also be excluded in the event of capital increases against cash available. The company has entered into an agreement with contributions if the issue price of the new bearer shares is not a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility with a current significantly lower than the stock market price at the time the volume of €1,250 million. This agreement can be terminated issue price is definitively fixed and the issued shares in total without notice if another company or person takes control of LANXESS Annual Report 2018 96 Combined Management Report more than 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to In fiscal year 2019, we expect moderate growth of 3.0% for agreements between the company and LANXESS Pension the global economy, driven mainly by business performance in Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable Asia-Pacific. We see China remaining among the main drivers payments to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a despite lower growth momentum. With the slightly weaker growth change of control. drivers in EMEA (including Germany), we expect economic growth of 1.5% in this region based on 2018. 9. The service contracts between the company and the members We expect global chemical industry production to expand of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as beby 3.5%. Customer industries are becoming more cautious in tween the company and members of the first and second levels this volatile environment, while demand from the key customer of upper management of LANXESS AG contain compensation sectors in the chemical industry, such as agrochemicals and the agreements applicable in the event of a change of control, as construction industry, is expected to increase slightly in 2019. For such change is more particularly described in the respective sales in the automotive industry, we likewise expect only slight contracts. growth due to a decrease in Chinese demand. Expected Growth in 2019 REPORT PURSUANT TO S ­ ECTIONS 289F Change vs. prior year Gross domestic Chemical AND 315D OF THE GERMAN in real terms (%)1) product production ­COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) Americas 2.5 3.0 EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.5 2.0 Asia-Pacific 4.5 4.0 The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have World 3.0 3.5 issued the corporate governance declaration pursuant to Section 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB). 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Markit This has been made available to the stockholders and can be found at www.lanxess.com in the Investor Relations section under Corporate Governance. The following table shows the anticipated evolution of our selling markets. REPORT ON FUTURE PERSPECTIVES, Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2019 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Change vs. prior year Auto­motive Agro ­Conin real terms (%)1) chemicals struction In the economic outlook below, we describe our expectaAmericas 0.5 3.0 1.0 tions for economic development. Following the report on future EMEA (incl. Germany) 0.0 1.0 2.5 perspectives, we discuss the opportunities and risks which may Asia-Pacific 2.0 2.0 4.0 result in deviations from our predictions. World 1.0 2.0 3.0 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Markit Economic outlook Fiscal year 2018 was characterized by fundamentally sound economic growth. The increased uncertainty due to global risks Future perspectives such as trade conflicts, Great Britain’s exit from the EU without a deal (“hard Brexit”), budget problems in Italy, Iran sanctions, the Expected earnings position of the currency crisis in Argentina and the trend for the formation of LANXESS Group new, populist governments could tarnish the global economy’s We expect our business to develop at around the previous growth in the reporting year 2019. For Europe, the risk of a noyear’s level in fiscal year 2019, with a better balanced product deal Brexit due to the rejection of the withdrawal agreement is portfolio following the sale of the 50% interest in ARLANXEO. growing considerably. In addition, we believe that an escalation of The earnings forecast shown below relates to the forecast EBITDA trade tensions between the U.S., China and Europe would have a pre exceptionals of the LANXESS Group. A weaker U.S. dollar significant negative effect on the economic situation. continues to have a negative effect on our business. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 97 Report Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities For the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect business Financing measures in 2019 to be slightly above the previous year’s level overall. The LANXESS is in a good position due to the long-term nature of segment continues to benefit from the diversification of the end its financing. We have no significant maturities of financial liabilities markets. For our agrochemicals business, we see a slight improvein fiscal year 2019. We will continue our efforts aimed at securing ment in customer demand over the course of 2019. long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy. Our Specialty Additives segment is expected to be on a par with or to slightly exceed the previous year’s level. The ongoing Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG realization of the announced synergies from the integration of the In fiscal year 2019, we expect the financial statements of businesses acquired from the U.S. company Chemtura in April LANXESS AG to show substantially lower net income than in the 2017 will contribute to this development. previous year. The net income of the reporting period was sigFor our Performance Chemicals segment, we likewise expect nificantly influenced by effects from the sale of the 50% interest business performance to be on a par with the previous year. in ARLANXEO. Other than by the administration expenses the Our Engineering Materials segment, which comes from a company incurs in performing its tasks as a management holding comparatively high level, is expected to perform slightly weaker company, net income is essentially impacted by the financial result, than in 2018 due to the expectation that demand will drop, at least especially the net interest position and the balance of income and temporarily, in the automotive industry in particular. losses from investments in affiliated companies. The balance of In the Reconciliation segment, we expect earnings to deteincome and losses from investments in affiliated companies and riorate considerably year-on-year due to general inflation of the the corresponding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will cost base and remnant costs from the full sale of the synthetic significantly depend on the profit transfers and dividends paid by rubber business. The segment also includes currency hedging. the other companies of the LANXESS Group. We will maintain our The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses. consistent dividend policy and expect LANXESS AG to report a Against the background of the expected performance of our distributable profit that will enable our stockholders to adequately segments, we expect that EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full participate in the LANXESS Group’s earnings in the coming year. year 2019 will be around prior-year level. This includes a positive low-double-digit million earnings effect in euro arising from the Dividend policy application of the new accounting standard for leases, IFRS 16, LANXESS has been pursuing a consistent dividend policy for effective from January 1, 2019. EBITDA pre exceptionals amounted years. Our goal remains to increase the dividend each year or at least to €1,016 million in fiscal year 2018. to keep it at a stable level. At the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2019, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board Expected financial position of the will propose a dividend of €0.90 per share for fiscal year 2018. LANXESS Group Summary of the Group’s projected performance Liquidity situation We expect our business to develop at around the previous LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking and conyear’s level in the current year. servative financial policy in the current year. With around €2.1 bilWe will be continuing the strategic realignment of the Group lion in cash and undrawn credit lines as of the end of 2018, as in 2019 with the aim of achieving a more stable and less cyclical described under “Financial condition” in this Management Report, business profile. LANXESS will continue to work on optimizing its we have a very good liquidity and financing position, which ensures production platform and, as announced, pursue active portfolio our corporate flexibility to implement our strategy. management as well as projects geared towards organic growth. However, we must take the strained geopolitical situation and Capital expenditures the associated uncertainties for global economic development into As in the past fiscal year, our capital expenditures will be account. Therefore, we currently expect EBITDA pre exceptionals primarily directed toward the maintenance of existing production to be around the strong prior-year level. facilities as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of existing plants. In 2019, we expect total cash outflows for capital expenditures of around €500 million for LANXESS. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 98 Combined Management Report Opportunity and risk report Roles of key organizational units Our business units conduct their own operations, for which Opportunity and risk management system they have global profit responsibility. Group functions and service Our success is significantly dependent on identifying opporcompanies support the business units by providing financial, legal, tunities and risks in our business activities and actively managing technical and other centralized services. Complementing this global them. The goal of the management system is to safeguard the alignment of the business units and Group functions, the country company’s existence for the long term and ensure its successful organizations ensure the required proximity to markets and the necongoing development by identifying opportunities and risks at an essary organizational infrastructure. early stage and, depending on their nature, appropriately considIn line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility ering these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities to risk owners for the following: and risks are understood as possible future developments or events that may result in either positive or negative deviations ›› Identification and assessment of opportunities and risks from forecasts or business objectives. ›› Implementation of control measures (measures taken to exOur management system is based both on internal orgaploit or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks) nizational workflows that are managed by way of control and ›› Monitoring the development of opportunities and risks (e.g. monitoring mechanisms and on early warning systems that are on the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps also, used to closely observe changes in external conditions and sysearly warning indicators) tematically implement the appropriate measures. This approach ›› Communication of the key opportunities and risks to the applies equally to opportunities and risks. management committees of the business units and Group Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this functions system does not offer absolute protection. However, it is intended to prevent business risks from having a material impact on the The Corporate Risk Committee, commissioned by the Board of company with a sufficient degree of certainty. Management and headed by the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for the structure and implementation of the Group-wide risk Structural basis management process. It is made up of representatives of selected The principles of our opportunity and risk management Group functions and analyzes the principal opportunities and risks ­system are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, and their development from the viewpoint of the entire company. which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management It examines existing measures to counter risks, initiates additional framework, comprises many different elements that are incorpomeasures as required and instigates further analyses of individual rated into business processes via the company’s organizational opportunities and risks if necessary. structure, workflows, planning, reporting, communication systems, The Corporate Controlling Group function coordinates the as well as a set of detailed management policies and technical Group-wide risk management process for the Corporate Risk Comstandards. mittee and appoints a Group Risk Management Coordinator for this The system is based on an integration concept. In other purpose. This coordinator is responsible for collecting and aggrewords, the early identification of opportunities and risks is an gating key opportunity and risk information across the Group. The integral part of the management system and not the object of a short-, mediumand long-term opportunities and risks are identified separate organizational structure. The management of opportunitwice a year in the context of the intrayear forecasting process and ties and risks is therefore a primary duty of the heads of all business the budget and planning process. units, as well as of those people in Group companies who hold The Corporate Development Group function helps with the process and project responsibility. This is why our opportunity and analysis and evaluation of systematically important and strategic risk management is based on clearly defined business processes, opportunities and risks. the precise assignment of responsibilities, and reporting systems The Corporate Risk Committee has subcommittees made up that ensure the timely provision of the information required for of representatives of the business units and Group functions that decision-making for the Board of Management and subordinate deal with specific risk areas in order to enable a fast and flexible management levels. response to changing situations and their impacts. Accordingly, for example, the Financial Risk Committee, headed by the Chief Finance Officer and made up of representatives of the Treasury & Investor Relations Group function, manages transactions ­centrally, particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating risk (­hedging transactions or insurance). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 99 The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We Controlling Group function is based on the anticipated impact on monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities fiscal year by regularly updating our expectations for business and risks must be reported if their anticipated impact is more than development. €1 million following the implementation of measures. In addition, those risks must be reported which have an anticipated impact that Compliance as an integral component was reduced by more than €10 million through the implementation Risk management also includes preventing illegal conduct by of measures. These minimum thresholds guarantee that the inforour employees. To this end, we obtain extensive legal advice conmation gathered about opportunities and risks is comprehensive cerning business transactions and obligate employees by means and that the collection of information is not just limited to material of our “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at risks or risks that could jeopardize the future of the company as LANXESS” to observe the law and our internal directives and to a going concern. Only then, the Corporate Controlling Group act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive function centrally determines the top opportunities and risks. compliance management system (CMS) that has been structured There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized specific risk issues such as unexpected operational events with framework for enterprise risk management (COSO). This CMS is an impact of more than €5 million after the implementation of supported by the compliance organization, which is made up of countermeasures. the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local Compliance The reported opportunities and risks are managed by means Officers in the countries in which we have subsidiaries. The obof risk management software and regularly analyzed for the Corjective of the CMS is to ensure the observance of our compliance porate Risk Committee, the Board of Management and the Suprinciples. The Compliance function, which includes the global pervisory Board. This ensures that when new opportunities and compliance organization, reports directly and regularly to the Board risks arise or when existing ones change substantially, the necof Management. essary information can be communicated promptly to the Board of Management and therefore also be specifically integrated into (Group) accounting aspects of the internal the general management of the company. ­control and risk management system The aspects of the internal control and risk management Opportunity and risk assessment system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the Opportunity and risk management is integrated into the planprinciples, procedures and measures required to ensure the efning and forecasting process and identifies opportunities and fectiveness, efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast EBITDA pre and compliance with applicable legal regulations. To this end, exceptionals or Group net income. clear organizational, control and monitoring structures have been Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different calestablished. The distinctive features of the chemical industry and culation methods are applied in their assessment. Distribution the risk management tools we regularly use in this regard are opportunities and risks are identified on the basis of sensitivities taken into account. In addition to the (Group) accounting proin planning parameters (exchange rates, raw material prices and cess in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned energy prices). Changes in these variables may result in either structured budget and forecasting process, and extensive contract positive or negative deviations from planned or forecast figures. management. However, the effectiveness and reliability of the Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a internal control and risk management system can be restricted supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or other impact earnings if they actually occurred are evaluated on the circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are basis of the expected probability of their occurrence and effect applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) on EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income. accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. The Accounting Group function, which reports to the Chief Significance of the Group-wide planning process Financial Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting proCorporate planning is a core element of our opportunity and cess and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements risk management. Events with a high probability of occurrence flow of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the directly into the planning process. The processes for corporate LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for ensuring the uniform planning and intrayear forecasting as well as the corresponding preparation of the financial statements of the subsidiaries that are analyses and suggestions for action are steered by the Corporate included in the consolidated financial statements. The Board of Controlling Group function, which works closely in this regard Management prepares the annual financial statements and the with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings consolidated financial statements, which are then forwarded to are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without delay. Upon LANXESS Annual Report 2018 100 Combined Management Report recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based statements and the consolidated financial statements are adopted on a detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial statements calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. meeting. The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit CommitA further component is regular reviews of the correctness and tee, deal with major questions relating to LANXESS’s accounting, completeness of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the opportunity and risk management, the audit mandate and the areas segregation of duties as expressed in structured authorization and of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial statements. approval procedures and the dual-control principle as well as conQuarterly statements are prepared for the first and third quartinual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout ters. The condensed consolidated interim financial statements as the preparation and consolidation process. of June 30 that are also prepared are reviewed, while the annual For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the company’s annual data using the above-mentioned consolidation system. Validafinancial statements and consolidated financial statements. tion rules integrated into the system ensure on delivery that the Our accounting in compliance with the German Commercial data reported by the subsidiaries are consistent. The accounting Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organizadepartments of the subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring the tional structures and workflows, including the related working incorrectness of the reported data content, which is also tested by structions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-­control the Corporate Accounting Department within the Accounting principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental Group function. To this end, the department evaluates standardmonitoring tools during the financial statement preparation proized reports in which the companies explain material facts relevant cess. On the IT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an to financial reporting. After the process-based controls have been integrated IT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software applied, consolidation including currency translation is carried and is protected by security measures against unauthorized acout in the same system, without additional interfaces, utilizing cess. The correctness of the a­ utomatically generated postings and both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of the the master data required for them is regularly reviewed. Manual automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary postings are based on a systematic voucher system, documented for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information to the necessary extent and verified downstream. that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated the extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented financial reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements by validation rules that are integrated into the system. Guideline. This governs the way the provisions of the International Regular coordination with other financial Group functions, Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group particularly the Treasury & Investor Relations, Tax & Trade Comare applied by the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, pliance and Corporate Controlling Group functions, assists the the guideline also defines the chart of accounts that is binding financial reporting process. A continual exchange of informathroughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is supplementtion with the operating business units and other Group functions ed by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation system makes it possible for the Accounting Group function to identify that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by and deal with issues arising outside of accounting processes. security measures against unauthorized access. These include litigation risks, projections for impairment testing By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special in line with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarissues, particularly relating to the valuation of pensions and other antee reliable financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related post-employment benefits. internal control system we use is based on generally accepted standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this system during the reporting period. Corresponding standards also apply to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 101 Monitoring of risk management system and escalation clauses. On the selling side, equivalent agreements internal control system (ICS) are in place. We also have the option of hedging this risk via LANXESS’s Corporate Audit Department within the Legal & derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available for Compliance Group function oversees whether the internal control hedging raw material and energy price risks. Further information and monitoring system works and whether organizational safecan be found in the “Finance” section of this opportunity and risk guards are being observed. The planning of audits (selection of report. Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to use our audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correspondingly resources more efficiently so that we can offset higher costs by aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual raising productivity. Unfulfilled acceptance obligations may result self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, in unscheduled costs due to fines. To guard against possible supoperating units and Group functions. The Supervisory Board ply bottlenecks due to factors such as the failure of a supplier exercises control functions, including regular monitoring of the or of an upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an efficiency of the management systems described above by the full appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative sources of Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The Audit Comsupply. Failures can be caused by factors such as inadequate mittee reviews reports about the Compliance function’s activities maintenance or insolvencies at the supplier end. We endeavor to and findings, the work of the Corporate Audit Department, and avoid supply bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers using the status of the risk management and internal control systems. strategies like multiple sourcing. If we were to be forced to utilize In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the external alternative sources of supply in the context of contingency plans, auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated and annual financial this could result in, for example, higher procurement prices or statements. additional transportation costs. Logistics, both of the goods and services that we purchase Opportunities and risks of future development and of those that we provide or render, is subject to increasing Full identification of the LANXESS Group’s opportunities and complexity. We counter challenges such as the low water levels risks is performed on the basis of a catalog of categories, which on the Rhine with the coordinated management of our supply are summarized in the eight groups below: processes and can thus minimize the risk of unplanned production downtime. Furthermore, the quality of the supplied raw materials Categories constitutes a risk factor that may negatively affect the quality of our Procurement markets products. Detailed product specifications issued by us define the Human resources properties to be fulfilled by suppliers and are checked via ongoing Production and technology goods-in analyses. Safety and the environment IT and security Human resources Sales markets Finance We see an opportunity in the implementation of our perforLegal and country-specific environment and compliance mance culture, with which we aim to establish a corporate culture based on shared values via wide-ranging measures and in which responsible and morally irreproachable actions and striving for Subsequent reporting in respect of the main categories is performance do not contradict each other. We assume that this generally based on a planning horizon of one year. will lead to increased employee motivation and therefore better performance. By strengthening the corporate culture in this way, Procurement markets we aim to achieve greater employee satisfaction and increased On the procurement side, the principal opportunities and employee loyalty. risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy prices. An With the transformation project launched in 2017 in HR, increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use directly we are seeking to make our processes and systems even more results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease, efficient. We see this project as an opportunity to raise quality write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition, standards in HR, improve service and reduce the volume of work changes in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling for our employees and managers. In the future, we will be able prices – either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations to provide more targeted support for our corporate strategy and like this by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy. respond to HR trends more quickly and effectively by restructuring Most of the company’s raw material and energy needs are met our HR organization and launching state-of-the-art products and by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price solutions in HR. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 102 Combined Management Report Changes always entail the risk of demotivating employees and The growing lack of skilled employees in particular in our marreducing their performance. This can be significant if employees kets is a problem for us, primarily in Germany. Specifically, we see do not feel sufficiently involved in decision-making processes or the risk of a shortage of skilled chemical production technicians do not understand new processes and practices. Thanks to a and chemical laboratory assistants as well as skilled employees in targeted change management strategy, we counter this risk by other fields such as IT. Regular HR development conferences help communicating next steps and forthcoming measures as clearly us to hone in-house skills. In addition, we continue to invest in the and early as possible. This is supplemented by training measures, next generation of employees, either by increasing the number particularly in the area of management in the context of the perof training opportunities in various areas in Germany or through formance culture described above. internship programs or our corporate trainee program, which is The risk of walkouts in connection with negotiations concerning well established in terms of fostering upcoming management talfuture collective pay agreements or associated with restructuring ents. Externally, we maintain intensive cooperations with research measures cannot be ruled out. We also face increases in our institutes, universities, colleges and high schools in Germany, as personnel expenses because of future wage increases. Such an well as with public-sector entities both in Germany and all other increase in the cost of human resources can be just as detrimental key target markets. At many events and conferences around the to earnings as increases in raw material prices, as described above, world, we have positioned our company as an attractive employer but in the case of human resources we cannot hedge the risk in and continue to seek early contact with highly talented young futures markets or pass it on to our customers. We counter this risk people. In Germany, where we have the largest headcount, we by fostering open communication with our employees and their have established a LANXESS program to provide both financial representatives in a culture of active labor relations. Particularly and expert support for undergraduate and postgraduate students. with regard to the challenges in the working world from globalWe are also extending our loyalty program for particularly outization and increasing digitalization, we make continuous use of standing interns. Both these programs focus on the natural and existing dialog platforms such as the European Forum, which engineering sciences. brings together the works councils in Europe. We also actively seek In terms of demographic change and the associated aging dialog with the representatives of our employees, the trade unions of the population, along with a shortage of qualified specialist and other interest groups in the other regions in which we operate, employees, there is also the risk of health-related absence as well particularly concerning the acquisition and ­integration of comthe risk of outdated knowledge or loss of knowledge. We see this panies. We use legally sound and proven employment contracts as a medium-term and long-term risk, which is why we set up the and ensure legally secure collective agreements. When making extensive demographic program XCare back in 2011 to counter acquisitions, we give high priority to professional project managethe challenges of demographic change in a structured way. The ment, detailed communication with employees, fair consolidation program, originally designed and implemented for our German processes and appropriate severance packages. In the event of companies, is currently being rolled out globally. A whole host of potential legal action, the HR department monitors the situation initiatives have been initiated and implemented since the program very closely in ­coordination with the Legal and ­Communication was launched. For example, around 80 demography positions (for departments to enable agreements to be reached at an early stage. chemical production technicians and engineers) have been creatOur employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and ed, additional training courses have been developed, workplace issues relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in reintegration programs have been stepped up (reintegration after the efficiency of our business operations. To mitigate the risk of illness) and workplace healthcare offerings have been expanded a manpower shortage on the one hand and a loss of knowledge (for example, through the introduction of a digital health platform). on the other hand, we help our employees to find an improved work-life balance as well as offer attractive remuneration models, challenging tasks and international career opportunities. In addition, we deal with structured succession planning at annual HR development conferences. To maintain constant contact with outstanding employees and support them in line with their individual needs, we have established a professional performance management system worldwide with the Performance Dialog. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 103 Production and technology In addition, risk engineering professionals commissioned by the A lack of plant availability due to disruptions can make it iminsurance companies perform regular inspections of our sites. possible for us to meet production targets and adequately service Our product portfolio includes substances that are classified demand, resulting in a loss of marginal income. We use a comas hazardous to health. To prevent possible harm to health, we prehensive range of measures to counter this scenario. These systematically test the properties of our products and draw our include proactive facility maintenance, systematic training of our customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use in the employees and regular audits to analyze weak points. Systematic context of our Responsible Care® activities. We also carry product safety appraisals and risk assessments also contribute to improving liability insurance that is customary in our industry. plant and process safety. Implementation and application of the In line with our forward-looking approach, product monitoring various measures are subject to global compliance checks. We enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associatalso counter the risk of production stoppages by manufacturing ed with our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if certain products at various sites worldwide. applicable. Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an imRegulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, portant aspect of our entrepreneurial activities. We are commitquality and environmental regulations and standards in different ted to using existing products and new solutions to advance our areas. These may result in higher costs, production bans and growth and sustainably strengthen our position in global markets. liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the impleInvesting in new plants as well as expanding the capacities and mentation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, increasing the productivity of existing ones are key elements in Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). these efforts. The anticipated effects are taken into account in our As well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures planning or are reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could investments to yield benefits but they are also coupled with risks. change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and For example, the success of our investments in Asia has been customers to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements substantially impacted by increasingly challenging trade relations imposed by energy and environmental policy such as the new between the U.S. and China. The preparatory work for investments emissions trading regulations, new environmental taxes and the that exceed a specified significance threshold is the responsibility redistribution of costs associated with the German Renewable of the relevant business units. After review by an Investment ComEnergy Act could result in higher costs and in part substantial dismittee set up for this purpose, the information is presented to the advantages in international competition. With a view to mitigating Board of Management for a decision. By following this procedure, this risk, we engage in active energy management to reduce the we ensure that investments are in line with our corporate strategy consumption of energy. We are also discussing the economic and satisfy our profitability and security requirements. consequences of increasing energy prices with the authorities Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments and government – either directly or in cooperation with other and from acquisitions completed by the reporting date are already energy-intensive companies via industry organizations. considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which generate further operational opportunities because they enable us chemicals have been produced for periods that in some cases to unlock new potential and improve our positioning in key markets. exceed 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. The possibility cannot be ruled out that ground Safety and the environment pollution occurred during these periods that has not been identified Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety stanto date. We are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative dards to the construction, operation and maintenance of producand pursue active environmental management and proactive tion facilities, interruptions in operations – including those due environmental protection management. This includes constant to external factors such as natural disasters or terrorism – cannot monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater and air as well be ruled out entirely. These could lead to fires and explosions, the as of various emissions. We have set up sufficient provisions for release of materials hazardous to health or accidents in which necessary containment or remediation measures in areas with people, property or the environment are harmed. In addition to identified contamination. Additional information on our environsystematically monitoring compliance with quality standards in mental provisions can be found in Note [15], “Other non-current order to avoid such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured and current provisions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. against the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 104 Combined Management Report IT and security The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global chemOur IT systems are part of the value chain and support our ical and polymer markets and their dependence on developments global business activities with standardized processes. We aim in customer industries harbor uncertainties for our business. Addito provide efficient, stable and scalable IT services. We support tional and unplanned sales opportunities may arise through access this by developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and to new markets or the acquisition of new customers. In addition to investing in the expansion and modernization of our IT services being subject to these demand-side market influences, our earning worldwide. power can be impacted by structural changes in markets, such as The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For exthe exit of existing competitors or the entry of new ones and the ample, networks or systems may fail, or data and information availability of additional capacity, regional shifts, the migration of may be compromised or destroyed because of operator and customers to countries with lower costs, and product substitution programming errors or external factors. In particular, we are obor market consolidation trends in some sectors. We counter such serving a growing threat to our IT infrastructure resulting from trends by systematically managing costs and continuously adjusting outside attack (cyber risks). All these can cause serious business our product portfolio, sharpening its focus and aligning our offering interruptions and reputational damage, which is why we invest in with innovative customer segments, which will enable us to operate data protection systems designed to prevent the loss of data and successfully in the long term. information. Various security and monitoring tools and access restriction and authorization systems are used to ensure the inFinance tegrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information and The Treasury & Investor Relations Group function has the task the trouble-free operation of systems. To improve the security of of centrally recording and managing financial opportunities and the IT infrastructure, our security measures are subject to regular risks. Chief among these are: checks and evaluations. Where necessary, these measures are upgraded. To protect against threats, new security systems are Financial Opportunities and Risks implemented and adapted in line with the current threat level. To Price changes Liquidity and Counter­party Capital protect against cyber risks, LANXESS has also concluded a cyber refinancing risks investments insurance policy. We regularly train the users of our IT systems Currencies Availability of cash Customers Investments in on IT risks, appropriate conduct and preventive measures. We Interest rates Access to multiBanks pension assets Raw materials and bilateral conduct security campaigns to raise awareness of current issues capital markets Energies surrounding IT security. Sales market At regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk CommitOur company is inherently exposed to general economic tee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, there are reports on developments and to political and geopolitical change in the counthe outcome of financial risk management, the current risk and tries and regions in which we operate. We see the growing global further action. The aim of financial risk management is to identify tendency toward protectionist measures, which would also impact and evaluate risks so that their impact can be controlled and, if the chemical industry in particular, as a medium-term risk to growth necessary, limited. and stability. The value chains in the chemical industry are highly interconnected and on a global scale. Increased protectionism Price changes would have a negative impact on growth. Regional differences Currencies in economic performance and the associated demand trends Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in various can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential in its various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value of these geographical markets, with corresponding positive or negative currencies. Associated risks are partly hedged insofar as they are effects on its earnings. Our global presence, which we are concash-effective. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning tinuing to expand in growth markets, enables us to participate in for fiscal year 2019. The development of the U.S. dollar against favorable regional developments and, at the same time, reduce the euro is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. our dependence on certain regions. This approach is discussed in dollar compared with the exchange rate used in planning would further detail in the “Strategy” section of this Management Report. have a positive effect on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals (and vice versa). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 105 Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity contracts instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. LANXESS had only arise mainly when receivables and payables are denominated in a small number of forward commodity contracts as of the reporta currency other than the company’s functional currency. Such ing date. risks are always fully hedged. Likewise, currency risks arising from financial transactions, including the interest component, are Liquidity and refinancing generally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. In We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciation of the through a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure euro against other major currencies can have no material impact that is largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating on future cash flows. In addition, translation risks exist from conagencies. Our conservative financing policy takes into account the verting entries in the financial statements from local currencies risk of a change to our rating and the associated effects on financial into euro for inclusion in the LANXESS consolidated financial risk management, even though LANXESS has no direct influence statements. Unlike the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in the on the assessments by independent rating agencies. case of the transaction risk, the translation risk has no impact on Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit the company’s cash flows in local currencies. In addition, material facility, which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. assets and liabilities in local currencies are subject to a long-term The term was extended on the basis of a contract option by one currency risk, which is regularly estimated and evaluated. However, year to May 2023. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has currency hedging is only undertaken if LANXESS is considering short-term liquidity reserves of €797 million in the form of cash withdrawal from certain businesses and intends to repatriate the and cash equivalents. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a funds released as a result. liquidity position based on a broad range of financing instruments. The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and Counterparty costs are planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationrate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should ships with customers and dealings with banks and other financial the LANXESS Group not be able to counter them, for example, by partners, especially with regard to the investment business and pricing its products in the respective local currencies. This risk is financial instrument transactions. minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial instruments. Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and Hedging is performed in line with principles determined by the managed using both internal and external information sources. Board of Management and is subject to continuous monitoring. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially We have already entered into hedging transactions for 2019, where the risk profile is elevated. 2020 and 2021 to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations. The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and Interest rates thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations in computer-assisted, based on the payment terms agreed with the the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial customers. These are generally based on the customary payment assets and financial liabilities. terms for the business or country. Reminders are sent out at regular Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at intervals if payments are overdue. The maximum risk of default fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets, will have only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in their carrying In the context of long-term planning, LANXESS regularly amounts in the statement of financial position (disregarding netting decides on refinancing to cover the forecast liquidity requirement. arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial position). Credit risk relating to receivables from customers is covered Raw materials/energy by opening letters of credit in favor of the LANXESS Group for In the course of its business operations, the LANXESS Group some customers and by agreeing prepayment with contractual is exposed to changes in the market prices for energy and raw partners. In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title materials. As a rule, these changes are passed on to customers. to goods until the contractual partner has paid the full purchase Where certain market-price risks for energy and raw materials price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety, they may be very high credit standing. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 106 Combined Management Report The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in companies or businesses can result in the expected value added the financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS not being generated. For this reason, we have processes in place Group, especially in the selection of banks and financial partners with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. If for capital investments and transactions involving financial instruassumptions concerning future developments – such as the rements. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions alization of synergies – do not materialize, this might result in a with banks and other financial counterparties that have at least an write-down on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying out impairinvestment-grade rating. ment testing at least once a year. The risk of the need to carry out Credit risk management also includes global management impairment of assets is assigned to the finance group. of the counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with Companies in the LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks banks and financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular and are parties to various litigations. The outcome of individual attention to risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could proceedings cannot be predicted with assurance due to the unjeopardize its continued existence. Through master agreements, certainties always associated with legal disputes. To the extent the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a necessary in light of the known circumstances in each case, we partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. have set up risk provisions for the event that the outcome of such proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into account Capital investments existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached Opportunities and risks associated with the investment of with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal dispension assets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which is putes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will made up of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives from the materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. Treasury & Investor Relations, Accounting and Human Resources As an approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has estabGroup functions. lished an extensive compliance management system (CMS) incorporating a range of preventive organizational measures. Among Legal and country-specific environment and the risks LANXESS has identified are those relating to antitrust ­compliance legislation and plant safety/environmental protection. Within the We actively pursue the strategic optimization of the enterprise. framework of the CMS, these issues are assigned as specific Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, optimization responsibilities to different Group functions that have established of opportunities and risks, strengthening of core businesses, active relevant compliance programs. In connection with risks relating portfolio management and proactive participation in industry to antitrust legislation, for example, LANXESS has developed a consolidation through partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. program that combines classroom training and e-learning to enFurther information can be found in the “Strategy” section of this sure compliance with competition law. In this way, our employees Management Report. and managers are schooled in the particular risks pertaining to The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is their areas of business and made aware of their significance. This naturally subject to forecasting risk with respect to predicting future training is performed and documented at regular intervals. Our (market) developments and the feasibility of planned ­measures. employees can also contact designated experts in the Legal & For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment could Compliance Group function if they have any specific questions. be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to be Further information can be found in the “Compliance as an integral unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systemcomponent” section of this opportunity and risk report. atically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in proand regularly checking developments. During this process, the hibitions and restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the business units affected and the Board of Management receive loss of its privileges with respect to export procedures. In individual support from departments with the requisite expertise and, if cases, this may also result in fines, trade sanctions and loss of necessary, from external consultants. reputation. The LANXESS Group ensures compliance in foreign When information is gathered in the context of acquisitions, trade and export control through the global implementation and it is possible that certain facts required to assess an acquisition optimization of appropriate and stable control instruments and candidate’s future performance or to determine the purchase price automated screening processes. By proactively monitoring trade are not available or are not correctly interpreted. We address this policy developments, timely information is provided to both the risk by conducting well-structured due diligence analyses and, operating units and the management organs concerning changes where possible, by concluding appropriate residual risk-minimizing to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, and agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of acquired appropriate recommendations for action are made. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 107 Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms Even though all other categories or groups apart from the of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other raw materials prices category in the procurement markets group countries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been are of little importance to opportunity and risk reporting for 2019, reported correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility possible positive and negative deviations from targets are also cannot be ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different set out below for the categories and groups that were significant conclusion in individual cases. in the past: In the context of risk and opportunity management, we have also been assessing the impact of a possible Brexit on our business Opportunity and Risk Proﬁle1) activities. In response, we have established a cross-disciplinary % team of experts tasked with, among other things, safeguarding our Raw Currencies Sales Safety Legal and material market and the country-speciﬁc supply chains and, if necessary, adjusting our internal processes. prices environment environment We are also preparing the necessary steps for the potential deand compliance parture of Great Britain from the customs union and regarding 15% the regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). To ensure standard delivery 10% times even in the event of a possible hard Brexit, we have already 5% implemented a number of preparatory measures including stocking up inventories and ensuring the constant sharing of information with customers and suppliers. Thanks to this thorough preparation Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals and the fact that only a small proportion of our total sales are made in Great Britain, we are confident that a hard Brexit will not have any (5%) significant, negative impact on our business. Despite everything, (10%) however, a conclusive assessment of the political framework and the associated implications of Brexit is not currently possible. (15%) Furthermore, we have investigated the impact of an escalating trade conflict between China and the U.S. on LANXESS. The Opportunities assessment found that only very isolated products in our portfolio Risks are affected, and that there is only a low level of goods flows from 1) Eventand distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios; on account of the interactions between the various categories, the eﬀects of the China to the U.S. For this reason, the direct consequences of the opportunities and risks may not be added. conflict are not expected to have a significantly negative impact on our operations. Significance of opportunities and risks and ­result of opportunity and risk assessment The opportunities and risks of future development that we identify are categorized and grouped, as described above. The significance of the opportunities and threats lies in their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre exceptionals for the LANXESS Group. Individual categories in which the opportunity or risk may produce a deviation of more than 5% from our projected EBITDA pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to high significance. This also applies to groups in which this threshold is exceeded only on a cumulative basis across all the categories assigned to each group. Within the context of opportunity and risk management for the planning year, the raw material prices category was considered to be of medium to high significance. Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed probability of occurrence, this category could produce a positive deviation of 11% and a negative deviation of 7% from our projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling parameter. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 108 Combined Management Report Summary of overall opportunities and risks All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, The chemical industry worldwide continues to operate in an which could necessitate flexible adjustments to rapidly changing environment characterized by increasing complexity and a rapid business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly pace of change, which naturally entails economic opportunities true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in general is and risks. A clear strategic framework, a balanced positioning, an somewhat less reliable, for example due to the changes in our agile organization and, last but not least, a corporate culture based procurement and customer markets. on shared values, however, gives us the headroom we need to The economic ramifications of Brexit are an uncertainty factor. remain effective and competitive even in the evolving operating In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity environment. In addition, this will allow us to leverage strategic and position and the headroom created by our realignment and in operational opportunities and to make maximum use of growth particular by the changes to our Group portfolio, we are confident potential. The sale of our 50% share in ARLANXEO in the reportof managing any risks that arise in the future. ing year helped us to drive forward the strategic realignment of Based on an overall evaluation of risk management inforthe Group. In taking this step, we have significantly reduced our mation, the Board of Management at the present time cannot dependency on the volatile tire and automotive industry. In the identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would previous year, we had already significantly expanded our portfolio jeopardize the continued existence of LANXESS. of specialty additives and strengthened our regional presence in North America with the acquisition of Chemtura. We will continue to pay particular attention to maintaining a balance in our portfolio. First, we must further reduce our economic dependency on individual sectors or correlating markets by increasing our presence in attractive customer industries. Second, we want to achieve a better regional balance within our portfolio by continuously increasing the share of sales in the growth markets of Asia and North America. In February 2018, we successfully purchased the U.S. phosphorus chemicals business from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay, including its U.S. production site in Charleston. In the previous year, we acquired the biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions, which focuses on the research and development of natural substances with an antimicrobial effect for the food and beverage industry. We see an opportunity here to further expand our material protection and disinfection portfolio. Together with the Canadian company Standard Lithium, our U.S. site in El Dorado is currently examining the technical and economic feasibility of producing battery-ready lithium from brine. Our risk exposure during the reporting year improved compared with the previous year due to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 Statement of Financial Position 156 (15) Other Non-Current and Current 111 Income Statement ­Provisions 112 Statement of Comprehensive Income 160 (16) Other Non-Current and Current ­ Financial Liabilities 113 Statement of Changes in Equity 160 (17) Non-Current and Current Income 114 Statement of Cash Flows Tax Liabilities 161 (18) Other Non-Current and Current L ­ iabilities 115 Notes to the Consolidated 161 (19) Trade Payables Financial ­Statements 161 (20) Further Information on Liabilities 115 General Information 115 Structure and Components of the Consolidated Financial Statements 162 Notes to the Income Statement 115 Financial Reporting Standards and 162 (21) Sales Interpretations Applied 162 (22) Cost of Sales 119 Financial Reporting Standards and Inter162 (23) Selling Expenses pretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 162 (24) Research and Development Expenses 120 Restatement of Prior-Year Figures 162 (25) General Administration Expenses 120 Consolidation 163 (26) Other Operating Income 121 Currency Translation 163 (27) Other Operating Expenses 122 Accounting Policies and ­Valuation 163 (28) Financial Result ­Principles 164 (29) Income Taxes 132 Estimation Uncertainties and the ­E xercise of Discretion 165 (30) Earnings and Dividend per Share 135 Companies Consolidated 165 (31) Personnel Expenses 141 Notes to the Statement of 166 Other Information ­Financial Position 166 (32) Employees 141 (1) Intangible Assets 166 (33) Contingent Liabilities and Other ­Financial 142 (2) Property, Plant and Equipment ­Commitments 143 (3) Investments Accounted for Using the 167 (34) Related Parties Equity Method 167 (35) Compensation of the Board of 143 (4) Investments in Other Affiliated ­Companies ­Management and the Supervisory Board 143 (5) Derivative Financial Instruments 168 (36) Financial Instruments 146 (6) Other Non-Current and Current ­Financial 178 (37) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows Assets 179 (38) Segment Reporting 147 (7) Non-Current and Current Income 182 (39) Audit Fees Tax Receivables 182 (40) Declaration of Compliance Pursuant to 147 (8) Other Non-Current Assets Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 147 (9) Inventories 183 (41) Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions 148 (10) Trade Receivables 183 (42) Events after the Reporting Period 148 (11) Near-Cash Assets 148 (12) Other Current Assets 184 Responsibility Statement 148 (13) Equity 185 Independent Auditor’s Report 150 (14) Provisions for Pensions and Other ­Post-­Employment Benefits 110 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 ASSETS Intangible assets1) (1) 1,784 1,764 Property, plant and equipment (2) 4,059 2,577 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 0 0 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 9 2 Non-current derivative assets (5) 7 0 Other non-current financial assets (6) 20 25 Non-current income tax receivables (7) 20 14 Deferred taxes (29) 442 287 Other non-current assets (8) 113 117 Non-current assets 6,454 4,786 Inventories (9) 1,680 1,347 Trade receivables (10) 1,316 903 Cash and cash equivalents 538 797 Near-cash assets (11) 50 – Current derivative assets (5) 45 4 Other current financial assets (6) 7 598 Current income tax receivables (7) 47 55 Other current assets (12) 274 197 Current assets 3,957 3,901 Total assets 10,411 8,687 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 1,317 1,317 Other reserves 1,381 1,391 Net income 87 431 Other equity components (498) (359) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,126 (7) Equity (13) 3,413 2,773 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (14) 1,490 1,083 Other non-current provisions (15) 460 337 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 2 3 Other non-current financial liabilities (16) 2,242 2,686 Non-current income tax liabilities1) (17) 134 117 Other non-current liabilities (18) 99 80 Deferred taxes (29) 113 89 Non-current liabilities 4,540 4,395 Other current provisions (15) 525 465 Trade payables (19) 1,048 795 Current derivative liabilities (5) 12 25 Other current financial liabilities (16) 633 59 Current income tax liabilities (17) 61 44 Other current liabilities (18) 179 131 Current liabilities 2,458 1,519 Total equity and liabilities 10,411 8,687 1) Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Financial Position 111 Income Statement Income Statement LANXESS Group € million Note 2017 2018 Sales (21) 6,530 7,197 Cost of sales (22) (4,796) (5,363) Gross profit 1,734 1,834 Selling expenses (23) (761) (826) Research and development expenses (24) (103) (118) General administration expenses (25) (326) (307) Other operating income (26) 164 122 Other operating expenses (27) (409) (201) Operating result (EBIT) 299 504 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Interest income 9 6 Interest expense (89) (75) Other financial income and expense 0 (45) Financial result (28) (80) (114) Income before income taxes 219 390 Income taxes (29) (159) (118) Income after income taxes from continuing operations 60 272 Income after income taxes from discontinued operations 64 251 Income after income taxes 124 523 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 37 92 of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 87 431 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (30) from continuing operations 0.66 3.03 from discontinued operations 0.29 1.68 from continuing and discontinued operations 0.95 4.71 Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 112 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group € million 2017 2018 Income after income taxes 124 523 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (48) 39 Income taxes 13 (8) (35) 31 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (385) 31 Financial instruments fair value measurement 53 (47) Financial instruments cost of hedging (11) (28) Income taxes (12) 22 (355) (22) Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (390) 9 Total comprehensive income (266) 532 of which attributable to non-controlling interests (60) 92 of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders (206) 440 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group Capital Capital Other Net Other equity c ­ omponents Equity Equity Equity stock ­reserves reserves income attributattributCurrency Financial able able to translation instruments to non-conadjustFair value Cost of LANXESS trolling ment measurehedging AG stock­ interests € million ment holders Dec. 31, 2016 91 1,226 1,257 192 (199) (15) 2,552 1,176 3,728 Allocations to retained earnings 192 (192) 0 0 Transactions with owners 5 5 13 18 Dividend payments (64) (64) (3) (67) Total comprehensive income (9) 87 (310) 31 (5) (206) (60) (266) Income after income taxes 87 87 37 124 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (9) (310) 31 (5) (293) (97) (390) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (11) (11) (37) (48) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (310) (310) (75) (385) Financial instruments 45 (7) 38 4 42 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 2 (14) 2 (10) 11 1 Dec. 31, 2017 91 1,226 1,381 87 (509) 16 (5) 2,287 1,126 3,413 Allocations to retained earnings 87 (87) 0 0 Change in accounting policies (11) 1 (10) (7) (17) Transactions with owners (2) (2) 2 0 Dividend payments (73) (73) (41) (114) Total comprehensive income 9 431 38 (27) (11) 440 92 532 Income after income taxes 431 431 92 523 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 9 38 (27) (11) 9 0 9 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans 8 8 31 39 Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 38 38 (7) 31 Financial instruments (37) (17) (54) (21) (75) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 1 10 6 17 (3) 14 Changes in scope of ­consolidation 126 2 10 138 (1,179) (1,041) Dec. 31, 2018 91 1,226 1,391 431 (345) (8) (6) 2,780 (7) 2,773 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 114 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2017 2018 Income before income taxes 219 390 Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversals of impairment charges of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 410 431 Gains/losses on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1 (1) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Financial losses 35 63 Income taxes paid (139) (156) Changes in inventories (6) (143) Changes in trade receivables (90) (74) Changes in trade payables 30 52 Changes in other assets and liabilities 108 (90) Net cash provided by operating activities – continuing operations (37) 568 472 Net cash provided by operating activities – discontinued operations 300 114 Net cash provided by operating activities – total 868 586 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (397) (497) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2 3 Cash outflows for financial assets (110) (494) Cash inflows from financial assets 2,226 – Cash outflows for the acquisition/sale of subsidiaries and other businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents (1,803) (66) Cash inflows from the sale of subsidiaries and other businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents 9 1,304 Interest and dividends received 51 15 Cash outflows for external funding of pension obligations (CTAs) – (200) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities – continuing operations (37) (22) 65 Net cash used in investing activities – discontinued operations (145) (169) Net cash used in investing activities – total (167) (104) Proceeds from borrowings 119 653 Repayments of borrowings (523) (662) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (77) (77) Dividend payments (64) (74) Net cash used in financing activities – continuing operations (37) (545) (160) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities – discontinued operations 37 (57) Net cash used in financing activities – total (508) (217) Change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 1 377 Change in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 192 (112) Change in cash and cash equivalents – total 193 265 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 355 538 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents (10) (6) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (37) 538 797 of which continuing operations 266 797 of which discontinued operations 272 0 Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Statement of Cash Flows 115 General Information Structure and Components of the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements GENERAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS APPLIED LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, as of December 31, 2018 were prepared in accordance with the Germany. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the by the European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretaconsolidated financial statements of the LANXESS AG, to which tions, together with the additional requirements of Section 315e, the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ Paragraph 1 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). prüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt/Main, have issued unqualified ­auditor’s reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). Financial Instruments The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group Following the application of IFRS 9, the rules governing the for fiscal year 2018 were prepared by the Board of Management classification and measurement of financial assets and financial of LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory liabilities, the rules on impairment of financial instruments and the Board on February 27, 2019. It is the responsibility of the Supervirules on hedge accounting have changed. The LANXESS Group sory Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and partly utilized the exemption from retrospective application of the declare whether or not it approves them. standard and applies it prospectively from January 1, 2018, for the classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments. By contrast, the new requirements for hedge accounting STRUCTURE AND COMPONENTS will be applied retrospectively. OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL The conversion to the new IFRS 9 requirements resulted in STATEMENTS the following effects as of January 1, 2018: Following the introduction of new rules on the classificaThe consolidated financial statements comprise the statetion and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, the ment of financial position, the income statement and statement classification and measurement categories for financial assets of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, in particular changed as of January 1, 2018. They are based the statement of cash flows and the notes, which include the on the company’s business model and the characteristics of the segment information. cash flows of the respective financial instruments. For equity inThe consolidated financial statements were prepared in struments in the portfolio as of January 1, 2018, which are not ­euros (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) e­ xcept held for trading purposes, the option was exercised irrevocably where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified at the level of the individual equity instrument to recognize future in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. changes in fair value and disposal gains or losses in other comFurther details of their maturities are provided in these notes in prehensive income or in profit or loss. The transition to IFRS 9 certain cases. resulted in a reclassification of €50 million from the statement of The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the financial position item “Near-cash assets” and a reclassification basis of historical acquisition, construction or production costs of of €6 million of two financial instruments from the statement of the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies and valuation principles. The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the calendar year. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 116 Consolidated financial statements financial position item “Investments in other affiliated companies” Revenue from Contracts with Customers to the statement of financial position item “Other non-current Following the introduction of IFRS 15, basic principles for financial assets”. The two equity instruments under “Investments revenue recognition were changed by the introduction of a fivein other affiliated companies” previously accounted for at cost are step model. These basic principles relate, in particular, to the now classified as debt instruments and measured at fair value in allocation of revenues to the distinct performance obligations profit or loss. The measurement category for another non-current and the associated revenues and rules on the timing of revenue financial asset also changed. The fair value measurement is no recognition. Revenue recognition has changed for the following longer through other comprehensive income but through profit business models: or loss. This led, as of January 1, 2018, to a reclassification from Under the business model of manufacturing products on the other equity components to other reserves of €1 million taking basis of long-term sales contracts with a contractually defined deferred taxes into account. minimum purchase requirement, the total revenue expected in The reconciliation of classification and measurement catethe future from sale of the minimum amount is estimated for the gories for financial assets from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 is shown in the full term of the contract and allocated to the individual deliveries. table “Carrying amounts, measurement and fair values of financial The changes will result in a periodic shift in the timing of revenues, instruments as of December 31, 2018” under Note 36. which are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. The first-time application of the new rules on the impairment Under the business model of manufacturing customer-­ of financial instruments required the estimation of expected credit specific products on the basis of long-term supply agreements losses based on historical losses and future loss expectations. with a contractually defined minimum purchase requirement, The conversion relates to the statement of financial position items based on the rules of IFRS 15, the LANXESS Group has no altertrade receivables, cash and cash equivalents as well as other native use for the products manufactured under these contracts. current and non-current financial assets, which particularly inMoreover, it has a contractually enforceable right to payment clude financial assets, contract assets, and external loans. The for the minimum amount under the purchase requirement. In introduction of the expected loss model reduced the statement addition to estimating the total revenue from sale of the minimum of financial position item trade receivables by less than €1 million amount over the full term of the contract and allocating it to the as of January 1, 2018. The write-downs of trade receivables of individual production units, the revenue attributable to the mini€17 million recognized as of December 31, 2017, rose accordingly mum purchase requirements is recognized on the basis of current as of January 1, 2018. The statement of financial position items contractual clauses over the manufacturing period meaning that cash and cash equivalents as well as other current and non-­current it is recognized earlier. Contract assets will be recognized for the financial ­assets changed by less than €1 million in total as of corresponding receivables until the products are delivered. The January 1, 2018. Other reserves and non-controlling interests in relevant inventories are derecognized when revenue is recognized. equity were each impacted by less than €1 million through the For the business model sale of products including organizing application of the new rules taking deferred taxes into account. freight services, recognition of revenue over time or at a point The introduction of the new requirements for hedge accounting in time is based on the transfer of control to the customer. At relates in particular to the separate designation and measurement LANXESS, the IFRS 15 criteria regarding the transfer of control of individual components of forward rates and the exclusion of to be assessed for this purpose primarily lead to a periodic shift in individual components of currency hedges. Costs of hedging in the timing of revenue recognition to the completion of the freight particular are treated separately. These amounted to €11 million service due to the agreed delivery conditions. In this respect, the in the previous year. Adjusting for deferred taxes, €4 million of this freight service is, in principle, not treated as a separate perforfigure is attributable to other equity components and €3 million mance obligation. to non-controlling interests. In the statement of comprehensive The contract assets and liabilities are disclosed under other income, costs of hedging are recognized under the items that financial assets and other liabilities, respectively. Contract assets are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Reclassification to and liabilities are reported on a net basis, taking the maturity profit or loss occurs at the end of the hedging relationship. Both structure at contract level into account. Advance payments from within the statement of financial position items and the statement customers are recognized as current or non-current contract of comprehensive income item, there is only a shift between the liabilities. fair value measurement of derivatives in hedge accounting (cash flow hedges) and the costs of hedging. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied 117 The effects of the application of the modified retrospective method on the opening statement of financial position as of ­January 1, 2018 can be found in the following table: Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group – Accounting Changes IFRS 15 as of January 1, 2018 Change of Change of revenue € million Dec. 31, 2017 presentation recognition date Jan. 1, 2018 ASSETS Other non-current financial assets 20 – 20 40 Deferred taxes 442 – 11 453 Non-current assets 6,454 0 31 6,485 Inventories 1,680 – 124 1,804 Trade receivables 1,316 – (196) 1,120 Other current financial assets 7 (7) 43 43 Current assets 3,957 (7) (29) 3,921 Total assets 10,411 (7) 2 10,406 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Other reserves 1,381 – (9) 1,372 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,126 – (7) 1,119 Equity 3,413 0 (16) 3,397 Other non-current liabilities 99 (7) 7 99 Deferred taxes 113 – 6 119 Non-current liabilities 4,540 (7) 13 4,546 Other current liabilities 179 – 5 184 Current liabilities 2,458 0 5 2,463 Total equity and liabilities 10,411 (7) 2 10,406 Under the previous rules according to IAS 18, the recogof the products were transferred to the customer. Under IAS 18, nition of revenues and trade receivables and the associated the statement of financial position items and the income staterecognition of cost of sales and derecognition of inventories ment items would have been as follows: would have ­occurred on the date on which the risks and rewards Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group – Reconciliation to IAS 18 as of December 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 Reversal Recognition Dec. 31, 2018 € million IFRS 15 IFRS 15 IAS 18 IAS 18 ASSETS Other non-current financial assets 25 (17) – 8 Deferred taxes 287 (2) 0 285 Non-current assets 4,786 (19) 0 4,767 Inventories 1,347 (49) 8 1,306 Trade receivables 903 117 (11) 1,009 Other current financial assets 598 (44) – 554 Current assets 3,901 24 (3) 3,922 Total assets 8,687 5 (3) 8,689 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Other reserves 1,371 10 (3) 1,378 Net income 431 (1) 0 430 Equity 2,773 9 (3) 2,779 Other non-current liabilities 80 4 – 84 Deferred taxes 89 0 0 89 Non-current liabilities 4,395 4 0 4,399 Other current liabilities 131 (8) – 123 Current liabilities 1,519 (8) 0 1,511 Total equity and liabilities 8,687 5 (3) 8,689 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 118 Consolidated financial statements Income Statement LANXESS Group – Reconciliation to IAS 18 as of December 31, 2018 2018 Reversal Recognition 2018 € million IFRS 15 IFRS 15 IAS 18 IAS 18 Sales 7,197 (12) (4) 7,181 Cost of sales (5,363) 20 (4) (5,339) Gross profit 1,834 8 0 1,842 Operating result (EBIT) 504 8 0 512 Financial result (114) 0 0 (114) Income before income taxes 390 8 0 398 Income taxes (118) (2) 0 (120) Income after income taxes from continuing operations 272 6 0 278 Income after income taxes from discontinued operations 251 (7) – 244 Income after income taxes 523 (1) 0 522 Applying the rules of IAS 18, the income attributable to April 1, 2018, a year before the planned end of full ­consolidation, LANXESS AG stockholders (net income) would have declined ­ARLANXEO has been accounted for as a discontinued ­operation acby €1 million from €431 million to €430 million. The correspondcording to IFRS 5 and reported a­ ccordingly. On D ­ ecember 31, 2018, ing earnings per share from continuing operations would have LANXESS sold its 50% interest in ­A RLANXEO to the Saudi increased by €0.07 from €3.03 to €3.10, and the earnings per ­Aramco s­ ubsidiary ­Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., share from discontinued operations would have declined by €0.08 The Hague, Netherlands, and deconsolidated its investment in from €1.68 to €1.60. Total earnings per share from continuing ­ARLANXEO. For further information, please see the comments and discontinued operations would have declined by €0.01 from on “Non-current ­assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued €4.71 to €4.70. operations (IFRS 5)” in the section headed “­Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles” and the elaboration on “Discontinued operations” in the section headed “Companies Consolidated.” Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary The mandatory first-time application of the following financial Economies reporting standards and interpretations in fiscal year 2018 currently ­Accounting in accordance with IAS 29 was applied to the has no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group: subsidiary LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina, for the first time in the fiscal year 2018. Non-monetary items in the statement Standard/Interpretation of financial position, components of equity and items in the stateIFRS 2 Share-based Payment – The amendments include clarifiment of comprehensive income were adjusted using the price cations of classification and measurement of cash-settled share based payments, net of tax withholdings and index proposed by the Government Board of the Argentine Fedmodifications of share-based payments from cash-settled eration of Professional Councils of Economic Sciences (FACPCE) to equity-settled up to December 31, 2018. The wholesale consumer price index IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts – The amendments address an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 (Indec IPIM) was used for inflation for fiscal years before Decem“Financial Instruments” and an option that permits ber 31, 2016 and the retail consumer price index (IPC Nacional entities to reclassify, from profit or loss to other compreINDEC) was used from January 1, 2017. The price index came hensive income, some of the income or expenses arising from designated financial assets to 124.80 points at the start of the fiscal year and 184.59 points Various IAS and Annual Improvements to the IFRS, 2014–2016 Cycle – at the end of the fiscal year. IFRS The amendments relate to IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” and IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance ConsiderNon-current Assets Held for Sale and ation – The interpretation clarifies which exchange rate ­Discontinued ­Operations should be used for the initial recognition of a foreign currency transaction in the functional currency, if an Accounting in accordance with IFRS 5 was applied in advance consideration related to the foreign currency the fiscal year 2018. The accounting affected the investment in transaction was paid or received ­ARLANXEO, which was included and fully ­consolidated in the IAS 40 Investment Property – A transfer of a property to, or from, investment property should only be made when, and only LANXESS ­consolidated financial statements from April 1, 2016. Since when, there is evidence of a change in use LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied 119 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS these options are applied, the costs of these leases are expensed AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT immediately. There are no significant changes for lessors. The NOT YET MANDATORY standard was endorsed by the E.U. in October 2017 and is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. In fiscal year 2018, the International Accounting Standards The transition will be made according to the modified retrospecBoard (IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations Committee issued tive method. Therefore, the comparative figures of the fiscal year financial reporting standards and interpretations, whose applica2018 will not be restated. tion was not yet mandatory for that year and which the LANXESS The analyses performed as part of the project to introduce Group thus did not yet apply. The application of these standards IFRS 16 found that present values of around €135 million for lease and interpretations is in some cases contingent upon their enliabilities and the same amount for right-of-use assets must be dorsement by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates for recognized in the statement of financial position as of the transition mandatory application may ultimately be later than indicated below. date of January 1, 2019. This reduces the equity ratio by around 0.5 percentage points. Net financial liabilities are increased by the value of the additional lease liabilities. The past expense for Leases operating leases is no longer reported in the income statement On January 13, 2016, the IASB published the new standard and will be replaced by the depreciation expense of the recognized IFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17. Under IFRS 16, lessees will right-of-use assets and interest expenses on the lease liability in the recognize all leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in future. LANXESS expects this to increase depreciation by around the statement of financial position on the basis of the present value €35 million, which will be offset by the absence of expenses for of the lease payments. Depreciation on the capitalized right-of-use operating leases of a similar amount. In addition, the net financial asset and interest expense for compounding the lease liabilities are result is expected to deteriorate by a low seven-figure amount. recognized in the income statement. For lessees, the distinction The following financial reporting standards and interprebetween operating and finance leases is abolished. LANXESS tations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the will apply the options for lessees provided by the new standard LANXESS Group: for the treatment of short-term leases and leases of low value. As Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory Endorsed publication for LANXESS by the E.U. as of fiscal year IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts May 18, 2017 2021 no IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments June 7, 2017 2019 yes IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Amendments to IAS 28 – October 12, 2017 2019 yes Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 9 Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features with Negative October 12, 2017 2019 yes Compensation Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, December 12, 2017 2019 no 2015–2017 Cycle IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan Amendments, Curtailments, and Settlements February 7, 2018 2019 no Conceptual Framework Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards March 29, 2018 2020 no IFRS 3 Business Combinations – Definition of a Business October 22, 2018 2020 no IAS 1 / IAS 8 Definition of Materiality October 31, 2018 2020 no LANXESS Annual Report 2018 120 Consolidated financial statements RESTATEMENT OF PRIOR-YEAR FIGURES Fully consolidated companies Business combinations are accounted for using the acquiDue to the application of IFRS 5, the prior-year figures in the sition method. The cost of a business combination is stated as income statement as well as the statement of cash flows and the the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the associated disclosures in the notes were restated. In addition, assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of the U.S. group instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It Chemtura was completed in April 2018. On the basis of new also contains the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from knowledge and information, the non-current income tax liabilities contingent consideration contracts. as well as the goodwill were finally increased by €15 million. The For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and configures in the consolidated statement of financial position as of tingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are December 31, 2017 were adjusted accordingly. measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro CONSOLIDATION rata share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are ­reported in the statement of financial position as equity attributable The financial statements of the consolidated companies to non-controlling interests. were prepared using uniform accounting policies and valuation Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt principles. or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess December 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling purpose of consolidation. interests and the fair value of any previously held equity interest Intra-Group profits or losses, sales, income and expenses as over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill well as receivables and payables between consolidated companies is recognized in the income statement. are eliminated. Investments accounted for using the Scope of consolidation ­equity method The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the control of ­ quity method is adjusted annually by the percentage of any e LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed to varichange in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage able returns from the relationship with a company and has power interest in the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying over the company. Power means that LANXESS AG has existing amount of the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities non-­current assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the of the company and thus exert a significant influence over the associated assets are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recogvariable returns. The ability to control another company generally nized if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligation, derives from direct or indirect ownership of a majority of the voting e. g. to offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. rights. In the case of structured entities, control normally derives Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investfrom contractual agreements. A company is consolidated as of ments using the equity method are determined according to the the date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control and same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. included in the carrying amount of the entity. Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts a significant influence, generally through an ownership ­interest ­b etween 20% and 50%, and interests in joint ventures are ­accounted for using the equity method. Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position are not consolidated, but are included in the consolidated financial statements at fair value. Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the ­section headed “Companies Consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Restatement of Prior-Year Figures 121 Consolidation Currency Translation Joint operations Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recJoint operations are arrangements in which the parties that ognized in the currency of the acquired entity and translated at exercise joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose. the liabilities relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, expenses for its share of the joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint and other changes during the year are translated at average rates. operations and its share of the revenues and expenses, including The differences between the resulting amounts and those obtained its share of jointly incurred expenses. by translating at closing rates are reported separately in other comprehensive income as exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone. Transactions with owners Foreign currency transactions for which advance considerTransactions with non-controlling interests, which do not ation has been paid or received are translated at the exchange rate result in a loss of control, are treated as transactions between of the advance consideration paid or received up to the amount of shareholders of the LANXESS Group. Changes in ownership the advance consideration paid or received, if material. interests are accounted for by adjusting the carrying amounts of If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differthe controlling and non-controlling interests. Differences between ences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. the adjustment to the carrying amount of the non-controlling The principal exchange rates used for currency translation interests and the fair value of the consideration paid or received in the LANXESS Group were: are recognized immediately in other reserves and thus assigned to the equity attributable to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. Exchange Rates Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate €1 2017 2018 2017 2018 CURRENCY TRANSLATION Argentina ARS 22.63 43.13 18.74 32.91 Brazil BRL 3.97 4.44 3.61 4.30 In the financial statements of the individual consolidated comChina CNY 7.80 7.88 7.63 7.81 panies that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements Great Britain GBP 0.89 0.89 0.88 0.88 India INR 76.60 79.88 73.51 80.71 of the LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and liabilities Japan JPY 135.01 125.85 126.67 130.40 are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are Canada CAD 1.50 1.56 1.46 1.53 hedged. Forward contracts serving as economic hedges against Singapore SGD 1.60 1.56 1.56 1.59 fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. Exchange South Africa ZAR 14.81 16.46 15.04 15.61 differences resulting from currency translation are reflected in profit U.S. USD 1.20 1.15 1.13 1.18 or loss in the net exchange result within other financial income and expense. The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on IAS 29 was applicable to the subsidiary LANXESS S.A., the basis of the currency of the primary economic environment in Buenos Aires, Argentina, for the first time in the fiscal year 2018. which the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the Non-monetary items in the statement of financial position, commajority of foreign companies are financially, economically and ponents of equity and items in the statement of comprehensive organizationally autonomous and their functional currencies are income were adjusted to the current price level using a suitable therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities price index and subsequently translated at the closing rate or the of these companies are translated at closing rates, while income average exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. and expense items are translated at average rates for the year. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 122 Consolidated financial statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND Property, plant and equipment ­VALUATION PRINCIPLES Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of a­ cquisition or construction less usage-based depreciation. WriteThe accounting policies and valuation principles are the same downs are recognized for any reduction in value that goes beyond as those used in the previous fiscal year and have been consisordinary depreciation. In compliance with IAS 36, impairment tently applied. However, certain changes have resulted from the charges are measured by comparing the carrying amount with mandatory first-time application in fiscal year 2018 of new or the discounted cash flows expected to be generated by the assets amended financial reporting standards and interpretations. These in the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future cash flows changes are explained in the section headed “Financial Reporting to specific assets, the impairment charge is assessed on the basis Standards and Interpretations Applied”. of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Write-downs are reversed accordingly if the reasons no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the Intangible assets carrying amount of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible at which they would have been recognized if they had not been assets such as software, concessions, industrial property rights, written down or their current recoverable amount. similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets. The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment Acquired intangible assets with a definite useful life are recognized comprises the direct costs, as well as an appropriate share of at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the the necessary material and manufacturing overheads. It also straight-line method. The amortization for intangible assets other includes the shares of depreciation as well as of expenses for than goodwill is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization in the company pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that ­reporting period is allocated to the respective functional areas. Any are a­ ttributable to production. further decline in value is recognized by means of a write-down. Where an obligation exists to shut down or dismantle assets Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the reasons for at the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying condition, the present value of the obligation is capitalized along amount of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which with the cost of acquisition or construction and a provision in the they would have been carried if the write-downs had not been same amount is recognized. recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of these If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment two amounts is recognized. Goodwill is not amortized, but subject extends over a long period, the directly attributable borrowing to an impairment test performed annually or more often if events costs incurred up to the date of completion are capitalized as part or a change in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any of the cost of acquisition or construction. impairment charges are recognized in other operating expenses. Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed. directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction The costs incurred for in-house software development at costs are capitalized if they will result in future economic benefits the application development stage are capitalized and amortized and can be reliably determined. over the expected useful life of the software from the date it is Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants completed. are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of Emissions rights are recognized at cost. Rights allocated free the related assets and depreciated over the period between one of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) or general overhaul and the next using the straight-line method. comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized Where assets comprise material components with different at a value of zero. purposes, different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capitalized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 123 Assets are depreciated using straight-line method based in Financial instruments (IFRS 9) general on the following useful lives: Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of Useful Lives another entity. Firstly, these include primary financial instruments Buildings 20 to 50 years such as trade receivables and payables or financial receivables Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years and liabilities. Secondly, they also include derivative financial Plant installations 3 to 25 years ­instruments used to hedge the risks of changes in exchange rates, Machinery and equipment 8 to 15 years raw material prices and interest rates. Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years Vehicles 5 to 8 years Group becomes the contracting party to them. ­Financial assets Computer equipment 3 to 5 years are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive payments Furniture and fixtures 5 to 10 years expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all ­significant risks and rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when Leases they expire. In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where ­substantially In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement all risks and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred date is the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition (­finance leases) are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and of financial assets in the financial statements. the present value of the minimum lease payments at the date of Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. For subaddition. They are depreciated over their useful lives. If subsequent sequent measurement, depending on their classification, they are transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is depreciated recognized at amortized cost using the effective interest ­method over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term. or at fair value in other comprehensive income or in profit or loss. The future lease payments are recognized as financial liaClassification is determined by the business model and the charbilities. Liabilities under finance leases are recognized at the fair acteristics of the cash flows. The possible classifications are as value of the leased asset at commencement date or the present follows: value of the minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. The Under the “hold” business model, financial instruments are minimum lease payments are divided into financing costs and the held until maturity. They are measured at amortized cost if the portion representing repayment of the principal. In the case of cash flows are solely for payments of principal and interest. The leasing contracts that do not include the transfer of substantially Group does not use the option for measurement at fair value all risks and rewards incidental to ownership (operating leases), through profit and loss. Financial instruments recognized at amorthe lessee recognizes the lease payments as expense. tized cost are reduced by expected credit losses. Both historical Property, plant and equipment also includes assets that loss experience and future expected losses are used to calculate LANXESS leases or rents out to third parties under agreements expected credit losses. A three-stage assessment is applied to other than finance leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded the expected credit loss. In the first stage, the expected credit as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized loss over the next twelve months is assessed and the expected in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments. loss is recognized. If the credit risk increases over the term of the Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. financial instrument, the potential credit loss over the entire term Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing of the financial instrument is assessed and the expected loss is ­arrangement, the components of the contract are recognized increased on the basis of this measurement (second stage). In and measured separately. the event of a default, the expected default amount is recognized LANXESS Annual Report 2018 124 Consolidated financial statements (third stage) and an expected loss is also taken into account for Equity investments and long-term equity instruments are any residual amount of the financial instrument. The effective recognized at fair value. For subsequent measurement, it is deterinterest method is then only applied to the residual amount. For mined irrevocably at the level of the individual equity instrument trade receivables and contract assets, the simplified one-stage whether gains or losses and the gains on disposal are recogmodel for the entire term is used to calculate the expected risk of nized through other comprehensive income or through profit or default, and the expected loss over the entire term of the financial loss. Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be instrument is measured and recognized. Expected losses on trade impaired, an impairment loss is recognized on the basis of an receivables and contract assets are recognized in other operating impairment test. expenses, taking into account reversals from prior periods. For all Investments in companies accounted for using the ­equity other financial instruments carried at amortized cost, the expected ­method are recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s loss is recognized under “Other financial result.” shares in their equity in accordance with IAS 28. Under the “hold and sell” business model, an entity intends Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair ­value to resell the financial instrument during its term after a certain less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are measured holding period. Such financial instruments are measured at fair at amortized cost using the effective interest method. LANXESS value. Gains or losses on subsequent measurement are recognized does not utilize the option of designating financial ­instruments as at in other comprehensive income if the cash flows are solely for fair value and recognizing them in profit or loss on initial recognition. payments of principal and interest. Financial instruments that are not measured at amortized cost or at fair value in other comprehensive income are recognized at Financial instruments (IAS 39) fair value in profit or loss. Gains or losses from subsequent meaThe accounting policies and valuation principles for ­financial surement are recognized in the income statement. instruments, which in deviation from IFRS 9 were applied in Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially ­accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 in the previous year, recognized at fair value under the “hold” business model and are explained below. subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using the effective Trade receivables and other financial receivables were allointerest method. The expected loss is calculated using the simcated to the loans and receivables category, initially recognized plified one-stage model for the entire term on the basis of a past at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost due matrix and taking into account historical loss experience and using the effective interest method. Where write-downs were future expected losses. Both expected and incurred losses are necessary as a result of impairment testing, they were recognized recognized in profit or loss through separate allowance accounts. using separate accounts. Other current and non-current financial receivables that are Investments in affiliates and equity instruments included in accounted for under the “hold” business model are initially recognon-current assets were classified as available-for-sale financial nized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value cost using the effective interest method. These include financial could not be reliably determined, in which case they were recogassets whose cash flows are solely for payments of principal and nized at amortized cost. Where objective evidence existed that interest, contract assets and miscellaneous financial receivables. such assets may have been impaired, an impairment loss was The expected loss is calculated according to the counterparty’s recognized on the basis of an impairment test. future expected loss. Other current and non-current financial Financial assets held for trading were recognized at fair receivables that are accounted for under the “hold to collect” ­value. Any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement business model are measured at fair value. Depending on whether was r­ eflected in the income statement. they can be assigned to the “hold and sell” business model, the gain or loss on subsequent measurement is recognized through other comprehensive income or otherwise through profit or loss. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 125 All other primary financial assets were classified as available Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivfor sale and recognized at fair value except if they were allocable ering non-financial items based on expected purchases, sales or to loans and receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subseutilization and held for this purpose are recognized not as financial quent measurement, with the exception of write-downs and of derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts contain gains and losses from currency translation, was recognized in embedded derivatives, the derivatives are accounted for separately other comprehensive income until the asset was derecognized. from the host contract, provided that the economic characteristics Investments in companies accounted for using the e ­ quity and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to method were recognized at the amounts corresponding to those of the host contract. LANXESS’s shares in their equity in accordance with IAS 28. Primary financial liabilities were initially recognized at fair value less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they were Determination of fair value measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The key methods and assumptions used in measuring the LANXESS did not utilize the option of designating financial fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: instruments as at fair value and recognizing them in profit or loss Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivon initial recognition. alents are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value. Derivative financial instruments and Contract assets are recognized at their carrying amounts. If ­hedging transactions they contain significant financing components, they are discounted The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruusing current interest rates. The fair values accordingly correspond ments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. to the carrying amounts. Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Where foreign The fair value of financial assets is determined from their currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to hedge market price on the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. future cash flows from pending business or forecast transactions The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated on qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant financial reporting the basis of discounted future payments of principal and interest. standard, the changes in value or hedging costs of such instruThe bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair ments are recognized separately in other comprehensive income values are the prices determined and published by the market. until the underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recogIf no liquid market price is available for a bond, its fair value is nized here for currency derivatives are subsequently reclassified determined on the basis of observable inputs, using a risk-related to other operating income or cost of sales, as appropriate, when discount rate. the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. For forward The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial commodity transactions, the amounts recognized on acquisition liabilities due within one year is normally their carrying amount. of the hedged products are allocated to their carrying amount and The fair value of other liabilities is determined by discounting to recognized in the cost of sales on processing of the same. Any present value where feasible. portion of the change in value of such derivatives deemed to be The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized directly leases are the present values of the net lease payments calculated in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value and hedging costs of using the market rate for comparable lease agreements. interest rate derivatives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – provided such derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting – are recognized in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss as interest income or expense at the same time as the income from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 126 Consolidated financial statements The derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, primarily traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the direct manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed end of the reporting period pertain principally to forward exchange and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal contracts and, to a small extent, to forward commodity contracts. If capacity utilization, when attributable to production. information on hedging costs is available, the fair values are derived It also includes expenses for company pension plans, social from their trading or listed prices using the forward-to-forward services and voluntary social benefits that can be allocated to method. If information on hedging costs is not available, the fair production. Administrative costs are included where they are values are calculated using the spot-to-spot method, and hedging attributable to production. costs, including the forward component, are separated. Where no Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not market price is available, values are determined using recognized included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as capital market pricing methods based on observable market data. the products are not manufactured within long-term production In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s own processes. credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of Given the production and distribution circumstances of the the respective net positions. LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped together. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents represent financial instruments Provisions that are allocated to the “hold to collect” business model and Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with recognized at amortized cost. The risk of default relating to cash IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best and cash equivalents is calculated taking into account the counter­ estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions party’s future expected loss applying the three-stage model and of material provisions due in more than one year are discounted recognized under “Other financial result”. Cash and cash equivato present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be lents comprise checks, cash and balances with banks. Securities assessed with reasonable certainty. The change in the provision with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition resulting from approaching the due date (interest effect) is exare recognized in cash and cash equivalents due to their high pensed in the other financial result. liquidity. In the previous year, cash and cash equivalents were If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change recognized in line with the rules of IAS 39 without accounting in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding for future expected losses. amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the provision was originally recognized. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Inventories are established for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in calculated using the projected unit credit method. This takes into the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) account not only the known pensions and pension entitlements and assets used in the production process (raw materials and as of the closing date, but also expected future salary and benefit supplies). They are valued by the weighted-average method and increases. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are recognized at the lower of cost and their respective net realizable fully recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in value, which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a of business less the estimated remaining production costs and subsequent period. selling expenses. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 127 Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual Liabilities bonus payments, payments under multi-year compensation proOther current liabilities are recognized at repayment or settle­ grams and other personnel costs. ment amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at The stock-based employee compensation programs (Longamortized cost. Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) provide for cash settlement. Grants received from third parties for the acquisition or conProvisions are established for the obligations entered into under struction of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the liabilities and released to the respective functional area of profit rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using or loss over the underlying period or expected useful life of the the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and assets to which they relate. the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights Contract liabilities are also reported under other liabilities based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The and represent advance consideration paid by the customer for fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision during outstanding performance obligations. the vesting period. The stock-based compensation program for members of the Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided Financial reporting in hyperinflationary that LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during economies their term of office. Provisions are established for the expected A country must be classified as a hyperinflationary economy obligations. if, in addition to other criteria, the cumulative inflation rate over Restructuring provisions are established if there is a legal or the past three years approaches or exceeds 100%. On classificonstructive obligation on the basis of a detailed restructuring plan cation as a hyperinflationary economy, non-monetary items in adopted by authorized management, and the employees affected the statement of financial position, components of equity and or their representatives have been informed. Such provisions conitems in the statement of comprehensive income are restated to tain the expenses that are directly attributable to the restructuring the current price level using a suitable price index. Restatements and that are necessary to implement these measures and do not to the current price level that are attributable to prior reporting relate to the future operating business. periods lead to a difference of prior year equity and the beginning The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or balance of equity of the fiscal year. These equity differences are pending legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be shown in other comprehensive income in the currency translation reasonably estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees adjustments from the translation of operations outside the euro and legal costs and the cost of potential settlements. However, zone. The changes are recognized in the reporting period of the litigation expenses are only included if it is assumed that they will first assessment of the country as a hyperinflationary economy. have to be borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions Changes relating to the current reporting period are recognized are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the as monetary gains or losses under “Other financial result”. Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed In the statement of financial position, this applies in particutogether with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. lar to non-monetary assets and liabilities that are recognized at amortized cost and therefore not at the current price level. These are essentially intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, Contingent liabilities inventories and advance consideration paid and received. The Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties restatement of prices is calculated from the date of the asset’s or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably historical acquisition or production to the end of the reporting estimated or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. period. Equity components, except retained earnings, are restated They are not recognized in the statement of financial position to the current price level from the date of contribution. Statement unless they have been entered into in connection with a business of comprehensive income items are restated from the dates when combination. the items of income and expenses were initially recorded in the financial statements. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 128 Consolidated financial statements Non-current assets and liabilities held for Sales and other revenues (IFRS 15) sale and discontinued operations From January 1, 2018, sales in the course of ordinary acMaterial assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be tivities are recognized in revenue in accordance with the rules sold in their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such of IFRS 15. In particular, these are sales of internally generated assets may be individual non-current assets, groups of assets chemical products or from tolling agreements for such products. (disposal groups) or complete business entities. A disposal group In addition, research and development work, salesand product-­ may also include liabilities if these are to be divested together with related services and other long-term services are also recognized the assets as part of the transaction. in revenue. Services that do not relate to ordinary activities and The assets and liabilities in question are each reported in a that are temporary are reported in other operating income. separate line item in the statement of financial position. Intangible Revenue is recognized depending on the transfer of control assets and property, plant and equipment held for sale are not over products or services to the customer. Control can be transsubject to any further amortization or depreciation, and are recogferred either at a point in time or over time. Control has been nized at the lower of carrying amount at the time of classification transferred when the customer has obtained the ability to direct as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell. Intra-Group rethe use of, and obtain the remaining benefits from, the asset. There ceivables and liabilities are eliminated in full. The previous year’s are typically no rights of return. figures are not restated. Depending on the terms and conditions of delivery, revenue The presentation of the income statement focuses on the calfrom the sale of chemical products is typically recognized when culation of earnings from continuing operations. Earnings from disthe customer or a third party commissioned by the customer continued operations are shown in the line “Income after income receives the products. At this time, the risks and rewards have taxes from discontinued operations”. Intra-Group transactions that been transferred to the customer, the customer has physically continue with the discontinued operation after its deconsolidation received the goods and, normally, there are no longer any outor with third parties are recognized under continuing operations. standing obligations preventing the customer’s acceptance of the The elimination entries as part of the consolidation of expenditure product. The time at which the right to receive payment and the and income are assigned fully to discontinued operations. The time when legal title passes are governed by individual regulations prior-year period in the income statement is adjusted accordand are referenced in determining the timing of revenue. Revenue ingly. The gain or loss on deconsolidation is recognized under is measured at the invoice amount after deducting transfer taxes discontinued operations. and sales deductions. The notes to items of the statement of financial position proUnder the business model of manufacturing products on vide details of the reconciliation from values at the start of the the basis of long-term sales contracts with contractually defined year to values at the end of the year. The reconciliations focus on minimum purchase requirements, revenue is recognized when presenting continuing operations. The figures for discontinued the customer receives the goods. Revenue is measured by estioperations are reported in the line “Adjustments in accordance mating the total revenue expected in the future from the sale of with IFRS 5”. They include the expenses and income in the income minimum amounts over the full term of the contract and allocated statement attributable to discontinued operations for the previous to the individual deliveries. Rebates and material rights to procure year and the reclassification of ARLANXEO’s statement of financial expected additional purchase quantities are taken into account in position items to discontinued operations in the current year. the total revenue from the sale. Differences from the invoice price arising as a result of average pricing are recognized as contract assets or liabilities that are reversed over the term of the contract. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 129 Under the business model of manufacturing customer-­specific Sales and other revenues (IAS 18) products on the basis of long-term supply agreements with a In the previous year, revenues were recognized in accordance contractually defined minimum purchase requirement, within with the rules of IAS 18. Revenue was recognized net of sales the meaning of the rules of IFRS 15, the LANXESS Group has taxes and deductions as soon as delivery had been made or the no alternative use for the products manufactured under these service rendered. This was normally the case when the significant contracts. Moreover, it has a contractually enforceable right to risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods passed payment for the minimum amount under the purchase requireto the purchaser. It also had to be sufficiently probable that the ment. Revenue for finished goods and work in progress, and for economic benefits would be obtained, and the costs incurred had advance consideration paid by the customer, is recognized over to be reliably determinable. the manufacturing period. Revenue for finished goods is measured Customer rebates were reflected in the period in which the based on the volumes produced for the fiscal year. For finished revenues were realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental products, the total revenue expected in the future from the sale of income, interest income or dividends that were attributable to a minimum amounts over the full term of the contract is estimated subsequent fiscal year were accrued. and allocated to the individual production units. Rebates and material rights to procure expected additional purchase quantities are taken into account in the total revenue from the sale. Revenue Research and development costs for work in progress is measured based on the production costs According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, incurred, which are calculated using the input method taking into whereas development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, account a pro rata margin for the end product (see “Inventories” specific narrowly defined conditions are fulfilled. Development section in this chapter for explanations of the calculation of produccosts must be capitalized if it is sufficiently certain that the detion costs). Contract assets are recognized for the corresponding velopment activity will generate future economic benefits which receivables until the products are delivered. The relevant invenwill also cover the associated development costs. However, since tories are derecognized when revenue is recognized. When the the development and optimization of products and processes products are delivered, the contract assets are reversed and trade frequently involves uncertainty with regard to the ability to realreceivables are recognized. ize future economic benefits, the conditions for capitalization of Under the business model sale of products including orgadevelopment costs are generally not met. nizing freight services, control transfers to the customer on the basis of the agreed terms and conditions of delivery, essentially at the end of the freight service. Thus, revenue is measured and Income taxes recognized at the invoice amount after deducting transfer taxes This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in and sales deductions. The freight service is not treated as a septhe individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are arate performance obligation. computed on the basis of local tax rates. Tolling agreements for chemical products, research and deIncome tax receivables and liabilities relate to both the revelopment work, salesand product-related services and other spective fiscal year and previous years. They are assessed on the long-term services are recognized in revenue over the perforbasis of the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal mance period and at the invoice amount after deducting transfer practice judgments and prevailing opinion. Uncertain income tax taxes and sales deductions. items are recognized at their expected value provided that payment Customer rebates that are not attributable to the business or reimbursement is considered probable. models of manufacturing products or customer-specific products on the basis of long-term sales contracts with contractually defined minimum purchase requirements are recognized in the period in which the revenues are realized. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 130 Consolidated financial statements In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for Statement of cash flows temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and or liabilities in the statement of financial position and the tax base outflows during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents and for differences arising from consolidation measures or realof the LANXESS Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, izable tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The planning calculations and customary and realizable tax strategies. liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which are expected to and cash equivalents. apply in the individual countries at the time of realization, taking The cash flows of continuing operations are reported sepainto account the period for which deferred taxes may be used and rately from the cash flows of discontinued operations. The cash any constraints on the utilization of loss carryforwards. These are flows of discontinued operations are shown combined in one line based on the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in per area. The previous year’s figures are restated accordingly. relation to future periods, as of the closing date. The cash flows from operating activities are calculated u ­ sing The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due ­effects, the effects of the initial application of financial reporting to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from standards and the effects of changes in the consolidated group loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryfrom the changes recognized in the items on the statement of forwards can be utilized. financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to indirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement income taxes levied by the same tax authorities. of financial position. Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities after Business acquisitions and divestments deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance Business acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. method. At the time of initial control, the acquired assets and Comparison therefore should not be made between these items liabilities are measured at fair value. The incidental acquisition and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule of changes costs associated with the business acquisition are recognized as in property, plant and equipment. expense of the period in which they are incurred. Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows Divestments of shares in subsidiaries resulting in the loss of from operating activities. Disbursements made under ­finance leases control are recognized in profit or loss. In the case of successive where LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows share disposals without loss of control, the decline in the majority for financing activities, while cash inflows under finance leases share is recognized in other comprehensive income and results where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as cash ­inflows from in an increase in non-controlling interests in equity. If significant investing activities. influence continues to be exerted after loss of control, an interest Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations in an associate or an investment accounted for using the equity where future pension payments will be made directly out of extermethod is recognized. As soon as there is no longer a significant nal plan assets are allocated to cash flows for operating activities. influence on financial and business policy, the remaining interest Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations where is classified as a financial asset and recognized at fair value in LANXESS only has a claim to reimbursement of future pension other comprehensive income or in profit or loss. payments (contractual trust arrangement – CTA) are allocated to cash flows for investing activities. Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in the investing cash flows of continuing operations after deducting cash and cash equivalents acquired or divested. These also include purchase price payments for discontinued operations. Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flows, while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flows. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 131 Global impairment testing procedure test – is the amount obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating and impact unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-­current parties, less the costs of disposal. The value in use is defined as the assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment present value of future cash flows based on the continuing use of charges need to be recognized or previously recognized impairthe asset and its retirement at the end of its useful life. The first step ment charges reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, in assessing whether to recognize or reverse an impairment charge the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared with is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is lower or its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these analyses are higher than the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit, the performed at least once a year. value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs of disposal For impairment testing of assets, the LANXESS Group defines is generally calculated using a net present value method which is its business units as cash-generating units, with the exception allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under “Fair value of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, which is measurement” in Note [36]). broken down into the cash-generating units Advanced Industrial Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair value Intermediates and Antioxidants & Accelerators. less costs of disposal generally relies on a forecast of future net cash If there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current assets flows. This is based on the planning approved by the management below the level of the cash-generating units, impairment testing is of LANXESS AG, which contains estimates of expected market conperformed at this level and impairment charges or reversals of imditions and other factors such as future raw material prices, energy pairment charges are recognized in profit or loss where necessary. costs, functional costs, exchange rates and capital expenditures. Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested The interactions between these factors are reflected in the expected annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in net cash flows. The estimates are based on management’s past circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The carrying amount experience, taking account of internal and external economic and of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is industry-specific sources of information. Capacity expansions, reorcompared with its recoverable amount. The cash-generating units ganization projects and the resulting synergies, provided these can ­Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Antioxidants & ­Accelerators also be used by a third party, are reflected in future net cash flows form a group for the impairment testing of the goodwill of the through estimates. Determination of the value in use is based on ­Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. a corresponding forecast of future net cash flows. However, cash The sale of the investment in ARLANXEO as of Deceminflows and outflows relating to expansion projects that have not ber 31, 2018, disposed of the Tire & Specialty Rubbers (Butyl yet commenced, restructuring that is planned but has not yet been Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers) and High Perforapproved, and the associated synergies are not taken into account. mance Elastomers business units (High Performance Elastomers Group functional area costs are included if a potential acquirer would and Keltan Elastomers). The goodwill associated with the Tire & have to bear them. The forecasts used to calculate the fair value less Specialty Rubbers business unit was tested in the previous year at costs of disposal and to determine the value in use cover a five-year the level of the group of the two Butyl Rubber and Performance period. The perpetual annuity calculation is generally based on the last Butadiene Rubbers business units and is fully disposed of as of year in the planning period and does not reflect growth rates. Where December 31, 2018 as a result of the deconsolidation. necessary, adjustments are made to reflect the so-called steady state The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value of the perpetual annuity. Future net cash flows are discounted using less costs of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount the weighted average cost of capital, which is derived according to of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an imIAS 36 from capital market models, taking into account the capital pairment charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair structure and business risks specific to the chemical industry, and is value less costs of disposal – which represents the best estimate of extrapolated from external market information. the potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective impairment LANXESS Annual Report 2018 132 Consolidated financial statements If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge is ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES AND THE first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective cash-­ EXERCISE OF DISCRETION generating unit. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the other non-current assets of the cash-generating unit in proportion The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accorto the carrying amounts on which the impairment test was based. The dance with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and recoverable amount of any non-current assets below the level of the valuation principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss is allocated, but only and estimates that may affect the measurement of assets and up to the recoverable amount of these assets. Any further impairment liabilities, income and expenses, and contingent liabilities. charge that would have been allocated to these assets is allocated All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated proportionately to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. ­financial statements are based on management’s expectations. Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income stateInformation that could alter these estimates is reviewed continument under other operating expenses and reflected in the segment ally and may result in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the reporting in the expenses of the respective segments. respective assets and liabilities. If the impairment test on the cash-generating units indicates a Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the need to reverse impairment charges recognized on assets in previous measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are years because the reasons for the impairment no longer exist or have explained below. changed, the impairment charge is reversed only up to the amount At least once a year, the LANXESS Group conducts impairthat would have existed after depreciation or amortization if the imment tests on its individual cash-generating units or groups of pairment had not been recognized. Impairment charges on goodwill cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. are not reversed. Reversals of impairment charges are fully recognized Impairment tests are also conducted if there is an indication of in the income statement under other operating income and reflected a possible impairment (for further information see the section in the segment reporting in the income of the respective segments. headed “Global impairment testing procedure and impact”). To The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal year 2017 determine fair value less costs of disposal, the impairment tests and 2018 are outlined in the following section. of assets and goodwill were based on net present value methods, which are allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Management’s assumptions and estimates used for the ­impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal year 2018 could differ from the actual values in subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments. Management’s expectations of future net cash flows therefore have an indirect impact on the valuation of goodwill and other assets. The annual impairment tests are based on a discount rate after taxes of 6.7% (previous year: 7.2%), while the impairment tests as of the closing date are based on a discount rate after taxes of 6.7% (previous year: 7.0%). The impairment tests of the cash-generating units showed no need for the recognition of impairment charges in fiscal year 2017 and 2018. Reversals of write-downs recognized on assets in prior years were not required in the previous year. The annual impairment test for the goodwill items is performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The goodwill items are carried in local currency. The principal goodwill items are explained below. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 133 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion In fiscal year 2018, the LANXESS Group acquired goodwill Information on calculating the net cash flows can be found in of €12 million with the U.S. phosphorus additives business of the this chapter and the previous chapter. The Additives and Urethane Belgian chemicals group Solvay, including its U.S. production site Systems business units are dependent on various processing in Charleston. The newly acquired goodwill was allocated to the industries and the Material Protection Products business unit is Additives business unit in the Specialty Additives segment and dependent on the development of various industries. The estitested for impairment as of the reporting date. As a result of the mates of future market developments on which detailed planning newly acquired goodwill and currency effects, the goodwill of the is based are dependent on the respective customer industries Additives business unit increased to €524 million (previous year: and draw on management’s past experience, taking account of €489 million). The goodwill of the Urethane Systems business unit internal and external economic and industry-specific sources of amounts to €149 million as of December 31, 2018 (previous year: information. Average annual sales growth of 4% (previous year: €141 million). The change is due to exchange rate effects. Due to 4%) was planned for the Additives business unit, 7% (previous exchange rate effects, goodwill of the Material Protection Products year: 5%) for the Urethane Systems business unit, and 5% (previbusiness unit increased to €137 million as of December 31, 2018 ous year: 5%) for the Material Protection Products business unit. (previous year: €133 million). Goodwill of €40 million (previous For the impairment tests of material goodwill, lower EBITDA year: €33 million) is attributable to other business units, which values than in the last planning period were assumed for the steady are not described for reasons of materiality. state in the current fiscal year for the Additives business unit in For the goodwill of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura, Middle­ the perpetual annuity calculation. Higher EBITDA values than bury, U.S., acquired in the previous year, the purchase price allocain the last planning period were assumed for the steady state in tion was completed in April 2018. The Chemtura flame retardant the perpetual annuity calculation in the current fiscal year for the and lubricant additives business was combined in the previous Urethane Systems business units and in the previous year for the year with the LANXESS Plastic Additives and Lubricant Additives Additives business unit. operations in the Additives business unit and allocated to the The impairment test performed on goodwill items in fiscal Specialty Additives segment. The Urethane Systems business year 2017 and 2018 did not indicate any need for recognition of unit was established for the former Chemtura urethanes business impairment charges. Neither a one-percentage-point increase and allocated to the Engineering Materials segment. The former in the discount rate nor a 10% reduction in expected future net Chemtura business with organometallics was integrated into the cash flows would have led to the recognition of an impairment LANXESS Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in the charge on goodwill items. Advanced Intermediates segment. With the completion of the In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, the purchase price allocation, goodwill after currency effects finally impact of a potential Brexit was assessed. Particularly Great Britain changed by €15 million to €626 million as of December 31, 2017, leaving the European customs union and potential new approvals on the basis of new information. €7 million of the increase was allounder the regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization cated to the Additives business unit and €8 million to the ­Advanced and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) could prolong standard Industrial Intermediates business unit, so as of December 31, 2017, delivery times in the event of a hard Brexit. In order to guarantee goodwill of €477 million was allocated to the Additives business standard delivery times, measures are intended to establish invenunit, €141 million to the Urethane Systems business unit and tories and for a constant sharing of information with customers and €8 million to the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business suppliers. In view of these measures, no material negative impact unit. The impairment tests of goodwill as of December 31, 2017, on business performance is anticipated. However, as of the time would not have had different results on the basis of the changes of the preparation of the financial statements, conclusive assessin the final purchase price allocation. There would have been no ments of the political framework and the associated implications write-downs to recognize. are not possible, and therefore may be subject to future changes. In the previous year, the LANXESS Group also acquired goodFurthermore, the impact of an escalating trade conflict bewill of €20 million from the acquisition of all shares in the biotech tween the U.S. and the People’s Republic of China was invesstartup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund, Germany. The tigated. However, the analyses showed that only very isolated acquired goodwill is allocated to the Material Protection Products products in the portfolio are affected, and that there is only a low business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment and was level of goods flows from China to the U.S. For this reason, the tested for impairment as of the reporting date in the previous year. direct consequences of the conflict are not expected to have a significantly negative impact on operations. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 134 Consolidated financial statements The recognition and measurement of provisions are also years are not considered to be likely. In the event of unfavorable affected by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timdevelopments, LANXESS could be faced with additional charges ing, the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. in the lowto mid-double-digit millions of euros. The calculations For the 2018 consolidated financial statements, the LANXESS are principally based on experience of the outcome of previous Group performed sensitivity analyses on provisions, as required tax audits and their impact on the subsequent periods and the by IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of isolated variaapplicable legislation, taking into account present legal practice tions in the parameters used, especially the forecast probability of and prevailing opinion. This could result in deviations from the occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome current estimates in the future. of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumpIn the context of business acquisitions, the application of the tions described above would not have a material impact on the acquisition method requires certain estimates and assessments level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial as of the acquisition date. This relates in particular to the determistatements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on nation of the fair value, the estimation of useful lives of acquired the sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pensions and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, and the other post-­employment benefits, see Note [14]. determination of the fair values of assumed liabilities. The meaDefined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial surement is essentially based on future cash inflows and outflows. computations and measurements. The section on provisions for Deviations between the actual cash inflows and outflows and those pensions and other post-employment benefits contains informaassumed at the acquisition date can significantly influence future tion on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and net income. As a rule, the purchase price allocation is performed estimates were based (see Note [14]). in consultation with external experts. In the case of lower-value Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As acquisitions, the purchase price allocation is mostly based on own an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to adminestimates and measurements. The estimates and measurements istrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and are based on knowledge available on and immediately after the may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings acquisition date. They can be adjusted within one year of the date generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are of acquisition to reflect new information and findings. therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes When measuring revenue under the business model of longof any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with term sales contracts with a contractually defined minimum purcertainty. It is therefore possible that legal judgments could give chase requirement, the total revenue expected in the future from rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by sale of the minimum amount is estimated for the full term of the recognized provisions or equivalent insurance and that could contract and allocated to the individual deliveries, or in the case materially affect the business operations, revenues, earnings or of the production of customer-specific products to the individual cash flows of the LANXESS Group. production units. Estimates are based on the current planning The establishment of provisions for environmental protection for forecast future sales prices and quantities. In particular, sales and remediation measures also involves uncertainty and requires prices can change over the term of a contract as a result of mechcalculations and estimates of future costs. Information about this anisms for adjusting prices (formula prices for production factors, can be found in the section headed “Other non-current and current bulk prices, rebate agreements), hence deviations from current provisions” (see Note [15]). estimates may arise in the future. There is also uncertainty surrounding the assessment of cerOther significant estimates and discretion are used to assess tain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS the useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipGroup believes it has presented all tax-relevant information corment, the capitalization of development costs, the probability of rectly and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories authorities may occasionally reach different conclusions. Proviand the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recsions have been established where changes in tax assessments ognized for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. are probable. In addition, charges from tax risks from previous LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion 135 Companies Consolidated COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign affiliates. EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excl. Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2018 40 12 13 8 30 103 Retirements (9) (1) (4) (2) (4) (20) Mergers – (2) – – – (2) Dec. 31, 2018 31 9 9 6 26 81 Consolidated associates and jointly controlled entities Jan. 1, 2018 – 2 1 – – 3 Changes – – – – – 0 Dec. 31, 2018 0 2 1 0 0 3 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2018 2 3 1 4 2 12 Retirements – – – (1) – (1) Dec. 31, 2018 2 3 1 3 2 11 Total Jan. 1, 2018 42 17 15 12 32 118 Additions – – – – – 0 Retirements (9) (1) (4) (3) (4) (21) Mergers – (2) – – – (2) Dec. 31, 2018 33 14 11 9 28 95 The sale of the remaining 50% interest in ARLANXEO to the Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie Saudi Aramco subsidiary Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöper(Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies atief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, was completed as of Dein which LANXESS has a stake of 52% and 90%, respectively. cember 31, 2018. On closing of the transaction, the interest in These companies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds ­ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands, including 15 the majority of the voting rights and therefore exercises control. subsidiaries, was transferred to the former partner Saudi Aramco. The non-controlling interests in these companies have a negligible The companies Chemours Jersey Ltd., Jersey, Great Britain, influence on the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. Chemtura Shanghai Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China, and LANXESS DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in the Solutions Belgium N.V., Antwerp, Belgium, were liquidated during consolidated financial statements as a joint operation in accordance the reporting period. with IFRS 11 on a pro rata basis because the partners exercise joint Furthermore, LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl, Germany, was control and purchase most of its output together. LANXESS’s share merged into LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne, Germany, in its capital is 50%. The purpose of the ­company is to produce and LANXESS OMS Holding GmbH, Bergkamen, Germany, was polybutylene terephthalate base resins and blends for the joint merged into LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen, owners and their affiliated companies. This business relationship Germany. does not involve any material risks for LANXESS. Furthermore, the companies LANXESS Laurel US LLC, ­Wilmington, New Castle, U.S., and LANXESS Laurel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Reynosa, Mexico, were sold in the reporting year. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 136 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S., is included in the consolidated The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination financial statements as a joint operation in accordance with IFRS 11 in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, the on a pro rata basis because the partners exercise joint control and identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business purchase all of its output. LANXESS’s share in its capital is 50%. acquired were recognized at fair value. The intangible assets idenThe purpose of the company is primarily to produce aniline, diphetified as part of the purchase price allocation are mainly customer nylamines, methylene diphenyl isocyanates and polyols for the joint relationships. The purchase price allocation was completed within owners and their affiliated companies. This business relationship the measurement period and is to be deemed final as of Decemdoes not involve any material risks for LANXESS. ber 31, 2018. The acquired business has contributed €52 million Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is to sales since the acquisition date and did not have any material an associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements effect on earnings of the LANXESS Group. Group earnings were using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its impacted by charges as a result of the purchase price allocation. capital is 40%. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of If the business had been already acquired as of January 1, 2018, financial and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert the contribution to LANXESS Group sales and to net income would a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally have changed only slightly. provides site services in the areas of energy, infrastructure and In connection with this acquisition, transaction costs of €2 millogistics for LANXESS’s production sites in Germany. Due to its lion were recognized in other operating expenses in the prior year. status as a personally liable partner, LANXESS may be required to The goodwill of €12 million resulting from the acquisition primarily inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this company reflects synergy effects and alternative production capacity. Some are outlined in Note [34]. customers and the chemical properties of the products and the Cash transfers from companies in Argentina, Brazil, China, transport routes associated therewith require geographical prox­India, Republic of Korea, Russia, South Africa and Taiwan are imity. The local advantage of the production site is reflected in subject to restrictions as a result of regulated capital markets. goodwill. The goodwill is tax-deductible. These affect approximately 5% (previous year: 13%) of the The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on LANXESS Group’s cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. the Group’s assets: Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at fair value. These companies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnAdditions from Acquisition ings, asset and financial position, since together they account for Fair values at less than 0.1% of Group sales and less than 0.1% of Group equity. first-time € million consolidation Intangible assets 13 Property, plant and equipment 24 Additions from acquisition in the current Inventories 6 fiscal year Total assets 43 On February 7, 2018, LANXESS acquired the U.S. phosphoNon-current liabilities 0 rus additives business from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay Current liabilities 1 Total liabilities 1 including its U.S. production site in Charleston. The site manufacNet acquired assets (excl. goodwill) 42 tures phosphorus additives and numerous derived products such Cost of acquisition 54 as flame retardant additives and intermediates for agrochemicals. Goodwill 12 The production facility augments the global production network for phosphorusand bromine-based flame retardants, especially on the U.S. market. The business was integrated into the Additives business unit in the Specialty Additives segment. The purchase price of €54 million was paid out of existing liquidity. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Companies Consolidated 137 Additions from acquisitions in the The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on previous year the Group’s assets: LANXESS acquired the U.S. group Chemtura on April 21, 2017. It was included in the consolidated financial statements of LANXESS Additions from Acquisition of Chemtura in the Previous Year for the first time as of this date. The business involving flame retarFair values at dant and lubricant additives acquired was assigned to the Additives first-time segment, while the organometallics business was integrated into € million consolidation the Advanced Intermediates segment. The urethanes division of Intangible assets 769 Chemtura constitutes a separate business unit in the Engineering Property, plant and equipment 847 Inventories 349 Materials segment. Trade receivables 219 The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination Cash and cash equivalents 215 in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, Other assets 246 the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Total assets 2,645 business acquired were recognized at fair value. IFRS 3 permits Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 217 adjustment of the purchase price allocation within one year after Other non-current liabilities 354 the acquisition date on the basis of new knowledge and informaTrade payables 169 tion. The purchase price allocation for Chemtura was completed in Other current financial liabilities 461 April 2018. Compared with the information disclosed in the Notes Other current liabilities 128 Total liabilities 1,329 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal year 2017, Net acquired assets (excl. goodwill) 1,316 non-current income tax liabilities and goodwill have finally risen by Cost of acquisition 2,014 €15 million. The figures in the consolidated statement of financial Goodwill 698 position as of December 31, 2017 were adjusted accordingly. Intangible assets of €769 million were established in the context of the purchase price allocation, comprising €536 milOn December 18, 2017, LANXESS acquired all shares in lion for customer relationships, €105 million for trademarks the biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund, and €128 million in other intangible assets. The goodwill of Germany, and thus expanded its expertise in biotechnology. €698 million resulting from the acquisition mainly reflects addiWith regard to the purchase price allocation, there have been no tional sales opportunities arising with new customers primarily changes compared with the information disclosed in the Notes in the European and North American markets. The goodwill also to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal year 2017 by reflects an improvement in the cost structure and the procureDecember 31, 2018. The contingent consideration of €11 million ment of raw materials, as well as higher capacity utilization in included in other financial liabilities at the end of 2017 was paid production. €531 million of the goodwill is attributable to the out in the fiscal year 2018. Additives business unit, €159 million to Urethane Systems and €8 million to Advanced Industrial Intermediates. The goodwill Additions from Acquisition of IMD Natural Solutions in the is not tax-deductible. Previous Year Fair values at first-time € million consolidation Intangible assets 15 Property, plant and equipment 0 Inventories 0 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Other current assets 1 Total assets 17 Non-current liabilities 7 Current liabilities 0 Total liabilities 7 Net acquired assets (excl. equity) 10 Cost of acquisition 30 Goodwill 20 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 138 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Discontinued operations In detail, earnings from discontinued operations are as follows: As part of its realignment, on April 1, 2016, LANXESS and Saudi Aramco formed a strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber Income Statement from Discontinued Operations business named ARLANXEO in which each party held a 50% € million 2017 2018 interest. ARLANXEO was included in the consolidated financial Sales 3,134 3,180 statements of the LANXESS Group because the casting vote of Cost of sales (2,723) (2,560) the chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO, Gross profit 411 620 who is appointed by LANXESS, gave LANXESS the opportunity Other functional costs (275) (234) Operating result (EBIT) 136 386 to determine key aspects of its financial and business policy. Since Financial result (30) (34) April 1, 2018, a year before the planned end of consolidation, Income before income taxes 106 352 ARLANXEO has been accounted for as a discontinued operation Income taxes (42) (101) according to IFRS 5 and reported accordingly. LANXESS sold Income after income taxes 64 251 its 50% interest in ARLANXEO to the Saudi Aramco subsidiary Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, The cash flows of continuing operations are shown separately Netherlands, and derecognized its investment in ARLANXEO on from the cash flows of ARLANXEO in the cash flow statement. December 31, 2018. The cash flows of ARLANXEO are shown combined in one line The discontinued operations are recognized and measured per area. The previous year’s figures are restated accordingly. according to the same financial reporting standards and interpreThe preliminary purchase price for the disposal of the investtations as continuing operations. ment in ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco was €1,427 million and The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of was settled by transferring cash. The cash and cash equivalents ­ARLANXEO disposed of are shown in the following table: disposed of in the sale amounted to €123 million. The income taxes incurred in connection with the sale amount to €33 million. Carrying Amounts of Assets and Liabilities Disposed of Income taxes on the ordinary activities of discontinued operations € million Dec. 31, 2018 amounted to €68 million. Property, plant and equipment and The gain on the disposal of the interest in ARLANXEO intangible assets 1,834 amounted to €90 million and is reported in the LANXESS Group Inventories and trade receivables 1,035 income statement under “Income after income taxes from disconOther assets 379 tinued operations”. Total assets 3,248 Provisions 309 Trade payables 331 Gain on the Disposal Other liabilities 263 € million Dec. 31, 2018 Total liabilities 903 Total consideration received 1,427 Net assets sold 2,345 The presentation of the LANXESS Group’s income statement Non-controlling interests (1,179) focuses on the calculation of earnings from continuing operations. Cumulative gains or losses arising from financial instruments measured at FV OCI with recycling Earnings from discontinued operations are only shown in one line, that have to be reclassified from OCI to profit or which is explained in more detail below. The intangible assets and loss at the time of loss of control (12) property, plant and equipment of ARLANXEO were not subject to Cumulative translation gains or losses with regard to net assets sold and corresponding any further amortization or depreciation from April 1, 2018. Intra-­ hedging instruments that have to be reclassified Group deliveries and services, which are continued either with to profit or loss at the time of loss of control (126) ARLANXEO or with third parties following the deconsolidation of Gain on the disposal before income taxes 123 Income taxes (33) ARLANXEO, are shown in continuing operations. The elimination Gain on the disposal 90 entries as part of the consolidation of expense and income are assigned fully to discontinued operations. The prior-year periods in the income statement are adjusted accordingly. The gain on disposal before income taxes is included in the income statement from discontinued operations under other functional costs. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Companies Consolidated 139 Other information on companies Company Name and Domicile consolidated Interest held The following table lists the affiliated companies in accorin % dance with Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Fully consolidated companies Code: OOO LANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Company Name and Domicile Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, ­Netherlands 100 Interest held Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., in % Newbury, Great Britain 100 Fully consolidated companies North America Assured Insurance Company, Montpelier, U.S. 100 Germany Great Lakes Chemical Corporation, LANXESS AG, Cologne – Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 LANXESS Canada Co./Cie, Elmira, Canada 100 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S. 100 IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund 100 LANXESS Holding Company US Inc., LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 LANXESS Services US LLC, Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS Solutions US Inc., Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen 100 LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S. 100 Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Birmingham, U.S. 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Latin America Anderol B.V., Venlo, Netherlands 100 Chemtura Corporation Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, Great Britain 100 México, D.F., Mexico 100 Chemtura France S.A.S., Fitz James, France 100 LANXESS Indústria de Poliuretanos e Lubrificantes Ltda., Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 Rio Claro, Brazil 100 Great Lakes Chemical, Netherlands, B.V., LANXESS Indústria de Produtos Quimicos e Plásticos Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 100 Great Lakes Holding S.A.S., Fitz James, France 100 LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 Bratislava, Slovakia 100 LANXESS CISA (Pty) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 Asia-Pacific LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 Chemtura Chemicals Nanjing Co. Ltd., Nanjing, China 100 LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty) Ltd., Chemtura China Holding Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 Modderfontein, South Africa 74 LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 LANXESS Holding Switzerland AG, LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China 100 Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 LANXESS (Wuxi) High Performance Composite Materials LANXESS Holding UK Unlimited, Manchester, Great Britain 100 Company Limited, Wuxi, China 100 LANXESS Investments Netherlands B.V., LANXESS Additives Hong Kong Ltd., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 LANXESS Additives Taiwan Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 LANXESS Limited, Newbury, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Advanced Materials (Nantong) Co. Ltd., LANXESS Manufacturing Netherlands B.V., ­Nantong, China 100 Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea 100 LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 LANXESS Sales Netherlands B.V., LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 Amsterdam, ­Netherlands 100 LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Services Switzerland GmbH, LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, Republic of Korea 100 Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore 100 LANXESS Solutions Italy S.r.L., Latina, Italy 100 LANXESS Pty Ltd., Granville, Australia 100 LANXESS Solutions UK Ltd., Manchester, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Switzerland GmbH, Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 LANXESS Urethanes UK Ltd., Baxenden NR Accrington, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 140 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Name and Domicile Interest held in % Fully consolidated companies LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd., West Gosford, Australia 100 LANXESS Solutions India Private Ltd., New Delhi, India 100 LANXESS Solutions Japan K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc., Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea 100 LANXESS Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore 100 LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Taiwan Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 Jointly controlled entities Germany DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 North America Rubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S. 50 Associate accounted for using the equity method Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Germany LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 CheMondis GmbH, Cologne (formerly: LANXESS Digital GmbH, Berlin) 100 Siebte LXS GmbH, Cologne 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Gulf Stabilizers Industries Sales FZCO, Dubai, UAE 52 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, Great Britain 100 North America LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 Latin America Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago de Chile, Chile 100 Crompton Servicios, S.A. de C.V., México, D.F., Mexico 100 Asia-Pacific LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand 100 PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Companies Consolidated 141 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF ­FINANCIAL POSITION 1 | Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2017 Acquired Other Advance Total € million goodwill intangible assets payments Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2016 261 487 36 784 Acquisitions 718 784 – 1,502 Capital expenditures – 17 22 39 Disposals – (9) 0 (9) Reclassifications – 9 (9) 0 Exchange differences (98) (92) 0 (190) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2017 881 1,196 49 2,126 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (13) (277) 0 (290) Amortization and write-downs in 2017 – (71) 0 (71) of which write-downs – (9) 0 (9) Reversals of impairment charges – – – 0 Disposals – 7 0 7 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Exchange differences 2 14 – 16 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – (4) – (4) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (11) (331) 0 (342) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2017 870 865 49 1,784 Prior-year figures restated Changes in Intangible Assets in 2018 Acquired Other Advance Total € million goodwill intangible assets payments Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2017 881 1,196 49 2,126 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (70) (119) (2) (191) Acquisitions 12 13 – 25 Capital expenditures – 21 40 61 Disposals – (3) – (3) Reclassifications – 13 (13) 0 Inflation adjustments IAS 29 – 2 – 2 Exchange differences 34 26 0 60 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2018 857 1,149 74 2,080 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (11) (331) 0 (342) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 4 107 – 111 Amortization and write-downs in 2018 – (85) 0 (85) of which write-downs – (1) – (1) Reversals of impairment charges – 0 – 0 Disposals – 3 – 3 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Inflation adjustments IAS 29 – (1) – (1) Exchange differences 0 (2) – (2) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (7) (309) 0 (316) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2018 850 840 74 1,764 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 142 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the In the previous year, changes due to acquisitions related in reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. particular to the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal year 2018 relate to The purchase price allocation for Chemtura was completed in the acquisitions of the U.S. phosphorus additives business of the April 2018. Goodwill then increased by €15 million as against Belgian chemicals group Solvay. the previous year on account of new information. 2 | Property, Plant and Equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2017 Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under € million machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2016 1,900 7,755 358 377 10,390 Acquisitions 204 586 8 49 847 Capital expenditures 18 148 19 336 521 Disposals (12) (78) (17) (4) (111) Reclassifications 38 193 17 (248) 0 Exchange differences (99) (311) (13) (20) (443) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2017 2,049 8,293 372 490 11,204 Accumulated depreciation and w ­ rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (1,046) (5,556) (266) (3) (6,871) Depreciation and write-downs in 2017 (48) (259) (32) (1) (340) of which write-downs (11) (26) (1) (1) (39) Reversals of impairment charges 0 1 – – 1 Disposals 11 80 17 2 110 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 26 145 8 0 179 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (33) (184) (7) 0 (224) Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (1,090) (5,773) (280) (2) (7,145) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2017 959 2,520 92 488 4,059 Prior-year figures restated Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2018 Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under € million machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2017 2,049 8,293 372 490 11,204 Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (801) (3,005) (87) (149) (4,042) Acquisitions 9 14 1 0 24 Capital expenditures 8 77 19 352 456 Disposals (3) (50) (18) (2) (73) Reclassifications 37 188 16 (241) 0 Inflation adjustments IAS 29 6 3 1 0 10 Exchange differences (7) 0 (3) 0 (10) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2018 1,298 5,520 301 450 7,569 Accumulated depreciation and w ­ rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (1,090) (5,773) (280) (2) (7,145) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 362 1,989 68 0 2,419 Depreciation and write-downs in 2018 (44) (269) (33) (1) (347) of which write-downs (5) (7) (1) (1) (14) Reversals of impairment charges 0 1 – 0 1 Disposals 3 50 18 0 71 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Inflation adjustments IAS 29 (1) (2) (1) – (4) Exchange differences 4 7 2 0 13 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2018 (766) (3,997) (226) (3) (4,992) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2018 532 1,523 75 447 2,577 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 143 The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the Data from the Statement of Financial Position reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Dec. 31, Dec. 31, The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal year 2018 relate to € million 2017 2018 the acquisitions of the U.S. phosphorus additives business of the Non-current assets 810 887 Belgian chemicals group Solvay. Current assets 462 481 Total assets 1,272 1,368 Write-downs were recognized on land and buildings, techNon-current liabilities 1,076 1,099 nical equipment and machinery, and other fixtures, fittings and Current liabilities 315 347 equipment due to the closure of production sites in China and Total liabilities 1,391 1,446 Brazil as well as reorganization and other value-decreasing events. Equity (119) (78) Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and equity valuation 62 37 with the following gross and net values held under finance leases: Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated financial statements 57 41 Assets Held Under Finance Leases Investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Gross Net Gross Net carrying ­c arrying carrying ­c arrying The carrying amount of the investment in Currenta GmbH & € million amount amount amount amount Co. OHG was unchanged from the previous year at €0 million. As Buildings 4 3 2 1 of the reporting date, a share of the accounting loss amounting Technical equipment to €41 million (previous year: €57 million) was not recognized. and machinery 86 47 13 6 Fittings and The change resulted from the loss-increasing profit transfer of equipment 16 8 20 10 €9 million, the loss-reducing income of €32 million and the loss-­ 106 58 35 17 increasing losses of €7 million recognized in other comprehensive income, which are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. In The year-on-year decrease of assets held under finance leases the previous year, the unrecognized loss increased by €10 million essentially results from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO. as a result of the loss-increasing profit transfer of €45 million, the Directly attributable borrowing costs of €3 million (previous loss-reducing income of €24 million and the gains of €11 million year: €3 million) were capitalized. An annual average cost of debt recognized in other comprehensive income. for the LANXESS Group of 2.6% (previous year: 2.7%) was used for capitalization. 4 | Investments in Other Affiliated ­Companies 3 | I nvestments Accounted for Using the Equity Method This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling €2 million (previous year: €9 million). The year-on-year As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, L ­ everkusen, decline primarily results from the change in the recognition of two Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. financial instruments of €6 million to other non-current assets in The following tables show the main items of the income stateaccordance with IFRS 9. ments, statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of that company: 5 | Derivative Financial Instruments Data from the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS € million 2017 2018 Group comprise forward exchange, forward commodity and Sales 1,304 1,432 forward interest rate contracts as well as embedded derivatives Operating result (EBIT) 105 128 separated from contracts not designated as hedging instruments. Income after income taxes 61 82 They are capitalized in the consolidated financial statements for Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 28 (17) fiscal year 2018 at a total fair value of €4 million (previous year: Total comprehensive income 89 65 €52 million). Instruments with a negative fair value totaling €28 million (previous year: €14 million) are recognized as liabilities. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 144 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative Financial Instruments Forward exchange hedges Dec. 31, 2017 Currency hedges are used for the future revenue of companies of the LANXESS Group when the currency in which the Notional Positive Negative € million amount fair values fair values planned revenue is denominated differs from the company’s Current forward functional currency and significant foreign currency positions exchange contracts 2,581 45 (12) are expected. Set hedging ratios have been defined for subseCurrent forward commodity contracts 4 0 – quent years. The hedges are due to mature in the respective Non-current forward planning months. The hedges could become ineffective as a result exchange contracts 241 5 (2) of ­revenue possibly deferred to other periods. There are currently Non-current forward no cases of changes in the timing of revenue in excess of the interest rate contracts 500 0 – Long-term embedded hedged volume. derivatives not designated as hedging instruments – 2 – Forward commodity contracts 3,326 52 (14) Hedges on the prices of raw materials can be used for future purchases of raw materials by the companies of the LANXESS Group where procurement volumes are planned on the basis of Derivative Financial Instruments existing procurement agreements. The hedges are forward comDec. 31, 2018 modity contracts and based on a monthly planned procurement Notional Positive Negative volume. Production facility shutdowns could reduce procurement € million amount fair values fair values volumes and cause the hedges to become ineffective. No relevant Current forward exchange contracts 1,139 4 (25) production facility shutdowns are currently known. Current forward commodity contracts 5 0 0 Forward interest rate contracts Non-current forward exchange contracts 68 0 (3) Interest rate risks for future refinancing of the LANXESS Non-current forward Group can be hedged with interest rate swaps. For this purpose, interest rate contracts – – – the hedging instruments are concluded with matching maturities Long-term embedded derivatives not designated on the basis of a planned refinancing requirement. The hedges can as hedging instruments – – 0 become ineffective if the refinancing date is moved. The forward 1,212 4 (28) interest rate contracts in place in the previous year were recognized in other comprehensive income on the issue of a new bond in May 2018, and are reversed in profit or loss over the original term of the hedges. Forward Exchange, Forward Interest Rate and Forward Commodity Hedges 2017 Nominal Carrying amount Line item in statement of Change in value of Change in value amount financial position hedged item1) of hedging Asset Liability instrument1) € million Forward exchange contracts Current and non-current EUR/JPY 12 2 – derivative assets (2) 2 Current and non-current EUR/USD 528 22 – derivative assets (47) 47 Current and non-current USD/BRL 191 1 (3) derivative assets/liabilities 8 (8) Current and non-current Others 93 2 – derivative assets (3) 3 Current Forward commodity contracts 4 0 – derivative assets 0 0 Non-current Forward interest rate contracts 500 0 – derivative assets 0 0 1,328 27 (3) (44) 44 1) The changes in value are changes in the hedged component in the period. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 145 Forward Exchange and Forward Commodity Hedges 2018 Nominal Carrying amount Line item in statement of Change in value of Change in value of amount financial position hedged item1) hedging Asset Liability instrument1) € million Forward exchange contracts Current and non-current EUR/JPY 27 – (1) derivative liabilities 2 (2) Current and non-current EUR/USD 306 1 (13) derivative assets/liabilities 25 (25) Current and non-current USD/BRL 60 0 (5) derivative assets/liabilities 4 (4) Forward commodity contracts 5 – (1) Current derivative liabilities 1 (1) 398 1 (20) 32 (32) 1) The changes in value are changes in the hedged component in the period. Maturities and Average Prices 2017 2018 ≥ 2019 € million Nominal amount Average rate1) Nominal amount Average rate1) Forward exchange contracts EUR/JPY Euro 12 117 – – EUR/USD Euro 373 1.16 155 1.23 USD/BRL Euro 122 3.38 69 3.62 Others Euro 75 – 18 – Forward interest rate contracts Euro 500 0.53 500 0.53 Forward commodity contracts Euro 4 469.30 – – 1,086 742 1) Average hedging rate corresponds to the fixed side of the interest rate swap for forward interest rate contracts and the fixed side of the contract for forward commodity contracts Maturities and Average Prices 2018 2019 ≥ 2020 € million Nominal amount Average rate 1) Nominal amount Average rate1) Forward exchange contracts EUR/JPY Euro 17 130 10 128 EUR/USD Euro 269 1.21 37 1.21 USD/BRL Euro 40 3.54 20 3.55 Forward commodity contracts Euro 5 561.93 – – 331 67 1) Average hedging rate corresponds to the fixed side of the interest rate swap for forward interest rate contracts and the fixed side of the contract for forward commodity contracts As in the previous year, the hedged cash flows for the forward exchange hedges will be realized within the next three years. As in the previous year, the hedged cash flows of the forward commodity contracts will be realized within the next year. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 146 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Hedge Accounting Reconciliation Other Comprehensive Income 2017 Cash flow hedges Cost of hedging Sum other comCurrency Forward Forward prehensive hedging commodity interest rate ForwardSpotincome € million contracts contracts contracts Total to-Forward to-Spot Total January 1 (14) 0 – (14) 0 – – (14) Changes other comprehensive income 29 – 0 29 (2) (3) (5) 24 Reclassification in profit or loss due to recognition of underlying transaction 4 0 – 4 – – – 4 December 31 19 0 0 19 (2) (3) (5) 14 Hedge Accounting Reconciliation Other Comprehensive Income 2018 Cash flow hedges Cost of hedging Sum Currency Forward Forward other comhedging commodity interest rate ForwardSpotprehensive € million contracts contracts contracts Total to-Forward to-Spot Total income January 1 19 0 0 19 (2) (3) (5) 14 Adjustments according to IFRS 5 (7) – – (7) 1 2 3 (4) Changes other comprehensive income (16) 0 – (16) 0 (4) (4) (20) Reclassification in profit or loss due to recognition of underlying transaction (2) – 0 (2) – – – (2) December 31 (6) 0 0 (6) (1) (5) (6) (12) The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses Other Financial Assets on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income Dec. 31, 2018 as of the reporting date, €10 million will be reclassified from equity € million Non-current Current Total to profit or loss in fiscal year 2019 and €2 million in fiscal year Financial assets – 542 542 2020 (previous year: unrealized gains of €12 million in fiscal year Contract assets 17 44 61 2018 and €2 million in fiscal year 2019). Other financial receivables 8 12 20 Information on long-term embedded derivatives not 25 598 623 ­designated as hedging instruments and the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities is given in Note [36]. Financial assets essentially comprise invested cash funds from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO and securities 6|O  ther Non-Current and Current that can be sold at any time. The non-current contract assets ­Financial Assets relate to revenue measured at the average contract price for the manufacture of products with contractually defined minimum purchase requirements. Differences between average pricing and Other Financial Assets the invoice prices are shown as contract assets and reversed over Dec. 31, 2017 the remaining term of the contract. The current contract assets € million Non-current Current Total relate to revenue recognized at the average contract price for the Available-for-sale manufacture of customer-specific products with contractually financial assets 1 1 2 defined minimum purchase requirements as of the production Other financial receivables 19 6 25 20 7 27 date that are not expected to be delivered to the customer until the next fiscal year. The other financial assets are reduced by expected credit losses in the amount of €2 million (previous year: €1 million). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 147 Contract Assets 8 | Other Non-Current Assets € million 2018 January 1 56 The other non-current assets amounting to €117 million Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (4) (­previous year: €113 million) mainly include receivables relating Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues to pension obligations, periodic accruals and other reimburseof the reporting period (3) ment claims. Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues of previous reporting periods 7 Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less Additions 45 any write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2017 or 2018. (Reversals of) Impairment losses 0 Reclassifications to trade receivables (40) Exchange differences 0 December 31 61 9 | Inventories The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprise: The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Inventories The additions or reclassifications to trade receivables mainly Dec. 31, Dec. 31, relate to the business model of manufacturing customer-­specific € million 2017 2018 products on the basis of long-term supply agreements with a Raw materials and supplies 382 286 contractually defined minimum purchase requirement. The adWork in process, finished goods and ­merchandise 1,298 1,061 ditions comprise revenue recognized in the reporting period 1,680 1,347 already as of the production date. When the customer-specific products manufactured in the previous year are delivered, the contract assets are reclassified as trade receivables. In addition, Inventories of €174 million (previous year: €258 million) are the ­reclassifications to trade receivables include the recognition of reflected at net realizable value. The decline in inventories as the values for the quantities delivered in the reporting period from against the previous year essentially results from the sale of the the business model of manufacturing products on the basis of longinvestment in ARLANXEO. term ­supply agreements with a contractually defined minimum Due to inflation adjustments in accordance with IAS 29, invenpurchase ­requirement, which are included in the opening balance. tories increased by less than €1 million as of December 31, 2018. The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows: 7|N  on-Current and Current Income Write-Downs of Inventories Tax Receivables € million 2017 2018 January 1 (104) (97) The non-current income tax receivables of €14 million (previous Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 7 25 year: €20 million) essentially comprise uncertain tax positions. Additions charged as expenses (28) (41) The current income tax receivables of €55 million (previous year: Reversals/utilization 26 20 Exchange differences 2 0 €47 million) mainly include tax prepayments and receivables relating December 31 (97) (93) to disputed tax issues where reimbursement is considered probable. Prior-year figures restated The reduction due to the sale of the investment in ­ARLANXEO is essentially offset by new tax prepayments in Germany. The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the ­reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 148 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 | Trade Receivables 11 | Near-Cash Assets All trade receivables – totaling €903 million (previous year: Near-cash assets amount to €0 million. In the previous year, €1,316 million) – are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, they included securities of €50 million that could be sold at any €4 million (previous year: €3 million) pertained to investments time. accounted for using the equity method and €899 million (previous year: €1,313 million) pertained to other customers. The decline as against the previous year essentially results from the sale of 12 | Other Current Assets the investment in ARLANXEO. Necessary loss allowances of €15 million were recognized Other current assets totaling €197 million (previous year: at the end of the reporting period (previous year: write-downs of €274 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs. €17 million). The underlying gross receivables amount to €15 milThey principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds lion (previous year: €18 million). amounting to €138 million (previous year: €206 million), mainly The loss allowance for trade receivables and the maturity pertaining to sales taxes, and other reimbursement claims from structure classes for the loss allowance in fiscal year 2018 are goods and service transactions totaling €39 million (previous year: shown under “Credit risk management” in Note [36]. €52 million). The decline as against the previous year ­essentially The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as results from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO. As of follows in the previous year: ­December 31, 2018, write-downs of €1 million were included (previous year: €1 million). Write-Downs of Trade Receivables € million 2017 13 | Equity January 1 (17) Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 1 Additions charged as expenses (6) Capital stock Reversals/utilization 4 The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 Exchange differences 1 as of December 31, 2018, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par December 31 (17) bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. Prior-year figures restated One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the Authorized capital reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Authorized capital was composed as follows as of DecemThe maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as ber 31, 2018: follows in the previous year: Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018, Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables authorized the Board of Management until May 14, 2023, with Dec. 31, the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital € million 2017 stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par bearer Carrying amount 1,316 shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of which neither impaired nor past due 1,165 of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital I). Furthermore, pursuant to of which unimpaired but past due by Section 4, Paragraph 4 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, up to 30 days 128 the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, authorized between 31 and 60 days 15 between 61 and 90 days 3 the Board of Management until May 25, 2022, with the approval more than 90 days 4 of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new bearer shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital I and III are utilized. However, these rights can be excluded in certain cases which are defined in Section 4, Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the articles of association of LANXESS AG. By way of self-commitment, the Board of Management undertakes to perform capital measures with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied up to a maximum total amount of 20% of the company’s current capital stock. This LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 149 restriction applies when issuing new shares utilizing authorized bonds with warrants or conversion rights/obligations on the basis capital, utilizing treasury shares or issuing bonds with warrants or of which shares must be issued, with stockholders’ subscription conversion rights/obligations on the basis of which shares must be rights disapplied in each case. The Board of Management will issued, with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied in each be bound by this declaration until a future Annual Stockholders’ case. The Board of Management will be bound by this declaration Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Management until a future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to to implement capital measures under exclusion of stockholders’ ­authorize the Board of Management to implement capital measures subscription rights. The authorization to issue bonds has not yet under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. Authorized been utilized. Capital I and III have not yet been utilized. Share buyback and retirement Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on Conditional capital was composed as follows as of DecemMay 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until ber 31, 2018: May 19, 2021, to acquire shares in the company representing The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose May 15, 2018, authorized the Board of Management until permitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidMay 14, 2023, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to iaries of the company or by third parties on behalf of the company issue – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/or conor its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, vertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds such shares may be acquired either on the market or via a pubor a combination of these instruments (collectively referred to lic tender offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use as “bonds”) – as either registered or bearer bonds – with a total them for any purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes nominal value of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without limited specifically listed in the authorization. Treasury shares were not maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose exercise obligapurchased on the basis of this authorization in fiscal year 2018. tions on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profit-particiHowever, the Board of Management of the company resolved on pation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, and/ January 10, 2019 to exercise its share buy-back authorization or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligations and to buy treasury shares at a purchase price of up to €200 milon, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible lion (not including incidental expenses) on the stock exchange. profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect On the basis of the price level on January 9, 2019, this would of bearer shares of the company representing a total pro rata be around 4.9% of the capital stock, corresponding to around increase of up to €9,152,293 in the company’s capital stock on 4.5 million treasury shares. According to the resolution by the the terms to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Board of Management of the company, the share repurchase is Paragraph 5 of the articles of association, the capital stock of to begin no sooner than January 14, 2019 and end no later than LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased by up to €9,152,293 December 31, 2019. The shares are to be redeemed. (conditional capital). The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription Capital reserves rights in certain cases which are detailed in the authorization. The capital reserves of LANXESS AG are unchanged from The Board of Management will consider other capital measures the previous year at €1,225,652,280. with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied in its decision to disapply stockholders’ subscription rights when issuing convertOther reserves ible bonds or bonds with warrants, profit participation rights or The €10 million increase in other reserves to €1,391 million is income bonds (or combinations of these instruments). By way of attributable to the increase in retained earnings from €1,222 milself-commitment, the Board of Management undertakes to perform lion to €1,232 million. capital measures with stockholders’ subscription rights disapplied Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income up to a maximum total amount of 20% of the company’s current of companies included in the consolidated financial statements. capital stock. This restriction applies when issuing new shares They also contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liabilutilizing authorized capital, utilizing treasury shares or issuing ity from post-employment benefit plans and the related tax effects. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 150 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other equity components Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurThe other equity components mainly comprise exchange ance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance differences from the translation of operations outside the euro Supervision Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities zone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash are not confined to payment of the contributions for the respective flow hedge accounting. fiscal year, Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit multi-employer plan and therefore would generally have to be Capital management accounted for pro rata as a defined benefit plan. The main purpose of capital management in the LANXESS Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverGroup is to maintain the long-term viability of the business opage for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equiverations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared alence principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means with the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy that the sum of existing plan assets and the present value of future defines an additional condition for capital management, which is contributions must be at least equal to the present value of the to maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the future benefits payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is Group has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most therefore exposed to the actuarial risks of the other entities parof these are derived from the statement of financial position, the ticipating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. Thus no consistent or reliable income statement or the statement of cash flows. Details can be basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, plan assets and found in the section headed “Value management and control costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensions­ system” in the combined management report for fiscal year 2018. kasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. As Capital management in the LANXESS Group entails decisions contributions are based on future coverage of the total obligation, by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure shown all participating entities pay contributions at the same rates based on the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of the on the employee income levels on which social security contribucompany’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, the amount tions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted for of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and thus on as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan. issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association of There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. information that could be used to estimate the future contributions on the basis of current under-or overfunding. The statutes do not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event 14 | P rovisions for Pensions and Other that Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to Post-Employment Benefits participate. LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensions­ Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirekasse is 15% (previous year: 16%). Bayer-Pensionskasse has been ment benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory closed to new members since January 1, 2005. regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans The global post-employment benefit obligations are calculated Defined contribution plans at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an independent In the case of defined contribution plans, the company pays actuary using the projected unit credit method. Comprehensive contributions into separate pension funds. These contributions are actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for all major included in the functional cost items as expenses for the respecpost-employment benefit plans. tive year, and thus in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment obligations. Payments to defined contribution plans in fiscal year 2018 totaled €47 million (previous year: €45 million). Multi-employer plans The pension plan in Germany financed through Bayer-Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated financial statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts include contributions of €23 million (previous year: €26 million) to Bayer-Pensionskasse. Contributions of about the same amount are expected for fiscal year 2019. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 151 Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate primarily in Germany, the U.S. and Great Britain (previous year: to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and Germany, the U.S., Great Britain, Canada and Brazil). South America. The other post-employment benefit obligations The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly in Germany comprise other long-term benefits payable to emrelate to lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disabilployees and benefits payable upon termination of employment. ity or when the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are These are mainly early-retirement benefits and collectively agreed determined on the basis of the total annual pension increments salary components granted in the form of pension benefits. They earned during the period of employment and vary according to are included in pension provisions as they are by nature pension employees’ individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements entitlements. exist that are related to salary components set aside by employees Financing of the defined benefit pension obligations is and are payable when they reach retirement age. Alongside direct achieved both internally through provisions and externally through commitments, the pension adjustment obligation assumed by legally independent pension funds. The pension obligations in Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted for in a separate defined benefit Germany are partly covered on a voluntary basis via LANXESS plan in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. The allocation of funds Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG). A new pension plan was to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. is dependent on future decisions agreed for employees joining from fiscal year 2017 in the form by the company. In the U.S. and Great Britain (previous year: the of a congruently defined benefit scheme which is funded on the U.S., Great Britain, Canada and Brazil), it is mandatory to primarily basis of life insurance policies. The employer’s obligation is fulfilled finance pension obligations through pension funds. Allocations by the payment of the contribution to the covering life insurance to pension funds in the U.S. and Great Britain (previous year: the policies. The covering life insurance policies are carried as plan U.S., Great Britain, Canada and Brazil) are determined by the assets via a CTA. regulatory environments and the need to comply with funding In the U.S. and Great Britain (previous year: the U.S., Great regulations. Contributions are paid mainly by the employer. The Britain and Canada), the defined benefit obligations comprise, in investment strategy is determined principally by the LANXESS particular, lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event Corporate ­Pension Committee and is designed to protect the of disability or death or when the employee reaches retirement ­capital, optimally manage risks, take into account changes in penage. The level of these benefits is determined from the total annual sion obligations and ensure the timely availability of pension assets. pension increments earned during the period of employment, At the regional level, the strategy is generally directly coordinated depending on the employee’s individual salary and the actual and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via the relevant date of retirement. The existing defined benefit pension plans are committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension Trust closed to new members. In some of the closed pension plans, no e.V., taking ­regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the new pension entitlements are accrued and the employees are investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension transferred to a defined contribution plan. fund’s overall investment strategy and is basically managed and In Brazil, the previous year’s key defined benefit obligations supervised by the pension fund. On the basis of local regulacomprise lifelong benefits, principally in the event of death or distions, the pension assets in Great Britain are managed by external ability or when the employee reaches retirement age. The benefits ­trustees in close coordination with LANXESS. are calculated according to the total annual pension increments Minimum funding requirements for the previous year may earned during the period of employment and also depend on have to be met for defined benefit obligations in both Brazil and individual salary, the number of years for which statutory social Canada. These depend on the local regulatory framework and insurance contributions have been paid, and comparable statutory are reflected in additional pension provisions. Funding surpluses pension benefits. The principal defined benefit pension plans are from defined benefit plans are recognized as receivables relating closed to new members. to pension obligations to the extent that they can be used to reOnly limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the duce future contributions, taking into account the asset ceiling. basis of statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligaDefined benefit pension plans with asset ceilings exist primarily in tions to make a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. the U.S. and Great Britain. The respective calculations are based The amount of this payment mainly depends on years of service on actuarial valuations. and final salary. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 152 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the reporting year, total expenses of €69 million (previous The table shows the amounts recognized in other compreyear: €69 million) for defined benefit plans were recognized in hensive income rather than profit or loss in the reporting year: profit or loss and are split between the operating result and the financial result as follows: Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Pension plans Other Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans post-­employment Pension plans Other benefit plans post-­employment € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 benefit plans Return on plan assets excluding € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 amounts included in interest 23 (56) 2 (2) Operating result Actuarial gains/losses from Current service cost 36 38 6 2 ­changes in demographic assumptions 2 (2) 1 0 Past service cost 1 2 – – Actuarial gains/losses Gains/losses from settlements – – – – from changes in financial Administration expenses/taxes 2 2 0 0 ­assumptions (37) 29 (4) 5 Actuarial gains/losses Actuarial gains/losses from from changes in financial ­experience adjustments (19) 2 0 2 ­assumptions – – 0 0 Changes in effects of the Financial result asset ceiling (3) (1) (2) 1 Net interest 21 21 3 4 Changes in effects of minimum Amounts recognized in funding requirements (11) – – – profit or loss 60 63 9 6 Amounts recognized in other comprehensive Prior-year figures restated income (45) (28) (3) 6 Administration expenses in the operating result contain expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-­ ­attributable to the earning of income on plan assets. The costs employment benefit plans is shown in the following table: of managing the plan assets that are directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets are recognized in other comChanges in Net Defined Benefit Liability prehensive income. Pension plans Other The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current post-­employment employee benefits or termination benefits that are included in benefit plans pension provisions because they are by nature retirement benefits. € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from Net defined benefit liability, January 1 1,129 1,256 120 177 compounding the defined benefit obligation, the interest expense Adjustments in accordance from changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum with IFRS 5 14 (208) 3 (39) funding requirements, and interest income from plan assets. Amounts recognized in profit or loss 60 63 9 6 Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income 45 28 3 (6) Employer contributions (25) (216) 0 (1) Benefits paid (32) (35) (23) (20) Business combinations 76 – 78 – Other addition 1 0 – – Exchange differences (12) 2 (13) 1 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 1,256 890 177 118 Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position Receivables from pension obligations (57) (75) – – Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 1,313 965 177 118 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 1,256 890 177 118 Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 153 The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. ­ ccounts for 71% (previous year: 50%), Great Britain for 12% a The expected cash outflows for employer contributions and (previous year: 10%), the U.S. for 11% (previous year: 8%), Canada benefit payments in fiscal year 2019 are €16 million and €56 milfor 1% (previous year: 16%) and Brazil for 1% (previous year: 11%). lion, respectively, based on year-end 2018 exchange rates. In the The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise previous year, the expected cash outflows for employer contribu€98 million (previous year: €142 million) for the reimbursement tions and benefit payments in fiscal year 2018 were €26 million of health care costs and €37 million (previous year: €50 million) and €62 million, respectively, based on exchange rates at year for miscellaneous other benefit commitments. end 2017. Actuarial gains and losses of €13 million from changes in The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized demographic assumptions in the reporting year essentially arose liability are explained in the following tables, which show the dein Germany as a result of the application of the newly published velopment of the defined benefit obligation, the external plan and adopted Heubeck 2018 G mortality tables. This was offset assets and the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding by the reduction in defined benefit obligations due to the applirequirements and explain the major changes. cation of the newly published and adopted CMI 2017 mortality The defined benefit obligation developed as follows: improvement tables in Great Britain, which assume lower future mortality improvement than in 2017. Furthermore, actuarial losses Changes in Defined Benefit Obligation arose from changes in the estimated conversion factors for the Pension plans Other Great Lakes Plan. post-­employment In the previous year, actuarial gains and losses from changes benefit plans in demographic assumptions in the reporting year mainly resulted € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 mainly in the U.S. due to the application of the newly published and Defined benefit obligation adopted MP2017 mortality improvement tables, which assume Defined benefit obligation, lower future mortality improvement than in 2016. More up-to-date January 1 2,422 3,104 127 192 Adjustments in accordance mortality tables were also used in Switzerland. with IFRS 5 66 (941) 3 (39) Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to ­changes Current service cost 36 38 6 2 in actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in financial Interest expense 44 49 4 5 ­assumptions are mainly attributable to changes in the discount rates Actuarial gains/losses from changes in demographic for defined benefit obligations in the main countries of ­relevance assumptions (2) 2 (1) 0 for LANXESS. Actuarial gains/losses from In the reporting year, the past service cost for pension obligachanges in financial assumptions 37 (29) 4 (5) tions essentially relates to effects in Great Britain arising from the Actuarial gains/losses from Barber judgment on minimum pension benefits guaranteed by law. experience adjustments 19 (2) 0 (2) In the previous year, the past service cost for pension obligations Past service cost 1 2 – 0 included early retirement agreements, improvements to existing Employee contributions 2 0 0 0 Benefits paid (116) (67) (24) (21) benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement and Business combinations 724 – 87 – severance agreements. Other additions 1 0 – – The effects shown under business combinations in the preAdministration expenses/taxes 0 0 0 0 vious year result from the acquisition of the U.S. chemical group Exchange differences (130) 6 (14) 3 Chemtura on April 21, 2017, and include benefit obligations for Defined benefit obligation, December 31 3,104 2,162 192 135 employees in Germany, Canada, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Great Britain, the U.S., Switzerland and the Republic of Korea. Prior-year figures restated The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obligaThe adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the tions mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates judgment reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. for the U.S. dollar and the British pound (previous year: the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 154 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The change in external plan assets is shown in the following Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum fundtable: ing requirements are shown in the following table: Changes in External Plan Assets Changes in Effects of Asset Ceilings and Minimum Funding Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans  Pension plans Other post-­employment Effects of the Minimum funding benefit plans asset ceiling requirements € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Plan assets at fair value January 1 0 19 11 21 Plan assets, January 1 1,304 1,874 7 29 Adjustments in accordance Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 – – – (21) with IFRS 5 52 (754) – – Additions from Interest income 23 28 1 1 business combinations 16 – – – Return on plan assets excluding Interest expense 0 0 0 – amounts included in interest 23 (56) 2 (2) Additions (deductions) 5 – 11 – Employer contributions 25 216 0 1 Exchange differences (2) 0 (1) – Employee contributions 2 0 0 0 December 31 19 19 21 0 Benefits paid (84) (32) (1) (1) Business combinations 650 – 23 – Costs of managing plan The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the assets/taxes (2) (2) 0 0 Exchange differences (119) 4 (3) 2 reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Plan assets, December 31 1,874 1,278 29 30 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the British defined benefit pension plans and the North American Prior-year figures restated defined benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits. The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the As of December 31, 2018, asset ceilings amounted to €6 million reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. (previous year: €5 million) for defined benefit pension plans and Of plan assets, Germany accounts for 51% (previous year: €13 million (previous year: €14 million) for other post-employ24%), Great Britain for 27% (previous year: 20%), the U.S. for ment benefits. 16% (previous year: 11%), Canada for 2% (previous year: 25%) In the previous year, changes in minimum funding requireand Brazil for 1% (previous year: 15%). ments resulted from Canadian defined benefit pension plans. Employer contributions are used both for external funding The fair value of plan assets comprises: of pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursements of pension payments and for external funding of pension Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 obligations where subsequent pension payments will be made € million 2017 2018 directly out of external plan assets. Cash and cash equivalents 10 224 The latter type of obligations totaled €16 million (previous of which quoted in an active market 10 224 year: €25 million). External funding where LANXESS can assert Equity instruments 376 138 reimbursement claims mainly pertains to LANXESS Pension Trust of which quoted in an active market 372 138 Government bonds 750 391 e.V. Additional funding of €200 million was provided to LANXESS of which quoted in an active market 750 391 Pension Trust e.V. in the reporting year. No payments were made Corporate bonds 536 446 in the previous year. of which quoted in an active market 514 446 The effects shown under business combinations in the preInvestment funds 69 30 vious year result from the acquisition of the U.S. chemical group of which quoted in an active market 30 21 Real estate 33 5 Chemtura on April 21, 2017, and include benefit obligations for of which quoted in an active market 12 5 employees in Germany, Canada, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Great Britain, Insurance contracts 81 56 the U.S., Switzerland and the Republic of Korea. of which quoted in an active market 6 – The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly Other 48 18 resulted from changes in the exchange rates judgment for the of which quoted in an active market 48 18 1,903 1,308 U.S. dollar and the British pound (previous year: the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 155 The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in company. Financial instruments owned by the company account the following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation: for approximately 3% (previous year: 2%) of the plan assets. Index products could conceivably include LANXESS securities. Sensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31 The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate Pension plans Other the defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense: post-­employment benefit plans Discount Rates as of December 31 % 2017 2018 2017 2018 Pension plans Other Discount rate post-­employment +0.5%-pt. (7.6 ) (8.1) (4.1) (3.7) benefit plans – 0.5%-pt. 8.7 9.2 4.5 4.0 % 2017 2018 2017 2018 Expected salary increases +0.25%-pt. 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.3 Discount rate 3.15 2.41 3.22 3.88 – 0.25%-pt. (0.3) (0.4) (0.2) (0.2) Germany 2.00 2.00 0.22 0.36 Expected benefit increases Canada 3.00 3.50 3.25 3.50 +0.25%-pt. 3.6 4.3 – – Brazil 9.50 9.25 9.50 9.25 – 0.25%-pt. (3.4 ) (4.0) – – U.S. 3.75 4.25 3.50 4.25 Mortality Great Britain 2.50 2.75 – – – 10% 2.1 2.9 0.6 1.8 Expected increases in medical costs The following weighted measurement assumptions were +1%-pt. – – 4.4 3.8 – 1%-pt. – – (4.0) (3.4) used for the other parameters: Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the Pension plans Other countries with significant pension obligations. A reduction in morpost-­employment tality increases the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10% benefit plans reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees % 2017 2018 2017 2018 of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS Expected salary increases 2.6 2.3 2.9 2.6 by about one year. Expected benefit increases 1.8 1.7 – – Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leavExpected increases in medical costs – – 6.1 7.0 ing all the others unchanged. The method used is the same as for Expected long-term the actuarial valuation of benefit obligations. However, ­sensitivity increases in medical costs – – 4.7 5.2 calculations depend on interest rate effects and the absolute change in the parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined only one parameter would change, so the change in a parameter benefit obligation at year end. The discount rates used for ­Germany, could correlate with other assumptions. Where the expected the U.S., Great Britain and Canada are derived from high-quality development of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation fixed-interest corporate bonds with the same maturities. In Brazil, was based on a different variation in the parameter, the stated however, there is no liquid market for such bonds so the discount change in the benefit obligation was approximated using the rate is based on those for government bonds with the same mastraight-line method. turities. This method of deriving the discount rates is unchanged The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension from the previous year in the principal countries. obligations was 18 years (previous year: 17 years). This figure The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to was based on weighted average durations of 19 years (previous take place within 9 years (previous year: 10 years). year: 20 years) for Germany, 10 years (previous year: 13 years) The Heubeck mortality tables 2018 G (previous year: Heufor Canada, 9 years (previous year: 10 years) for Brazil, 9 years beck mortality tables 2005 G) form the biometric basis for the (previous year: 10 years) for the U.S. and 18 years (previous year: computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national 20 years) for Great Britain. The weighted average duration of the biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations defined benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits at other Group companies. was 9 years (previous year: 10 years). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 156 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The funded status is reported in the following table as the underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after deduction of plan assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements: Funded Status as of December 31 Pension plans Other post-­employment benefit plans € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Funded status Defined benefit obligation for funded plans 2,510 1,628 19 22 External plan assets (1,874) (1,278) (29) (30) Underfunding of funded plans 636 350 (10) (8) Defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans 594 534 173 113 Funded status, December 31 1,230 884 163 105 15 | Other Non-Current and Current ­Provisions As of December 31, 2018, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €465 million (previous year: €525 million) and other non-current provisions of €337 million (previous year: €460 million). The maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following table: Other Provisions Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 € million Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 264 76 41 381 188 29 34 251 Environmental protection 32 64 131 227 31 49 118 198 Trade-related commitments 80 6 – 86 86 1 0 87 Restructuring 37 36 7 80 23 24 5 52 Miscellaneous 112 40 59 211 137 24 53 214 525 222 238 985 465 127 210 802 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 157 The total of other provisions decreased from €985 million to €802 million in the reporting year. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2018 Jan. 1, AdjustAcqui­­Additions Interest Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, 2018 ments in si­tions effect differences 2018 accordance with € million IFRS 5 Personnel 381 (80) 0 167 0 (212) (3) (2) 251 Environmental protection 227 (18) 0 6 4 (12) (7) (2) 198 Trade-related commitments 86 (15) 1 76 – (53) (8) 0 87 Restructuring 80 (2) – 1 0 (17) (10) 0 52 Miscellaneous 211 (19) – 78 1 (35) (24) 2 214 985 (134) 1 328 5 (329) (52) (2) 802 Personnel-related provisions LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. If LANXESS Personnel-related provisions include particularly provisions stock outperforms the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right established for annual performance-related compensation and is made. For each percentage point by which the stock outpermulti-year compensation programs. forms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. Multi-year compensation programs LTSP 2018-2021 was introduced in fiscal year 2018. The tranche has a total term of four years and exclusively comprises Stock-based compensation the vesting period. The issue date for the rights granted and still LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program outstanding is January 1 of each year. For each year during the to members of the Management Board and top-level managers. term of the LTSP plan, the basic price of the company’s stock is The program provides for cash settlement. The two present Longcalculated from the average closing prices for the stock in Xetra Term Stock Performance Plans (LTSP) were introduced in fiscal trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. To calculate the average, years 2010 and 2014. Under the LTSP 2010–2013 program for each tranche year the closing prices of the last ten trading days introduced in fiscal year 2010, rights were granted for the years in the calendar month of December of the previous year and the 2010–2013. Awards are based on the performance of LANXESS closing prices for the first ten trading days of the calendar month of stock relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. January of the current tranche year are calculated. The value of a The LTSP 2014–2017 program introduced in fiscal year 2014 stock performance right is dependent on the average performance is largely identical to the LTSP 2010–2013. The main difference of LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index is that awards are based on the performance of LANXESS stock during the vesting period. The performance relative to the index relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index. The total term of all is calculated individually for each of the four years of the vesting tranches in both programs is generally seven years. In fiscal year period. The values for the four fiscal years falling in the respective 2016, the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of tranche are then added together and averaged. Rights are exerthe LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program were extended by cised automatically at the end of the vesting period. If the stock two years each, so the full term of these two tranches is now nine outperforms the index by 85 percentage points, at least €0.50 is years. The base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the paid out. An additional €0.03 is paid out for each percent up to a LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted average performance of 100 percentage points. If the stock outperforms of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January of the index by between 100 and 115 percentage points, a further the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights €0.06 will be paid per percentage point, resulting in a maximum granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding possible payment of €2.00. tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS Annual Report 2018 158 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are The relevant risk-free interest rate in the reporting year was valued on the basis of the following principal parameters: minus 0.44% (previous year: minus 0.34%). The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility Principal Parameters as of December 31 of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM % 2017 2018 Index or the MSCI World Chemicals Index in the past four years. Expected share price volatility 27.0 27.0 The following table provides information on the tranches Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 outstanding: Expected volatility of Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 18.0 18.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 67.0 72.0 Expected volatility of MSCI World Chemicals Index 13.0 13.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and MSCI World Chemicals Index 60.0 63.0 Long Term Stock Performance Plan LTSP LTSP 2010 – 2013 LTSP 2014 – 2017 2018 – 2021 Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche Tranche 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Duration 7 years 9 years 9 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 4 years Vesting period 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Lock-up period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2018 Jan. 31, 2019 Jan. 31, 2020 Jan. 31, 2021 Dec. 31, 2021 Initial L ­ ANXESS share price €55.60 €44.54 €63.25 €47.41 €35.04 €38.39 €64.84 €66.91 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM price 564.17 points 533.45 points 665.98 points – – – – – Initial MSCI World Chemicals Index price – – – 238.07 points 254.06 points 233.45 points 276.04 points 337.09 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2017 €0.00 €0.35 €0.21 €1.49 €1.89 €1.48 €0.67 €0.00 Fair value per right as of December 31, 2018 €0.00 €0.03 €0.02 €0.00 €1.62 €0.86 €0.22 €0.73 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2018 5,493,711 7,914,725 8,718,804 8,921,208 9,706,090 10,837,575 11,468,139 – Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 424,333 526,407 692,854 850,285 928,401 993,181 1,054,943 – Rights granted – – – – – – – 11,693,381 Rights exercised – – – 8,051,632 – – – – Rights compensated – 163,984 160,576 0 181,479 114,582 62,692 113,952 Rights forfeited 5,069,378 29,587 49,566 19,291 46,743 77,818 91,509 43,294 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2018 0 7,194,747 7,815,808 0 8,549,467 9,651,994 10,258,995 11,536,135 LANXESS shares were trading at €40.20 at year end 2018. The Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood at 801.04 points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was 278.72 points. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 159 Due to the performance of the LANXESS share relative to re-cultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection the benchmark and to the granting, settlement and forfeiture of measures. The provisions for environmental remediation costs rights, net expense in fiscal year 2018 was €4 million (previous are stated at the present value of the expected commitments year: €11 million). A provision of €23 million existed as of Decemwhere environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable, ber 31, 2018 (previous year: €40 million). In the current fiscal the costs can be reasonably estimated and no future economic year, as in the prior year, the rights exercisable as of the closing benefit is expected to arise from these measures. Costs are estidate had no intrinsic value. mated based on significant factors such as previous experience in ­similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels and Environmental provisions new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current The LANXESS Group’s activities are subject to extensive ­environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potenlegal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. tially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of remove or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical the liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. substances at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental or previous site owner or plant operator may be held liable for the protection and remediation because of many uncertainties concosts of removing hazardous substances from the soil or groundcerning the legal requirements and the information available about water on its property or neighboring areas, or rendering them conditions in the various countries and at specific sites. Subject to harmless, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of these factors, but taking into consideration experience gained to or caused the presence of the contaminants, and often regardless date with matters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were be adequate based upon currently available information. However, legal at the time they occurred. As many of LANXESS’s production the possibility that additional costs could be incurred beyond the sites have a long history of industrial use, it is not always possible amounts accrued cannot be excluded. LANXESS nevertheless to accurately predict the effects such situations may have on the estimates that such additional costs, should they occur, would not LANXESS Group in the future. materially impact the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore cannot be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination Provisions for trade-related commitments may have occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard The provisions essentially relate to energy and waste disposal could be brought by government agencies, private organizations or services not yet invoiced and outstanding invoices for performance individuals. Such claims would then relate to the remediation of sites completed to date. They also comprise provisions for impending or areas of land owned by the LANXESS Group where products losses and onerous contracts. were manufactured by third parties under contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from production ­facilities ­operated by Provisions for restructuring the LANXESS Group was treated, stored or disposed of. Provisions for restructuring totaled €52 million (previous Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under year: €80 million) on December 31, 2018, comprising €12 millegislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly known lion (previous year: €23 million) for human resources measures, as “Superfund”. At locations in the U.S., numerous companies, €19 million (previous year: €23 million) for environmental proincluding LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. authorities tection measures and €21 million (previous year: €34 million) or private individuals consider such companies to be potentially for demolitions necessary for fulfilling environmental obligations responsible parties under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, and other expenses. LANXESS may be the sole responsible party. Remediation measures have already been initiated at most of the sites concerned. Miscellaneous provisions The existing provisions for environmental remediation The miscellaneous provisions principally comprise provisions costs relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, for onerous contracts and for other obligations. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 160 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 | Other Non-Current and Current ­Financial Liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of ­other financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2017 Current Non-current € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 > 2022 Total Bonds 500 – – 497 596 1,081 2,174 Liabilities to banks 89 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 9 8 7 6 6 25 52 Other primary financial liabilities 35 0 0 0 0 16 16 633 8 7 503 602 1,122 2,242 Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 Current Non-current € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 > 2023 Total Bonds – – 497 597 – 1,575 2,669 Liabilities to banks 29 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 5 3 3 2 2 2 12 Other primary financial liabilities 25 0 0 0 0 5 5 59 3 500 599 2 1,582 2,686 In the LANXESS Group, the following bonds were outstanding respective lessors in future years. The decline in liabilities under on December 31, 2018: finance leases essentially results from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO. Bonds Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity of €25 million (previous year: €35 million) on financial liabilities. amount amount rate €25 million of this (previous year: €23 million) relates to the bonds. € million € million % Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the April 2012 100 100 3.500 April 2022 contractually agreed payments, especially interest payments, is April 2012 100 99 3.950 April 2027 November November given in Note [36]. 2012 500 497 2.625 2022 October October 2016 500 497 0.250 2021 October October 17 | Non-Current and Current Income Tax 2016 500 494 1.000 2026 Liabilities December December 2016 500 490 4.500 2076 The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised: May 2018 500 492 1.125 May 2025 Income Tax Liabilities The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s Dec. 31, 2017 financial liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at € million Non-current Current Total year end was 2.0% (previous year: 2.7%). Provisions 134 51 185 Liabilities under finance leases are recognized if the leased Payables – 10 10 assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the 134 61 195 economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments Prior-year figures restated totaling €21 million (previous year: €79 million), including €4 million (previous year: €18 million) in interest, are to be made to the LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Statement of ­F inancial Position 161 Income Tax Liabilities Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance Dec. 31, 2018 contributions that had not been paid by the closing date. The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for € million Non-current Current Total Provisions 117 41 158 outstanding invoices relating to the reporting period. The liabilities Payables – 3 3 to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, were less 117 44 161 than €1 million as of December 31, 2018, as in the previous year. Contract Liabilities The reduction in income tax provisions essentially results € million 2018 from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO. January 1 40 In connection with the purchase price allocation for the Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 (10) ­acquisition of the U.S. group Chemtura, non-current income tax Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues of the reporting period 9 receivables were increased by €15 million as of December 31, 2017, Cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenues on the basis of new information. of previous reporting periods (4) Additions 32 Revenue recognized that was included 18 | O  ther Non-Current and Current in the beginning balance (28) Exchange differences 0 Liabilities December 31 39 At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised: The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the Other Non-Current Liabilities reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Dec. 31, The additions mainly relate to advance payments from cusDec. 31, € million 2017 2018 tomers for outstanding performance obligations. The revenue Asset subsidies granted by third parties 68 42 recognized from the opening balance mainly relates to prior-year Contract liabilities – 14 payments from customers and the recognition of the values for the Social security liabilities 4 3 quantities delivered in the reporting period from the business model Miscellaneous liabilities 27 21 of manufacturing products on the basis of long-term supply agree99 80 ments with a contractually defined minimum purchase requirement, which are included in the opening balance. The asset subsidies granted by third parties include government grants that are contingent upon the maintenance of employment or the use of assets for the company’s own production 19 | Trade Payables purposes over defined periods of time. Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the Other Current Liabilities previous year, the entire amount totaling €795 million (previous year: €1,048 million) is due within one year. Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Trade payables of €117 million (previous year: €108 mil€ million 2017 2018 Other tax liabilities 70 45 lion) relate to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, Contract liabilities – 25 which is accounted for using the equity method, and its affiliated Payroll liabilities 24 14 companies, while trade payables of €678 million (previous year: Social security liabilities 23 12 €940 million) relate to other suppliers. The year-on-year decline Miscellaneous liabilities 62 35 mainly results from the sale of the investment in ARLANXEO. 179 131 Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax 20 | F  urther Information on Liabilities liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf of third parties. €1,587 million of total liabilities (previous year: €1,132 million) Contract liabilities are recognized in accordance with IFRS 15 have maturities of more than five years. for advance consideration received for which performance has not yet been rendered. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 162 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 22 | Cost of Sales Cost of Sales 21 | Sales € million 2017 2018 Sales, which amounted to €7,197 million (previous year: Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 2,756 3,139 €6,530 million), mainly comprise sales of internally generated Direct manufacturing chemical products less discounts and rebates. The services relate and other production costs 2,040 2,224 to salesand product-related services, tolling agreements and 4,796 5,363 other long-term services. A breakdown of sales and the change in Prior-year figures restated sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [38]). The manufacturing costs include, among other costs, those for personnel, depreciation, amortization, write-downs, energy, and Type of Revenues goods and services procured. The other production costs mainly € million 2018 comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies. Sales of goods 7,129 Services 68 7,197 23 | Selling Expenses Selling Expenses Revenue Recognition € million 2017 2018 € million 2018 Marketing costs 473 504 Point in time 6,890 Outward freight charges Over time 307 and other selling expenses 288 322 7,197 761 826 Prior-year figures restated The sales recognized over time relate to the business ­model of manufacturing customer-specific products on the basis of longThe selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal term sales contracts with contractually defined minimum purchase and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges, requirements of €239 million and to services rendered over time warehousing, packaging and the provision of advice to customers. of €68 million. Under the business models of manufacturing products or customer-specific products on the basis of long-term sales contracts 24 | Research and Development Expenses with contractually defined minimum purchase requirements, there were unfulfilled performance obligations totaling €1,907 million The research and development expenses of €118 million as of December 31, 2018. The associated sales are expected to (previous year: €103 million) mainly include the costs incurred be as follows: to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternative products and production processes, Maturity Structure of Revenues and costs for applying the results of research. € million 2018 Up to 1 year 618 1 to 2 years 360 25 | General Administration Expenses 2 to 3 years 260 3 to 4 years 185 The general administration expenses, amounting to €307 mil4 to 5 years 101 lion (previous year: €326 million), comprise costs not directly More than 5 years 383 1,907 related to operational business processes and the costs for the country organizations. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Income Statement 163 26 | Other Operating Income unit’s Jinshan site in China (Performance Chemicals segment), the Additives business unit’s Reynosa site in Mexico (Specialty Additives segment) and the Leather business unit’s Zárate site in Other Operating Income Argentina (Performance Chemicals segment). There were also € million 2017 2018 exceptional items of €60 million for digitalization, costs for mergers Income from non-core business 82 58 and acquisitions, and other measures. Exceptional items 8 16 In the previous year, the exceptional items primarily ­included Income from the reversal of provisions 18 9 Gains from the disposal of costs of restructuring measures of €121 million to optimize the non-current assets 3 1 production network. This especially affected the Ankerweg site in Income from reversals of write-downs Amsterdam, Netherlands, of the Additives business unit (Specialty of ­receivables and other assets 3 – Additives segment) and the Zárate site in Argentina of the Leather Miscellaneous operating income 50 38 164 122 business unit (Performance Chemicals segment). There were also exceptional items of €108 million for the strategic alignment. This Prior-year figures restated included exceptional items in connection with the purchase price As in the previous year, the exceptional items primarily contain allocation and integration of U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. income from the reversal of provisions, particularly for restructurThere were also exceptional items of €38 million for digitalization, ing, established as exceptional items in previous years. Based on costs for mergers and acquisitions, and other measures. economic relevance, they comprise €13 million (previous year: Of the exceptional items of €107 million (previous year: €3 million) allocated to the cost of sales and €3 million (previous €267 million), €27 million (previous year: €217 million) was year: €0 million) allocated to general administration expenses. In ­allocable to the cost of sales in line with its economic relevance, the previous year, exceptional items also included income from while €1 million (previous year: €6 million) was allocable to selling the sale of the U.S. subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc., North expenses, €0 million (previous year: €5 million) to research and Kingstown, U.S., of €5 million. This income was allocated to other development expenses and €79 million (previous year: €39 miloperating income based on economic substance. lion) to general administration expenses. 27 | Other Operating Expenses 28 | Financial Result The financial result is comprised as follows: Other Operating Expenses € million 2017 2018 Financial Result Exceptional items 267 107 Expenses for non-core business 73 58 € million 2017 2018 Expenses for hedging with Income from investments accounted derivative financial instruments 8 3 ­ sing the equity method for u 0 0 Write-downs/loss allowance on trade Interest income 9 6 receivables and other current assets 6 2 Interest expense (89) (75) Losses from the disposal Net interest expense (80) (69) of non-current assets 4 0 Interest expense from compounding Miscellaneous operating expenses 51 31 interest-bearing provisions (29) (31) 409 201 Net exchange loss (16) (19) Miscellaneous financial expense and income 1 (1) Prior-year figures restated Dividends and income from other affiliated companies 44 6 Exceptional items in fiscal year 2018 essentially include costs Other financial income and expense 0 (45) of €30 million for the strategic alignment, in turn including excepFinancial result (80) (114) tional items in connection with the integration of the U.S. chemical Prior-year figures restated group Chemtura. Furthermore, there were exceptional items for restructuring measures of €17 million to optimize the production network. This especially affected the Inorganic Pigments business LANXESS Annual Report 2018 164 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest expense includes in particular payments of bond The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax interest adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of €3 million result is as follows: (previous year: €2 million). The interest portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting to €2 million (previous Reconciliation to Actual Tax Result year: €1 million), is included in interest expense. Other financial € million 2017 2018 expenses and income includes an expense of €1 million from Income before income taxes 219 390 loss allowances for financial assets. This item also includes the Aggregated income tax rate monetary gain of €2 million from restating the price level in the of L ­ ANXESS AG 32.3% 32.3% Expected tax result (71) (126) context of financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies. The Tax difference due to differences between reduction in dividends and other income from affiliated companies local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 1 22 primarily resulted from the lower profit transfer from Currenta Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. and reduction of tax bases 4 1 Increase in taxes due to non-tax-deductible expenses (28) (8) unrecognized deferred taxes on tax 29 | Income Taxes losses and temporary differences (14) (48) Other tax effects (51) 41 Actual tax result (159) (118) This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in Effective tax rate 72.6% 30.3% the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the basis of local tax rates. Prior-year figures restated The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: The other tax effects of €41 million (previous year: Income Taxes by Origin m ­ inus €51 million) essentially result from the reversal of impair€ million 2017 2018 ment on deferred taxes. In the previous year this essentially inCurrent taxes (211) (82) cluded the effects of the U.S. tax reform, especially the one-off Deferred taxes resulting from taxation of retained earnings of foreign investments held by our temporary differences 43 (29) U.S. companies. statutory changes in tax rates (1) (2) The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the loss carryforwards 10 (5) various items of the statement of financial position as follows: Income taxes (159) (118) Prior-year figures restated Deferred Taxes Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 The actual tax expense for fiscal year 2018 was €118 million Deferred Deferred (previous year: €159 million). This was €8 million (previous year: Deferred tax Deferred tax €88 million) less than the expected tax expense of €126 million € million tax assets ­liabilities tax assets ­liabilities (previous year: €71 million). Intangible assets 25 201 7 172 Property, plant and equipment 24 183 4 152 In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS Inventories 29 3 23 11 Group, the aggregated income tax rate of 32.3% (previous year: Receivables and other assets 34 25 55 44 32.3%) for the German tax entity was applied. This comprises a Pension provisions 335 – 279 – corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a solidarity surcharge (5.5% Other provisions 136 5 77 1 of corporation tax) and trade tax. Liabilities 23 19 23 17 Loss carryforwards 159 – 127 – 765 436 595 397 of which non-current 543 384 417 337 Set-off (323) (323) (308) (308) 442 113 287 89 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Income Statement 165 The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: 30 | Earnings and Dividend per Share Changes in Deferred Taxes Earnings per share for fiscal year 2018 amount to €4.71, € million 2017 2018 consisting of €3.03 from continuing operations and €1.68 from Deferred taxes, January 1 359 329 discontinued operations. These values were calculated based Adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 14 (107) on the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the Tax income/expense recognized in reporting period. As of December 31, 2018, 91,522,936 shares the income statement 52 (36) were outstanding. Since there are currently no equity instruments Changes in scope of consolidation (86) – in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic and diluted Deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income (1) 21 earnings per share are identical. Further information on equity Exchange differences (9) (9) instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future is Deferred taxes, December 31 329 198 contained in Note [13]. Prior-year figures restated Earnings per Share The adjustments in accordance with IFRS 5 result from the 2017 2018 Change % reporting of ARLANXEO as a discontinued operation. Net income (€ million) 87 431 > 100 The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income from continuing operations 60 277 > 100 comprised €11 million (previous year: €11 million) relating to remeafrom discontinued operations 27 154 > 100 surements of the net defined benefit liability for post-­employment Number of shares o ­ utstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 – benefit plans and €10 million (previous year: minus €12 million) Earnings per share in € relating to financial instruments. In addition, other comprehensive (­undiluted/diluted) 0.95 4.71 > 100 income contains current taxes of less than €1 million (previous year: from continuing operations 0.66 3.03 > 100 €2 million). In the previous year, the changes in the scope of confrom discontinued operations 0.29 1.68 > 100 solidation resulted from the acquisition of the U.S. group Chemtura. Prior-year figures restated Deferred tax assets of €30 million (previous year: €104 million), which exceed the reversal of taxable temporary differences, LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €127 million relate to tax jurisdictions in which losses were incurred in fiscal for fiscal year 2018 (previous year: €116 million). The ­dividend year 2018 or the previous year. LANXESS assumes that it will payment made to stockholders of LANXESS AG during the generate sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the dereporting year amounted to €0.80 per share (previous year: ferred tax assets. €0.70 per share). Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of €127 million (previous year: €159 million) were recognized on the €511 million (previous year: €592 million) in 31 | Personnel Expenses tax loss carryforwards that represent income likely to be realized in the future. This amount included deferred taxes of €15 million The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: (previous year: €22 million) on loss carryforwards with an unlimited carryforward period. Personnel Expenses Deferred taxes were not recognized for €813 million (previ€ million 2017 2018 ous year: €534 million) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, Wages and salaries 1,018 1,066 €124 million (previous year: €283 million) can theoretically be Social security contributions 177 159 used over more than five years. Further, deferred tax assets were Retirement benefit expenses 85 90 not recognized in fiscal year 2018 for tax-deductible temporary Social assistance benefits 11 13 1,291 1,328 differences of €225 million (previous year: €139 million). Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €216 million (previPrior-year figures restated ous year: €141 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary differences of €56 million (previous year: €33 million) were not recognized. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 166 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total personnel expenses rose in fiscal year 2018. Besides Contingent liabilities to third parties as of December 31, 2018, salary adjustments, this is mainly attributable to the increase in amounted to less than €1 million (previous year: less than €1 milheadcount in connection with the acquisitions of the U.S. group lion). There are no contingent liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH Chemtura in April 2017 and the U.S. phosphorus additives busi& Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using ness of the Belgian chemicals group Solvay in February 2018. the equity method. As a personally liable partner in Currenta Site closures, particularly in Argentina, had an opposite effect. GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, LANXESS may be The personnel expenses shown here do not contain the interest required to inject further capital into this company in the future. expenses for compounding personnel-related provisions, espeIn addition, other financial commitments also exist under cially pension provisions, which is reflected in the financial result operating leases. (see Note [28]). As explained in the section on accounting policies and valuation principles, operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the OTHER INFORMATION LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. The expected non-discounted future lease and rental pay32 | Employees ments relating to operating leases totaled €176 million (previous year: €193 million). The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in The respective payment obligations mature as follows: 2018 was 15,441 (previous year: 14,792). The year-on-year increase in the workforce essentially results from the acquisition of the U.S. Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments group Chemtura in April 2017, the acquisition of the U.S. phosphorus Dec. 31, Dec. 31, additives business of the Belgian chemicals group Solvay in Febru€ million 2017 2018 ary 2018, and from organic growth. It is countered by effects from Up to 1 year 41 38 site closures, such as in Argentina. 1 to 2 years 35 31 2 to 3 years 27 25 3 to 4 years 23 20 Employees by Function 4 to 5 years 17 17 2017 2018 More than 5 years 50 45 Production 10,764 11,212 193 176 Administration 1,792 1,890 Prior-year figures restated Marketing 1,754 1,812 Research 482 527 Payments under operating leases in fiscal year 2018 14,792 15,441 a ­ mounted to €44 million (previous year: €48 million). Future Prior-year figures restated lease and rental payments relate to the Group’s headquarters in Cologne in particular. Other significant agreements relate to the global leasing of land, office buildings and warehouses. In addition, 33 | C  ontingent Liabilities and Other rail tankers and tank containers are leased for transporting raw ­Financial Commitments materials and goods. Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar instruunder purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital ments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and equipment future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events and intangible assets totaled €144 million (previous year: €92 milwould create an obligation that was uncertain as of the closing date. lion). All of these payments are due in fiscal year 2019. An obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency of the debtor. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Income Statement 167 Other Information Description of the master agreement 35 | Compensation of the Board of ManageUnder the master agreement that was concluded between ment and the Supervisory Board Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, among For fiscal year 2018, total compensation of €12,183 thouother things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification sand (previous year: €14,581 thousand) was paid to the memfor liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on bers of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG, comprising special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims €8,597 thousand (previous year: €10,362 thousand) in short-term in the areas of product liability, environmental contamination and compensation (annual base salary, Annual Performance Payment antitrust violations. The master agreement also contains arrange(APP), benefits in kind and other), €0 thousand (previous year: ments for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and minus €86 thousand) in adjustments for previous years, and other to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was sublong-term compensation components totaling €1,726 thousand sequently spun off. (previous year: €2,721 thousand) as part of the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation paid under the stock-based Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP). 34 | Related Parties A total of 1,860,000 (previous year: 1,740,000) compensation rights were granted to the members of the Board of Management in In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources fiscal year 2018. The fair value of these rights at the grant date was materials, inventories and services from a large number of business €1,860 thousand (previous year: €1,584 thousand). Stock-based partners around the world. These include companies in which compensation resulted in income of €81 thousand in fiscal year LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with 2018 (previous year: expense of €1,558 thousand). these companies are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. Details of the compensation system for members of the Board Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, of Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation Germany, which is accounted for in the consolidated financial are given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined statements using the equity method, and its subsidiaries ­mainly management report for fiscal year 2018. comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, In addition, service costs of €1,541 thousand (previous year: infrastructure and logistics totaling €426 million (previous €1,509 thousand) relating to defined benefit pension plans were year: €458 million). As of December 31, 2018, trade payables incurred in fiscal year 2018 for members of the Board of Manageof €117 million (previous year: €108 million), other liabilities of ment as part of their compensation package. The present value less than €1million (previous year: €0 million), and receivables of the defined benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018, was of €4 million (previous year: €3 million) existed as a result of €19,977 thousand (previous year: €18,377 thousand). these transactions. There were also payment obligations to The total net expense for the compensation of the mem­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG amounting to €7 million (­previous bers of the Board of Management in fiscal year 2018 was year: €6 million) under operating leases and obligations of €9 mil€11,783 thousand (previous year: €16,064 thousand). The lion (previous year: €0 million) under purchase agreements. balances outstanding to members of the Board of ManageContingent liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG are ment as of December 31, 2018, totaled €10,881 thousand outlined in the previous section. (previous year: €17,991 thousand), comprising provisions of Information on the compensation of the Board of Management €4,225 thousand (previous year: €7,025 thousand) for the APP, and Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. €3,053 thousand (previous year: €3,639 thousand) for the LTPB and €3,601 thousand (previous year: €7,327 thousand) for stockbased compensation. Payments totaling €473 thousand were made to former members of the Board of Management in fiscal year 2018 (previous year: €473 thousand) and related to pension benefits. The total pension obligation toward former members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2018, was €35,261 thousand (previous year: €34,828 thousand). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 168 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The members of the Supervisory Board received total comInterest rate risks pensation of €1,981 thousand in fiscal year 2018 (previous year: Financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered €1,883 thousand). This compensation is paid at the start of the by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available following year. The provisions recognized for stock-based compenliquidity, so the LANXESS Group’s net interest position will improve sation for Supervisory Board members as of December 31, 2018, slightly if interest rates rise. A general change of one percentage amounted to €1,310 thousand (previous year: €950 thousand). point in interest rates as of December 31, 2018, would have alIn addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory tered Group net income by €5 million (previous year: €5 million). Board who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration under their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaRaw material price risks ries represented appropriate compensation for the employees’ A hypothetical increase or reduction in the hedged commodfunctions and tasks within the Group. ity prices of 10% as of the reporting date would have increased Details of the compensation system for members of the Suor decreased other operating income by €0 million (previous pervisory Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid year: €0 million) as a result of changes in the fair value of hedging are contained in the section headed “Compensation report” in the instruments. combined management report for fiscal year 2018. The following table shows the contractually agreed (undisNo loans were granted to members of the Board of Management counted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest or the Supervisory Board in fiscal year 2018 or the previous year. components thereof and derivative financial instruments: 36 | Financial Instruments The “Opportunity and risk report” in the combined management report outlines the LANXESS Group’s risk management system, including its objectives, methods and processes, and the material financial risks such as currency, interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and raw material price risks. The risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial instrument could change due to fluctuations in market prices is described below for the three market risks: Currency risks A hypothetical appreciation of 5% in the exchange rate of the euro against the hedged currencies as of the reporting date would have altered the fair value of derivatives by €11 million (previous year: €17 million). This would mainly have affected other comprehensive income by decreasing the reported loss correspondingly. This effect mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A corresponding depreciation of the euro would have had basically the opposite effect. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 169 December 31, 2017 € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 > 2022 Bonds (536) (49) (49) (549) (648) (2,355) of which interest (36) (49) (49) (49) (48) (1,255) Liabilities to banks (89) – – – – – of which interest 0 – – – – – Trade payables (1,048) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (13) (11) (10) (8) (8) (29) of which interest (4) (3) (3) (2) (2) (4) Other primary financial liabilities (35) – – – – (16) of which interest (35) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (20) (4) – – – – Receipts 19 3 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (599) – – – – – Receipts 585 – – – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (428) (155) (21) (3) (3) (5) Receipts 446 152 19 3 4 9 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (1,341) – – – – – Receipts 1,358 – – – – – December 31, 2018 € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 > 2023 Bonds (55) (55) (555) (654) (37) (2,844) of which interest (55) (55) (55) (54) (37) (1,244) Liabilities to banks (29) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Trade payables (795) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (6) (4) (4) (3) (2) (2) of which interest (1) (1) (1) (1) – – Other primary financial liabilities (25) – – – – (5) of which interest (25) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (264) (41) (3) – – – Receipts 244 37 3 – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (549) – – – – – Receipts 542 – – – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (41) (7) – – – – Receipts 41 7 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (241) – – – – – Receipts 244 – – – – – The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities due within one year from the reporting date included accrued interest of €25 million (previous year: €35 million) that mainly related to bonds. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 170 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Carrying amounts, measurement and fair values of financial instruments The following tables show the carrying amounts of the individual classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of measurement is also shown: Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2017 IAS 39 Carrying amount measurement­ Dec. 31, 2017 category € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,316 Other financial receivables LaR 25 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 538 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 50 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 10 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 28 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 22 Embedded derivatives – 2 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (2,674) Liabilities to banks FLAC (89) Trade payables FLAC (1,048) Liabilities under finance leases – (61) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (51) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (3) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (10) LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 171 Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2017 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,316 – – – – 1,316 25 – – – – 25 538 – – – – 538 – – 50 – – 50 – 9 1 – – 10 – – 28 – – 28 – – – 22 – 22 – – – 2 – 2 (2,674) – – – – (2,855) (89) – – – – (89) (1,048) – – – – (1,048) – – – – (61) (67) (51) – – – – (46) – – (3) – – (3) – – – (10) – (10) LANXESS Annual Report 2018 172 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2018 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Carrying amount Reclassification measurement measurement Dec. 31, 2017 according to category category IAS 39 IFRS 5 € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR AC 1,316 (395) Other financial receivables Financial assets – at cost LaR AC 5 – Financial assets – at fair value through profit or loss AfS FV P&L – – Other financial receivables – at cost LaR AC 20 (18) Other financial receivables – at fair value through profit or loss AfS FV P&L – – Other financial receivables – at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt instruments) AfS FV OCI 0 – Contract assets – AC – – Cash and cash equivalents LaR AC 538 (272) Near-cash assets AfS AC 50 – Equity instruments – at fair value through other comprehensive income AfS FV OCI 10 (2) Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – – 28 (12) Other hedging instruments FAHfT FV P&L 22 (6) Embedded derivatives – FV P&L 2 – Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC AC (2,674) – Liabilities to banks FLAC AC (89) 69 Trade payables FLAC AC (1,048) 46 Liabilities under finance leases – – (61) 46 Other primary financial liabilities FLAC AC (51) 1 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – – (3) 2 Other hedging instruments FLHfT FV P&L (10) 2 Embedded derivatives – FV P&L – – 1) The reclassifications/remeasurements result from the conversion to IFRS 9, not from changes in measurement categories according to IAS 39 LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading AC Financial assets/liabilities at amortized cost FV OCI Financial assets at fair value other comprehensive income FV P&L Financial assets/liabilities at fair value profit and loss Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Measurement Category of the hierarchy outlined in the following section “Fair value mea€ million Dec. 31, 2017 surement.” However, two bonds with a fair value of €229 million Loans and receivables 1,879 (previous year: €239 million) are allocated to Level 2 of the hierAvailable-for-sale financial assets 60 archy. The fair value of liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated Financial assets held for trading 25 using discounted cash flows, taking observed market interest Financial assets 1,964 rates into account. Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (3,862) Financial liabilities held for trading (11) Financial liabilities (3,873) LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 173 Reclassifications/ Carrying amount Carrying amount Measurement according to IFRS 9 Measurement Fair value remeasurements Jan. 1, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 according to Dec. 31, 2018 according to IFRS 9 IFRS 9 Amortized ­cost Fair value (other Fair value IAS 17 IFRS 91)/IFRS 15 (comprehensive (profit or loss) income) (1) 920 903 903 – – – 903 – 5 493 493 – – – 493 50 50 49 – – 49 – 49 – 2 14 14 – – – 14 6 6 6 – – 6 – 6 – 0 0 – 0 – – 0 56 56 61 61 – – – 61 – 266 797 797 – – – 797 (50) – – – – – – – (7) 1 0 – 0 – 0 – 16 1 – 1 – – 1 – 16 3 – – 3 – 3 – 2 – – – – – – – (2,674) (2,669) (2,669) – – – (2,750) – (20) (29) (29) – – – (30) – (1,002) (795) (795) – – – (795) – (15) (17) – – – (17) (19) – (50) (30) (30) – – – (30) – (1) (20) – (20) – – (20) – (8) (8) – – (8) – (8) – – 0 – – 0 – 0 Carrying Amounts by IFRS 9 Measurement Category € million Dec. 31, 2018 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 2,268 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt instruments) 0 Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 0 Financial assets required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss 58 Financial assets 2,326 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (3,523) Financial liabilities required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss (9) Financial liabilities (3,532) LANXESS Annual Report 2018 174 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fair value measurement Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value The measurement of fair value is based on a hierarchy reflecting Dec. 31, 2018 the significance of the measurement inputs. The fair value measure­ € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 ment hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises three levels: Non-current assets Investments in other Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical affiliated companies – – 0 assets or liabilities on the measurement date Non-current derivative assets – 0 – Other non-current Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 financial assets – 1 6 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Current assets Financial assets 49 – – or indirectly Current derivative assets – 4 – Other current Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability financial assets – – – Non-current liabilities The following tables show the volumes of assets and liaNon-current derivative liabilities – 3 0 bilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis Current liabilities as of the end of the reporting period and the levels of the fair Current derivative liabilities – 25 – value hierarchy into which the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification between the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There were no reclassifications in fiscal Other equity investments of €0 million, which are assigned year 2017 or 2018. to Level 3 of the measurement hierarchy, include unlisted equity instruments for which the amount of the equity interests held is Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value used as the most reliable estimate of fair value. There are currently Dec. 31, 2017 no plans to dispose of these investments. To avoid value fluctuations in profit or loss, the long-term € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 investment in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, U.S., is measured at Non-current assets Investments in other fair value through other comprehensive income. The fair value of affiliated companies 1 – – the investment as of December 31, 2018, was €0 million. Non-current Other non-current financial assets assigned to Level 3 include derivative assets – 5 2 Other non-current investments in High-Tech-Gründerfonds, which are measured financial assets – 1 – based on the amount of the equity interests held. As in the previous Current assets year, the fair values amount to €6 million. Near-cash assets 50 – – Financial assets comprise securities that can be sold at ­any time. Current derivative assets – 45 – The non-current derivative liability allocated to Level 3 relates Other current financial assets 1 – – to a derivative not designated as a hedging instrument from a right Non-current liabilities of use contract, which due to its economic characteristics is not Non-current closely related to the host contract. It is measured by way of an derivative liabilities – 2 – Current liabilities option pricing model, the principal parameters of which are the Current derivative liabilities – 12 – development of the underlying commodity price, the exchange rate and their correlation. The embedded derivative had a negative fair value of €4 million on initial measurement, of which €1 million was amortized in the reporting period. Starting with a carrying amount of €2 million as of January 1, 2018, total reductions in value of more €2 million were recognized in production costs, with the result that a liability of less than €1 million is recognized as of the reporting date of December 31, 2018. Relative changes of 5% in relevant exchange rates, commodity prices and forecast volumes result in total fluctuations of less than €1 million. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 175 Credit risk management For cash and cash equivalents and other financial receivOn initial recognition of financial assets measured at amortized ables, expected defaults for the next twelve months are used cost or fair value through other comprehensive income, the Group to calculate loss allowances provided there is no increased risk calculates a loss allowance on the basis of probabilities of default. of default on contractual payments. If contractual payments are During the fiscal year, factors are observed indicating a significant more than 30 days past due, the loss allowance is based on the increase in the risk of default. In order to assess whether there has expected defaults for the entire term. An event of default occurs been a significant increase in the risk of default, the risk of default at when contractual payments are more than 180 days past due. the end of the reporting period is compared to the risk of default on These are then written down to the expected repayment amount. initial recognition. The indicators used include internal and external Legal action is initiated over impaired assets in order to achieve credit ratings, internal and external probabilities of default, material full or partial repayment. Receivables are written down in full if changes in business, financial and economic circumstances and insolvency proceedings are opened. material changes in operating earnings. No increased risk of default was ascertained for the financial assets listed. Thus, their risk of default was calculated based on the next twelve months: Carrying Amounts and Risk Allowances Dec. 31, 2017 Jan. 1, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 Gross Risk Net Gross Risk Net Gross Risk Net carrying allowance carrying carrying allowance carrying carrying allowance carrying € million amount amount amount amount amount amount Cash and cash equivalents 538 – 538 266 0 266 797 0 797 Other financial receivables 26 (1) 25 7 (1) 6 509 (2) 507 No cash and cash equivalents or other financial receivables if more than 120 days past due and by 100% if more than 180 were impaired due to actual defaults in fiscal year 2018. days past due, if the default is probable. Receivables are written The simplified model based on the lifetime expected credit down in full if insolvency proceedings are opened. Furthermore, losses is applied to trade receivables. These are calculated in a loss allowances are calculated based on a past due matrix that multi-stage process that analyses the economic circumstances, takes into account historical loss rates for certain maturity structure maturity structure and risk classes and then recognizes impairclasses and future probabilities of default on the basis of credit ments if necessary. Trade receivables are written down by 50% default swaps. Loss allowances are calculated as follows: Aging Structure and Risk Allowances (Simplified Model) Dec. 31, 2018 Not 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days >90 days Total € million overdue overdue overdue overdue overdue Gross carrying amount trade receivables 802 86 7 1 7 903 Default rates calculated 0.0% 0.1% 0.4% 1.3% 2.6% Loss allowances in accordance with IAS 39 amounted to €17 million as of December 31, 2017. The sale of the investment in ARLANXEO reduces loss allowances by €3 million to €14 million as of January 1, 2018. The loss allowance increases under the simplified model by around €1 million as of January 1, 2018. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 176 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Carrying Amounts and Risk Allowances Dec. 31, 2017 Jan. 1, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 Gross Risk Net Gross Risk Net Gross Risk Net carrying allowance carrying carrying allowance carrying carrying allowance carrying € million amount amount amount amount amount amount Trade receivables 1,333 (17) 1,316 804 (15) 789 918 (15) 903 Contract assets – – – 52 0 52 61 0 61 €117 million of the decline in the gross carrying amounts of The outstanding contractual payments that were written trade receivables from €1,333 million as of December 31, 2017, down in fiscal year 2018 and for which legal action was initiated to €804 million as of January 1, 2018, results from the change amount to €5 million (previous year: €6 million). The following in the recognition date of revenue following the introduction of table shows the development of loss allowances for all financial IFRS 15 and €412 million from the change in the reporting of assets from their opening value to the end of the reporting period: ARLANXEO’s trade receivables as discontinued operations. Loss allowances for contract assets are calculated based on the counterparty’s individual probability of default applying the simplified model for the entire term. Reconciliation Risk Allowance 2018 Expected loss allowExpected loss Expected loss Total ance for cash and allowance for trade allowance for credit cash equivalents receivables and impaired assets at and other financial contract assets acquisition receivables1) Lifetime – € million 12 months simplified model January 1 1 14 1 16 Newly acquired financial assets 1 5 – 6 Release 0 (3) 0 (3) Financial assets derecognized in the period – sale, repayment, modification 0 (1) 0 (1) Change of model or risk parameters – 0 – 0 Currency or other differences – (1) – (1) December 31 2 14 1 17 1) Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets are not presented separately for reasons of materiality. The expected credit losses for cash and cash equivalents Offsetting of financial assets and financial and other financial receivables essentially result from money mar­liabilities ket and financial investments from the sale of the investment in Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial ARLANXEO. The investments are not classified as receivables liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The folat risk of default as the counterparties have an investment grade lowing tables show how legally enforceable netting arrangements rating according to international agencies and are therefore a low impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position: credit risk. The acquired, impaired financial assets include trade receivables from the acquisition of Chemtura in the previous year. The change in the expected credit losses for trade receivables and contract assets results from ordinary operations. Due to a large and diversified customer structure, there is no material credit risk for trade receivables. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 177 Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2017 Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,316 (3) 0 1,313 Derivative assets 52 (11) – 41 Financial liabilities Trade payables (1,048) 3 0 (1,045) Derivative liabilities (14) 11 – (3) Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 903 (3) 0 900 Derivative assets 4 (4) – 0 Financial liabilities Trade payables (795) 3 0 (792) Derivative liabilities (28) 4 – (24) Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive Net Results by IFRS 9 Measurement Category and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or liability contracts with the same counterparty. € million 2018 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 18 Financial assets and liabilities required to be measured Net results by measurement category at fair value through profit or loss (36) The following tables provide an overview of the net results Equity instruments measured at fair value through based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39 and other comprehensive income (1) Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (62) IFRS 9: (81) Net Results by IAS 39 Measurement Category € million 2017 Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and Loans and receivables (75) expense and realized and unrealized exchange gains and losses. Available-for-sale financial assets 41 Total interest revenue for financial assets that are measured at Assets and liabilities held for trading 84 amortized cost amounts to €5 million; the total interest expense Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (101) for financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through (51) profit or loss is €69 million. Prior-year figures restated In addition, fees of €5 million were incurred in fiscal year 2018 (previous year: €8 million) in connection with financial instruments. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 178 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Collateralization of financial liabilities (previous year: €108 million), cash inflows provided by operating There were no financial liabilities collateralized by mortgages activities from continuing operations amounted to €472 million in or other property claims in fiscal year 2018 or the previous year. the reporting year (previous year: €568 million). Cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations amounted Mezzanine financing to €114 million (previous year: €300 million). Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Information Net cash provided by investing activities on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in Note [13]. Purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment led to cash outflows of €497 million in fiscal year 2018 (previous year: €397 million). The cash outflows for financial assets in fiscal 37 | Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows year 2018 mainly comprised €480 million for money market investments from the investment of the purchase price received Explanation of the method used to calculate and for ARLANXEO. The acquisition of the U.S. phosphorus additives present cash flows business of the Belgian chemicals group Solvay resulted in outFor a general explanation, please see the comments on the flows of €54 million. The sale of the investment in ARLANXEO statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting Policies to Saudi Aramco resulted in inflows of €1.427 billion. In contrast, and Valuation Principles”. the cash and cash equivalents were reduced by €123 million. Cash inflows from interest and dividends received amounted to Net cash provided by operating activities €15 million (previous year: €51 million). They primarily consisted The net cash flows from operating activities are determined of inflows from the profit transfer of €9 million from Currenta by deducting the financial result, depreciation, amortization, writeGmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted downs, reversals of impairment charges and non-cash items from for using the equity method. Cash outflows for external funding income before income taxes. A further adjustment is made for of pension obligations (CTA) amounted to €200 million in fiscal the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income year 2018 (previous year: €0 million). The net cash inflow for taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows, investing ­activities was €65 million (previous year: cash outflow amounted to €390 million (previous year: €219 million). It con€22 million) from continuing operations. Discontinued operations tains depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €431 million resulted in cash outflows from investing activities of €169 million (previous year: €410 million). Income taxes paid in fiscal year (previous year: €145 million). 2018 amounted to €156 million (previous year: €139 million). The change in net working capital resulted in cash outflows of Net cash used in financing activities €165 million (previous year: €66 million). Taking into account The net repayment of borrowings of €9 million (previous year: the change in other assets and liabilities of minus €90 million €404 million) was attributable to financial liabilities as follows: Reconciliation of Borrowings 2017 Dec. 31, Cash Non-cash changes Dec. 31, 2016 ­changes 2017 Acqui­ Divest­ Lease Exchange Interest Accrued sitions ments ­liabilities diffe­rences effect interest and new from comother changes € million ­additions pounding Bonds 2,671 (390) 390 – – 0 3 – 2,674 Liabilities to banks 44 32 17 – – (4) – – 89 Liabilities under finance leases 70 (15) 0 – 5 (3) 4 – 61 Other primary financial liabilities 27 (2) 7 – – 0 – 19 51 2,812 (375) 414 – 5 (7) 7 19 2,875 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 179 Reconciliation of Borrowings 2018 Dec. 31, AdjustCash Non-cash changes Dec. 31, 2017 ments ­changes 2018 according Acqui­ Divest­ Lease Exchange Interest Accrued to sitions ments ­liabilities diffe­rences effect interest IFRS 5 new from comand other € million ­additions pounding changes Bonds 2,674 – (8) – – – – 3 – 2,669 Liabilities to banks 89 (69) 9 – – – – – – 29 Liabilities under finance leases 61 (46) (10) – – 10 – 2 – 17 Other primary financial liabilities 51 – – – – – – – (21) 30 2,875 (115) (9) – – 10 – 5 (21) 2,745 Interest payments and other financial disbursements accounted Cash and cash equivalents for cash outflows of €77 million (previous year: €77 million). In Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks fiscal year 2018, cash outflows for dividend payments amounted and bank balances, amounted to €797 million (previous year: to €74 million (previous year: €64 million), €73 million of which €538 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes to the stockholders of LANXESS AG (previous year: €64 million). securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of There was therefore a net cash outflow of €160 million (previous acquisition. year: €545 million) for financing activities from continuing operations. Discontinued operations resulted in a net cash outflow of €57 million (previous year: net cash inflow of €37 million). 38 | Segment Reporting Key Data by Segment Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering Reconciliation LANXESS ­Intermediates ­Additives Chemicals Materials € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 External sales 1,975 2,207 1,611 1,980 1,439 1,349 1,366 1,576 139 85 6,530 7,197 Inter-segment sales 53 57 12 11 1 1 0 0 (66) (69) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 2,028 2,264 1,623 1,991 1,440 1,350 1,366 1,576 73 16 6,530 7,197 Segment result/ EBITDA pre exceptionals 335 359 267 343 252 187 219 267 (148) (140) 925 1,016 Exceptional items ­ affecting EBITDA (7) 0 (75) (3) (62) (3) (12) (1) (60) (74) (216) (81) Segment assets 1,437 1,543 2,516 2,706 1,216 1,205 1,164 1,269 156 184 6,489 6,907 Segment acquisitions 64 – 1,616 54 30 – 334 – – – 2,044 54 Segment capital ­expenditures 156 168 84 144 75 79 68 77 26 49 409 517 Depreciation and ­amortization 116 125 99 136 75 75 54 59 19 22 363 417 Write-downs 2 2 37 1 7 10 2 2 0 0 48 15 Reversals of impairment charges 1 – 0 1 – – – 0 – – 1 1 Segment liabilities 852 752 577 624 552 506 332 383 727 626 3,040 2,891 Employees (December 31) 3,661 3,687 2,936 2,953 3,880 3,786 1,976 2,105 2,830 2,910 15,283 15,441 Employees (average for the year) 3,590 3,701 2,575 2,993 4,006 3,816 1,870 2,055 2,751 2,876 14,792 15,441 Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 180 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key Data by Region EMEA (excluding Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS Germany) € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 External sales by market 2,043 2,245 1,249 1,414 1,292 1,524 405 392 1,541 1,622 6,530 7,197 Non-current region assets 651 641 1,153 1,266 1,917 2,053 67 67 383 356 4,171 4,383 Acquisitions 393 – 80 – 1,391 54 14 – 166 – 2,044 54 Capital expenditures 78 79 224 279 65 117 12 12 30 30 409 517 Employees (December 31) 2,582 2,521 7,312 7,532 1,929 2,050 850 766 2,610 2,572 15,283 15,441 Prior-year figures restated Segment reporting On December 31, 2018, the LANXESS Group comprised The valuation principles applied in segment reporting corthe following reporting segments: respond to the uniform accounting policies and valuation principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in Segments Activities accordance with IFRS. Advanced Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises Since April 1, 2018, the business activities of ARLANXEO operational business units that manufacture basic and fine chemicals using primarily continuous have been run as a discontinued operation. Since this date, finanproduction processes. The business units also cial reporting has not included the earnings and key data of the manufacture precursors and intermediates for former ARLANXEO segment, meaning that it is no longer actively each other. The product portfolio includes highgrade intermediates for use by the agrochemicals managed by the senior management level of the LANXESS Group. and coatings industries, for example; fine chemSince the management approach has fundamentally changed icals as precursors and intermediates for the pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty accordingly, segment reporting no longer reports on ARLANXEO. chemicals industries; customer-specific specialties; organometallics; and tire chemicals. Specialty Additives The Specialty Additives segment comprises operational business units that manufacture additives in chemical production processes. The product portfolio includes additives for the rubber, plastic and paint industries, such as lubricants, flame retardants, plasticizers and bromine derivatives for a variety of applications. Performance Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment comprises operational business units that manufacture process and functional chemicals as well as specialty products using chemical production processes. The product portfolio includes material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment; and disinfectant and hygiene solutions. Engineering Materials The Engineering Materials segment combines operational business units which manufacture hightech plastics and high-performance composites using mainly continuous production processes. The production includes technical plastics, glass fibers and fiber composites as well as elastomers on a urethane basis for applications in the automotive and electrical/electronics industries, the construction industry, medicine, and the sports and leisure sectors. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 181 The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest assets, liabilities and results not allocable to the core segments income and expense and income tax income and expense are not including, in particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. reported at segment level. The reconciliation also includes Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, The negative exceptional items that affected EBITDA of Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity €96 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily relate to expenses in method (see Note [3]). connection with the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Group, The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transdigitalization projects, and the intended closure of production at actions are calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been the Jinshan site in Shanghai, China. They are offset by positive agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable ­exceptional items of €15 million, which mainly relate to income circumstances (arm’s-length principle). from the reversal of provisions, particularly for restructuring, estabThe majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation prolished as exceptional items in previous years. The exceptional items vide services for more than one segment. They include technical in the previous year mainly related to the strategic realignment of service staff. the Group and the optimization of the production network. The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activThe segment acquisitions include the acquired net assets ities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle including goodwill as of the acquisition date. East, Africa), Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-PaCapital expenditures made by the segments comprise addicific. Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s tions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. place of business. In fiscal year 2018, no individual customer of All depreciation, amortization and write-downs in fiscal year the LANXESS Group accounted for 10% or more of Group sales. 2017 and 2018 were recognized directly in profit or loss. The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciaReconciliation of Segment Sales tion and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the section € million 2017 2018 headed “Value management and control system” in the combined Total segment sales 6,457 7,181 management report for fiscal year 2018). This is disclosed as Other/Consolidation 73 16 the “segment result”. The starting point for calculating EBITDA Group sales 6,530 7,197 pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), which comprises Prior-year figures restated gross profit, selling expenses, general administration expenses, research and development expenses and other operating income Reconciliation of Segment Results and expenses. EBIT and EBITDA are alternative key financial ratios not defined according to the International Financial Reporting € million 2017 2018 Standards (IFRS). These are viewed as supplementary and not a Total segment results 1,073 1,156 Depreciation and amortization (411) (432) substitute to the data prepared according to IFRS. EBITDA pre Reversals of impairment charges 1 1 exceptionals is calculated from EBIT before depreciation/reversals Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (216) (81) of property, plant and equipment, amortization and impairments Other financial income and expense 0 (45) of intangible assets, disregarding exceptional items. The latter Net interest expense (80) (69) are effects that, by nature or extent, have a significant impact on Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 the earnings position, but for which inclusion in the evaluation of Other/Consolidation (148) (140) business performance over several reporting periods does not Income before income taxes 219 390 seem to be appropriate. Exceptional items may include writePrior-year figures restated downs, reversals of impairment charges or the proceeds from the disposal of assets, certain IT expenses, restructuring expenses and income from the reversal of provisions established in this connection, and reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio adjustments or purchase price allocations. The segment sales include sales recognized over time of €307 million, of which €252 million relate to the Advanced Intermediates segment, €2 million to the Specialty Additives segment, €10 million to the Performance Chemicals segment, €16 million to the Engineering Materials segment, and €27 million to the reconciliation. All other sales are recognized at a point in time. Please see Note [21] for further information. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 182 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The reconciliation of segment results to income before The ARLANXEO adjustments essentially result from the sale income taxes contains total exceptional items comprising net of the investment in ARLANXEO. charges of €91 million (previous year: charges of €259 million) The segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade pay(see Notes [26] and [27]). These include exceptional items of minus ables and other liabilities. The reconciliation (line “Other/Consoli€81 million (previous year: minus €216 million) that ­affect EBITDA, dation”) of segment liabilities primarily contains pension and other write-downs of minus €10 million (previous year: minus €43 milprovisions that are attributable to the Corporate Center. They do lion), and reversals of impairment charges of €0 million (previous not include income tax liabilities in particular, as well as derivative year: €0 million). and other financial liabilities. The change in segment results in the reconciliation is mainly due to lower expenses for currency hedges. Information on equity-method income is contained in 39 | Audit Fees Note [3]. This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is In fiscal year 2018, total audit fees of €2,438 thousand (prenot allocated among the segments. vious year: €3,121 thousand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. The total amount includes €1,789 thousand (previReconciliation of Segment Assets ous year: €2,436 thousand) relating to the auditing of financial Dec. 31, statements. The previous year was influenced by audit services in Dec. 31, € million 2017 2018 connection with the ARLANXEO strategic alliance. The fees were Total segment assets 6,333 6,723 mainly paid for the audit of LANXESS AG’s annual financial stateARLANXEO adjustments 2,746 – ments and of the consolidated financial statements including the Cash and cash equivalents 538 797 early warning system and for the review of the condensed consoliDeferred tax assets 442 287 dated interim financial statements. €478 thousand (previous year: Near-cash assets 50 – Income tax receivables 67 69 €215 thousand) related to other audit-related services, primarily Derivative assets 52 4 services in connection with sustainability reporting and other Other financial assets 27 623 services for audit certificates. In the reporting year, there were Other/Consolidation 156 184 also other audit-related services in connection with the disposal Group assets 10,411 8,687 of ARLANXEO. €171 thousand (previous year: €470 thousand) Prior-year figures restated related to other services. In the previous year, they largely included services from IT service provider PwC Cundus AG, a company The ARLANXEO adjustments essentially result from the sale affiliated with the auditor, totaling €200 thousand. The fees for of the investment in ARLANXEO. financial statements audit services comprise all fees, including The segment assets mainly comprise intangible assets, propincidental expenses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the conerty, plant and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. They solidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the do not include items such as cash and cash equivalents and definancial statements of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. ferred taxes. Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities 40 | Declaration of Compliance Pursuant to Dec. 31, Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Dec. 31, € million 2017 2018 Act Total segment liabilities 2,313 2,265 ARLANXEO adjustments 761 – The Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Other financial liabilities 2,875 2,745 Governance Code has been issued by the Board of Management Derivative liabilities 14 28 and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Income tax liabilities 195 161 Deferred tax liabilities 113 89 Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders Other/Consolidation 727 626 on the LANXESS website. Group liabilities 6,998 5,914 Prior-year figures restated LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Other Information 183 41 | Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions In fiscal year 2018, the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code (HGB): ›› Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon ›› CheMondis GmbH, Cologne ›› IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin ›› IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund ›› LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne ›› LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne ›› LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen ›› LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen ›› Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen ›› Siebte LXS GmbH, Cologne Outside Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. 03498959), Newbury, Great Britain, utilized the exemption from the auditing of its annual financial statements as permitted by Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006. As required by law, LANXESS AG, as the parent company, guaranteed all outstanding liabilities as of December 31, 2018, with respect to Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006. 42 | Events after the Reporting Period In January 2019, LANXESS announced a stock repurchase volume of up to €200 million. The repurchase is to end no later than December 31, 2019. The shares will be redeemed. The stock repurchase is being implemented on the basis of the authorization granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 20, 2016, which allows repurchases of up to 10% of the capital stock of LANXESS AG. No other events of particular significance took place after December 31, 2018, that could be expected to have a material effect on the earnings, asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 184 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibility ­Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated ­financial statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal ­opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, February 27, 2019 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft The Board of Management Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Dr. Hubert Fink LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Responsibility ­S tatement 185 Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report “To LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the ­CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL group management report. STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Basis for the Audit Opinions We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial stateAudit Opinions ments and of the group management report in accordance with We have audited the consolidated financial statements of § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014, referred LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, and its subsidiaries to subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) in compliance with (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of fiGerman Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement nancial position as at December 31, 2018, and the consolidated Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Instistatement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of tute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities profit or loss, consolidated statement of changes in equity and under those requirements and principles are further described consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year from in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated January 1 to December 31, 2018, and notes to the consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” financial statements, including a summary of significant accountsection of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the group ing policies. In addition, we have audited the group manageentities in accordance with the requirements of European law and ment report of LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, which is combined German commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled with the Company’s management report, for the financial year our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with from January 1 to December 31, 2018. In accordance with the these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) German legal requirements, we have not audited the content of point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not the statement on corporate governance pursuant to § [Article] provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the 289f HGB ­[Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code] and EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have § 315d HGB. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the audit, the group management report. ›› the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, ­Consolidated Financial Statements and the additional requirements of German commercial law Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional pursuant to § 315e Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB and, in complijudgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consoliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of dated financial statements for the financial year from January 1 the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at to December 31, 2018. These matters were addressed in the December 31, 2018, and of its financial performance for the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2018, and whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide ›› the accompanying group management report as a whole a separate audit opinion on these matters. provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the group management report does not cover the content of the statement on corporate governance referred to above. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 186 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL﻿ STATEMENTS In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit 2 As part of our audit, we assessed the methodology emwere as follows: ployed for the purposes of performing the impairment test, among 1 Recoverability of goodwill other things. We evaluated the appropriateness of the future cash 2 Pension provisions inflows used in the measurement, among other things by compar3 Disposal of the shares in ARLANXEO ing this data with the current budgets in the five-year plan approved by the executive directors, and reconciling it against general and Our presentation of these key audit matters has been strucsector-specific market expectations. We also evaluated the aptured in each case as follows: propriate consideration of the costs of Group functions. With 1 Matter and issue the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount 2 Audit approach and findings rate applied can have material effects on the value of the entity 3 Reference to further information calculated in this way, we also assessed the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, including the weighted Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: average cost of capital, and evaluated the measurement model. Furthermore, we assessed the sensitivity analysis carried out 1 Recoverability of goodwill by the Company and additionally performed our own sensitivity 1 In the Company’s consolidated financial statements goodanalysis for the cash-generating units and, taking into account the will of €850 million (10 % of consolidated total assets or 31 % of information available, determined that the carrying amounts of Group equity) is reported under the “Goodwill” balance sheet item. the cash-generating units, including the allocated goodwill, were The Company allocates goodwill to the respective cash-­ adequately covered by the discounted future cash flows. Overall, generating units. Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year, the measurement inputs and assumptions used by the executive unless events or a change in circumstances indicates any ­sooner directors are in line with our expectations and are also within the that goodwill may be impaired. The carrying amount of the relranges considered by us to be reasonable. evant cash-generating units, including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding recoverable amount in the context of the 3 The Company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained in impairment test. In general, the recoverable amount is calculated the sections entitled “Intangible assets,” “Method and impact of on the basis of fair value less costs to sell. The present value of the global impairment tests,” and “Judgments and estimates” in the future cash flows from the respective cash-generating units the notes to the consolidated financial statements. normally serves as the basis of measurement. Present values are calculated using discounted cash flow models. The discounted 2 Pension provisions cash flow models are based on cash flow projections, which in 1 In the consolidated financial statements of the Company turn are based on the five-year plan approved by the executive pension provisions amounting to €1,083 million are reported directors and applicable at the time the impairment test is carried under the balance sheet item “Provisions for pensions and similar out. The future net cash flows are discounted using a weighted obligations.” The pension provisions comprise mainly obligations cost of capital. The impairment test determined that no impairment from defined benefit pension plans and netted plan assets. losses had to be recognized. Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured using This matter was of particular significance to our audit, bethe projected unit credit method. This requires assumptions to cause the result of this measurement depends to a large extent be made in particular about long-term rates of growth in salaries on the Company’s executive directors’ assessment of future cash and pensions, average life expectancy, and staff turnover. Furinflows, the discount rate used, the growth rates assumed, and thermore, the discount rate applied as of the balance sheet date other assumptions made and is therefore subject to considerable must be determined by reference to market yields on high-quality uncertainty. corporate bonds with matching currencies and terms which are consistent with the expected maturities of the obligations. This usually requires the data to be extrapolated, since no sufficiently long-term corporate bonds exist. The plan assets are measured at fair value. From our point of view, these matters were of particular significance in the context of our audit because the recognition and LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report 187 measurement of this item – which is significant in terms of its able to satisfy ourselves that the presentation and reporting of amount – are based to a large extent on estimates and assumptions the disposal of the shares in ARLANXEO were comprehensibly made by the Company’s executive directors. documented and that the recognized effects on earnings were appropriately calculated. 2 As part of our audit, we evaluated the actuarial expert reports obtained and the professional qualifications of the exter3 The Company’s disclosures on the disposal of the shares nal experts, among other things. We also assessed the specific in ARLANXEO are contained in the sections „Non-current Assets features of the actuarial calculations and examined the numerical Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”, „Discontinued Opdata, the actuarial parameters and the valuation methods on which erations” and „Reporting to the consolidated companies” of the the valuations were based for compliance with standards and notes to the consolidated financial statements. appropriateness, in addition to other procedures. In addition, we analyzed the changes in the obligation and the cost components Other Information in accordance with actuarial expert reports in the light of changes The executive directors are responsible for the other informaoccurring in the valuation parameters and the numerical data, and tion. The other information comprises the statement on corporate assessed their plausibility. For the purposes of our audit of the fair governance pursuant to § 289f HGB and § 315d HGB. value of plan assets, we obtained bank confirmations. The other information comprises further the remaining parts Based on our audit procedures, we were able to satisfy ourof the annual report – excluding cross-references to external inselves that the estimates and assumption made by the executive formation – with the exception of the audited consolidated finandirectors were substantiated and adequately documented. cial statements, the audited group management report and our auditor’s report, and the separate non-financial report pursuant 3 The Company’s disclosures on the provisions for pento § 289b Abs. 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB. sions are contained in the section entitled “Pension provisions Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and similar obligations” in the notes to the consolidated financial and on the group management report do not cover the other instatements. formation, and consequently we do not express an audit opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. 3 Disposal of the shares in ARLANXEO In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the 1 On April 1, 2016, LANXESS established a strategic alother information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other liance for the synthetic rubber business with Aramco Overseas information Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague (Netherlands), under ›› is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statethe name ARLANXEO. Both partners held each a 50% stake in ments, with the group management report or our knowledge ­ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Maastricht (Netherlands). The busiobtained in the audit, or ness area was included in LANXESS’ consolidated financial ›› otherwise appears to be materially misstated. statements and was fully consolidated, because LANXESS had control over the company, within the meaning of IFRS 10, on Responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the basis of contractual provisions. As of the second quarter of the Supervisory Board for the Consolidated 2018, ­ARLANXEO was designated as held for sale pursuant to ­Financial Statements and the Group ManageIFRS 5 and was classified as a discontinued operation. On Aument Report gust 8, 2018, LANXESS reached an agreement on the sale of its The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of 50% stake in ARLANXEO to Saudi Aramco. Once all necessary the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material approvals had been received, ARLANXEO was deconsolidated respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional with effect from December 31, 2018. As part of deconsolidation, requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e a disposal gain of €90 million was recognized at the Group level. Abs. 1 HGB and that the consolidated financial statements, in In our view, this matter was of particular significance for our audit compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of due to the complexity and the material effects on the Group. the assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial performance of the Group. In addition the executive directors are responsible 2 To assess whether the accounting treatment of the disfor such internal control as they have determined necessary to posal of the shares in ARLANXEO was appropriate we examined, enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that inter alia, as part of our audit, the company law principles as well are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. as the terms of the underlying sale agreement. In this regard, we In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the execexamined and assessed the fulfilment of the conditions for the utive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability designation as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 during the to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility financial year, the resulting effects on the measurement of assets for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In and liabilities and the deconsolidation of ARLANXEO. We were addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the LANXESS Annual Report 2018 188 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ﻿ STATEMENTS going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgalternative but to do so. ery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the of internal control. preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, ›› Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangeall material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial ments and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the statements, complies with German legal requirements, and apgroup management report in order to design audit procepropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future developdures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for ment. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectivearrangements and measures (systems) as they have considered ness of these systems. necessary to enable the preparation of a group management ›› Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by report that is in accordance with the applicable German legal the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate made by the executive directors and related disclosures. evidence for the assertions in the group management report. ›› Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty consolidated financial statements and of the group management exists related to events or conditions that may cast signifreport. icant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements Group Management Report and in the group management report or, if such disclosures Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opinions. Our whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events and whether the group management report as a whole provides or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material recontinue as a going concern. spects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and ›› Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German the consolidated financial statements, including the disclolegal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities sures, and whether the consolidated financial statements and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s present the underlying transactions and events in a manner report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidated financial that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair statements and on the group management report. view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB opted by the EU and the additional requirements of German and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB. Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits ›› Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always financial information of the entities or business activities withdetect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from in the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the financial statements and on the group management report. aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the We are responsible for the direction, supervision and perforeconomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolmance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for idated financial statements and this group management report. our audit opinions. We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional ›› Evaluate the consistency of the group management report skepticism throughout the audit. We also: with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides. ›› Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ›› Perform audit procedures on the prospective information consolidated financial statements and of the group manpresented by the executive directors in the group manageagement report, whether due to fraud or error, design and ment report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumpobtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to protions used by the executive directors as a basis for the vide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report 189 of the prospective information from these assumptions. We OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective ­REQUIREMENTS information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ Further Information pursuant to Article 10 materially from the prospective information. of the EU Audit Regulation We were elected as group auditor by the annual general We communicate with those charged with governance remeeting on May 15, 2018. We were engaged by the supervisory garding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of board on October 29, 2018. We have been the group auditor of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, without interruption deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. since the financial year 2005. We also provide those charged with governance with a stateWe declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s ment that we have complied with the relevant independence rereport are consistent with the additional report to the audit comquirements, and communicate with them all relationships and mittee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our audit report). independence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most sigGERMAN PUBLIC AUDITOR RESPONSIBLE nificance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of FOR THE ENGAGEMENT the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or reguThe German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement lation precludes public disclosure about the matter. is Jörg Sechser.” Cologne, March 1, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Jörg Sechser ppa. Martin Krug German Public Auditor German Public Auditor LANXESS Annual Report 2018 FURTHER INFORMATION 191 About this Report 193 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 195 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report 197 GRI Content Index 202 Glossary 205 Sustainability Initiatives and Indices Financial Calendar/Contacts About This Report 191 About This Report REPORTING METHODOLOGY DATA COLLECTION This report combines financial and sustainability reporting The reporting year is 2018. In compiling the data, we applied by the LANXESS Group. It is aligned to national and international the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, standards for financial and sustainability reporting, especially clarity and reliability. The report covers the Group companies the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), German that are also included in the consolidated financial statements. accounting standards (DRS) and the principles of the U.N. Global ARLANXEO will be reported as a discontinued operation Compact. This report was also created in compliance with the GRI in financial reporting for fiscal year 2018. Reporting regarding standards (“core” option). non-­financial issues follows fundamentally the same analysis This report contains information according to the transparperspective and focuses on ongoing operations. For central key ency requirements of the U.K. Modern Slavery Act. The complete figures, the data for/including ARLANXEO will also be cited. In the “Slavery and human trafficking statement” can be viewed on the case of other key figures that do not refer exclusively to ongoing British LANXESS website in the Corporate Responsibility section operations, the relevant areas of scope are explicitly defined in under Commitment to human rights. the report. Reporting is performed annually. The last report for fiscal For disclosure of HR key figures, LANXESS uses a global year 2017 was published in March 2018. reporting system that contains the key employee data for the entire Group. We use electronic data capture systems for the systematic NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. The two performance The Supervisory Board examined and approved the non-­ indicators we use to measure occupational safety – the lost time financial consolidated report of the LANXESS Group prescribed injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) and the according to Sections 289c and 315c of the German Commerrecordable incident rate (RIR) – apply to all sites. Environmental cial Code (CSR Directive Implementation Act). The non-financial protection data are gathered only at those production sites in consolidated report was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers which the company has a holding of more than 50%. GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft with limited assurance. With regard to the collection of emissions data, we have The corresponding content is identified with a gray line in the CR ­taken into account the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas chapter of this annual report. ­Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). To ensure the quality of data, PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected key figures with limited assurance. These are identified accordingly in the report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 192 FURTHER Information KEY REPORT CONTENT The content of the report for fiscal year 2018 is based on a materiality analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2017. All key issues identified are described in detail in this report. The following table identifies the boundaries (GRI 103-1) between the key issues and the GRI standards that they cover. Boundaries Key Issues Within the Organization Outside the Organization Management approach (GRI 103-2, 103-3)/ associated GRI standard (2016) Advanced Intermediates/ Suppliers Customers Society Specialty Additives/Performance Chemicals/Engineering Materials Good Corporate Governance X X X X Management approach: p. 13–18, 49–52 GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 206: Anticompetitive Behavior GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 406: Non-discrimination GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 409: Forced Labor GRI 410: Security Practices GRI 411: Indigenous Rights GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 415: Public Policy GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Energized Employees and X X Management approach: p. 12, 14, 19–30 ­Performing Teams GRI 202: Market Presence GRI 401: Employment GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Resilient Sourcing X X Management approach: p. 10, 16, 30–31, 65 GRI 204: Procurement Practices GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Safe and Sustainable Sites X X Management approach: p. 11, 14, 31–38 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 303: Water and Effluents GRI 306: Effluents and Waste GRI 413: Local Communities Climate Action and Energy X X X X Management approach: p. 11, 14, 38–41 Efficiency GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions Sustainable Product Portfolio X X X Management approach: p. 12, 42–43 GRI 301: Materials GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Business-Driven Innovation X X Management approach: p. 12, 43–44, 66 Valuing Customer Relationships X X Management approach: p. 9, 12, 44 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 About This Report 193 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly ­REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including ENGAGEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with REPORTING1) ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. “To LANXESS AG, Cologne We have performed a limited assurance engagement on Practitioner’s Responsibility the separate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German on the Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement Commercial Code”) of LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereinafter the we have performed. “Company”) for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the Non-financial Report. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance Responsibilities of the Executive Directors with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) The executive directors of the Company are responsible for 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that the selection and application of appropriate methods of non-­ nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that financial reporting as well as making assumptions and estimates the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 1 Janurelated to individual non-financial disclosures which are reasonary to 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material able in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction are responsible for such internal control as they have considered with 289c to 289e HGB. necessary to enable the preparation of a Non-financial Report that In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s Independence and Quality Control of the judgment. Audit Firm We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors ­(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published by the I­nstitut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW Qualitäts­ sicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 194 FURTHER Information Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perIntended Use of the Assurance Report formed amongst others the following assurance procedures and We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed further activities: with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely ›› Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainintended to inform the Company about the results of the limited ability organization and of the stakeholder engagement assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third ›› Inquiries of management and relevant personnel involved parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility in the preparation of the Non-financial Report regarding the lies only with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility preparation process, the internal control system relating to towards third parties. this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report Cologne, 1 March 2019 ›› Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the Non-financial Report PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH ›› Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ­Non-­financial Report ›› Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch” ›› Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information German public auditor Assurance Conclusion Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 195 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report ­INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S Independence and Quality Control of the ­REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE Audit Firm ENGAGEMENT ON SUSTAINABILITY We have complied with the German professional provisions INFORMATION1) regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and “To LANXESS AG, Cologne professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors We have performed a limited assurance engagement on data ­(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” ­table ­included “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 pubin the “Safe and sustainable sites” section of the “Corporate lished by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public ­Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2018 of LANXESS Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for AG, Cologne (hereinafter: “the Company”), for the period from audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen 1 January to 31 December 2018 (hereafter “Environmental and an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW Safety Performance Data”). QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Responsibilities of the Executive Directors standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the principles stated in the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Practitioner’s Responsibility Reporting Initiative (hereinafter: “GRI-Criteria”). Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance ­conclusion This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes on the sustainability information in the Environmental and Safety the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare Performance Data in the Report based on the assurance engagethe Environmental and Safety Performance Data as well as making ment we have performed. assumptions and estimates related to individual sustainability disWe conducted our assurance engagement in accordance closures, which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) the executive directors are responsible for such internal control 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. the Environmental and Safety Performance Data that is free from This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures in the Environmental and Safety Performance Data for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the table “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 196 FURTHER Information Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perIntended Use of the Assurance Report formed amongst others the following assurance procedures and We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed further activities: with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely ›› Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation for intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance r­ eporting the environmental and safety performance data engagement. The report is not intended to provide third parties regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal with support in making (financial) decisions. Our responsibility lies control system and the environmental and safety perforsolely toward the Company. We do not assume any responsibility mance data towards third parties. ›› Identification of potential risks of material misstatements based on the GRI criteria Cologne, 1 March 2019 ›› Analytical procedures on the environmental and safety performance data PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH ›› Assessment of the presentation of the environmental and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft safety data in the Environmental and Safety Performance Data table Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch” Assurance Conclusion German Public Auditor Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures in the Environmental and Safety Performance Data of the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Environmental and Safety Performance Data: Independent Assurance Report 197 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Standard Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-01 Name of the organization LANXESS AG 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 60–61 lanxess.com/en/corporate/products-solutions/products-solutions/ 102-03 Location of headquarters Cologne, Germany 102-04 Location of operations p. 61, 73–74 lanxess.com/en/corporate/about-lanxess/sites-worldwide/ 102-05 Ownership and legal form p. 46–47, 60 102-06 Markets served p. 65–66, 67–68, 73–74 102-07 Scale of the organization Key data table cover, p. 35, 86 102-08 Information on employees and other p. 24 6 workers 102-09 Supply chain p. 30–31, 65 102-10 Significant changes to the organization p. 60–61, 135–138 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach p. 43–44, 66, 98–99 102-12 External initiatives p. 15–16, 40, 42, 205 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/safe-and-­sustainablesites/corporate-citizenship/ 102-13 Membership of associations p. 31, 205 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 2 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 4–6, 8, 43–44, 96–108 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms p. 13, 15–17 10 of behavior GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure p. 49–52 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 9 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ stakeholders-relations/ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 30 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 9 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ stakeholders-relations/ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 9, 22, 42–44 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ stakeholders-relations/ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 9, 22, 42–44 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ stakeholders-relations/ REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated p. 139–140 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic p. 8–10 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ boundaries material-topics/ 102-47 List of material topics p. 10, 192 102-48 Restatements of information p. 191 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 198 FURTHER Information GRI Standard Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 135–138, 191 102-50 Reporting period p. 191 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 191 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 191 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Masthead the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with p. 191 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 197–201 102-56 External assurance p. 193–196 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 192 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its p. 192 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 192 ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and p. 37, 85, 111, distributed 165–166, 178–179 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other p. 150–156 retirement plans GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 Wages An employee’s individual income is based on his or her responsibilities and performance. As well as collective agreements that are the basis for the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and many other countries, legal requirements such as minimum wage levels are also important in ensuring fair compensation. In Germany, for example, we obtain temporary employees only from agencies that are covered by the collective agreement for temporary employment. In addition, the ­chemical industry pays industry-specific supplements. 202-2 Local hiring p. 22 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services p. 37–38 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/safe-and-­sustainablesupported sites/corporate-citizenship/ GRI 204: Procurement Impacts 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 65 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to p. 18 10 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about p. 18 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and p. 18 10 actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive The company was not involved in any legal actions regarding ­behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly ­anticompetitive behavior or violations of antitrust law in 2018. practices ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 30–31, 65 7, 8 LANXESS Annual Report 2018 GRI Content Index 199 GRI Standard Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the p. 35–36 7,8 ­organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside the p. 35–36 7, 8 ­organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 40–41 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 40–41 7, 8, 9 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of p. 40–41, 43–44 webmagazine.lanxess.com/part-2-the-mobility-of-tomorrow-­progressproducts and services and-climate-protection/ GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Total water withdrawal p. 33, 35–36 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 35–36 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 35–36 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 39 7, 8 305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p. 39 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 38–39 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/business-driven-­ 8, 9 innovation/products-and-processes/ 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 35–36 7 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO X), sulfur oxides p. 35–36, 40 7, 8 (SO X), and other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and p. 33, 35–36 7, 8 ­destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 34, 35–36 7, 8 306-3 Significant spills Of 16 relevant incidents, 11 occurred in facilities acquired in 2017. 7, 8 5 cases involved the emission of SO₂. One relevant facility safety incident occurred at ARLANXEO: At the Cabo site in Brazil, a pump caught fire because the wrong seal type was used. This incident was not environmentally relevant. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the 7, 8 and regulations audited financial statements. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 30–31 8 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the p. 30–31 8 supply chain and actions taken SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee S. 20, 23 6 turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees S. 25–28 6 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave S. 27 GRI 402: Labor/management relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding In accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS is 3 ­operational changes obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned operational changes that could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. The Economics Committee is also informed on a regular basis about the company’s economic affairs. We fully comply with our legal obligations with respect to the responsible bodies. Similar requirements applicable in other countries are always complied with. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 200 FURTHER Information GRI Standard Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect management worker health and safety of the dialog between employee and employer representatives in all committees ­countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, and going above and beyond legal requirements, agreements exist with employee representatives as well as for occupational health management and company integration management. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupap. 28–29, 35–36 tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect agreements with trade unions of the dialog between employee and employer representatives in all ­countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, and going above and beyond legal requirements, agreements exist with employee representatives as well as for occupational health management and company integration management. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 (Vocational) training p. 20–22 6 404-2 Programs for skills management and p. 20–22, 24, 26, 30 lifelong learning 404-3 Regular performance and career developp. 20–22 At present, all managers worldwide receive a regular performance 6 ment reviews assessment and development planning. We also aim to establish this worldwide for non-management employees. In 2018, year-end meetings were held with 91% of our employees worldwide. Individual targets were also agreed with a majority of employees, for example with 81% of the workforce in India. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 24–26, 53–55 6 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of For non-managerial employees, collective agreements mean there 6 women to men are no notable differences between the salaries of female and male employees. Managers’ compensation is based on their responsibilities and p ­ erformance and also on aspects such as industry and managerial experience. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective p. 17 6 actions taken GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the p. 30 3 right to freedom of association and ­collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant p. 15–17 1, 2, 5 risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant p. 15–17 1, 2, 4 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but 1, 2 rights policies or procedures procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In addition, professional security providers ­contracted by LANXESS are subject to the relevant security legislation in each country. In South Africa, for example, security personnel undergo regular training, which is documented and complies with the requirements of the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority of South Africa (PSIRA). LANXESS Annual Report 2018 GRI Content Index 201 GRI Standard Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to 1, 2 indigenous peoples report grievances concerning the violation of indigenous rights. In fiscal year 2018, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving the violation of indigenous rights. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject p. 17 1, 2 to human rights reviews or impact ­assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights p. 17 1, 2 policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and p. 17 1, 2 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community p. 37–38, 43 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/safe-and-­sustainableengagement, impact assessments, and sites/corporate-citizenship/ development programs lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/societal-added-­ value/ 413-2 Operations with significant potential p. 8, 31–36, 41 or actual negative impacts on local communities GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using p. 30–31 1, 2 social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply p. 30–31 1, 2 chain and actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions p. 18 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/goals-and-strategy/ 10 stakeholders-relations/dialogue-with-political-target-groups/ GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety imp. 30–31, 42–43 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/societal-added-­ pacts of product and service categories value/product-portfolio-assessment/ 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity the health and safety impacts of products Line to ­report grievances concerning non-compliance with regulaand services tions ­concerning health and safety. We received no indications of ­corresponding non-­compliance for fiscal year 2018. GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service p. 42 information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to product and service information and report grievances concerning non-compliance with regulations and labeling voluntary concerning product and service information. We received no indications of corresponding non-compliance for fiscal year 2018. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to breaches of customer privacy and losses ­report complaints regarding customer data privacy. In fiscal year 2018, of customer data we received no reports or other indications of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulaShould material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the tions in the social and economic area audited financial statements. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 202 FURTHER Information Glossary Networked site Production site where many different production processes and value chains are integrated as a highly efficient network; for INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC TERMS example, the by-products from one production plant are used by another facility at the same site to manufacture another product. Additives The network principle results in lower energy and raw material Additives are substances that are added in small quantities to consumption while ensuring high production output. It is thus products in order to improve or actually create certain properties. resource-friendly and reduces logistics costs at the same time. The positive effects aimed for may relate to manufacturing, storage and processing, or they may be product characteristics that exist OSHA during and after a product’s service life. In contrast to fillers, addiOccupational Safety and Health Administration: an ­agency tives are very highly dispersed in the material and almost always of the United States Department of Labor that is authorized to comprise just a few percent of the overall volume. adopt occupational safety standards. OSHA also enforces these standards with the aim of reducing the number of work-related CLP and GHS accidents and their consequences. CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains provisions for the clasREACH sification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization It is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classificaand Restriction of Chemicals; the E.U. REACH Regulation stipulates tion and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ensures the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. The marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers use of classification criteria and labeling elements that have been to determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and agreed upon internationally is aimed at making things easier for estimate their impact on health and the environment. distributors and at protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards that may be caused by chemicals. Synthesis In chemistry, a synthesis is a process used to manufacture a Compounding facility compound from several elements or a complex new substance A facility for processing and finishing ­engineering plastics to from a number of simple compounds. A synthesis therefore goes enhance their functional properties. beyond the purely physical mixing of two or more substances. A synthesized compound cannot be split back into its base products COSO by physical means. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is a voluntary private-sector organization VOC emissions that has compiled and published guidelines on enterprise risk Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for ­organic management in an internationally recognized framework. carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become ­gaseous at low temperatures. ISO 14001 International standard that supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental management system. ISO 50001 International standard that defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. ISO 9001 International standard that defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Glossary 203 FINANCIAL GLOSSARY Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated compaCapital employed nies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any changes This is defined as total assets less deferred tax assets and in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets interest-free liabilities. of the affiliated company. Cash flow Financial covenants Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreements and term sheets; these are contractually binding promises by the borrower Corporate governance or the obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an with long-term value creation; it comprises the observance of laws, earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. regulations, recognized standards and ­recommendations as well as the implementation and application of company guidelines and GDP management and control structures. Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Deferred taxes for consumption. Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used Goodwill in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company; it is meaand liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in the future sured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value from unused loss carryforwards or tax credits. of the net assets acquired. Due diligence Hedging The careful investigation and analysis of a ­company, particuAn investment position intended to limit or offset certain larly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition c­ learly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or ­interest and its performance in the areas of technology and the environrate changes. ment; it is undertaken especially by potential purchasers involved in acquisition projects. Hybrid bond A hybrid bond is a corporate bond with a very long or unEBIT limited term. The issuing company may terminate a bond after a Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before previously defined date. Moreover, the interest payments agreed deduction of interest and income taxes. upon may be canceled or suspended under certain conditions. Hybrid bonds are subordinated financial instruments. In the EBITDA event of an insolvency or liquidation, they will only be serviced Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­zation: after the company has fulfilled all other obligations toward third the operating result before deduction of interest and income taxes parties. This higher risk borne by investors is compensated by plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and higher interest rates compared with conventional corporate bonds. equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Depending on the bond conditions, at least part of a hybrid bond assets. is treated as equity by rating agencies and banks. EMEA IAS/IFRS Europe, Middle East, Africa region. International Accounting Standards/International Financial Reporting Standards; these are uniform international accounting regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial statements and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 204 FURTHER Information Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and non-­current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition to the acquired ­assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing; ratings are issued by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by banks applying their own criteria. ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. USMCA United States Mexico Canada Agreement. Trade agreement concluded in November 2018 between the U.S., Mexico and ­Canada, which replaces the North American Free Trade Agreement NAFTA that had been in force since 1994. LANXESS Annual Report 2018 Glossary 205 Sustainability Initiatives and Indices We Support WE SUPPORT unglobalcompact.org responsible-care.de chemiehochdrei.de cdp.net tfs-initiative.com sustainabledevelopment.un.org LANXESS Stock in Sustainability Indices sustainability-indices.com ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good carbon neutral natureOffice.com | DE-149-093622 print production LANXESS Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019 MAY 14 Quarterly Statement Q1 2019 Conference Call JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN MAY 23 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Cologne AUGUST 2 Half-Year Financial Report H1 2019 Conference Call JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEZ NOVEMBER 13 Quarterly Statement Q3 2019 Conference Call CONTACTS & MASTHEAD MASTHEAD CONTACTS LANXESS AG Corporate Communications Kennedyplatz 1 Christiane Dörr 50569 Cologne, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 2674 Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 0 mediarelations@lanxess.com www.lanxess.com Investor Relations Consultancy: André Simon Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 3494 ir@lanxess.com Design and Production: Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Date of publication: March 14, 2019 English edition: EVS Translations GmbH, Offenbach, Germany Printed by: Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany This annual report contains forward-looking statements based future results, financial situation, development or performance of on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements other factors could lead to material differences between the actual or to conform them to future events or developments. PUBLISHER LANXESS AG 50569 Cologne Germany www.lanxess.com
