UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2018 1. Introduction In its 11 years of presence in telecommunications market Accepting the responsibility for our business operations in Serbia, Vip mobile has accomplished the sustainable and their influence, we induce, through our socially growth in all business segments owing to its strategic responsible operation, positive changes in the society and determination to focus on providing the best customer contribute to improving the quality of life in Serbia. experience and on continuous improvement of the network, technology and offering of the innovative products and services. Vip always puts its customers first, and the company is dedicated to adapt the products and services to their needs. Our objective in Vip mobile is to support the improvement of the local community, while constantly achieving better business results, which is why we continuously invest in the environment, sports, culture, education, digitalisation. 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address As the youngest telecom operator in the country, we know drivers of change and tell different stories, are always it is essential to be different and to introduce changes. We welcome to join us in this effort! know that the world is left to the young, which is why we Our CSR strategy in 2017/2018 has been mainly want to show by example the importance of responsibility focused on our long-term projects related to support to towards the community in which we live and work. Vip is children internet safety in Serbia, programs aimed at the initiator of the projects that make Serbia a better place social integration of people with autism and digital to live in and through these projects we are telling a improvement in education. different story, the story of trust and unity. In the past 11 years through our social responsibility programs, we We will continue with the implementation of corporate helped the children and the elderly people, influenced the social responsibility based on UN Global Compact development of culture and sports, opened and resolved a principles and lead other companies as a good example number of environmental issues, and thus set up the of permanent and stable CSR practice in the Serbian foundation of responsible, humanitarian impact in the business sector. business world. The doors of our company are always opened to the community and all of those who want to be 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance 2.1. Care for employees HR Sector 2017/2018 strategy was focused on talent management and leadership development, strengthening of corporate culture and promoting Vip mobile as a desirable employer. For our employees we provide additional benefits such as: • Voluntary health insurance • Voluntary pension insurance • Kindergarten on site at our headquarters building • Special benefits and discounts for shopping, sports, leisure • Various work-life balance benefits 2.1.1. Basic information about Age structure 2017 Vip employees and investment 35.0% 32.89% in their development 2018 30.0% 31.08% 25.0% Woman Man 20.0% 15.68% 15.0% 14.26% Gender structure 2017 Gender structure 2018 10.0% 42% 38.40 % 5.0% 3.04% 58% 61.60 % 0.0% 0.86% 1.33% 0.86% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> Age structure 2018 35.0% 27.4% 27.3% 30.0% 25.0% 20.0% 14.3% Management share 2017 Management share 2018 15.0% 19.5% 46 % 40.50 % 10.0% 54% 59.50 % 5.0% 3.9% 1% 5.9% 0.6% 0.0% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> 2.1.2. Managing talents, recognizing top performers, raising competencies One of the major company aims in human resources may use them wherever and whenever they need them. A1 Group Programs A1 Group portfolio contains development is continuing of employee competence various development programs for the employees from all development, creation of new development programs Leadership Journey Workshops, launched in companies which are a part of this Group. Our which will enable this aim’s implementation and enrich 2016, are still contributing to our leaders’ development. colleagues have on their disposal “A1 Learning Hub” the programs that have been a constituent part of Vip The program is continuously improved, so that it responds school open trainings, development programs for various mobile business culture for years. Our aim is to create an to employee development needs as well as current issues target groups as well as various online contents. A1 inspiring and stimulating environment in which our at all times. This workshop concept contributes to additionGroup largely participates in the development strategy for employees can grow together with the company, fulfil al internal exchange of knowledge and experience all employees, which is further developed and tailored to their potentials and be passionate about their work. between the younger and more experienced colleagues local needs by each of the respective companies. and even better connecting of colleagues at all levels. “Gallup Strength Based Program” good practice Cooperation with start up community: Changes of this program continue in 2018. This year we focused Within regularly planned activities for professional develon the market, technology development and growth of on development of leadership skills through coaching. opment in 2018, our employees will attend courses for start up community brought along the need for developing This program includes creating of each employee’s development of professional skills, leadership, organizathe new competences necessary for finding one’s way profile, based on their key strengths, 4 individual as well tional and other “soft” skills in order to accomplish around the coming era. Given the circumstances, in order as 2 team coaching sessions. Each of the participants has improvement in their respective fields. In addition, we to connect with the start up community, we have launched their own individual coach with whom they continuously continuously support internal exchange of knowledge a partnership cooperation with ICT Hub within which we work on their development. through the rotation programs, insight into the workplace jointly create the strategy for development of future comof colleagues from other departments as well as through petences. In addition to attending the ICT Hub open During 2018 we continued the project “Vip e-mpowan increasing number of cross-functional projects. trainings, we are free to hire their lecturers and organize ering classroom”, e-learning platforms (online learning educational programs specifically intended for our needs. platform, a vault of new knowledge and skills in the form Employee development in the field of new of virtual interactive courses on various themes) enabling trends and work methodologies digitalization, Mentorship Program During 2018 we rolled Menaccess to all employees in order to provide even larger agile transformation and an increasing access to new torship Program in which our key employees will receive support to employee development. In 2018, the e-learntechnologies are making us face the new challenges in the support from experienced mentors from other compaing platform was improved, due to which, in addition to the field of employee education. The transformation projnies who will transfer their knowledge and experience as numerous new and modern functionalities, the employees ect, which is currently under way, includes, among other well as various examples from other industries’ practice. gained access to a large number of various contents. things, developing of internal and external education E-learning knowledge and content are available at all programs regarding these issues. times, so that the employees, regardless of their gender, 2.1.3. Social Recruiting In the course of 2018 we have continued and improved job recruiting via social networks in order to be able to search more efficiently and find the talents who are hard to come by, but also to increase the company visibility and raise the level of awareness regarding Vip as an employer. This year, we have launched a new IT system for employee recruiting and selection whose functionalities will enable us to be even better positioned in various channels, among other things, social networks. 2.2. Responsibility towards community Vip is dedicated to initiating positive changes in its environment, and, as a responsible company, it focuses its operations on improving the quality of life in Serbia. 2.2.1. Education Aiming to provide support to young talents, Vip mobile company has improved cooperation with the Faculty of Organizational Science, the Faculty of Transport and Traffic Engineering, the Faculty of Economics and a local group of Electrical Engineering Students' European Association (EESTEC) in Belgrade. In 2018 we supported winners of Case Study Show with paid internship within the company. Through this project we support students in their education. 2.2.2. Vip annual donation In the last ten years, through the New Year's donation Vip counseling platform that allow family members to receive right to work. Creative manual work, such as painting, has been helping the most vulnerable social groups in the all the information necessary to provide support to people making greeting cards and multipurpose products have a country. Together with its customers, Vip has so far with autism. Regardless of where they are in Serbia, they therapeutic effect on them and they are assisted by collected significant funds that have been used to improve are able to talk and consult with selected physicians of occupational therapists and artistic mentors. the conditions of vulnerable groups of the population, different specializations, therapists or lawyers in on-line such as children without parental care, human trafficking sessions. The New Year's donation also included victims, blind and visually impaired people, children equipping five Medical rooms in four cities throughout treated for malignant diseases, etc. our country. People with autism need additional support and help in encountering unknown situations that cause a Funds that Vip mobile traditionally donates for the New sense of fear and anxiety and medical examinations and Year, in 2018, were given to the Association Autism interventions pose as one of the biggest challenges. Serbia for the implementation of three projects the Simulation of the doctor's office within the Medical creation of a digital platform for advising families of rooms enables timely preparation for all situations at the people with autism, equipping so-called medical rooms doctor’s office, from the first meeting with the doctor to the across the country and opening of the first Work Center preparation for various interventions. Owing to the for persons with autism in Serbia. donation, the first Work center for people with autism in Serbia was open, as a part of solving one of the biggest The donation contributed to the launch of the first digital problems faced by people with autism exercising their 2.2.3. 4G classrooms The 4G classroom project originated from the strategic support teaching staff in digital education and further direction of the company to take the position among the development of students in this field. This project is an drivers of positive changes in education by introducing important step towards digitization in education and new technologies. In cooperation with the Ministry of digital literacy of students as well as teaching staff. Education, Science and Technological Development, Vip mobile installed 4G Internet routers in 25 primary schools in rural parts of Serbia. The Internet is provided also to 2.2.4. Digital platform Safe kids Digital educational platform “Bezbedni klinci” (“Safe online digital literacy sessions with an aim to protect the Kids”) was presented in November 2018, in order to safety of children on the internet. The parents’ become a new source of quality content on the topic of understanding of the digital world will be completed on safe internet use for the children and the need for digital the platform with the lists of popular games, educational education for their parents. Experts from the Pedagogic apps and channels where their children can spend quality Society of Serbia have helped create the content of the time. In the course of the coming year, along with experts platform, and offered valuable advice on how to keep from the Pedagogic Society of Serbia, we intend to deliver children safe online. The platform offers parents relevant, a large number of educational workshops for parents and educational and interesting content to help them recognize teachers across Serbia, on the topic of child internet safety. potential dangers in the digital environment, as well as to The project is supported by the Ministry of Education, find ways to avoid or prevent them. The platform includes Science and Technological Development. 2.3. Vip Sponsorships As a company that offers and uses digital solutions and new technologies, we support innovative projects relevant for our core business. Vip also strives to enrich everyday life with valuable content while supporting education, sports and culture. During the previous year our main focus was on new sponsorship project “Vip Kinoteka” aimed at preserving national film heritage, as well as on promoting contemporary dance in Serbia in partnership with Belgrade Dance Festival. 2.3.1. Belgrade Dance Festival Enjoying the title of one of the most outstanding European the Vip talents and support to the National Dance event, every spring Belgrade Dance Festival brings together Foundation. the most prestigious dance companies. As a major partner of the Belgrade Dance Festival, Vip mobile has introduced a Owing to this cooperation Serbia became an indispensable distinctive pattern of large companies’ investments in Serbian stopping point to a large number of significant international culture, and jointly created the slogan Communication on the dance performances. Move , best reflects the strength of an eleven-year Through the accompanying “Vip Talents” project, Belgrade cooperation. To the popularization of artistic dance in Serbia, Dance Festival and Vip mobile had the youngest ballet talents Vip contributes by awarding a prize Vip calls to prominent enrolled into the high quality educational and practical artists from the region with distinctive dancing career abroad, workshops held by top mentors who contribute to guiding then journalistic award Vip step forward , but also through them on their way to professional artistic dancing. 2.3.2. Vip Kinoteka The project “Vip Kinoteka”, carried out jointly by Vip By using the technique of digital restoration, legendary mobile and the Yugoslav Film Archive, aims to preserve films such as “Who’s singin’ over there”, “The National and protect some of the most famous masterpieces of the Class”, “The Marathon Family” are now preserved for seventh art, which have been proclaimed national cultural future generations in the quality they deserve. The project property of great importance. currently includes ten works of cinematic art of national importance produced in the period from 1967 to 1993, During 2018, within the project, 8 cult films that marked is just a starting point of the long-awaited process of Serbian and regional cinema were digitally restored and digital restoration of the Serbian film heritage. re-screened with high image and sound quality in 16 cities across Serbia. 2.4. Responsibility towards Compliance Vip mobile, as member of Telekom Austria Group, comand regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia and goals, but also how we achieve them. Our business plies with the highest corporate management standards, with all business ethics principles. Vip is also fully compartners, users of our services, shareholders, public, and which are a foundation for establishing an excellent and mitted to transparency in business reporting. Compliance our employees expect us to meet the highest standards, long-term relationship with our customers, partners and is actively implemented and incorporated into existing also in the sense of integrity. relevant state institutions. processes and controls. Right way -Right results. Compliance awareness through Code of Conduct, compliance Telekom Austria is listed on Vienna Stock Exchanges and management policies, regular compliance trainings to all operates in accordance with Austria security trade acts level employees within Vip mobile, whistle-blower (local as well as with stock exchange regulations. Vip mobile is and group), Compliance Risk assessment sessions clearconducting its operations in accordance with all laws ly shows that it is important not only to achieve our
