For Sustainable Development Goals Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 2 Top Commitment 65 Governance 203 Social Report 66 Corporate Governance 204 Human Rights Sustainability Activity Highlight 6 HIGHLIGHT 1 Providing Reliable and 76 Risk Management 207 Health and Safety Safe Housing 82 Compliance 217 Employment and Human Resources 8 HIGHLIGHT 2 Contributing to the Development 86 Business Continuity Management Protection of Biodiversity 229 Social Contribution 89 Responsible Advertising/Promotional 10 HIGHLIGHT 3 Promoting Sustainable and Efforts 247 Quality Management Innovative Technological Development 90 Information Security 249 Social Data 12 HIGHLIGHT 4 Expanding the Utilization 92 Intellectual Property Management of Sustainable Forest Resources 255 Environmental Report HIGHLIGHT 5 Responding to Climate 93 Return to Shareholders and IR 14 256 Environmental Management Change Activities 265 Environmental Impact of Business 16 HIGHLIGHT 6 Promoting Workstyle 96 Contribution Through Our Activities Reform Business 279 Responding to Climate Change 18 Sumitomo Forestry Group's 97 Overall Business and Scope of Impact 291 Responding to Waste and Pollution Sustainability Management 99 Housing and Construction Business Biodiversity Conservation 310 19 Corporate Philosophy and 143 Distribution Business Efficient Use of Water Resources 316 Sustainability Management 159 Manufacturing Facilities 319 Environment Related Data 23 Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 169 Forest Management Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues 194 Environmental Energy Business 327 Corporate Profile 27 Material Issue 1: Ongoing Timber and Materials Procurement that Considers Sustainability and Biodiversity 201 Business Responding to the 329 Editorial Policy Super-Aging Society 30 Material Issue 2: The Development and Sale of Reliable and Safe 330 External Recognition Products and Services that Consider the Environment and Society 335 GRI Content Index（GRI Standards） 33 Material Issue 3: The Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities 350 Independent Assurance Report 36 Material Issue 4: A Vibrant Work Environment Where a Diverse Workforce can Unharness their Skills and Individuality 40 Material Issue 5: Corporate Ethics and Governance Structures 42 Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results 50 Stakeholder Engagement 58 Sustainability-related Policies Boundary of the Report and Publication Date Boundary of the Report: The scope of this report is Sumitomo Forestry, its consolidated companies, and some affiliated companies accounted for by the equity-method. * In this report, Sumitomo Forestry refers to Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. and the Sumitomo Forestry Group includes consolidated companies in Japan and overseas as well as some affiliated companies accounted for by the equity-method Published: December 2019 Reporting Period: Japan: April 2018 to March 2019 Overseas: January 2018 to December 2018 * Some activities started before the period and after April 2019 as well as future expectations are also included Contact: Sustainability Department Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3214-3980 URL: http://sfc.jp/english/ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜1＞ Top Commitment A History of Revitalizing a Desolate Mountain 120 Years Ago Sustainability at Sumitomo Forestry has always been a part of our history. In 1691, the Sumitomo family opened the Besshi copper mine in Ehime Prefecture and with this, began logging and procuring timber. This was the start of Sumitomo Forestry. At the time, copper smelting required a large amount of wood. The period from the Edo Era to the Meiji Era saw rapid modernization. With industrial development, the demand for copper rose, which eventually led to deforestation in the mountains. Some 200 years after the opening of the copper mine, Besshi became a desolate mountain region. One person decided to take action and that person was Teigo Iba, the then principal of the mine. Iba pushed forward “The Large-Scale Reforestation Plan” to revitalize the lush mountains. He knew that as a business that relied on copper, one of the fruits of the earth, it could not allow nature to be destroyed. To bring back the green of the mountains, he created the ﬁrst private forest management plan. If he merely wanted to plant trees for wood, he would have planted them in areas that would be easy to log later, but this was not the case. From the top of the mountain to the outer ridges and every cliﬀ, he helped to plant as many as two million trees a year. Planting trees takes energy, money and time. There was no immediate return for top management. However, no one was bothered by this. Their eﬀorts to bring back the greenery to the mountains was purely for the beneﬁt of future generations. With time, the mountains once again became green. This spirit to give back to the earth is shared to this day as a critical element of Sumitomoʼs history. Today, CSR (corporate social responsibility) and ESG (environmental, social and governance) are frequently used terms. However, for us at Sumitomo Forestry, we have long passed down the importance of sustainability of society and business. Sustainable forest management is based on our spirit to give back to the earth, in other words, conservation forestry where we nurture, log, utilize and then replant trees, and is the origin of Sumitomo Forestryʼs operations. ＜2＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Formulation of SBT, Long-Term Goals to Reduce Greenhouse Gases, in 2018 Sumitomo Forestry has undertaken numerous initiatives related to social and environment issues. Like most Japanese companies, we like the phrases, “deeds, not words” and “doing good by stealth.” Japanese consider secret charity a virtue and hence, good deeds are not something to boast about. However, with globalization, we have come to realize that this Japanese sense of virtue is making it diﬃcult for others to see us for who we truly are. In fact, in our overseas IR activities, many investors have said to us, “I did not know Sumitomo Forestry was involved in such activities,” or “I wish you would have told us about this before.” Currently, we consider it the companyʼs mission to openly and accurately disclose our initiatives and disseminate information for dialogue. From “deeds, not words” to “deeds and words.” From the perspective of sustainability, climate change is the most focused upon problem and we have created numerous initiatives with concrete targets, which we are disclosing in various ways. In July 2018, Sumitomo Forestry formulated SBT (Science Based Targets), long-term greenhouse gas emission reduction goals. To fulﬁll these goals, we garnered strong internal consensus, incorporated them into our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets and our yearly ﬁscal budget and are overseeing its progress. For some companies, these initiatives would only begin after there is a certain degree of understanding about the future. But problems are already apparent and action is being called for. In fact, the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) set up by the Financial Stability Board has made a clear recommendation that companies should create appropriate internal governance structures and disclose progress related to initiatives dealing with climate change. While company management must constantly deal with changes in operating environment, the impact of climate change presents a totally diﬀerent degree of uncertainty. As indicated in the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5℃ submitted by the IPCC last year in October, the speed at which temperatures are rising is much faster than forecasted. There is no time to waste. We must move forward and try many things to come up with an answer. This is our stance and we will continue to quickly implement a variety of countermeasures. Increasing Biomass Power Generation, a Renewable Energy One distinct example of a climate change countermeasure we are undertaking is our biomass power generation operations. We started this business to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase the value of our forests and contribute to the promotion of forestry. As World War 2 progressed, energy sources were being depleted and mountains throughout Japan were being logged. In addition, numerous wood buildings were burned due to the war and natural disasters, creating wood shortages. After the war, to promote tree planting as part of the post-war reconstruction eﬀort, the country provided huge amounts of subsidies for aﬀorestation. After that, with the appreciation of the yen, large volumes of overseas timber were imported. Now, many of the trees in Japan have reached maturation and are ready for harvesting. According to data released by Japanʼs Forestry Agency, the cumulative volume of plantation forests continues to increase at a pace of annual 80 million square meters in the recent 10 years. Usage is in increasing trend with annual 30 million square meters, however, more than 45 million square meters are harvested and certain volume are left unused on the mountain because of costs. Sumitomo Forestry strives to promote initiatives in all areas to enhance the value of trees and as one measure to use wood more eﬀectively, biomass power generation has signiﬁcant value. We do not want to waste even one tree. We want to use every single log that are harvested. And then we want the mountains to be replanted. Wood is a resource that allows this. In February 2011 in Kawasaki, we opened an urban-sourced biomass power generation plant, which uses construction waste as its primary fuel source. Since then, in Mombetsu, we opened a forest-sourced biomass power generation plant, which utilizes as its primary fuel source unused wood resources from the surrounding areas of one of our company-owned Mombetsu forests in Hokkaido Prefecture. In addition, we started operations in Tomakomai in Hokkaido Prefecture and Hachinohe in Aomori Prefecture. In 2021, Kanda Biomass Energy in Fukuoka Prefecture will begin operations and with this, power generation will total approximately 177MW, enough to provide electricity to about 370,000 households. One of Sumitomo Forestryʼs greatest strengths in biomass power generation is its network to procure wood left on the mountains. Utilizing our many years of experience in timber operations as a base, we are able to eﬀectively utilize wood fuel from numerous areas in Japan and overseas. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜3＞ Large-Scale Plantation Forest in the Peatland Areas of Kalimantan, Indonesia One of the reasons behind climate change is deforestation around the world. In this area, too, Sumitomo Forestry is pursuing numerous sustainability initiatives both in Japan and overseas in terms of forest management and timber distribution. We procure wood from around the world for not just the wooden houses that we build but also for a wide range of customers. We formulated a procurement policy and set up a Timber Procurement Committee to conﬁrm legality, traceability all the way to be the logging sites, and sustainability. In addition to illegal logging, another reason behind deforestation is agricultural land conversion where natural forests that have high protection value are cleared to make way for oil palm plantations, which are more proﬁtable than forest management. This has become a serious issue. Appropriately evaluating sustainable timber and wood products and increasing their value will serve as an incentive to forest owners to properly own and maintain forests. In addition to forest management of our domestic company-owned forests, we have been managing to create forests overseas as well. We are developing large-scale plantation forests in New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. For example, there are many peatlands in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Peatland areas are degraded and not suitable for agriculture. Revegetation and forest management of these areas requires advanced technology to appropriately control groundwater levels. Peatlands are land with undecomposed plant resource deposits and some hold tremendous amounts of trapped carbon. Peatlands themselves are ﬂammable and in situations where people deliberately use ﬁre, such as for slashand-burn agriculture, there is an increased risk of a ﬁre disaster. Peatland ﬁres emit a huge amount of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, and this is a signiﬁcant problem as well. In West Kalimantan, Sumitomo Forestry is working with a local partner in a government-approved region to manage plantation forests that include peatland areas using a newly developed water level management technology. This technology was developed for forestry operations but can also be applied to agriculture. Bridging both forestry and agriculture, we hope to contribute to alleviating deforestation, and consequently, climate change, and resolving food shortage problems by designing broadly deﬁned sustainable ways to utilize land. Our eﬀorts in West Kalimantan have been recognized by the Indonesian Government as a pilot peatland program. We had the opportunity to be cited as an exemplary program at COP (Conference of Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change) in 2017 and 2018. We have gained global attention and have received on-site visitors, such as the minister in charge of peatland management for the Republic of the Congo in Africa and representatives from international organizations. We believe that forest management, especially overseas, must be economically viable. Otherwise, there is a risk that forests will be randomly converted to farmland. Our goal is to create a sustainable industry that coexists with nature. Increasing Demand for Wood Will Lead to Climate Change Countermeasures In the Sumitomo Forestry Group 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan announced in May 2019, our third basic policy is the acceleration of R&D and technological innovation for utilizing wood. This is a theme that signiﬁcantly relates to ESG. We are striving for energy conservation and greater eﬃciencies of our housing and construction business as well as our forestry business through biotechnology, technological development of high-rise wooden buildings and ICT technologies. To achieve these goals, one thing we have done is design a new research building at our Tsukuba Research Institute. Centering around this new research building, we are currently conducting a research and technological development initiative called the W350 Plan, which sets out to develop a 350-meter high-rise wooden building in year 2041, our 350th anniversary. Raising the added value of wood to its maximum level and utilizing sustainably managed timber can help promote a circular economy that will contribute signiﬁcantly to the environment. ＜4＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 When trees grow, they absorb carbon dioxide and supply oxygen to the atmosphere, and this is most active when the trees are at a young, early growth stage. In other words, it is important to harvest and use mature trees and afterwards, plant new ones in their place. And as those new trees grow, they once again absorb carbon dioxide and convert it to other forms of carbon. For future generations, we need to plant new trees and create this cycle on a much bigger scale. That is why it is important to actively use wood. One thing must be made clear, however. Forests used to obtain wood must not be confused with the high conservation value forests that need to be protected. We need to diﬀerentiate between the two when considering the best action plans. Otherwise, there will be misunderstandings. In fact, when you ask Japanese children if cutting down a tree is good or bad for the environment, most would answer that it is bad. This is because in the Japanese educational system, the impression that cutting down trees equals destroying nature is deeply imprinted. However, European children do not think this way. They are well aware of the importance of circulating forest resources. For example, in Sweden, there is a phrase, “100-year forest.” They say that after 100 years, a forest should be used for wood to make books. Of course, it goes without saying that they should be replanted afterwards to nurture a forest for the next 100 years. In Japan, we need to teach our children that 40 percent of our mountains have trees planted by people, and that these man-made forests must be properly managed until the end. Nurturing a good environment starts with nurturing good people. It is important to create this positive cycle. However, demand for wood for housing and other uses is declining in Japan. That is why we are trying to increase demand for wood. Supplying chips for biomass power generation is one example, but we are working on what we call “MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business,” in other words, promoting the development of wooden constructions and the use of wood materials beyond just detached houses. If we can advance technology, even large buildings can be made of wood. And if that happens, there will be a high demand for wood that will then lead to environmental symbiosis. Utilizing wood to build the future this is the type of movement we want to instigate throughout society. For this, we need innovation in every aspect of our operations upstream to downstream, from forest management to distribution and construction. To build cost-competitive high-rise wooden buildings, there are many things we have to do. That is why we launched the W350 Plan as an open innovation platform. Our goal is to create the future Timberized Eco Cities. Creating a Good Working Environment for a Diverse Group of People These various initiatives are made possible by the people who work for Sumitomo Forestry Group. With the decline in the working population in Japan, creating a work environment where a diverse group of people can be active is an urgent necessity. In 2013, I signed and released Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Declaration on Empowering Women. While this declaration speciﬁes women, it is by no means limited to them. We want to create a workplace that embraces people of diﬀerent values, ages, genders, nationalities, religions, disabilities and other. With that in mind, we chose to use the term “Empowering Women” to symbolize diversity. There are employees who are actively involved in childcare or elderly care. Promoting diversity and workstyle reform are two sides of the same coin. We want to create an environment where each and every employee can gain fulﬁllment as a whole person and work energetically. I began with a story about Sumitomo Forestryʼs history. Each and every employee goes to see ﬁrst-hand that “The LargeScale Reforestation Plan” in the mountains of Besshi. As we walk those mountains, we try to think about our predecessors and the work they did to bring back the forests. And today, each and every employee at Sumitomo Forestry carries on this spirit by continuing to strive to create a sustainable society. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜5＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 1 Providing Reliable and Safe Housing Utilizing IoT for Quick Recovery After Disasters Toward Commercialization of a Natural Disaster Assessment Data Gathering and Analysis System Because homes are a core element of daily life, most customers consider safe and reliable housing important. Sumitomo Forestry Group is constantly striving to enhance the safety and durability of its buildings and to provide products and services that contribute to safety and reliability for customers and society. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes and intense rainfalls, have become more frequent in recent years, and quick response for recovery has become all the more vital. Sumitomo Forestry is working to develop new services that utilize IoT to provide quick support to those who have encountered natural disasters. the government to conduct emergency safety been conducting trials of IoT services that Addressing the Issue of the Time It checks of buildings aimed to prevent secondary utilize our analysis technologies. Specifically, Takes to Assess Disaster disasters. Disaster victims expressed their we are conducting trial experiments using Japan has many earthquakes and in recent anxieties, saying, “It takes too much time to get sensors to measure, gather and analyze data of years, climate change has made natural the information we need,” highlighting one of buildings to determine their condition. We place disasters more serious with concentrated the biggest hurdles in speedy recovery efforts. several sensors throughout a house to acquire downpours, t yphoons and others causing data, such as the magnitude of an earthquake’s * Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of extensive and frequent damage. In monetary tremors, flooding or other conditions, and Disasters database (EM-DAT) terms, Japan accounts for 17% of the worldwide gather this data through a network to analyze. total of damages due to natural disasters. In the At our Tsukuba Research Institute, we combine 20 years until 2015, the total cost of damages Quickly Gathering Data About this data with the vast amount of data about was a staggering 47 trillion yen*. Damaged Homes Using Sensing earthquake resistance of wooden houses for Of course, the bigger the disaster, the longer high-precision analysis to create a technology Technologies the recovery efforts, and it now takes more that is uniquely ours. To ensure our customers’ time to assess the situation as well. For the Sumitomo Forestry is responding to such issues peace of mind and safety in the event of a Kumamoto earthquake that occurred in April by developing services that promote quick disaster, we are working hard toward actual 2016, it took about one and a half months for recovery after disasters. Since 2017, we have implementation. These trials, which were started in the Kanto Overview of How Data Is Gathered region, are now being conducted nationwide at 12 more new locations in its second year as of October 2018. We are working to build the necessary infrastructure to enable the secure gathering of data to evaluate disasters. A sensor installed inside a wall of a house ＜6＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other In addition, by utilizing this gathered data in Message from the Person in Charge Supporting the Speedy Recovery of different ways, we can develop new services of Service Development Customers and Regions Affected by that would give more people a sense of Disasters security. For example, we could collaborate Utilizing IoT for housing is still in its early with casualty insurance companies to provide stages in Japan. In North America, sensing With the actual implementation of these quick damage assessments necessar y for technology is already being employed in services in the future, Sumitomo Forestry will insurance benefits, which would help people many different aspects. As a member of be able to provide new value in wider range of rebuild their lives more quickly. In addition, the IoT Solutions Division, I am always areas. we could provide data to customers and local thinking about what value we as a housing If sensors installed in homes can be used governments for emergency risk assessments manufacturer can provide by using IoT. remotely to determine the level of damage, that would help prevent secondary disasters. With an awareness that the number of we will be able to more quickly grasp, report Furthermore, our data analysis results could customers concerned about safet y is and respond to the situation and arrange for promote development of technologies that increasing because of the frequency of repairs or other work to provide our customers enhance earthquake resistance and durability. natural disasters in Japan, we decided to the support they need. As engineers would no conduct trial experiments. longer have to check each and every house, it First, we are developing high-functionality would resolve the problem of taking too much Providing Peace of Mind and sensors that can monitor our customers’ time and can even be used for areas made Safety to More Customers with Our homes. And to provide recovery support inaccessible after a major disaster. and give customers peace of mind in the Services event of a disaster, we are working to While we are currently continuing to gather provide quick home damage assessments. One example of how gathered data can be utilized data, to assess building damage in a wider Improving reliability and added value is our variety of areas, we are working to gather ongoing challenge. even more data to enhance reliability. At the same time, we are putting in place better infrastructures that will allow the installment of significantly more sensors and we are simplifying installation procedures, reducing device costs and making final improvement touches in preparation for commercialization. While there are still many unresolved issues, we are working to overcome them one by one, and eventually, we hope to apply them to non-housing structures, overseas housing, smart city plans Hidefumi Suzuki, Group Manager and other possibilities. With the popularization Disaster level Disaster level Housing and Building Technology Group, No disaster of new added-value houses, we want to provide IT Solutions Department (high) (low) more customers peace of mind and safety. PICK UP Construction Entrepreneurs Association (MCEA) construction and provided other support in an to provide technical assistance and donations effort to help raise living standards and realize a Collaborating to Build Affordable n e c e s s ar y t o c o n s t r u c t m o d el h o m e s o f more prosperous society in Myanmar. Housing Model Homes in Myanmar affordable houses (homes that are affordable for Overseas, Sumitomo Forestry is working to sell even low-income earners). and promote high energy saving houses and The model homes were built in the Mingaladon homes that help resolve other social issues. Township in the Yangon suburbs. Forty-two In Myanmar, we wor ked with the Jap anJapanese companies that are JMHU members Myanmar Association for Industry of Housing donated money, housing materials, technological and Urban Development (JMHU; currently, the suppor t or other forms of assistance. As a Japan International Association for the Industry chairman member of JMHU, we did the basic of Building and Housing (JIBH)) and the Myanmar design of the model structure, super vised Affordable Houses built in Myanmar Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜7＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 2 Contributing to the Protection of Biodiversity From Gray to Green Building Regional Infrastructures That Utilize the Natural Environment So-called green infrastructures, in other words, infrastructures and land use plans that utilize natural functions, are increasingly becoming an area of focus. Infrastructures form the foundation of industrial and societal activity and include roads, trains, irrigation and other aspects of daily life. Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to contribute to a sustainable society and economic development not through the development of conventional “gray infrastructures,” such as concrete and steel, but through “green infrastructures,” namely forests and urban green spaces. logs so that by the time the logs decayed, the As a result of our efforts, the Aioi District of A Green Infrastructure Project at a planted saplings will have rooted to form strong IHI has won high regard for its biodiversity and Large-Scale Operation soil. Because of damage from animals, there in March 2019, acquired certification from the While green infrastructures are well known was an overabundance of ilex pedunculosa, Association for Business Innovation in Harmony overseas, especially in North America and which deer dislike, causing an imbalance in with Nature and Community (ABINC)*3. Europe, there have been no large-scale vegetation. Ilex pedunculusa is a tree species *1 Eco Asset Consortium: A consultancy team examples in Japan until now. that burns easily. By thinning these trees and comprised of the four companies: Sumitomo In fiscal 2018, Sumitomo Forestry Group worked using them as materials for fascine*2 , we Forestry, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping, with MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, reduced the risk of fire hazards. In addition, to MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting and Inc., of Eco Asset Consortium*1 to implement protect slopes, we used local vegetation found Regional Environmental Planning. a biodiversity project at Aioi District of IHI within a 20km radius and helped bring back *2 Branches that are gathered and made into a Corporation. This has become a leading-edge original vegetation. bundles. Used for earth retaining walls, among example of a green infrastructure at a largeIn addition, we facilitated study sessions other applications. scale operation. among affiliated companies and nearby local *3 A system that certifies initiatives taken by While 71% of the Aioi site is surrounded companies, utilized local construction materials, companies to create, maintain and utilize green by lush nature, the site was vulnerable to and promoted building ties. spaces that take biodiversity into consideration. natural disasters. Sumitomo Forestry, with its experience in forest management and greenery operations, was asked to come up with countermeasures. In 2013, we began surveys to identify all the issues and discovered that the risk of natural disasters was due to animal damage and imbalances in vegetation. Ins t e ad o f emplo y ing t he c on v en tion al method of surrounding the site with concrete to prevent landslide damage, we proposed building a green infrastructure that would secure biodiversity within the compound and use greener y and other natural assets to avert damage from disasters. Specifically, we suggested a method of building a retaining wall using logs from windfall trees. In addition, we Using logs from windfall trees to retain soil and then planting trees in between the logs to further solidify the soil. suggested planting trees in between these ＜8＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other materials our operation uses, what types of To Expand Green Infrastructures in countermeasures to take to prevent animal Japan damage, what types of vegetation to plant that would not be eaten by deer, ways to T his g r e e n in f r a s t r u c t u r e p r oj e c t w a s protect regional biodiversity and other areas. implemented by bringing together Sumitomo With ongoing work in biodiversity protection Forestry Group’s expertise and know how in to create a stronger bond between nature and timber use and greening technologies. humans, our desire is for the operations to As specified also in the Japanese government’s Aioi District of IHI continue to develop as a major manufacturing National Spatial Planning Act, the use of site. With these activities, we hope that these green infrastructures is expanding but related Message from the Person in operations will become a leading biodiversity laws have not kept up. One of the roles of Charge of IHI model operation that is able to withstand and prevent the increasing number of natural our Company is to communicate closely with Since 2011, Aioi District of IHI Corporation has disasters. administrative authorities and determine which been conducting surveys into the operation’s technologies we can utilize within the scope of environmental CSR potential with the aim to the law to resolve issues one at a time. With become a manufacturing site that provides this, we are steadily building more and more new value to society based on coexistence green infrastructures that are contributing to with the region. the protection of biodiversity. Hence, we launched a biodiversity project that would comprehensively resolve CSR-related issues, such as SDGs, and site management. In this green infrastructure project, Sumitomo Forestry Group provided us with Shigeo Ozawa, its knowledge as specialists in forestry and Headquarters Representative, greenery gave its perspective on the types of Aioi District, IHI Corporation PICK UP birds of the forest as narcissus flycatchers and varied tit is increasing with opportunities to view 20th Anniversary of the Mt. Fuji them becoming more frequent, indicating that the Manabi no Mori Natural Forest forest is steadily recovering. Restoration Project Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori natural forest restoration project celebrates its 20th anniversary. This project started in 1998 to bring back the lush greenery of the national forest near the second station of Mt. Fuji, which was heavily wind damaged by a typhoon. Up until now, a cumulative tot al of 28,0 0 0 Before planting Recovering forest volunteers have helped to plant approximately Trends in Wild Bird Population 30,000 region-specific saplings and conduct other (number) forestry efforts. To monitor the recovery of the 25 natural forest, in addition to vegetation surveys, Pheasants Bull-headed shrikes Varied tits Narcissus flycatcher the Company has been conducting wildlife surveys 20 with the cooperation of the Minami Fuji Branch of the Wild Bird Society of Japan since 2000 and 15 has registered 75 indigenous species of birds to 10 this date. The environment where the ground was bare after the removal of fallen trees gradually 5 transformed from grasslands to forests. With this, the population of pheasants and shrikes is 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (year) declining, and in their place, the population of such Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜9＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 3 Promoting Sustainable and Innovative Technological Development Taking the First Step Towards 2041 A New Research Building at the Tsukuba Research Institute Sumitomo Forestry Group is actively developing technologies and products that enhance the value of trees and contribute to the sustainability of the society. In time for our 350th anniversary in 2041, we have embarked on our W350 Plan, a research and technological development plan centered on the construction of a 350-meter-high wooden high-rise building and the advancement of the use of wood in all aspects of urban planning to greenify our environment. Construction of a new research building at our Tsukuba Research Institute, which will form the basis of our efforts to realize our so-called Timberized Eco City that will transform our cities into forests, will be completed in October 2019. energy-absorbing components, which can be Birth of a New Base to Conduct Technical The Technologies and Equipment replaced. With this technology, even if there Verification Tests for Our W350 Plan That Contribute to an Earthquake is damage that goes beyond the limit, only a Resistant and Low Carbon Building minimum of repairs or parts replacement is Because of the deterioration with age of necessary to recover earthquake resistance, the Tsukuba Research Institute building and One of the concepts behind the construction making it a sustainable wooden building. the increase in the number of personnel, of the new research building is the pursuit of In pursuit of making it a Zero Energy Building construction of a new building was begun in sustainability. A representative example of (ZEB), solar panels are being installed on the roof, March 2018. The wooden structure has three such is a structural technology called postthermal insulation properties are being enhanced, floors and a total floor area of 2,532.67m². tension construction, which compensates for wooden palette boilers that have low greenhouse This new research building has offices to hold the lack of rigidity of wooden structures while gas emissions are being installed and other 140 people and at the same time, numerous maintaining its resistance and resiliency against measures are being taken to create an energyresearch areas to conduct various technical earthquakes. Post tensioning is a technology creating and energy-saving structure. In addition, verification tests needed to realize the W350 that involves passing steel rods or wire ropes sensors are being placed throughout the building Plan. Construction utilized a variety of the through the components to give it greater tensile based on wind environment simulations so that latest technologies, both in terms of the actual force and increase the degree of fixation with windows automatically open or close to allow physical building and the software to support other components. In conventional reinforced natural breeze to flow in and out of the offices. it and was selected as a “pilot program for concrete or steel construction buildings, if a large This is a Sumitomo Forestry developed design sustainable buildings (wood type) in fiscal earthquake causes the components to yield*, method called Ryouonbou. It helps to significantly 2017” promoted by the Ministr y of Land, the building has to be rebuilt even if it does reduce energy consumption for cooling or heating Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of the not collapse. However, in wooden post-tension of the building while maintaining a comfortable Japanese government. construction buildings, damage is focused on environment for the people inside. * When a component is deformed beyond its elastic limit and does not go back to its original state Post Tension Construction New research building at the Tsukuba Research Institute 【 earthquake During an 】 Tilted with an earthquake Back to its original position ＜10＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other By making this new research building the site Message from the Person in Software Technologies That Charge of Development of our own research, we plan to gather data Utilize the Strengths of Wood and and verify hypotheses that will contribute to Verification for the Future We received the first proposal from the the realization of a totally new type of office architect four years ago in August 2015. While Using the Whole Building Evacuation Safety building that utilizes the benefits of wood and even the first proposal utilized post-tension Verification Method, we confirmed that everyone greenery. technologies, we had to have many discussions in the new research building can safely escape with the architect because the plan was in the event of a fire, and in a first for a wooden different from what we were thinking. We were Sustainable Wooden High-Rise building structure, we obtained Certification able to reach consensus on the current block from the Minister of Land, Infrastructure Office Buildings structure around November 2016. The technical and Transpor t. With advanced simulation The new research building is filled with many concept of how post tensioning could bring technologies, we verified safety in the event of t y pes of ex periment al features that are together disjointed wood blocks into one in a a fire, cleared all restrictions related to interior necessary in Sumitomo Forestry Group’s efforts way that enables it to withstand the swaying materials, proactively showed pillars, beams to propose midand high-rise wooden buildings of earthquakes was easy to understand and and other structural components and created an on a wide scale. The higher a building is, the I really liked it as an architectural term, as interior environment where people can sense more difficult it is to create countermeasures well. While the technology behind large-scale wooden structures is in its infancy and there the beauty and calming warmth of wood. for earthquakes, fires and other disasters. are many issues that still need to be resolved, In the atrium space, we planted trees in an inner This building, which is a three-floor wooden by combining post-tension technologies with courtyard to re-create a small forest within the structure, will be the basis for our research and other construction methods and technologies, building. In the future, we will verify various development efforts in the W350 Plan, and with I think there is a lot of room for development. methods to maintain the greenery within the the accumulation of technology and know-how, As we work toward fulfilling the goals set out building and at the same time, gather data about we will continue our work to develop wooden in our W350 Plan, we will work to contribute the psychological and physiological impact offices that are safe even in the event of a fire, to steadily achieving important technological an office environment filled with wood and good for both people and the environment and development milestones along the way, such greenery has on the people who work there. sustainable. as W30 and W70. Taisuke Nagashima, Team Manager Construction and Housing Group Tsukuba Research Institute Interior of the new research building Greenery on an exterior wall PICK UP Tsukuba Research Institute. 30-meter tall, 6～7 floor wooden structure. We On the other hand, it is also important that we are already in the site selection stage. Through With W30 As the First Step, utilize the technologies we have developed the construction of W30, we will strive to the Roadmap to Realizing the thus far and evolve them with forecasting. By advance our technologies, reduce costs and W350 Plan 2021, we aim to achieve W30 and pursue the increase the possibility of achieving our W350 limits of post-tension construction with a 20～ Plan. To fulfill an incredibly ambitious goal of building a 350-meter high-rise wooden building requires W350 Plan Roadmap technological innovations that go beyond conventional wisdom and resolve a number 【W350】 【W30】 【W70】 【W200】 of issues identified through backcasting. 6〜7 floor 14 floor Timberized Eco City The proposed building will have 70 floors building building that will transform and will be a 9:1 ratio hybrid wood and steel our cities into forests construction. Basic R&D for this totally new type of technology is now taking place at the 2018 2020 2025 2030 2035 2041 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜11＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 4 Expanding the Utilization of Sustainable Forest Resources Reinforcing Sustainable Timber Procurement Formulation of a Timber Procurement Action Plan Forest land area is continuing to decrease around the world and as indicated in the SDG goal, is a global-scale problem. According to the Fifth Assessment Report issued by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), about 25% of the factors behind climate change are attributable to deforestation. After the Paris Agreement, this concern has grown even stronger. As more people are seeking sustainability in timber procurement, Sumitomo Forestry, with its business operations centered on wood, is contributing to the further promotion of responsible timber procurement by formulating a three-year action plan to realize a sustainable and prosperous society. By our target fiscal year of 2021, in addition ❶ Certified timber and pre-certified timber: Reinforcing Sustainable Timber to confirming 100% legality, we have set out FSC, PEFC, an d SGEC (R e gar dle s s o f Procurement Due Diligence at a goal to handle 100% sustainable timber and CoC connection, we place emphasis on Sumitomo Forestry with clear-cut timeframes, are working toward cer tification at time of production and better visualization of our initiatives. promote a shift to certified timber) Our Company utilizes wood as a renewable ❷Timber from plantation forests natural resource in its business operations and has set out in its Corporate Philosophy to Our Thinking Regarding Sustainable ❸ Natural timber where forestry management contribute to the realization of a sustainable Wood and Wood Products and dis t r ibu tion c an b e as s e s s e d as and prosperous societ y. We for mulated We define sustainable wood or wood products sustainable. (this does not include timber the Timber Procurement Standards in 2005 if they fulfill one or more of the following from conversion forests = timber harvested and the Timber Procurement Philosophy criteria. Even when legality can be confirmed, from natural forests that were converted to and Policy in 2007 to confirm legality in our for items that do not fulfill our definition of farm land such as oil palm plantations) timber procurement efforts. Since 2012, we sustainable wood or wood products, we will ❹Recycled timber have further promoted responsible timber shif t to alternative wood and other such procurement activities through such efforts products by fiscal 2021. as sur veys regarding timber procurement sustainability. On the other hand, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), one of the primary reasons behind deforestation in recent years is the clearing of forests for conversion to farmland and other uses. When procuring timber, in addition to countermeasures against illegal logging, biodiversity of the surrounding environment and the considerations of local residents, we must be concerned about the sustainability of wood and agricultural products from forests that were converted to farmland. In the 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan that the Sumitomo Forestry Group announced in May 2019, we are promoting as one of our basic policies integrate the ESG with our operations. Checking tags at the interim log yard ＜12＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other In the sustainability surveys of our suppliers, to exclude timber from forests that have we have made evaluation standards stricter Working with Suppliers to Provide been converted to farmland or other uses, by adding categories about human rights and Wood with Value and furthermore, adding human rights and labor practices. For suppliers with low scores, labor practices as evaluation criteria are all we request improvement measures and strive To realize sustainable timber procurement, in keeping with global trends. to raise the overall level of the entire supply we must implement initiatives for the entire On the other hand, many issues regarding chain. In addition, in the formulation and supply chain, including product development, timber procurement and management in implementation of our Action Plan, we are and this requires the cooperation of all parties, Japan still remain, such as the fact that working to have dialogue with outside experts in particular our suppliers. For this reason, almost all plantation forests are considered and stakeholders, among other efforts, to when we were re-evaluating our due diligence sustainable and the wide definition of ensure objectivity. process, we placed importance on dialogue recycled timber. Sumitomo Forestry is a with our suppliers. Through confirmation that leading company and I hope they will tackle timber does not come from forests that were these and other related issues head on. converted to farmland or other uses, we are actively promoting measures for sustainable forest management, which we hope will lead to long-term stable timber procurement. Message from an Outside Expert One of the core elements of this new three-year Action Plan is the definition of sustainable timber. I think that recognizing natural forest timber that is not explicitly Mutai Hashimoto c e r t i f ie d t im b e r, s o l o n g a s f o r e s t Forest Programme Adviser, management has been determined to be World Wide Fund for Nature Japan(WWF) sustainable, is a very challenging definition. Deputy Director, Coral Reef Conservation and A QR code tag affixed to the cut end of a log For that reason, expressing a commitment Research Center PICK U P local employment with our plantation forest Kikorin plywood Wins an EcoPro op er ations and c on t ribu t e t o indus t rial Award development with income from timber sales and Kikorin ply wood, an original t ype of by creating a processed wood business that environmentally friendly plywood, is a JASutilizes plantation timber. Furthermore, we have compliant product made of at least 50% reduced the burden on natural wood by utilizing certified timber and sustainable plantation plantation timber as a raw material instead. timber. These initiatives have won high regard and we Since introducing Kikorin plywood in 2009, were awarded honorable mention for the First Sumitomo Forestr y has been returning a EcoPro Awards* in September 2018 in Tokyo. Kikorin plywood portion of the sales to the plantation forest We will continue to distribute seedlings to operations in Indonesia, which has grown to a local residents and total plantation area of 105ha (approximately hold study sessions *Organized by the Japan Environmental Management 22 times the size of Tokyo Dome stadium). on af forestation Association for Industry. In addition to providing consumers information about eco products, it supports providers, In addition, as a result of the ongoing cycle methods and promote such as companies, support for their various initiatives in of planting and harvesting trees, we have a sustainable cycle an effort to further develop and promote the use of eco been able to contribute to the local region. of plantation forest products in Japan. Established in 2004 and in fiscal 2018, For example, we have been able to create operations. its Eco Products Awards was renamed the EcoPro Awards. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜13＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 5 Responding to Climate Change Developing Plantation Forest Operations That Provide Both a Stable Supply of Timber and Protect the Environment Responsible Peatland Management by Wana Subur Lestari (WSL) and Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI) of Indonesia To mitigate deforestation, it is important to regenerate forest resources through appropriate management. Sumitomo Forestry is practicing sustainable forest management based on the concept of perseveration forestry, where we plant, nurture, harvest and utilize trees and then replant. We own and maintain plantation forest operations that cover approximately 48,000ha of company-owned forests in Japan and about 230,000ha of plantation forest land overseas. Utilizing our know-how gained from our wealth of experience in forest management both in Japan and abroad, we are working to expand sustainable plantation forest operations that are in harmony with the local society and environment. View of the plantation forest Production Forests in Indonesia Sumitomo Forestry and an Indonesian forest management and ply wood manufacturing company called Alas Kusuma Group jointly established WSL and MTI (hereinafter WSL/ MTI) and with the license from Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment and Forestry, has been operating a large-scale plantation forest in West Kalimantan since 2010. In addition to using drainage canals and made into plantation operations. As a result, w hile peatland planting, growing and harvesting trees in a forests. However, drying the soil breaks down settlement rate is said to be usually 5～10cm/ planned manner to produce sustainable timber, organic substances in the peat soil, which year, the operations have been able to maintain the operations are working in full consideration results in the emission of greenhouse gases. an average peatland settlement rate of 2.8cm/ of biodiversity protection. Furthermore, the In addition, dry peat burns easily, creating year, almost the same as natural forests. These operation is contributing to development of the the risk of large-scale peat fires. To prevent efforts have helped to suppress the emission of regional society through the creation of local fires, appropriate water level management greenhouse gases from the soil, and with the job opportunities and other efforts. is impor tant to ensuring that the soil is absorption of CO2 from the plantation forests, maintained at a desirable level of dampness. are helping to mitigate climate change. In WSL/MTI conducted detailed sur veys for addition, at the plantation forest plan proposal Sustainable Peatland Management five years with the start of plantation forest phase, in line with thinking regarding high operations in the peatland areas and came up conservation value forests (HCVF), we are Peatlands are formed when dry vegetation with a comprehensive plan. After gathering inconducting detailed studies and establishing accumulates in water in an undecomposed depth data as well as totally new data about protection areas for forests, buffer zones and state. According to the International Union the geography, depth and other features of production forests (plantation forest land). for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the the peatlands, WSL and MTI formulated an With local governments and other companies, world’s four million square kilometers of evidence-based water level management we have created a forest protection network peatland account for 3% of the earth’s total plan. In addition, they implemented proper and are working together to create green land area and are said to hold 630 gigatons of management systems, such as appropriate corridors with rare animal and plant species in carbon. If the carbon gas trapped in the soil is w ay s to me asur e w at er levels and fir e a manner that ensures that their habitats are released due to overdevelopment or peat fires, prevention training, and with the cooperation not isolated. These efforts have been highly it would impact significantly impact on climate of a research institute, they accumulated regarded by animal specialists and NGOs. change. In the past, peatlands were dried know-how about peat management to improve ＜14＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other Message from the On-site Manager Regional Grassroots Activities Speaking at COP for Two Consecutive Years an Increase in I consider my job in water level management There are about 300 local employees working Overseas Interest to be about working with water and peat. a t W S L / M T I , w hi c h is c o n t r ib u t in g t o Because I get covered in peat and my work employment of local residents and vitalization Our comprehensive approach to peat clothes are always stained in the color of mud, I of local industry. In addition, we are embarking management has been regarded highly and at have a job that not many people like. In times of on many different locally rooted activities to the 24th Conference of the Parties to the United emergency, I sometimes have to go to measure strengthen ties with the community, such as Nations Framework Convention on Climate water levels in the middle of the night or at building water purification facilities and clinics, Change (COP24) held in 2018, we gave a speech dawn. I am always thinking about stabilizing providing support to maintain full-time medical at the Indonesia Pavilion. water levels so that the plantation forest grows staff, teaching about the environment at local This speech was given in response to a request properly. We developed a simple yet effective primary schools and other efforts. In 2018, we from Indonesia’s Ministr y of Environment method to manage water levels in 2010, which created a grievance mechanism whereby local and F or e s t r y and w as t he s e c ond time has gained a lot of attention from governments and international organizations as a superior residents can express in writing and through we participated in COP after 2017. Under technology. Though it is a job that most people our regular visits their opinions, which we t he title, “Sus t ainable lands c aping f or dislike, I am truly honored that its value is being respond to within seven business days. This timber manufacturing and peat biodiversity recognized and it is gaining more attention. system helps us to appropriately handle any protection,” we talked about sustainable peat Now my stained work clothes are a symbol of problems that local residents present. management. Half of the participants were my pride. In the future, I hope more people will from developing countries and the event become involved in working with water and showed us first-hand the interest and global peat and generate new ideas and technologies. need for peat management technologies. It is truly wonderful that our technologies are We see potential in applying and expanding being adopted around the world. sustainable peat management to regions beyond Indonesia. Blessed with the possibility Bernardus Agusmuliyadi, of expanding opportunities, we will increase Water Management Section, Mayangkara Tanaman Industri our focus and efforts in the future. Environmental class at a local primary school At the lecture Talking with Minister Arlet te of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (on left) PICK UP Center of Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment *1 Established in 1972, the United Nations Environment and Forestry, the United Nations Environment Programme provides leadership and encourages partnership in protecting the environment to enable Programme (UNEP), the Food and Agriculture Plantation Forest Site Visits by Organization (FAO), forestry agencies and others nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations. It is Government and International for a total of 50 participants. The tour included one of the leading UN bodies in the environmental field. Organization Representatives explanations about water level management *2 An initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with systems and real-time environment observation peatland protection that was launched at the Global For the primary purpose to observe and learn systems using IoT technologies. In addition, we Landscape Forum in November 2016 ahead of COP22 about sustainable peat management in Indonesia, explained how we are working to protect animal (Marrakech). Main members include Indonesia, Peru, a group visited WSL/MTI in October 2018 as part Republic of Congo and Democratic Republic of the Congo. and plant life by creating protected forests of the third conference of the United Nations and green corridors. Through this opportunity, Environment Programme (UNEP)*1 -led Global we were able to gain global recognition for Peatlands Initiative (GPI)*2. our combined pursuit of economic activity and The visitors included representatives of the conservation activity. Democratic Republic of the Congo’s Ministry of This visit helped us gain international interest Environment and Sustainable Development, the and focus and gave us a stronger foothold Republic of the Congo’s Ministry of Tourism and in Sumitomo Forestry’s aim to spread forest Environment, the Forest Development Research management to other regions. View of site visit Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜15＞ Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other H IG H LI G H T 6 Promoting Workstyle Reform Going Beyond a Reduction in Work Hours Exploring Various Measures That Lead to Providing Value In Japan, a number of laws related to workstyle reform have been enacted and society as a whole is rapidly moving toward realizing better ways to work. At Sumitomo Forestry Group, we are exploring a wide variety of initiatives that reflect employee input and are striving to achieve greater job satisfaction and productivity by utilizing the latest technologies and other methods. With workstyle reform, we believe we can provide better quality products, services and new values. work tasks (to better visualize what tasks are Aims Behind Workstyle Reform Fiscal 2018 Workplace Reform performed and how time is used), introduce job Sumitomo Forestry Group has set as one of its Project sharing in sales and design for greater work material issues, “A Vibrant Work Environment In fiscal 2018, in Japan, we incorporated efficiencies and shorter hours and apply flex Where a Diverse Workforce can Unharness performance indices as part of our bonus time systems for groups in charge of marketing, their Skills and Individuality” is promoting evaluation criteria, promoted the use of design and manufacturing, all of which helped workstyle reform. In fiscal 2018, in addition teleworking and expanded opportunities for to identify issues that needed to be resolved to reducing work hours and encouraging paternity leave, among other measures. and measure efficiency and other indicators. employees to take vacation time, we have tried These efforts have led to real results with Surveys conducted after the trials indicated to increase the ratio of added-value time (time a decline in overtime, an increase in male that employees gained a better awareness of to do creative activities that lead to better employees participating in parenting and other how they used time and allotted their work, services) by enhancing work efficiency. It is positive changes. As a company that is closely which led to changes in each employee’s our hope that these efforts will lead to greater linked with people’s lifestyles, employees perception and actions. customer satisfaction as well as greater began to get a direct sense of how new With these results in mind, we will undertake employee sense of fulfillment during after-work perspective of their lives lead to better work. workplace reform that takes into consideration time, holidays and vacation. To further promote workstyle reform, the each division’s particular characteristics and Housing and Construction Division set up pilot needs and promote appropriate measures that branch offices to implement various initiatives reflect the actual situation at each office to the on a trial basis. Two offices of different sizes greatest degree possible. and regions, namely the West Tokyo Branch Office and the Hiroshima Branch Office, were ［Aims Behind Workstyle Reform］ selected to be the pilot branch offices. Here they were required to maintain records on Reduce work hours / Encourage vacation time Focus on work Sense of that positively fulfillment as a impacts person customers Workshop at the Tokyo West Branch Workshop at the Hiroshima Branch ＜16＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Top Sustainability Sustainability Contribution Through Social Environmental Commitment Activity Highlight Management Governance Our Business Report Report Other PI CK U P Message from the Person in Charge of RPA I feel that the implementation of RPA has led to less overtime, increased focus at work and lower psychological stress related to deadlines and other pressures. I myself was quite anxious to return to work af ter maternit y leave but, af ter shifting from outsourcing management The comment shown in the to RPA planning, I can now work from photograph: home and the opportunities where I can Working Mom with RPA challenge myself have grown. ・Motivated at work ・30 more min. to spend with children in the busy morning Chiharu Shito Sumitomo Forestry Information Systems Co., Ltd. Photograph courtesy of RPA Integrated Platform “RPA BANK” (RPA BANK, Inc.) Creating Added-value Time with Business Automation Tools Reasons behind its Trials at Sumitomo Forestry and In the future, we will implement RPA in more branches and at the same time, review implementation and impact future plans plans to release it to the entire Group. By With the aim to enhance the efficiency of In fiscal 2019, Sumitomo Forestry has begun identifying business tasks where RPA has routine tasks, in 2014, Sumitomo Forestry RPA trials at a number of model branch a significant impact and considering ways Infor mation Systems introduced RPA offices. To clear various issues regarding to make it easier to use, we hope to free (robotic process automation), a software governance and security, Sumitomo Forestry employees from routine tasks to maximize robotic technology that automates PC and Information Systems is working closely with their potential. At the same time, we know other operations. This company manages the IT Division and based on interviews it is important to review and improve other the IT-related back office operations of with employees, considering which tasks business operations as we consider RPA the Sumitomo Forestr y Group. During to apply these trials to. We have completed implementation. With the hopes that RPA adver tising campaigns or events, they a number of dif ferent progr ams that will create time that can be used more increase personnel on a temporary basis. In emphasize ease of use, such as enabling effectively, we will continue to develop new the first half year after implementation of access to groupware and sending project measures for workstyle reform. RPA, they automated 26 internal company completion reports over email. business tasks and succeeded in reducing the number of human-performed tasks by about 180 hours per month. One of the biggest achievements is that Using RPA to Reduce Tasks and Create Added-value Time with the reduction in human-performed tasks, added-value time for more creative work has increased. Employees have been On-line 24 hours a day, 365 days a year able to embark on new projects that they Accurate did not have the time to do, and to become Fast more efficient with their existing tasks, which has had an even greater positive Overtime Human and robot collaboration effect. Furthermore, this had led to a wider Added-value time diversity of workstyles and improvement Work of w or king conditions and employee hours motivation through shorter work hours and more work from home. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜17＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group's Sustainability Management Corporate Philosophy and Sustainability Management Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues Material Issue 1: Ongoing Timber and Materials Procurement that Considers Sustainability and Biodiversity Material Issue 2: The Development and Sale of Reliable and Safe Products and Services that Consider the Environment and Society Material Issue 3: The Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Material Issue 4: A Vibrant Work Environment Where a Diverse Workforce can Unharness their Skills and Individuality Material Issue 5: Corporate Ethics and Governance Structures Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability-related Policies ＜18＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Philosophy and Sustainability Management Sumitomo Forestry Group Corporate Philosophy and Sustainability Management The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates under its Corporate Philosophy to utilize timber friendly to people and the global environment and contribute to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services according to the Sumitomo Spirit, which aims to be beneﬁcial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management. We have been operating based on this philosophy and engaging in sustainable management that would contribute to achieving the SDGs. We redeﬁned the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct in July 2017 so that it conforms to the requirements of society, such as recent international standards and initiatives. We formulate various policies and guidelines according to these principles, such as our environmental, procurement and human rights policies. In addition, to ensure Group-wide adoption of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct, we explain the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct by distributing a Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Handbook to each and every employee of Group companies in Japan and by carrying out e-Learning. This information is translated into English and other languages to implement the Code of Conduct along with Corporate Philosophy and Our Values among aﬃliated companies outside of Japan. This information has also been disclosed on our website to our business partners and other stakeholders. At the ESG Promotion Committee convened four times a year, we monitor the practice and eﬀectiveness of these principles from our Corporate Philosophy to Our Values and Code of Conduct. Moreover, based on the ISO26000, the International standard requiring organizations to practice social responsibility, the Sumitomo Forestry Group actively communicates with all stakeholders. Incorporating the Sumitomo Groupʼs shared values into its brand message “Happiness Grows from Trees,” we will further promote sustainable management, thereby contributing to a sustainable society. Corporate Philosophy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes wood as a healthy and environmentally friendly natural resource to provide a diverse range of lifestyle-related services that contribute to the realization of a sustainable and prosperous society. All our eﬀorts are based on Sumitomoʼs Business Spirit, which places prime importance on fairness and integrity for the good of society. Our Values We provide high-quality products and services that bring joy to our customers. We create new businesses that lead to happiness for generations to come with a fresh perspective. We promote a free and open-minded corporate culture that respects diversity. We set and strive to achieve ambitious goals through ongoing eﬀort. We do work that wins us the trust of society with fair and honest conduct. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜19＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Purpose and scope of application Based on its corporate philosophy and Our Values, the Sumitomo Forestry Group shall manage its operations, including the supply chain, in accordance with this Code of Conduct. Fair and transparent corporate activities 1. Strict adherence to laws and regulations We shall adhere to all domestic and overseas laws and company regulations and respect international norms of behavior. 2. Prevention of corruption We shall have absolutely no involvement in corrupt practices, including bribery, embezzlement and money laundering. 3. Fair business transactions We shall pursue fair business transactions and refrain from any involvement in cartels, bid rigging or other such activities. 4. Fair accounting procedures We shall conduct fair accounting and tax practices based on accurate records. 5. Communication with stakeholders In consideration of the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, we shall disclose necessary information in a timely and fair manner and promote dialogue. 6. Maintaining conﬁdentiality We shall ensure the protection of conﬁdential information, both our own and that of third parties. 7. Information security We shall install appropriate information security measures to prevent information leaks and other breaches. 8. Relationships with companies we do business with We shall build and maintain constructive relationships with the parties we do business with and refrain from inappropriate behaviors, such as the abuse of power. 9. Protection of intellectual property rights In addition to protecting our own Companyʼs intellectual property rights, we shall not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. 10. Protection of personal information We shall appropriately manage personal information, use it only for authorized purposes and prevent leaks. 11. Responsible advertising/promotional eﬀorts We shall engage in accurate and appropriate advertising and promotional eﬀorts that do not cause misunderstanding or oﬀense. 12. Healthy relationship with the government We shall maintain a healthy and transparent relationship with the government that is in conformance with all laws. 13. Stance on organized crime We shall have absolutely no involvement in organized crime. 14. Establishment of a whistleblowing mechanism We shall establish a mechanism for people to report any suspicions of breaches to any laws or this Code of Conduct. By allowing reports to be made anonymously and strictly prohibiting retaliation against informants and other measures, we will actively promote its use. Ethical conduct 15. Avoidance of a conﬂict of interest We shall make a clear distinction between professional and personal matters and refrain from activities that may constitute a conﬂict of interest with the company. 16. Prohibition of misappropriation of company assets We shall not use company funds or assets for personal purposes. ＜20＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 17. Prohibition of insider trading We shall take no part in insider trading, including being complicit with others. 18. Appropriate gift giving and entertainment We shall neither accept nor oﬀer gifts or entertainment that would be considered inappropriate according to socially accepted norms. 19. Prohibition of political or religious activities During work hours, we shall not recruit or otherwise promote political, religious or other activities based on personal ideology. A respectful, healthy workplace 20. Respect for human rights According to internationally accepted human rights norms, we shall respect the human rights of all individuals, including women, children, indigenous people, minorities and vulnerable people. 21. Prohibition of discrimination and the promotion of diversity We shall not discriminate on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, religion, ideology, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or other. In addition, we shall work to secure and promote diversity. 22. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall not tolerate forced labor or child labor in any form. 23. Freedom of association and collective bargaining rights In accordance with laws, we shall secure workersʼ rights for freedom of association and collective bargaining. 24. Appropriate working hours and wages In accordance with laws, we shall ensure that working hours and wages are appropriate. 25. Work/life balance We shall secure the appropriate balance between work and individual commitments, such as caring for children and the elderly. 26. Occupational health and safety We shall strive to maintain a safe and healthy work environment. In addition, we shall implement regular educational and training programs to prepare for disasters, accidents and other. 27. Human resources development We shall strive to nurture human resources by providing skill enhancement opportunities, such as training seminars. 28. Prohibition of harassment We shall not commit or tolerate acts of sexual harassment, power harassment, inhumane punishment or other. 29. Protection of privacy We shall respect and protect the individualʼs right to privacy. Business activities that respect society and the environment 30. Customer satisfaction and safety We shall secure the safety and security of our customers and at the same time, sincerely engage with them and work to improve quality and customer satisfaction. 31. Coexistence with the environment We shall strive to reduce the environmental impact of our products and services throughout their entire lifecycle, prevent global warming, recycle resources, prevent pollution and maintain biodiversity. 32. Contribution to the local community We shall respect the local regionʼs culture and customs and through dialogue, shall seek to contribute to their sustainable development. Established July 1, 2017 Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Guidebook Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜21＞ Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In December 2008, Sumitomo Forestry formally signed the United Nations (UN) Global Compact to declare our support for its principles. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact are based on globally established agreements, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labour Organizationʼs (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. They incorporate support of and respect for the protection of human rights and the eradication of forced and child labor. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ＜22＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues Formulation of Mid-Term Sustainability Targets In 2015, Sumitomo Forestry Group identiﬁed ﬁve CSR Material Issues and established a Mid-Term CSR Management Plan that speciﬁed strategies and targets for each issue. With ﬁscal 2020 set as the target year, each company and division within the Group has been engaged toward achieving those goals. At the same time, as interest in ESG has heightened in the society and changes in our business environment, we have determined that there is a need to work on promoting sustainable management to an even greater extent. As such, we have formulated the “Mid-Term Sustainability Targets” that incorporates our sustainability strategy and CSR Material Issues within the “Sumitomo Forestry Group 2021 Medium-Term Management Plan”, which includes “Promote further of business operations and ESG initiatives” as one of the basic policies of. Mid-Term Sustainability Targets announced in May 2019 is a revision of our previous Mid-Term CSR Plan based on our contribution to achieving the SDGs and the ﬁve CSR Material Issues. Deliberations have been held in each business division and at management level, resulting in the expansion of our list of qualitative targets from 12 to 15 items. Incorporating speciﬁc non-ﬁnancial targets into our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan has enabled us to further strengthen the link between our business and sustainability strategies. Not only does this enable us to meet the expectations of society such as SDGs, we believe it will also lead to an increase in corporate value which cannot be determined from a ﬁnancial perspective alone. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜23＞ Identifying Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues Following the changes in the economic, environmental and social situation, in March 2015, the Sumitomo Forestry Group identiﬁed new CSR material issues to replace the ones speciﬁed in 2008. The Group surveyed both internal and external stakeholders as well as outside experts, receiving responses from about 2,700 people. In preparing the questionnaire, 27 issues most closely related to the Sumitomo Forestry Group were speciﬁed, based on the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy and Our Values, and taking into account such matters as ISO 26000, the international standard on the social responsibility of organizations, and evaluation points linked to socially responsible investment (SRI). After incorporating management perspectives, the survey results were mapped out against axes of “management” and “stakeholders,” before determining the materiality of each issue. 12 of these issues were identiﬁed as being highly material, and rearranged into 5 issues for the Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues. In conjunction with the formulation of Mid-Term Sustainability Targets in 2018, we also revised our CSR Material Issues in light of new demands from the society. ＜24＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Mid-Term Sustainability Targets In Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, we establish 15 qualitative targets based on contributions to achieving SDGs and on our ﬁve material issues. In addition, we speciﬁed evaluative indexes (quantitative goals) for each qualitative target item, which serve as our targets for ﬁscal 2021. Each group company and department has set “Sustainability Budget” with numerical targets set for the ﬁscal year and commenced initiatives toward achieving these goals. The Sumitomo Forestry Group fully implements a PDCA cycle for the progress and achievements of each target at the Sustainability Committee convened two times a year in addition to providing reports to the Board of Directors. Material Issue 1: Ongoing Timber and Materials Procurement that Considers Sustainability and Biodiversity Material Issue 2: The Development and Sale of Reliable and Safe Products and Services that Consider the Environment and Society Material Issue 3: The Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Material Issue 4: A Vibrant Work Environment Where a Diverse Workforce can Unharness their Skills and Individuality Material Issue 5: Corporate Ethics and Governance Structures Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜25＞ Dissemination of SDGs Sumitomo Forestry Group, we believe that it is crucial to disseminate and foster an understanding of SDGs by each and every employee as we contribute to the SDGs through our business activities. Cosponsoring the Nikkei SDGs Forum Sumitomo Forestry Group is cosponsoring the Nikkei SDGs Forum, a project run by the Nikkei Group to support companies in their eﬀorts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations, from ﬁscal 2018. Implementation of SDGs Dissemination Workshops The Sumitomo Forestry Group holds “SDGs Workshop” sessions by external lecturers for employees to provide learning opportunities that link SDGs to business operations. At the workshops, participants play a card game in which participants envision the achievement of their life goals at the year 2030, such as “wealth acquisition,” “comfortable leisure lifestyle,” and “environmental conservation” in light of economic, social and environmental “barometers” that reﬂect global circumstances. Participants were divided into groups, which then used Lego blocks as a tool to discuss what they can do based on the results as members of the Sumitomo Forestry Group to help Workshop at Tsukuba Research realize a world in which “No one will be left behind.” Institute Workshop and training sessions were held four times in ﬁscal 2018 with 127 participants, mainly among employees working on new business development. At the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the workshops and other eﬀorts are aimed at further dissemination of SDGs understanding and action toward achieving the goals, both internally and externally. ＜26＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Material Issue 1: Ongoing Timber and Materials Procurement that Considers Sustainability and Biodiversity Basic Policy With businesses centered on wood, Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes sustainable forest management and timber procurement both domestically and abroad. In procuring wood and timber products, we engage in management under speciﬁed numerical targets, placing it as an important theme of sustainability that encompasses environmental aspects such as climate change measures and biodiversity conservation as well as social aspects such as human rights. With increase in concern about forest depletion as one of the causes of climate change, demand for sustainability in procurement of timber is on the rise. Amid these circumstances, Sumitomo Forestry Group has declared the goal of handling all of its timber and timber products to be sustainable by ﬁscal 2021. We have heightened our evaluation criteria for sustainable timber procurement as we work to step up our conﬁrmation system. As we continue to contribute to solving social issues, we have deﬁned KPI to establish timber procurement that achieves both forest resource utilization and biodiversity conservation. Management of Material Issue 1 Material Issue 1 of our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets is “Ongoing timber and materials procurement that considers sustainability and biodiversity.” We have derived three targets from this issue, which we incorporate into our management practices through inclusion in annual activity policy and measures for each department. Targets of Material Issue 1 1. Management forests while mitigating climate change and protecting biodiversity 2. Expanding the utilization of sustainable forest resources 3. Building sustainable supply chains Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜27＞ Management of Each Target Ongoing Timber and Materials Procurement that Considers Sustainability and Biodiversity Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Environment Maintain and expand the Domestic and overseas and 220,951 220,417 221,117 221,467 area of certiﬁed forests certiﬁed forest area (ha) Resources Division Expanding the Utilization of Sustainable Forest Resources Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Environment Area of forest plantation and with in-house produced 6,055 6,553 7,487 7,920 Resources seedlings (ha) Division Expand domestic and Environment overseas forest plantation and area with seedlings Resources produced. Seedlings supplied (unit: 10 Division 511 604 726 Thousand) Timber and Building Materials Division Environment and Resources Expand the volume of chip Volume of chip and pellet Division, 1,188,010 1,221,130 1,363,930 and pellet fuel used fuel used (t) Timber and Building Materials Division Timber and Volume of sustainable Building timber and timber products 85 89 93 100 Materials handled (%) Increase quantity of Division sustainable timber and timber products handled Ratio of certiﬁed timber and used (including material obtained Housing and 80 100 100 from a certiﬁed process) Construction (0.1)* (12)* (12)* (12)* used as primary building Division materials (%) * Figures in parenthesis do not include per-certiﬁed timber. ＜28＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Building Sustainable Supply Chains Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Sustainability survey implementation rate in the Housing and supply chain of the Construction 65 75 80 domestic housing Division Update the CSR department (%) procurement survey form and formulate survey plan Sustainability survey Timber and implementation rate of Building 100 100 100 100 suppliers of imported timber Materials (%) Division Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜29＞ Material Issue 2: The Development and Sale of Reliable and Safe Products and Services that Consider the Environment and Society Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry Group provides a full complement of products and services related to our customersʼ lifestyles, beginning with housings. While it goes without saying that we attend to customer's peace of mind and safety in providing products and services, we also believe that engaging in development and sales mindful of creating a sustainable society is a crucial role that our Group must fulﬁll. One of the areas that we could contribute the most in reducing environmental impact is the reduction of greenhouse gases emissions from housings. Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) and other housing measures in Japan oﬀer guidance to promote eco products as well as advocate excellent long-term housing as an asset. We have set targets for ratio of orders we receive for ZEH and other environmentally-friendly products to contribute in a sustainable society while serving customers in keeping with their needs by reducing household energy consumption through recommending houses built to ZEH speciﬁcations. Management of Material Issue 2 Within our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, our material Issue 2 “the development and sale of reliable and safe products and services that consider the environment and society” is broadly divided into four goals, which we incorporate into our management practices through inclusion in annual activity policy and measures for each department. Targets of Material Issue 2 1. Increasing environmentally conscious products and services * including reducing greenhouse gas emissions towards creating a decarbonized society (SBT: Scope 3) 2. Creating an environment that considers biodiversity 3. Expanding businesses that contribute to resolving social issues 4. Promoting sustainable and innovative technological development ＜30＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Each Target Increasing Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Housing and Rate of orders for ZEH (%) Construction 38 60 80 80 Division Rate of EnvironmentallyHousing and Promote standards for friendly renovation order Construction 48.4 50 55 60 energy generation and rate (%) Division conservation housing Sales of salsh, glass wool Timber and and solar power generation Building 22,723 23,119 23,568 24,040 systems Materials (unit: million yen) Division Increase value added by Carbon stock in wooden Housing and carbon stock from use of architecture in Japan Construction 192,536 190,676 190,164 199,509 timber (t-CO2) Division Propose products utilizing Rate of orders for Housing and local seedlings and natural Environmentally-friendly Construction 56.5 58.0 60.0 63.0 cycle product* (%) Division * Environmentally-friendly products consist of the following: (1) local seedlings, (2) permeable paving material, (3) green wall construction, (4) rooftop greening, (5) biotope and (6) use of recycled materials Creating an Environment that Considers Biodiversity Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Housing and Expand sales of local Number of local tree species Construction 402,000 450,000 480,000 500,000 species (unit: trees) Division Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜31＞ Expanding Businesses that Contribute to Resolving Social Issues Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Increase number of rooms Number of rooms at Lifestyle through new facilities private-pay elderly care Service 1,457 1,457 1,890 2,014 construction facilities (rooms) Division Amount of electricity Environment Expand renewable energy supplied by renewable and 213,860 217,768 217,768 373,826 business energy business (converted Resources to number of households) Division Promoting sustainable and innovative technological development Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Materials development Basic design Achievement and basic Solve technical issues The current state of Tsukuba formulation of W30 and design toward achieving W350 progress in W350 Project Research toward construction formulation Project development Institute achieving of actual toward W30 properties achievement of W70 ＜32＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Material Issue 3: The Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Basic Policy With the impact of climate change becoming increasingly problematic on a global scale, companies are being asked to reduce emission of greenhouse gas that cause global warming and to implement energy saving initiatives. In consideration of the environmental impact of these operations, the Sumitomo Forestry Group fully recognizes the importance of reducing greenhouse emissions and taking other measures to combat climate change through the promotion of strict energy-saving activities, renewable energy use and other eﬀorts. With a midto long-term perspective of the future, in 2018, we established greenhouse gas emission reduction goals for 2030, and were certiﬁed as SBT* in July 2018. In addition, to reduce environmental burden and more eﬀectively utilize natural resources, we are promoting the reduction, reuse and recycling of industrial waste. * Science Based Targets. These targets are set for companies to achieve reduction goals in-line with scientiﬁc knowledge to limit the raising average temperature around the world to less than 2°C. Management of Material Issue 3 Within Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, our material Issue 3 “the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities” is broadly divided into three goals, which we incorporate into our management practices through inclusion in annual activity policy and measures for each department. Targets of Material Issue 3 1. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions toward creating a decarbonized society (SBT: Scope 1 & 2) 2. Protecting resources, reducing the generation of waste and achieving zero emissions 3. Conserving and eﬀectively utilizing water resources Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜33＞ Management of Each Target Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Toward Creating a Decarbonized Society (SBT: Scope 1 & 2) Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2e) Each 381,613 380,356 398,274 402,768 Percentage change from department +3.2% +2.9% +7.7% +8.9% Reduce greenhouse gas ﬁscal 2017 emissions Carbon eﬃciency Sustainability 0.341 0.341 0.318 (t-CO2e/million yen) Department (0.292)* (0.275) (0.279) (0.264) * Figures in parenthesis are sales before applying accounting standards related to revenue recognition About symbol for Independent assurance Protecting Resources, Reducing the Generation of Waste and Achieving Zero Emissions Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Recycling rate at new housing construction sites 94.2 96.1 98.0 98.0 (%)*1 Recycling rate at housing Housing and demolition site (%)*2 Construction 77.6*3 98.0 98.0 98.0 (as of start of demolition Division work on main structure) Recycling rate of Promote industrial waste 74.3 80.0 82.0 84.0 separation renovation*4 business (%) Environment Recycling rate of power and 64.5 52.5 54.3 56.5 generation business (%) Resources Division Timber and Recycling rate of overseas Building 97.5 97.9 98.0 98.0 manufacturing plants (%) Materials Division ＜34＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Timber and Building Materials Division Housing and Recycling rates of domestic Construction 99.1 99.5 99.5 99.5 manufacturing plants (%) Division Environment and Resources Division Recycling rate of Lifestyle Lifestyle Service Business, etc.*5 Service 92.8 95.2 96.6 98.0 (%) Division, etc. Industrial waste ﬁnal Sustainability 56,643 58,860 56,632 54,087 disposal amount (t) Department -11.0％*6 -7.5％ -11.0％ -15.0％ Waste reduction Total industrial waste Promote zero-emissions Housing and generated (waste 3,087 3,020 2,950 2,730 Construction generated per detached -7%*6 -9% -11% -18％ Division house) (kg/structure) *1 Includes new housing construction sites of the Housing and Construction Division, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping, as well as Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering. *2 Includes construction materials speciﬁed under the Construction Material Recycling Law (concrete, asphalt concrete, wood waste) and metals. *3 Only result for FY2018 includes items not covered by the Construction Material Recycling Law. *4 Includes renovation work sites of Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech. *5 Includes emissions associated with Lifestyle Service Business, housing-related materials sales, and other operational locations. *6 Percentage change from ﬁscal 2017. About symbol for Independent assurance Conserving and Eﬀectively Utilizing Water Resources Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Proper management of Water use volume Sustainability 2,981 2,990 3,011 2,978 water resources (unit: 1,000m³) Department or less or less or less About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜35＞ Material Issue 4: A Vibrant Work Environment Where a Diverse Workforce can Unharness their Skills and Individuality Basic Policy The Group promotes a free and open-minded corporate culture that respects diversity in accordance with Our Values. We are also committed to securing an appropriate balance between work and individual commitments such as caring for children and the elderly, maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, implementing regular educational and training programs to prepare for disasters, accidents and so forth, as stipulated in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct established in 2017. Further, we are advancing development a vibrant workplace where diverse human assets can be actively engaged without regard to gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. Management of Material Issue 4 Within our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, our Material Issue 4 “a vibrant work environment where a diverse workforce can unharness their skills and individuality,” is broadly divided into four goals, which we incorporate into our management practices through inclusion in annual activity policy and measures for each department. Targets of Material Issue 4 1. Creating a work environment that generates diverse ideas, job satisfaction and vibrancy 2. Securing human resources by training younger workers and utilizing older ones 3. Reducing long work hours through work style reforms 4. Eliminating occupational injuries ＜36＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Each Target Creating a Work Environment that Generates Diverse Ideas, Job Satisfaction and Vibrancy Speciﬁc steps based Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 on issues and Indicators for Evaluation department result target target target strategies Sumitomo Personnel Promotion of women's Female 3.7 4.2 5.0 5.5 Forestry Department participation and employees in advancement in the management Consolidated Personnel workplace positions (%) 6.0 6.2 6.7 7.3 in Japan Department Employee Sumitomo Personnel satisfaction level 81.0 83.0 84.0 85.0 Forestry Department (%) Improve employee Change in Compared to Compared to satisfaction employee Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2019 Consolidated Personnel satisfaction level -* -* Percentage Percentage in Japan Department compared to base Change Change year (%) 105% 110% * No ﬁgures are available until ﬁscal 2018 because employee satisfaction surveys were administered biennially until then. They have been implemented annually since ﬁscal 2019. About symbol for Independent assurance Securing Human Resources by Training Younger Workers and Utilizing Older Ones Speciﬁc steps based Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 on issues and Indicators for Evaluation department result target target target strategies Develop human resources from a longSumitomo Personnel Three-year 18.0 17.0 16.0 15.0 term perspective Forestry Department turnover rate according to the among newly revision of the hired graduates evaluation system (April Consolidated Personnel (%) 22.2 15.3 13.2 12.9 2019) and evaluator in Japan Department training Sumitomo Personnel 97 120 132 132 Training cost per Forestry Department Enhance training employee (unit: programs 1,000 yen) Consolidated Personnel 53 65 66 66 in Japan Department Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜37＞ Speciﬁc steps based Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 on issues and Indicators for Evaluation department result target target target strategies Sumitomo Personnel Total number of 11,367 13,000 13,000 13,000 Forestry Department training participants Enhance training Consolidated Personnel (persons) 13,297 15,224 15,700 16,176 programs in Japan Department Training time per Sumitomo Personnel 13.6 13.7 14.4 15.5 employee (hours) Forestry Department Sumitomo Personnel 81.7 82.0 85.0 87.0 Implement year-initial Forestry Department Rate of retiree reinterviews prior to fullemployment (%) term retirement Consolidated Personnel 73.3 64.0 67.7 78.0 in Japan Department Reducing Long Work Hours Through Work Style Reforms Speciﬁc steps based Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 on issues and Indicators for Evaluation department result target target target strategies Sumitomo Personnel Guidance for 10.1 12.3 13.5 14.0 Average paid Forestry Department improvement to leaves taken by departments with low employees (days) Consolidated Personnel rates of paid-leave use 8.7 10.0 10.6 11.3 in Japan Department Average overtime working hour Sumitomo Personnel reduction rate -24.9 -27.6 -30.0 -32.0 Forestry Department compared to Expand departments ﬁscal 2013 (%) using ﬂextime and internal mock Average overtime inspections working hour Consolidated Personnel reduction rate 2.0 -3.3 -6.2 -11.3 in Japan Department compared to ﬁscal 2017 (%) ＜38＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Eliminating Occupational Injuries Speciﬁc steps based Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 on issues and Indicators for Evaluation department result target target target strategies Sumitomo Forestry, Personnel 2 0 0 0 nonDepartment consolidated Consolidated 10 0 0 0 in Japan Consolidated Number of outside 16 0 0 0 serious Japan occupational injuries Environment Domestic Implement reciprocal occurrences and forest sites 4 0 0 0 safety audits and (incidents) Resources (contractors) manufacturing (four or more Division department safety daysʼ work leave) audits Overseas Environment Share case studies and plantation and 3 0 0 0 implement risk sites Resources assessments (contractors) Division New Housing and construction Construction 9 0 0 0 sites* Division (contractors) Number of occupational New injuries Construction Housing and (incidents) sites* in Construction 16 0 0 0 (requiring one or Japan Division more daysʼ work (contractors) leave) * Includes sole proprietorships About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜39＞ Material Issue 5: Corporate Ethics and Governance Structures Basic Policy With the background of globalization, diversiﬁcation and expansion of our business, the Group is reviewing its philosophy structure. Sustainability management based on the Corporate Philosophy, Our Values, and Code of Conduct complies with international codes, international initiatives, and other social demands. In addition, we are working to reinforce the mechanism for managing business risk—which also encompasses Group companies—by constantly managing prioritized risks through the Risk Management Committee while strengthening Business Continuity Management (BCM) system as a measure against disasters. Management of Material Issue 5 Within our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, our Material Issue 5 “corporate ethics and governance structures” is reﬂected in one broad goal, which we incorporate into our management practices through inclusion in annual activity policy and measures for each department. Targets of Material Issue 5 Reinforcing risk crisis and compliance structures ＜40＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Each Target Reinforcing Risk Crisis and Compliance Structures Speciﬁc steps based on Managing FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 Indicators for Evaluation issues and strategies department result target target target Progress check of Progress management for prioritized risk items set by prioritized risks (conducted General the Risk Management on a quarterly basis by the Administration 100 100 100 100 Committee and share Risk Management Department materialized risks Committee) (%) All group Understand the extent of Regular implementation companies in compliance awareness and General Major group and phased deployment of Sumitomo Japan and enhance channels for Administration companies compliance awareness Forestry some group reporting misconduct and Department in Japan surveys companies compliance violations overseas Obtain external All major General Major group certiﬁcation for Business Obtaining resilience Sumitomo domestic Administration companies Continuity Management certiﬁcation Forestry group Department in Japan (BCM) companies ReReexamination examination Completion of analysis of analysis of reImplement results and results and examination for two expansion of expansion of of analysis Conduct scenario analysis sectors, scope of scope of Analyze and disclose results for all and disclosure consistent domestic application application potential ﬁnancial impact business with guidance from the Sustainability housing for two for two from climate-related risks departments, Task Force on ClimateDepartment business sectors: sectors: that could (potentially) and related Financial and timber domestic domestic have on the organization incorporation Disclosures (TCFD) and building housing housing into the materials business and business and subsequent business timber and timber and mid-term building building plan. materials materials business business Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜41＞ Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results In keeping with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan formulated in ﬁscal 2015, we deﬁned quantitative targets each year for both environmental and societal issues to be addressed by ﬁscal 2020. In undertaking speciﬁc measures, we have incorporated these targets into the CSR budget, and subjected them to PDCA cycles. Results through ﬁscal 2018 are explained below. Material Issue 1: Continue to procure wood and materials that take sustainability and biodiversity into consideration We conduct regular inspections of all of our suppliers of direct import timber and timber products to ensure legality. The volume of domestically produced timber and log exports is increasing year by year, particularly with respect to China. And the recent increase in demand at biomass power generation plants has caused an increase in the volume of fuel wood chips handled. Current awareness of issues FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 Indicators for Evaluation and basic strategies result result result target value target Environmentally Increase Percentage of certiﬁed timber responsible volume of among all imported timber sold 10.9 12.8 11.0 12.0 ✕ 12.0 society sustainable (%) wood handled, and utilize Volume of exported Japanese 70 120 160 183 △ 200 sustainable timber (thousand m³) forest resources by Volume of plantation timber, verifying legal certiﬁed timber, and Japanese 812 1,163 629 626 〇 783 compliance timber handled at distribution hubs overseas (thousand m³) Volume of fuel wood chips 812 847 1,132 1,316 ✕ 1,380 handled*1 (1,000m³) Volume of certiﬁed timber (by SGEC) handled at distribution 68 78 78 68 〇 85 hubs in Japan (thousand m³) Volume of unused wood resource handled from 191 286 338 236 〇 236 Japanese timber (kt) ＜42＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Current awareness of issues FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 Indicators for Evaluation and basic strategies result result result target value target Percentage of Multi-Balance Japanese Construction 70.9 71.0 71.0 71.0 〇 75.0 timber used for Method new custombuilt detached housing Big-Frame (Housing and Construction 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 〇 55.0 Construction Method Division) Percentage of reviews conducted for wood product suppliers who handle directly imported timber and wood 100 100 100 100 〇 100 products with veriﬁed legal compliance (%) (Timber and wood product department) Establish Percentage of certiﬁed (by forestry SGEC) forests in newly 100 100 100 100 〇 100 management acquired forests managed by that enables the Group (%) conservation of biodiversity, Number of native species 210,000 and value as planted at new detached 30,614 31,248 30,101 36,000 ✕ /6 years natural capital housing sites (trees) *1 Quantity including imported PKS and pellets, from FY2018 targets and results. * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year About symbol for Independent assurance Material Issue 2: Promote the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities Oﬃce segment CO2 emissions volumes have been trending downward year by year. Since the initial 7% reduction target was achieved early, the target was adjusted upward in April 2018 to a 16% reduction. Gasoline consumption volume has been cut through the phasing in of hybrids in the company-owned vehicle ﬂeet, while electric power consumption has been cut by switching to LED lighting and reducing overtime work by having personal computers shut down at preset times, all of which have helped reduce CO2. In non-oﬃce segment, meanwhile, increases in electricity consumption volume resulted from the introduction of new equipment, while declining sales resulted in a failure to reduce per-unit CO2 emissions volumes as planned at some overseas manufacturing plants. Regarding the ZEH speciﬁcation ratio, we did not reach our target level of 45%, although the ratio is increasing year by year. We will continue to bring up the ZEH speciﬁcation ratio by actively showcasing the appeal of ﬁrst-rate insulation performance compared to other major housing builders. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜43＞ Current awareness of FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 issues and basic Indicators for Evaluation result result result target value target strategies In the oﬃce -7.8 -10.1 -14.1 -11.4 segment Total Total Total Total -16.0 or (consolidated emissions emissions emissions emissions 〇 more company within and 33,660 t31,871 t30,454 t31,407 toutside Japan) CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 Sumitomo Change in Forestry (oﬃces -13.9 -18.7 -25.2 -19.4 〇 CO2 in Japan) emissions compared to Aﬃliated FY2013 (%) companies in -0.9 -4.6 -6.1 -1.8 〇 Japan (oﬃces) Aﬃliated companies -0.7 +14.0 +14.1 -3.0 ✕ outside Japan Reduction of (oﬃces) CO2 emissions in the Group Kutai Timber LowIndonesia +3.1 -10.8 +4.3 +0.8 ✕ carbon (Indonesia) society At least Vina Eco Board Change in -5.4 +38.0 -10.6 -23.9 △ 1.0% (Vietnam) CO2 reduction emissions per year on AST Indonesia per +16.0 +9.0 +20.6 -4.1 ✕ average (Indonesia) production per volume production Nelson Pine compared to volume in Industries (New the previous -0.7 -5.8 +0.2 +23.7 〇 FY2015 Zealand) year (%) 2020 Rimba Partikel Indonesia +15.8 -9.6 -1.2 -0.5 〇 (Indonesia) Reduction of Percentage of Green Smart houses CO2 emissions (%) outside the (Number of Green Smart houses At least Group 61.6 69.4 72.1 73.0 △ when an order is placed for new 80.0 (products, custom-built detached housing / service total number of houses ordered) recipients) ＜44＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Current awareness of FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 issues and basic Indicators for Evaluation result result result target value target strategies Percentage of ZEH type houses (%) At least 32 33 40 45 △ (Number of ZEH type houses / 80.0 total number of houses ordered)*1 *1 Excludes Hokkaido, Okinawa. * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year About symbol for Independent assurance The amount of industrial waste such as construction debris generated at new housing construction sites was reduced and the recycling rate was increased through the eﬀorts of the Company's working group that included changing the standard dimensions of sub-ﬂoor plasterboard to reduce the amount of non-recyclable waste generated, and adopting reusable packing materials for ﬂooring, etc. Expansion of the area subject to inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation also helped reduce industrial waste. Current awareness of issues Indicators for FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 and basic strategies Evaluation result result result target value target Recycling rate at new housing construction 92.5 92.5 94.1 93.9 〇 98.0 sites (%)*1 Achieve zero emissions Recycling rate at 76.2 76.2 77.7 77.6 〇 80.0 renovation sites (%)*2 Recycling Reduction in industrial society waste generated at new housing construction -8.8 -15.5 -31.9 -20.6 〇 -30 Reduce volume of sites compared to industrial waste FY2013 (%) generated Change in industrial At least waste per sales cost*3 -2.6 +5.2 +14.4 +1.9 ✕ 2% compared to FY2014 (%) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜45＞ *1 New housing construction sites under the Housing and Construction Division *2 Includes housing-related materials sales by the Renovation Business, Lifestyle Service Business and Chip manufacturing plants. *3 Cost of in-house sales for manufacturing facilities in Japan * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year About symbol for Independent assurance Economic Eﬀect Seen by Promoting the Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Regarding energy consumption volumes, gasoline was reduced by 4.4% and electric power was reduced by 4.0%, although a 9.8% increase in gasoline unit cost meant that no cost-cutting eﬀect was achieved. Value Eﬀects (million yen) Income Proﬁt on sold for value 46 Cost Reduction Amount saved as a result of energy-saving eﬀorts -41 * Include the ﬂuctuation Cost Reduction of petroleum price Amount saved as a result of waste reduction 124 eﬀorts Total 129 Material Issue 3: Promote the development of workplaces where diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality Measures aimed at changing employee awareness regarding work responsibilities helped reduce overtime working hours. These measures included encouragement of tablet terminal device use and direct commuting to and from home to increase operational eﬃciency, while setting work PC shut-oﬀ times and revising employee evaluation methods. The rate of paid vacation / leave use was improved by hiring supplemental personnel and establishing planned vacations. ＜46＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Current awareness of FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 issues and Indicators for Evaluation result result result target value target basic strategies Sumitomo At least 2.8 3.2 3.7 △ At least 5.0 Forestry 3.8 Female employees in management positions Target set (%) Consolidated in 5.0 4.6 6.0 by each Japan company Sumitomo At least 20.0 20.4 21.0 〇 At least 20 Forestry 20 Promote fair Female employees employment including contract Target set and treatment employees (%) Consolidated in 25.4 31.6 32.0 by each Japan company Sumitomo At least 2.12 2.14 2.32 〇 Forestry 2.2 Ratio of Disabled At least 2.2 Employees (%)*1 Target set Consolidated in 1.45 1.75 1.76 by each Japan company Sumitomo At least 6.9 9 10.1 〇 At least 10 Forestry (days) 10 Paid leave usage Target set Consolidated in 40 43.9 50.5 by each 50 Japan (%) Promote workcompany life balance Overtime working hours (Reduction from the Sumitomo average overtime -7.5 -20.7 -24.9 -25.2 △ -30 Forestry working hours in FY2013) (% reduction) Number of occupational injuries in CompanySumitomo 3 1 3 0 ✕ Zero owned forests Forestry (incidents)*2 Strengthen occupational Number of occupational health and injuries at new Sumitomo 12 9 7 0 ✕ Zero safety construction sites Forestry (incidents)*3 Number of occupational Target set Consolidated in injuries in other places 8 2 10 by each Zero Japan (incidents)*3 company Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜47＞ *1 Data as of June 2018 *2 Number of occupational injuries involving contractors at work sites in Company-owned forests *3 Number of cases covered by temporary absence with work compensation beneﬁts under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year About symbol for Independent assurance Material Issue 4: Strengthen and promote risk management and compliance mechanisms Regarding the 45 prioritized risk items, quarterly meetings were held by the Risk Management Committee to check on the state of progress as we worked to strengthen our risk management system. Current awareness of FY2018 FY2016 result FY2017 result FY2018 result FY2018 target FY2020 target issues and basic value strategies Reviewed target Reviewed target items and shared items and shared Manage risks by Manage risks by case reports on case reports on using prioritized using prioritized Strengthen risk Items shown at emerging risks at emerging risks at risk items set by risk items set by management right were 〇 the monthly the monthly the Risk the Risk framework implemented. Board of Board of Management Management Executive Oﬃcers Executive Oﬃcers Committee. Committee. meetings. meetings. * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year ＜48＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Material Issue 5: Promote the development and sales of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious Among new custom-built detached houses, the implementation ratios of design performance evaluations, of construction performance evaluations, and of Excellent Long-term Housing certiﬁcation were all at nearly 100%. We achieved our changed target for ﬁscal 2020 earlier than planned for the implementation ratio of design performance evaluations. At the same time, the rate at which new custom-built detached houses were completed and handed over earlier than planned fell by 4% compared to the previous year. Current awareness FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 of issues and basic Indicators for Evaluation result result result target value target strategies Ratio of design performance evaluations implemented for new 98.8 98.9 99.0 99.0 〇 99.0 custom-built detached housing (%) Ratio of construction performance Improve safety and evaluations implemented for new 97.8 97.9 98.4 99.0 △ 99.0 quality custom-built detached housing (%) Ratio of houses certiﬁed as Excellent Long-term Housing for 93.3 93.3 93.8 97.0 △ 97.0 new custom-built detached housing (%) Pass rate for after-sales maintenance advisors and housing inspectors (%) 100 100 100 100 〇 100 (All persons assigned to Sumitomo Improve Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. in communication with charge of maintenance) customers Ratio of early completion of handing the as-built drawing for new 77.0 83.0 79.0 85.0 ✕ 90 custom-built detached housing (%) * Rating 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved but improved from previous year ✕:Not achieved and declined compared to previous year Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜49＞ Stakeholder Engagement Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group is involved with various stakeholders because the business activities conducted by the Group are in broad range of global businesses from the upstream to the downstream with wood at the core. We are always focused on communication, starting with our business activities while taking into account the relationship between the direct and indirect impact. Our basic policy is to sincerely respond to that expectations and requirements. Stakeholders of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Responsibilities and Communication Methods Customers Customer needs are diversifying as the social environment changes dramatically due to energy issues resulting from frequent large-scale disasters and global warming in addition to the decreasing population and aging society of Japan, centralization and depopulation in urban areas as well as a growing mindset toward health. The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts comprehensive eﬀorts toward safety and quality issues based on these circumstances to not only reduce risk but also to create new business opportunities by responding to societal and environmental changes with the hope that it will further heighten customer satisfaction. ＜50＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Responsibilities Communication Methods Providing safe, high-quality products and services Sumitomo Forestry Call Center Disclosing timely and accurate information and providing Customer Satisfaction Survey accountability Websites and media, news magazines, etc. Understand the requests and needs and improve Exhibitions and various other events satisfaction through communication Relevant Targets and Performance Product Safety and Quality Control Employees and Their Families A wide range of themes have been raised concerning social challenges related to employment and labor from human rights and the form of an equal workplace without discrimination to ensuring safety on-site, considerations toward work-life balance and the reduction of long working hours. We believe working to resolve these challenges is the driving force to improving corporate value and business promotion that have a positive eﬀect that includes gaining human resources and improving the motivation of employees while eliminating risks on employees. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜51＞ Responsibilities Communication Methods Conducting regular consultations and performance reviews Establishing and providing a healthy working environment Conducting employee satisfaction surveys where people can work safely that respects human rights Installing a compliance counter without any discrimination EAP (Employee Assistance Program) service Equal and fair personnel evaluation Carrying on a dialogue (casual discussions) between the Establishing educational systems able to drive and improve president and employees skills Holding Family Open Day Establishing measures, policies and other regulations to Carrying out meetings made up of management and union enhance the work-life balance members Publishing internal magazines, creating an internal website Relevant Targets and Performance Shareholders and Investors In recent years, institutional investors have shifted the way to evaluate a company. One emphasis from this perspective of evaluation is engagement. The dialogue between companies and their shareholders as well as investors is growing in terms of strategies and eﬀorts to improve corporate value. Trends to promote even broader engagement are growing after the publishing of the Stewardship Code even in Japan. The Sumitomo Forestry Group places great importance on engagement from the perspectives of properly assessing the corporate value and earning trust from the market. The Group discloses a wide range of information, including non-ﬁnancial information, in a timely and transparent manner to facilitate understanding among stakeholders of our management policies and business strategies, while regularly feeds back the opinions and requirements of investors who are a vital stakeholder into operations to put in place measures toward sustainable growth. ＜52＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Responsibilities Communication Methods Holding general meetings of shareholders, ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs, investor brieﬁngs, analyst brieﬁngs, on-site Disclosing timely and accurate information brieﬁngs, and other relevant meetings Pursuing informational transparency and accountability Communicating information on websites, shareholder Executing the appropriate premium redemption to correspondence, brieﬁng materials and in other relevant shareholders forms Responding to surveys for assessment and research agencies related to ESG, etc. Relevant Performance Government and Regulatory Authorities As a company involved in a variety of businesses centered upon wood, Sumitomo Forestry Group needs to adhere to laws and regulations by continually updating information about relevant laws and regulations in each region and country where it conducts business. For example, housing construction must comply with the Building Standards Act as well as wide range of other laws and regulations. We also must engage in broad communication as a business involved with national lands through forest management, such as notiﬁcations to government and regulatory authority. Therefore, we strive to earn greater trust from society by thoroughly complying with the various laws and regulations as well as ensuring proper communication with the government and regulatory authorities in each country where our businesses are expanding. Responsibilities Communication Methods Complying with all relevant laws as well as reporting and Responding through expert and relevant departments delivering notiﬁcations Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜53＞ Industries and Companies in the Same Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group believes a fair, open competitive environment is essential to foster sustainable growth throughout the entire industry. We also know industry associations and other organizations are indispensable in creating relevant rules. We participate in organizations such as industry associations and contribute to the growth and development of the industry by taking a leading role as a front runner in the industry. Responsibilities Communication Methods Assembling the appropriate markets and competitive environment Participating in industry associations and other Oﬀering cooperation for the growth and development of organizations our industry Contributions to Public Policy Business Partners Promoting sustainable forest management and procuring timber from sustainable forests are extremely vital endeavors for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, which is expanding its business around wood . We believe initiatives are also necessary to respond to risk elements that include the laws in each country and the various regulations related to the illegal logging. These eﬀorts strengthen our foundation of business by promoting the preservation, development, and planting of forests as well as eﬀectively using limited global resources such as the active use of timber cut from forests that have received Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certiﬁcation together with our business partners. Responsibilities Communication Methods Engaging in purchasing and procurement activities Conducting safety conferences, safety patrols and building Building equal and fair relationships with business partners contractor meetings Improving the occupational health and safety environment Conducting workshops and informational exchange Complying with all relevant laws meetings Conducting supplier evaluations (surveys and questionnaires) ＜54＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Relevant Targets and Performance Reinforcing Engagement with NGOs and Other External Stakeholders Students The Sumitomo Forestry Group shares information about various initiatives as well as the medium to long-term outlook, including our philosophy, the current state of business, work style reforms, with all of the students entrusted with the next generation. We strive to actively share information and engage in communication to of course deepen understanding in our own company but also to facilitate mutual growth in a dramatically changing environment. Responsibilities Communication Methods Conducting equal and fair hiring practices Participating in various brieﬁngs and other events Actively communicating information Visiting schools NPOs/NGOs The Sumitomo Forestry Group works together with everyone at NPOs and NGOs to cultivate understanding about the situations faced in each region through expert knowledge and businesses when working to confront social challenges such as biodiversity and regional development. Through the cooperation with civil society, we fulﬁll our role for not only the company but also many other people. We expect to produce even greater results toward solving the challenges faced by society rooted in each community. Responsibilities Communication Methods Participating in employee volunteer activities Working cooperatively to solve social challenges Working cooperatively through social contribution activities Providing business know-how Stakeholder Dialogue Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜55＞ Global Environment The Sumitomo Forestry Group prioritized the global environment in both the direct and indirect impact its business activities have on the world. The Group established its Environmental Philosophy in December 1994 and Group-wide Environmental Policies in October 2000. We also formulated the Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010-FY2014) with Mid-term environmental targets for the ﬁrst time in ﬁscal 2009 and established the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan (FY2015-FY2020) that includes environmental targets in ﬁscal 2014. In addition, given further heightened ESG-related demands from the society, we began further increasing our numerical targets from ﬁscal 2019, incorporating them as Sustainability Goals into our “Sumitomo Forestry Group 2021 Medium-Term Management Plan.” By implementing PDCA cycles for all organizations, we are steadily stepping up our environmentally conscious activities based on the plan. Responsibilities Communication Methods Providing an environment for business Supplying and standardizing environmentally-friendly Preserving the natural environment and biodiversity housing Reducing the environmental impact of business activities Acting as volunteers in building forests such as in Developing and providing products and services with reforestation minimal environmental impact Carrying on a dialogue with NPOs/NGOs Conducting environmental and social contribution activities linked up with NPOs/NGOs Relevant Targets and Performance ＜56＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Global Society and Local Communities The Sumitomo Forestry Group recognizes the importance of contributing to the growth of local communities as well as protecting the local forest resources when starting and expanding businesses. Therefore, we work to build an infrastructure for smooth operations and business expansion in each country and region by engaging in local social contribution activities and activities that focus on eﬀorts, such as dialogue and cooperation with the local community in the promotion of overseas businesses. Responsibilities Communication Methods Participating in employee volunteer activities Contributing to solutions to both global and local challenges Supporting the formation of communities through social in society contribution activities Preparation of Regional Infrastructure Relevant Performance Grievance Desk The Sumitomo Forestry Group provides a Customer Service Department as a point of contact to handle inquiries from customers and local residents near ongoing housing construction, as well as a Compliance Hotline and Harassment Help Desk for business partners and employees in addition to receiving inquiries such as complaints (in Japanese, English, and Chinese) at our website. We respond appropriately to inquiries received through our website by having the Corporate Communications Department receive them, then communicate them according to their content to each relevant specialized department at the head oﬃce or each division handling the relevant operations. In overseas, Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) in Papua New Guinea, for example, we have put in place a complaint box in which anyone from the area within and outside the company can post a complaint or comment. Inquiries received in this way from local residents and others in the area are shared internally as needed so that we can undertake appropriate responses. In 2018, we also established a grievance mechanism at our plantation forest operations in Indonesia. We receive opinions from local residents, both in writing and through regular visits, and respond to them within seven working days. Moving forward, we will establish more contact points that can respond in each of the local language in where we conduct business activities. Compliance Hotline Respect for Human Rights at Overseas Plantations Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜57＞ Sustainability-related Policies The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulates separate policies for each issue related to sustainability management, and carries out initiatives according to those policies. Governance Policies Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Preventing Corruption Promotion of Fair Competition and Appropriate Transactions with Subcontractors Information Security Policy Intellectual Property Management Policy Responsible Advertising/Promotional Eﬀorts Business Policies Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing and Construction Business Social Policies Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy Green Procurement Guidelines (extract) Basic Policy on Occupational Health and Safety Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Policy Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities/Donations Environmental Policies Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Long-term Biodiversity Targets (summary) Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan (excerpt) ＜58＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes wood as a renewable natural resource in its business operations. To contribute to a sustainable society, we are committed to procurement activities that take into account economic, environmental and societal interests and comply with the following policy: 1. Procurement based on legal and highly reliable supply chains Our procurement activities will strictly adhere to all relevant laws, regulations and societal norms, and be built on mutual understanding and trust with our business partners. Furthermore, to provide the highest quality products and services, we will work with our business partners to ensure that our procurement takes place within a sound and fair supply chain. 2. Procurement based on fair opportunity and competition We will provide all our suppliers, both Japanese and foreign, a fair opportunity for business. Selection of our business partners will be based on a comprehensive evaluation of the companyʼs reliability and technological expertise, the productʼs quality, economic eﬃciency, delivery date and environmental performance, and the companyʼs CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives, such as advocacy of basic human and worker rights, anticorruption eﬀorts and so on. 3. Procurement of sustainable timber and wood products Wood is a renewable natural resource. To actively utilize it, we will work with our business partners on the following initiatives related to the procurement of timber and wood products: Procure timber from forests that are sustainably managed Work to improve the traceability of procured timber and wood products Strictly adhere to the laws and regulations of the countries and regions we log in, protect biodiversity and forests with high conservation value, and respect the cultures, traditions and economies of regions that coexist in harmony with forests. 4. Pursue active communication To ensure the transparency of our procurement eﬀorts, we will disclose information appropriately. In addition, we will communicate with our stakeholders to further improve our procurement activities. Revised July 23, 2015 Green Procurement Guidelines (extract) Corporate activities assessment 1. Acquisition of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, and adoption of environmental policies and philosophy. 2. Active in global environmental protection, such as biodiversity preservation and the prevention of global warming. 3. Committed to CSR in its entirety, such as workplace health and safety and respect for human rights. Product assessment 1. No use of hazardous materials which are likely to have an adverse eﬀect on health and the environment. 2. No leaching of hazardous materials from the product during construction or use. 3. Ability to be reused or recycled after use. 4. Use of processes and materials to lengthen the lifespan of the product. Revised January, 2013 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜59＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group respects the human rights of all people involved in our Groupʼs operations and considers the respect for human rights a basic principle in all our activities. This thinking is rooted in Sumitomoʼs Business Spirit, which places prime importance on fairness and integrity for the good of society. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Policy (hereinafter, this Policy) has been formulated to further clarify the Groupʼs thinking regarding the respect for human rights and to complement the Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy, Action Guidelines, Code of Conduct, Procurement Policy and others. 1. A commitment to respect human rights Based on the United Nationsʼ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Sumitomo Forestry Group respects human rights as deﬁned by such international norms as the World Human Rights Declaration, the International Covenants on Human Rights (the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as well as the International Covenant on Economic, Societal and Cultural Rights), and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The Group also strictly complies with all related laws in each of the countries it conducts business in. In countries and regions that diverge from these laws and international norms, the Group strives to the greatest extent possible to undertake and prioritize initiatives that respect international norms. 2. Scope of application This Policy applies to Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd., and its consolidated subsidiaries. Furthermore, the Group asks all its business partners and other parties aﬃliated with the Groupʼs operations to respect and not infringe human rights based on this Policy. 3. Measures related to the respect for human rights Human rights due diligence The Sumitomo Forestry Group has created a human rights due diligence system, has incorporated it as a necessary process of our operations and applies it in an ongoing manner. Human rights due diligence evaluates and identiﬁes potential and actual human rights risks and takes measures to prevent or reduce those risks. Relief measures If a Sumitomo Forestry Group operation has been found to have directly caused or participated in a situation that has had a negative impact on human rights, the Company shall undertake all necessary external and internal procedures and implement relief measures. Furthermore, the Company shall create and maintain necessary mechanisms to handle grievances and evaluate the eﬀectiveness of corrective and relief measures in an ongoing manner. Education The Sumitomo Forestry Group shall conduct periodic and appropriate training for directors, employees and other parties to ensure that this Policy is integrated into the business activities of Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd., and all consolidated subsidiaries. Communication with stakeholders Sumitomo Forestry Group shall communicate and discuss potential human rights risks, measures to counter actual inﬂuences and other related issues with relevant stakeholders. Information disclosure To fulﬁll our reporting responsibilities, we shall disclose information and provide reports in a timely manner regarding initiatives based on this Policy and our response to potential or actual human rights issues. July 1, 2019 (Attachment) Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Material Issues The following are the Groupʼs material issues in relation to human rights as deﬁned by international norms. These high priority issues may be reevaluated as appropriate according to changes in the Groupʼs operations and state of society. ＜60＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 <Prohibition of discrimination> Prohibition of discrimination on the basis of gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, birthplace, religion, belief, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or other <Workersʼ rights> Prohibition of child labor and forced labor (including foreign and immigrant workers) Respect for the freedom of association and collective bargaining Prevention of low wage labor (labor below minimum or living wages) Prevention of long work hours Prohibition of power harassment and sexual harassment Maintenance of labor safety Maintenance of worker health (including mental health) <Respect for the rights of vulnerable people related to our operations> Respect for the rights of local residents and indigenous people of the regions where we operate Respect for the rights of women, children, minorities, the elderly and others Consideration of the environmental rights of future generations (sustainable forest management and other initiatives) <Privacy> Respect for the privacy and protection of personal information, including that of our customers and employees July 1, 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating “an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity,” as set out in its Action Guidelines. We believe a diverse workforce and a business strategy developed from a wide range of ideas is important for the Company. As part of this eﬀort, we are striving to promote the participation of women in the belief that this will meet the social needs and signiﬁcantly contribute to increased corporate value. By expanding opportunities for women and by leveraging the creative power of women, we will integrate a diverse range of values that will spur innovation and enhance corporate value. 1. We will create a positive work environment for women In Japan, with a falling birthrate and aging population, worker population is projected to decline. By utilizing a workforce made up of individuals without regard to values, age, gender, nationality or disability, and by respecting the individual lifestyles of each and every female employee, we are working to create an open corporate culture and positive working environment where everyone can gain a sense of fulﬁllment in their work. 2. We will leverage womenʼs unique creative powers Women's success in business is gaining prominence, such as with companies that utilize the perspective and creative powers of women to develop new products and services. In all business sectors, Sumitomo Forestry is striving to nurture the culture and processes that will harness women's unique creative powers and create new value. 3. We will spur innovation through the participation of women Lively interaction among employees of diﬀerent values, ages, gender, nationalities and other qualities leads to new ideas. Expanding work opportunities for women employees, in particular, spurs innovation in all areas, from sales and marketing to product development, business strategy and operational eﬃciencies. December 24, 2013 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜61＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Through our experience nurturing forests since our founding, Sumitomo Forestry Group has learned to appreciate the wonders of wood and the importance of nature. As a corporate entity with a close aﬃnity to nature, we will pursue business activities that balance both environmental and economic interests and contribute to a sustainable society. 1. Develop business operations centered on wood and forests We will cultivate forests and their ability to preserve and enhance the rich ecosystem to protect biodiversity, actively utilize timber resources and create new corporate value. 2. Develop and oﬀer environmentally conscious products and services We will develop and sell products and services that are environmentally conscious throughout the entire product lifecycle. 3. Minimize and improve environmental impact To minimize and improve environmental impact, we will employ procurement practices that prevent environmental pollution and climate change and promote the eﬀective utilization of natural resources. 4. Ensure strict legal compliance We will adhere to all environmental laws, rules and regulations, global standards, voluntary standards and accords with stakeholders. 5. Make continual improvements to our environmental management system We will accurately access environment-related risks associated with our business activities and with a mid-to-long-term outlook, set and work to fulﬁll yearly environment goals. In addition, we will regularly evaluate our environmental management system and make continual improvements. 6. Promote environmental education We will provide environmental education for all parties involved in Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs business operations and encourage voluntary environmental eﬀorts. 7. Pursue active communication We will actively disclose information about our environmental policies and initiatives and pursue activities that convey the wonders of trees and forests and the importance of nature. Revised July 23, 2015 The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Long-term Biodiversity Targets (summary) Group-wide Targets 1. (Aim to achieve sustainable forests) In all timber-related businesses, from upstream to downstream, we will work to prevent a reduction in forest areas and pursue forest sustainability. We will strive to regenerate forests through reforestation and natural regeneration and logging a planned, sustainable manner that takes into account the forestʼs ability to grow. We will increase the procurement and use of sustainable timber, such as forest certiﬁed timber, plantation forest timber and Japanese timber. We will promote the eﬃcient use as well as the recycling and reuse of timber. 2. (Increase the amount of CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber) By cultivating healthy forests and promoting the use of timber through the greater use of timber construction materials and the construction of wooden buildings, we will strive to increase the amount of ＜62＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber to contribute to the protection of biodiversity and the alleviation of climate change. Individual targets 3. (Forests) We will promote forest management that regenerates, maintains and increases biodiversity. We will carry out zoning to protect ecosystems and the habitats of living creatures. We will ensure that in terms of area, 20% or more of our Company-owned forests in Japan are environment forests that emphasize environmental conservation. We will maintain that 100% Company-owned forests remain forest-certiﬁed. We will maintain and increase biodiversity at our operation sites based on results of our biodiversity monitoring of Company-owned forests in Japan. We will conduct operations at plantation forests overseas while considering how best to contribute to local communities, economies and education. 4. (Products) We will provide products and services that take into account biodiversity, such as forest-certiﬁcation and products and services that have undergone environmental assessment. 5. (Design) We will work to develop homes and communities that are in harmony with the natural environment and their surrounding urban landscapes. 6. (Construction) We will manage and minimize the generation of waste by promoting a zero-emissions policy in building and construction. 7. (Greening) We will be considerate to the surrounding ecosystems and tree species and actively cultivate native species. 8. (Plants) We will manage and minimize pollutants, waste and noise, and reduce their impact on biodiversity. 9. (Public relations) We will actively communicate the importance of biodiversity to all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, and local communities. 10. (Research) We will gather the latest information and develop conservation technologies to implement biodiversity initiatives. 11. (Social contribution) We will protect trees that are historically and culturally important and also preserve their genetic material. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜63＞ Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan (excerpt) 1. Diversity of ecosystems We will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the Natural Parks Law of the Japanese government and other legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. In other areas, we will ensure continuity of forests by limiting the area of forest harvested, particularly when clear cutting is conducted. 2. Diversity of species We will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by refraining from expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the replacement of species that would have a major impact on existing ecosystems. We will also give the utmost consideration to the protection of rare ﬂora and fauna in all operations, making reference to the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book. 3. Genetic diversity Genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in the future. However, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring activities carried out by government and public institutions and their ﬁndings. June, 2006 ＜64＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Governance Corporate Governance Risk Management Compliance Business Continuity Management Responsible Advertising/Promotional Efforts Information Security Intellectual Property Management Return to Shareholders and IR Activities Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜65＞ Corporate Governance Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes timber friendly to people and the global environment and contributes to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services according to the Sumitomo Spirit to be beneﬁcial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management. Therefore, we strive to ensure management transparency, sound and legal business practices as well as rapid decision-making and business execution. By further enhancing and strengthening its corporate governance through these eﬀorts, the Company aims to continuously increase its corporate value and conduct management that lives up to expectations of various stakeholders around the Group. Integrated Report Corporate Governance and Internal Control Sumitomo Forestry introduced the executive oﬃcer system to separate decision making and management oversight from operational execution functions. Comprised of ten directors (nine male, one female) including two outside directors (one male, one female), the Board of Directors is structured to take quick decisions. The oversight function of the Board of Directors has been strengthened, the lines of operational responsibility clariﬁed, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors no longer serves as an executive oﬃcer. Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee has been established to provide advice to the Board of Directors on selecting director and statutory auditor candidates and executive oﬃcers as well as compensation of directors and executive oﬃcers, for the purpose of ensuring transparency and fairness of decision-making. Sumitomo Forestry has a board of company statutory auditors. In addition to attending important meetings within the Company, the statutory auditors provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties, through sharing information and opinions with auditors at Group companies and the staﬀ in the Internal Audit Division, and by supervising staﬀ assisting auditing operations. As of June 21, 2019, ten directors (including two outside directors), ﬁve auditors (including three outside auditors) and 20 executive oﬃcers had been appointed to the Company. The Company notiﬁed Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. of the designation of the two outside directors and three outside statutory auditors as independent oﬃcers as required by its regulations. Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Directors and Executive Oﬃcers ＜66＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors and Executive Committee In principle, the Board of Directors meets once a month, making decisions and carrying out its supervisory function for important issues in accordance with its discussion standards. In addition to making decisions on all important items and conﬁrming business results, it supervises the directors' execution of their duties. Directors and statutory auditors are required to maintain an attendance rate of 75% or higher as a general rule. The Executive Committee, which is an advisory body for the President, holds meetings twice a month, before the Board of Directors meeting to ensure that there is suﬃcient prior discussion on important issues. It is attended by those directors who also serve as executive oﬃcers, as well as the full-time statutory auditors as a general principle. The Company ensures prompt decision-making and separation of supervision and operational execution functions, for eﬀective performance of the Board of Directors. Board of Directors meetings were held 16 times while Executive Committee meetings were held 26 times in ﬁscal 2018. Attendance of Directors at Meetings of the Board of Directors (FY2018) Board of Directors Name and Responsibility/Expertise*1 Attended Attendance Meetings Rate (%) (meetings) Chairman of the Board and Ryu Yano 16 100 Representative Director Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜67＞ Board of Directors Name and Responsibility/Expertise*1 Attended Attendance Meetings Rate (%) (meetings) President and Representative Akira Ichikawa President and Executive Oﬃcer 16 100 Director Executive Vice President and Executive Oﬃcer Representative Overseeing of Environment and Shigeru Sasabe 16 100 Director Resources Division, and Divisional Manager of Overseas Housing and Real Estate Division Executive Vice President and Executive Oﬃcer Representative In charge of General Administration, Tatsuru Satoh 16 100 Director Personnel, IT Solutions, Intellectual Property, Internal Audit, Tsukuba Research Institute Senior Managing Executive Oﬃcer Supervisor of Lifestyle Service Division in Director Ken Wada Charge of TOP (Tokyo Olympics 16 100 Paralympics) 2020, Secretarial, and External Relations Senior Managing Executive Oﬃcer Toshiro Director Divisional Manager of Housing and 16 100 Mitsuyoshi Construction Division Managing Executive Oﬃcer Director Akihisa Fukuda Divisional Manager of Timber and 16 100 Building Materials Division Managing Executive Oﬃcer Tatsumi In charge of Corporate Planning, Finance, Director 13 100 Kawata*2 Corporate Communications, and Sustainability Attorney at Law Outside Director of Tokyo Financial Outside Director Junko Hirakawa Exchange Inc. 16 100 Outside Director of Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. Izumi Outside Director Outside Director of AEON Bank, Ltd. 16 100 Yamashita *1 The areas of responsibility and expertise are current as of April 1, 2019. *2 Figures for Tatsumi Kawata represents attendance since his appointment on June 22, 2018. ＜68＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Structure of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is composed of 17 individuals in a structure built on expertise, such as knowledge, experience, skill, and diversity. Sumitomo Forestry considers diversity such as gender and nationality as well as expertise which includes those who have a wealth of experience and success in the operations of the Sumitomo Forestry Group, those who have a wealth of experience and success in business such as corporate management, industry and policy and those who have specializations such as law and accounting. Nomination Procedure for Directors Director candidates are selected at the Board of Directors from the pool of personnel with superior personality trait and acumen, and potential value to the Company, consulting with the Appointment and Remuneration Advisory Committee. Summaries of background and interlocking status of the directors are available on the website. Directors and Executive Oﬃcers Analysis, Assessment and Results for the Eﬀectiveness of the Board of Directors We assessed the eﬀectiveness of the Board of Directors this ﬁscal year through deliberation at the Board meeting by conducting an analysis of each Director, checking on how the Board has been fulﬁlling its role with respect to our Basic Policy on Corporate Governance, and exchanging opinions with the outside directors and outside statutory auditors about the Board of Directors. Initiatives undertaken this ﬁscal year include a revision of the Board of Directors discussion standards, a narrowing of its agenda items, and the establishment of a venue in which each division can explain its business operations to outside directors individually, all of which helped deepen the discussions at the Board of Directors meetings. In addition, holding multiple informal discussions regarding medium to long-term business strategies with external directors has enabled constructive discussions of a new Medium-term Management Plan. Regarding the strengthening of governance to prevent violations (stronger risk management, internal controls, etc.) as instructed in the eﬀectiveness assessment for ﬁscal 2017, we have planned to revise our investment and loan management while enhancing our monthly reporting to the outside directors. As a result, evaluations have found that the overall eﬀectiveness of the Board of Directors has been ensured. Upcoming issues will include deepening discussions related to rebuilding our human assets strategy, expanding our domains of business, and responding to changes in business environment. Some members expressed the view that they would like to further strengthening our defensive governance practices in pursuit of these goals. We will strive to further improve the eﬀectiveness at Board of Directors meetings by continually working to heighten the level of discussion with awareness toward highlighted topics in the future. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜69＞ Board of Statutory Auditors The Board of Statutory Auditors meets to discuss and make decisions on important matters regarding audits. The ﬁve statutory auditors, including the three outside statutory auditors, utilize the deep insights and diverse perspectives they have acquired from their various business backgrounds to provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties. The Board of Statutory Auditors met 14 times during ﬁscal 2018. The appropriate human resources are also appointed as statutory auditors at our main subsidiaries for the purpose of improving the eﬀectiveness of auditing and informational exchange at these companies. The Board of Statutory Auditors met six times during ﬁscal 2018. Attendance of Statutory Auditors at the Board of Directors and the Board of Statutory Auditors (FY2018) Board of Statutory Board of Directors Auditors Name and Expertise*1 Attended Attended Attendance Attendance Meetings Meetings Rate (%) Rate (%) (meetings) (meetings) Senior Statutory Hitoshi 13 100 11 100 Auditor Hayano*2 Statutory Auditor Noriaki Toi 16 100 14 100 Yoshitsugu Chief Counselor, Norinchukin Outside Auditor 16 100 14 100 Minagawa Research Institute Co., Ltd. Certiﬁed Public Accountant Yoshimasa Outside Auditor External Auditor, Daiwa Motor 13 100 11 100 Tetsu*2 Transportation Co., Ltd. Attorney at Law Outside Director of CAPCOM Makoto Co., Ltd. (Member of the Audit Outside Auditor 12 92 10 90 Matsuo*2 and Supervisory Committee) Outside Statutory Auditor of Solasia Pharma K.K. *1 The expertise of each person is current as of April 1, 2019 *2 Figures for Hitoshi Hayano, Yoshimasa Tetsu and Makoto Matsuo represent attendance since their appointment on June 22, 2018. ＜70＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Outside Directors In the selection procedure for outside directors and statutory auditors, determinations are based on the following standards of independence and professional criteria. (1) Standards of Independence Candidates must not be applicable to any of the below listed criteria to insure their independence to the Company. 1. Companyʼs operations executives Executive director, executive oﬃcer, operating oﬃcer, manager, or other directly hired person by the Company, its subsidiary, or its aﬃliate (herein; “operations executives”). 2. Consultants (1) Employee, partner, or any other staﬀ hired by an auditing ﬁrm who provide auditing services for the Company or its subsidiaries. (2) Lawyer, certiﬁed accountant, tax accountant, or other consultant whose annual compensation and other forms of monetary beneﬁts given by the Company or its subsidiaries, exclusive of directorʼs remuneration, has exceeded ten million yen in the past three years. (3) Employee, partner, associate, or other staﬀ hired by a law, auditing, tax law, consulting or any other advisory ﬁrm whose major client is the Company or its subsidiaries. (The major client means a companyʼs received payment in a year by the Company or its subsidiaries has exceeded 2% of its consolidated total sales in the past three years.) 3. Major shareholder (non-owner) Person who directly and or indirectly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company; i.e. operations executive if a holder is a company. 4. Major shareholder (owner) Operations executive of a company which holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company or its subsidiaries. 5. Business Partners (1) Client (major clients): person or operations executive of a client whose purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the Company (2) Supplier (of which the Company is a major client): person or operations executive of a supplier of which the Companyʼs purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the supplier 6. Lender Lender from which the Companyʼs borrowing exceeds 2% of the consolidated total asset of the company; i.e. operations executive in case of a company 7. Recipient of contribution Individual or operations executive of a corporate recipient of a donation from the Company or its subsidiaries whose annual average amount exceeds ten million yen or 2% of total income of the recipient in the last three years. 8. Family Spouse, next of kin within the second degree, or live-in member of a family of the person whose independency is rejected by this list of criteria 9. Background Item 1 is applicable in at any time in the past 10 years, or Item 2 or 7 is applicable at any time in the past 5 years. 10. Inter-assumption of outside executive oﬃcer Executive director or statutory auditor of a company whose executive directors or statutory auditors include the Company or its subsidiaryʼs Two of our current outside directors and three of our outside statutory auditors are considered independent based on the above list of independency criteria, not to pose a conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜71＞ (2) Standards of Concurrent Board Positions (i) When concurrently holding a board or statutory board member position of another publicly listed company, the number of concurrent board or statutory board member positions will be follows: (a) When serving as an executive director at another company exercising relevant execution of operations, only one company other than this Company; (b) In situations other than (a), up to four companies other than this Company. (ii) An attendance rate at the meetings of the Board of Directors or Board of Statutory Auditors of at least 75%. Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee The Board of Directors establishes a Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee as an advisory body from which it seeks opinions to ensure fairness and transparency in matters including the selection of candidates for the Board of Directors and auditing posts, the selection of executive oﬃcers, the dismissal of board members, statutory auditors or executive oﬃcers, evaluations of the chief executive oﬃcer and other executive oﬃcers, and remuneration for board members and executive oﬃcers. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee will consist of the Chairman, the President, and all outside executives (two outside directors and three outside statutory auditors) where the majority must be outside executives, and the chairperson must be an outside director. The Board of Directors determines the directors and executive oﬃcersʼ remunerations within the amount speciﬁed by resolution of the general meeting of shareholders, taking into consideration the opinions stated by the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. Risk Management Committee Information regarding the Risk Management Committee is found in “Risk Management/ Risk Management Framework.” In ﬁscal 2018, the Risk Management Committee, Compliance Subcommittee, and BCP Subcommittee met four times, twice, and four times, respectively, while the Board of Directors received four sessions of reporting. Risk Management Framework Sustainability Committee In response to matters including SDGs, ﬁnal recommendations of TCFD and human rights issues, the new Sustainability Committee was established in ﬁscal 2018 based on the growing requirements for medium to long-term initiatives and informational disclosure about the Environment, Society and Governance (ESG). The Sustainability Committee is made up of executive oﬃcers also appointed as director, and divisional mangers with the President acting as the Committee chairperson. The Committee is convened four times a year to formulate and promote initiatives for medium to long-term ESG challenges related to the sustainability of the Sumitomo Forestry Group including climate change in addition to analyzing risks and opportunities, conducting progress management of the Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, which incorporate business strategies toward achieving the SDGs, including monitoring of implementation and eﬀectiveness of the Our Values and Code of Conduct. The content of all committee proceedings is reported to the Board of Directors to enable our business operations to become part of the solution for social issues. Risk Management Framework Responding to TCFD ＜72＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Internal Audits Sumitomo Forestry's Internal Audit Department draws on risk assessments in selecting about 60 business sites from among the roughly 200 business sites, including subsidiaries, each year to conduct internal audits. The sites are selected by specifying an order of priority based on the two perspectives of operational risk (business results, size, complexity of business, etc.) and control risk (risk management framework). In the internal audits, the department checks on how a site is executing its operations and managing its oﬃce work, including its compliance with laws and regulations, and it reports its ﬁndings to the President, the executive oﬃcer in charge of internal audits and to internal statutory auditors, as well as to the manager responsible for the site and the executive oﬃcer or director in charge of the business site. Furthermore, if any indications have been made, the department checks the improvement eﬀorts implemented at the site, such as by examining documents and conducting quarterly follow-up reviews, in accordance with the necessary compliance to laws and internal regulations and reports on these to the President and to the executive oﬃcer in charge. Integrated Report Executive Remuneration In accordance with laws and regulations, Sumitomo Forestry discloses the remuneration paid to oﬃcers (directors and statutory auditors) each ﬁscal year. Total Remuneration Paid to Directors and Statutory Auditors (FY2018) Number of Total Amount Category Personnel (Million yen) Directors 11 539 Auditors 8 78 Total 19 617 *1 It is a requirement in Japan to indicate the names and the amounts of directors who receive 100 million yen or more in remuneration in the annual securities report. However, there are no applicable individuals at this Company. *2 One director and three statutory auditors who resigned at the conclusion of the 78th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018 are included in the above. *3 Total amount of directorʼs remunerations do not include a compensation as an employee or a compensation for the execution of other duties. *4 Total amount of directorʼs remunerations include the total bonus of 143 million yen as resolved by the 79th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 21, 2019. *5 Total amount of directorʼs remunerations include the cost of 9 million yen allocating stock options and 28 million yen allocating shares with restriction of transfer for eight directors (excluding outside directors). *6 Upper limits of directors and statutory auditorsʼ remunerations are as below. (1) The amount of remuneration for directors of no more than 40 million yen per month (no more than 5 million yen per month for outside directors) was approved at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016. (2) The amount of remuneration concerning the allocation of shares with restriction of transfer of no more than 100 million yen for directors (excluding outside directors) per year was approved at the 78th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜73＞ (3) The amount of remuneration for statutory auditors of no more than 8 million yen per month was approved at the 74th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014. *7 Of the total remuneration of directors and statutory auditors, the total amount paid to outside executives are shown in the table below. However, the table below includes two statutory auditors who resigned at the conclusion of the 78th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018. Total Remuneration Paid to Outside Executives (FY2018) Total Amount Number of Personnel (Million yen) 7 55 Content Disclosed Regarding Remuneration Amount or Determination Policy of the Calculation Methods Sumitomo Forestry Group regards the establishment of an executive remuneration system functioning as an appropriate incentive for directors and statutory auditors to be fundamental in achieving the Group's Corporate Philosophy. 1. Remuneration for Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) With the exception of outside directors, remuneration for directors comprises three types: monthly remuneration as basic remuneration, shares with restriction of transfer, and bonuses tied to business performance. We determine remuneration for each directorship position according to roles and responsibilities. While basic remuneration is paid as a ﬁxed cash amount determined by directorship position, a certain percentage of the amount is paid in shares with restriction of transfer. The scope of the cash payment amount is determined by a resolution of the general meeting of shareholders, while the monetary amount to be paid in the form of shares with restriction of transfer is to be determined by the general meeting of shareholders at no more than 100 million yen per year. The purpose of remuneration in the form of shares with restriction of transfer is to provide medium to long-term incentive that heightens the desire to increase our corporate value and the sense of pride and motivation, while establishing a sense of values held in common with shareholders. Remuneration tied to business performance is determined with the approval of the general meeting of shareholders, with consideration given to consolidated recurring income excluding diﬀerences in actuarial calculations used in retirement beneﬁts accounting, and current net income levels for parent company shareholders. 2. Remuneration for Outside Directors Remuneration for outside directors comprises only basic monthly remuneration. 3. Remuneration for Statutory Auditors Remuneration for statutory auditors comprises only basic monthly remuneration. 4. General Meeting of Shareholders Resolution on Remuneration for Directors The amount of remuneration for directors of no more than 40 million yen per month (no more than 5 million yen per month for outside directors) was approved at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016. A limit on remuneration for directors (excluding outside directors) through the allocation of shares with restriction of transfer of no more than 100 million yen per year was approved at the 78th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018. The amount of remuneration for statutory auditors of no more than 8 million yen per month was approved at the 74th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014. The retirement bonus system for directors was abolished at the conclusion of the 65th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 29, 2005. In addition, we use the results of a survey conducted by a third party of directorship remuneration at domestic corporations in order to set directorsʼ remuneration at levels that are appropriate from the perspective of ensuring objectivity and appropriateness. ＜74＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Tax Strategies All of the oﬃcers and employees of the Sumitomo Forestry Group adhere to laws and regulations, social norms of behavior and corporate regulations to act with the highest regard for ethics. We have put in place policies even for tax practices and strive to maintain and enhance tax compliance through eﬀorts that include awareness raising for employees. The Group properly and eﬀectively takes steps to reduce the tax burden while striving to optimize tax payments. In business dealings which may present a high tax risk, we make eﬀorts to reduce the tax risk by preparing systems for suﬃcient prior examination as well as request advice and guidance such as that from tax experts as necessary. Moreover, we do not engage in any tax strategies through interpretations or applications which stray from the meaning of the law. Our Group strives to maintain favorable communication with the tax authorities and remains sincere and honest in all of our correspondences based in facts. In the event an issue is pointed out by the tax authorities, we investigate the cause of the problem immediately and take the appropriate measures to properly correct or improve the problem to prevent recurrence, except in cases involving a formal objection or appeal related to the measures or view of the tax authorities. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜75＞ Risk Management Risk Management Framework In order to reinforce its framework for managing business risks for the entire Group, Sumitomo Forestry has created the Risk Management Basic Regulations and has appointed the President of Sumitomo Forestry as the highest authority on risk management for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, executive oﬃcers in charge of head oﬃce departments and each division headquarters have been appointed authorities on risk management of their department, and general managers have been appointed to promote risk management. The Regulation encompasses risks in environmental, social, and governance aspects, comprehensively. Based on these regulations, the Company also places the Risk Management Committee, comprised of the Company president as chairperson, together with all of executive oﬃcers. Each executive oﬃcer identiﬁes and analyzes the priority risks to be addressed in their respective area of responsibility, including at Group companies, and formulates plans for managing those risks. These are then shared and discussed at quarterly meetings of the Risk Management Committee. The Committee primarily discusses responses to compliance-related risks and other short-term risks, as well as risks that have already emerged. Executive Oﬃcers and Directors attend this committee as it outlines and reports about the content of the activities to the Board of Directors to put in place systems representative of the business. A Compliance Subcommittee and a BCM Subcommittee* have also been established under the command of the Risk Management Committee. These are chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department, and are comprised of the executives in charge of risk management at each Group company. These subcommittees carry out speciﬁc activities for increasing eﬀectiveness against “compliance risk” and against “business interruption risk”, which are both regarded as cross-sectional risks aﬀecting the Group. In ﬁscal 2018, the Risk Management Committee met four times, and conﬁrmed the state of progress with respect to 45 priority risks. Also in ﬁscal 2018, the Compliance Subcommittee and BCP Subcommittee met twice and four times, respectively, and reports were also submitted to the Board of Directors four times. Against risks in environmental, social, and governance aspects speciﬁed in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct, tangible actions have been taken to increase eﬀectiveness. With respect to climate change, for example, the latest information is considered together with information obtained from each department in order to evaluate risks and opportunities that are thought to have a severe ﬁnancial impact at the corporate and departmental levels. In ﬁscal 2018, each business department joined together in conducting TCFD-based scenario analyses. Items determined through this process to be priority risks in the medium to long term are discussed in the Sustainability Committee. The results are outlined and reported to the Board of Directors to build a system to reﬂect this information into the execution of our businesses. During ﬁscal 2019, in order to respond properly to changes in the risks faced by the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Company will strengthen its risk management framework by taking stock of its managed risks and by following a PDCA cycle in making continuous improvements with respect to the priority risks selected at the beginning of each period. * The BCP Subcommittee was renamed to BCM Subcommittee in April 2019 in order to promote and strengthen the BCM system of the entire group, in and outside Japan. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Business Continuity Management System Sustainability Committee Responding to TCFD ＜76＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Risk Management Structure of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜77＞ Risks in Operations The following risks have been identiﬁed in operations as stated on the Security Reports. 1. Trends of housing markets 2. Changes of legislative regulations 3. Competition with other corporations 4. Capital and investment strategies 5. Market status of timber, building materials and other raw materials 6. Currency ﬂuctuation 7. Quality assurance 8. Overseas operations 9. Obligatory retirement fund 10. Stock market 11. Natural disasters 12. Information security 13. Climate change and other environmental matters 14. Value falls of assets 15. Credit facility of business partners 16. Litigation risks 17. Funding risks Securities Reports/Internal Control Reports (in Japanese) Compliance Business Continuity Management Risks Associated with Illegal Logging and Conversion Timber Illegal logging is recognized as a crucial issue globally, and progress is being made to strengthen related laws and regulations in a number of countries and regions. Japan has announced the Act on Promotion of Use and Distribution of Legally-Harvested Wood and Wood Products (The Clean Wood Act) on May 20, 2016, which was enacted on May 20, 2017. Addressing stronger control of illegally harvested timber not only responds to the requirements of the world but it is also extremely important for the Sumitomo Forestry Group to continue businesses sustainably. In addition to legality of the procured timber and timber products, sustainability of forests that produce timber has been in question recently. “Conversion timber” is timber generated during the conversion of natural forest areas to non-forest use (such as oil palm plantation). While the conversion to farm land is often discussed from the commodity side (oil palm, soy, rubber and cattle), conversion timber now poses sustainability risks to forestry industry. Smooth Response to the Clean Wood Act Impact on the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group could jeopardize its own businesses that handle wood resources if it neglected its duty and dealt in illegally logged timber. Moreover, these actions would harm the image of the company and could directly damage our business performance such as compensation for damage and turnover. ＜78＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Risk Countermeasures The Sumitomo Forestry Group has been committed to responsible timber procurement, pioneering legislation in Japan and having established the Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in 2005, to bring contributions to a sustainable society via business activities of “wood” -a renewable resource. In 2015, Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy was extended beyond timber and became subject to procurement of building materials, raw materials of products, and end products, and reestablished as Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. The Group's economically, socially and environmentally responsible procurement today is being carried out based on the policy. Furthermore, in order to tackle this emerging issue surrounding conversion timber, Sumitomo Forestry has set a target in its Mid-term Sustainability Targets, targeting FY2021, to 100% procure “sustainable timber,” which eliminate conversion timber. Procurement Initiatives Emerging Risks Associated with Carbon Accounting on Biomass Fuel Biomass power generation using wood chips as fuel has long been considered as “carbon neutral” and as clean energy. While burning wood fuel generates methane and N2O and thus it is not “GHG neutral,” it is only required to report emissions other than CO2. However, SBT initiative announced its updated criteria this April; Bioenergy accounting: Direct emissions from the combustion of biomass and biofuels, as well as GHG removals associated with bioenergy feedstock1, must be included alongside the companyʼs inventory and must be included in the target boundary when setting a science-based target and when reporting progress against that target. If biogenic emissions from biomass and biofuels are considered climate neutral, the company must provide justiﬁcation of the underlying assumptions. Detailed information is not yet available from the initiative, nor the guidance on what could be the justiﬁcation for biomass to be considered climate neutral. Impact on the Sumitomo Forestry Group Sumitomo Forestry operates four wood biomass power generation plants in Japan and is currently planning to add another in 2021, which would generate total of 177MW. If it is required to add CO2 emissions to currently reported methane and N2O from the biomass power generation operation, Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs SBT emission reduction target would be extremely challenging. Climate-related regulation changes in each regions/countries are unpredictable and may cause the company additional payment if carbon pricing incurs additional tax payment. Sumitomo Forestryʼs corporate brand image of being an environmentally friendly company may also be negatively impacted. Risk Countermeasures Sumitomo Forestry continues to strive to reduce carbon emissions based on its Mid-term Sustainable Targets for each business units. Also, Sumitomo Forestry is becoming more active in lobbying through the Forest Solution Group of the WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) and CDP Japan Club, where Sumitomo Forestry serves as member. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜79＞ Risk Associated to IPCC 1.5 Degree-C Special Report Based on IPCCʼ 1.5 Degree-C Special Report published in October 2018, SBT initiative announced its updated criteria in April 2019; new scope 1+2 targets shift from 2 degree-C to well below 2 degree-C or 1.5 degree-C. The companies will need to have their targets reviewed every 5 years to make sure these are in line with the latest climate science. By the end of 2024 at the latest, based on the current criteria, updated targets will need to be aiming at well below 2 degree-C. Impact on Sumitomo Forestry Sumitomo Forestryʼs targets that were approved as an SBT targets in July 2018 is reportedly considered as “2 degree-C” target. Targets review every 5 years for Sumitomo Forestry is July 2022 at the latest. Currently approved target of reducing 21% by FY2030 compared to FY2017 is already a challenging one, requiring the company to invest heavily for overseas manufacturing facilities and to purchase renewable energy. In order to align with the updated criteria, each business units of the company, especially manufacturing and biomass energy power generation, faces additional cost and investment. Risk Countermeasures In addition to current eﬀort to reduce energy consumption, the company started actions to secure electricity from renewable energy sources. One of the sources would be to purchase electricity from solar-panels on each detached houses sold by the company in the past. Under the FIT Act of Japan (Feed-in Tariﬀ for Renewable Energy) residential PV system owners have signed up for 10-year contract, which expires in November 2019 at the earliest. While the current regulation does not allow Sumitomo Forestry to directly contract with each residential PV system owners, the company is undertaking studies for future plan as well as potential utilization of the “environmental value” from portion of power generated and consumed in-house. New Business Plan Risk Assessment All new business and project plans that are brought for deliberation to the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, which is the advisory body to the president, Sumitomo Forestry conducts risk assessment for the following categories, taking into account the entire supply chain. If a risk is conﬁrmed, a report is made regarding the risk and measures to deal with it, which is used to determine implementation. In addition, the same risk assessment is recommended for new business projects that are not brought for deliberation to these meetings because they can be implemented under the jurisdiction of the respective division or aﬃliated company. ■ Environmental Aspects 1. Greenhouse Gases 2. Biodiversity Conservation (Including Veriﬁcation of Protected Regions) 3. Waste 4. Water Resources 5. Soil Contamination 6. Noise 7. Other ■ Social Aspects 1. Relationships with Companies We Do Business With 2. Anti-Corruption in All Its Forms, Including Extortion and Bribery. 3. Human Rights Considerations for Workers and Other Stakeholders 4. Promotion of Employee Diversity 5. Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor 6. Appropriate Working Hours and Wages 7. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 8. Impact on Local Communities (Including Concern for Local Residents and Administrations, Industry Organizations, NPOs, Municipal Citizensʼ Groups and Indigenous People) ＜80＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Risk Education As ways to increase the sensitivity of risk in the executives and employees and in the corporate culture of the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Group conducts e-learning each year for executives and employees as well as a risk management training for newly joined employees. In 2018, the Group introduced and shared examples from risks emerged in the past that should be noted beyond speciﬁc business departments in a meeting-type venue for people in charge of risk management at the Company and each Group company. Rapidly Comprehending and Dealing with Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates Two-hour Rule system designed to quickly and accurately communicate information to management in the event of an emergency situation that may have a grave impact on company management. In addition to the regular reporting line, it utilizes communication via the Division responsible for risk management. Through this system, management can take the best decision speedily, ensuring an initial response which avoids loss and controls the situation. Moreover, it serves a role in collecting and accumulating reported cases and assists in improved business practice and prevention of recurrence. Furthermore, the structure is organized so that, by sharing information with the public relations departments, important situations are disclosed to stakeholders properly and in a timely manner. Two-Hour Rule and Use of Risk Information Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜81＞ Compliance Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group established the new Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct as a foundation for its policies and regulations based on its Corporate Philosophy and Our Values. The Sumitomo Forestry Group uses the Code of Conduct for compliance not only at its Group companies but also at its suppliers to prevent corruption such as bribery, engage in fair business practices, maintain informational conﬁdentiality, build healthy relationships with politicians, and respect human rights. Compliance Promotion Framework Sumitomo Forestry established the Compliance Subcommittee as a subordinate organization under the Risk Management Committee, chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and comprised of the persons responsible for risk management, including those from the responsible departments at each Group company. As a crosscutting organization across the Group, the subcommittee promotes responses to compliance risk. It has established the Group standard risk management system and tools to ensure compliance with the Construction Business Act of Japan and other laws throughout the Group, for eﬃcient response to compliance risk. During ﬁscal 2018, the subcommittee met twice, and continuing on with its Group-wide initiatives from the previous ﬁscal year, it worked to make continuous improvements to its compliance system, such as making a comprehensive examination of risks with respect to legal requirements, such as for business activities requiring government permits and licenses. In addition, by acquiring the latest knowledge in the ﬁeld through compliance seminars featuring external expert instructors, the Company endeavors to align the perspectives of those persons throughout the Group who are responsible for compliance, working bottom-up. These activities are outlined and reported to the Board of Directors once every quarter to build a system to reﬂect this information into the execution of our businesses. In addition to making monthly activity reports to auditors and internal audit divisions, any particularly important initiatives or risk information that is common to the Group is shared with the auditors in each Group company via the meetings of Statutory Auditors of Sumitomo Forestry and its subsidiary companies. Thus, the Group has developed a system for promoting compliance in its lines of business execution using internal and external approaches. Compliance Training In order to heighten awareness among each and every employee about compliance, Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts compliance training for new employees to promote their understanding about general compliance issues, such as traﬃc safety, and information security. In ﬁscal 2018, training was administered to a total of 365 new graduate recruits (Group total in Japan), and to 86 mid-career recruits (Sumitomo Forestry). Compliance training was also provided to groups of employees at speciﬁc levels, including “Training for New General Managers.” Furthermore, two e-learning courses, “Compliance and Risk Management” and “Information Security” have been set as parts of compulsory courses to be taken by all employees who can use the internal website, and employees are required to take these courses annually (requires passing the test to measure eﬀectiveness of the training). In addition, each Group company in Japan and overseas also has its own arrangements for training, such as for new employees. ＜82＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance Hotline The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating a workplace environment equipped with a self-corrective function for catching any misconduct concealed in day-to-day operations at an early stage. To this end, the Group established the Compliance Hotline (advice desks) in 2002 in order to prevent corruption such as anti-bribery, deﬁned in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct. The Group has two Compliance Hotlines, one within the Group (general manager of the General Administration Department is responsible) and one external to it (lawyer), ready to provide advice and receive reports via telephone or a dedicated email address. The Hotlines not only assist Group company employees but are available for anyone who works continuously for the Group, such as employees at partner building contractors. As well as stipulating in the relevant regulations and user manual about the protection of rights for persons seeking advice or making reports, and informing this on the Sumitomo Forestry intranet, the user manual is also distributed to all Group employees. In ﬁscal 2018, the Compliance Hotlines were contacted with 14 times about such topics as the workplace environments and management of working hours. In cases where the facts were conﬁrmed, in addition to implementing the necessary corrective measures, initiatives were promoted aimed at preventing recurrence including using these examples in training for managers. Considering the current situation in which our Group is developing its business globally, we will be moving to establish a whistleblowing hotline with contact points accessible in languages other than Japanese. Manual for Compliance Hotline Grievance Desk Compliance Auditing The internal auditing departments evaluate and investigate the appropriateness and validity of the management system at Sumitomo Forestry and its 200 operational sites from an independent standpoint. In ﬁscal 2018, roughly 60 sites were selected to conduct internal auditing. These internal audits not only examine simple imperfections but also point out issues related to compliance at each site and provide advice and guidance for improvement. In addition, in the event a compliance breach is found, the issue is reported to the President, executive oﬃcer in charge of internal auditing, the statutory auditor, and the executive oﬃcer/director supervising the business of the breach to put in place the necessary reform measures while oﬀering advice on how to correct and improve the point of issues in the relevant departments. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜83＞ Preventing Corruption Based on the Sumitomo Forestryʼs Regulations for Prevention of Bribery of Oﬃcials including Public Servants, we aim preventing corruption both in Japan and overseas. The rules stipulate that monetary and other forms of beneﬁt oﬀering, agreement, provision, and acceptance to or from government employees are forbidden. As our basic principles, notion to facilitation payments* as well as conditions and pre-approvals for political contributions are stated. Aiming at Group employees, the Group also facilitates dissemination of corruption and bribery prevention. One of the Company's CSR targets was the establishment of separate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Japan during ﬁscal 2014. Consolidated subsidiaries overseas prepared regulations based on an aspect of the risk-based approach, implement staﬀ training and promoted general awareness. Subsidiaries in China have already prepared and implemented regulations. Eﬀorts to formulate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Indonesia and Vietnam moved forward in ﬁscal 2015 and, in ﬁscal 2016, those regulations were put in place at a consolidated subsidiary established in ﬁscal 2015. Eﬀorts to formulate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Indonesia and Thailand moved forward in ﬁscal 2017. In ﬁscal 2018, progress was made in instituting regulations in each of our Group company, the North America, Australia and the Asian regions, as well as at our consolidated subsidiary in Papua New Guinea. When new business partners and representative agencies are hired, the Company oversees that these new business partners pose no risks of bribery whilst conducting appropriate due diligence including on corruption status in the case of a merger with other companies. In ﬁscal 2018, no violation of corruption and relevant laws was identiﬁed. * Small amount of payment to facilitate regular administrative services Promotion of Fair Competition and Appropriate Transactions with Subcontractors For the purpose of promoting fair competition, Sumitomo Forestry published the Antimonopoly Act Guide Book, and via articles on its intranet website, e-learning and other methods, it works to enhance understanding and awareness regarding the intent and outline of the Antimonopoly Act and about the risk of cartels stemming from contact with competitors. There were no breaches or issues related to the Antimonopoly Act in ﬁscal 2018. Given that the Groupʼs business activities are supported by many business partners, every year, Sumitomo Forestry also makes a comprehensive examination of its compliance with the Subcontract Act and the Construction Business Act of Japan for the purpose of promoting appropriate transactions with subcontractors. Political Contributions Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group states in its Code of Conduct: “We shall maintain a healthy and transparent relationship with the government that is in conformance with all laws.” This statement has been included to ensure a healthy relationship with the government. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Guidebook distributed to every employee working at Group companies in and outside Japan clariﬁes “As a general rule and in accordance with relevant laws and company regulations, only the division in charge is permitted to make political contributions” and “If circumstances require another division to make a political contribution, make sure that there is adequate prior consultation with the division in charge or top management.” ＜84＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Restriction of Insider Trading The Sumitomo Forestry Group adheres to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act as well as other relevant laws to prevent insider trading. Regulations to prevent insider trading maintains and improves the trust society has for the company in the stock market by clarifying procedures to prevent insider training by executives and employees as well as the management of information and disclosure methods. In addition, executives and employees who have the potential to come into contact with insider information on a daily basis are required as policy to gain the prior approval of the General Manager of the General Administration Department if they plan to buy or sell company stock to ensure the appropriateness. The Group also has published an Insider Trading Prevention Manual and raises awareness through its internal websites in addition to reminding the executives and employees twice a year about the prevention of insider trading. There were no breaches or issues related to insider trading in ﬁscal 2018. Rejection of Inﬂuence from Anti-Social Forces The Sumitomo Forestry Group's Code of Conduct state that the “inﬂuence from anti-social forces will be met with a resolute attitude and no compromises will be tolerated” as its basic policy. The General Administration Department is designated as the division to coordinate overall response and systematically cooperates with external expert bodies such as the police and lawyers in order to gather information about anti-social forces, and when required, gives guidance in issuing warning notices. In addition, in accordance with the enforcement of laws of each prefecture for the exclusion of organized crime, Sumitomo Forestry takes appropriate action including standardization such that all contracts that domestic Group companies enter into with third parties include a clause to exclude anti-social forces. To further strengthen its eﬀorts, since ﬁscal 2013, the Company has requested that all business partners, including its existing contracted partners, provide declarations guaranteeing that neither they nor their parent, subsidiary or subcontracting companies are anti-social forces. Prevention of Traﬃc Accidents and Violations Given that the Sumitomo Forestry Group has a ﬂeet of about 7,000 vehicles used for either work or commuting in Japan, it promotes use of a standard Group system for managing safe driving to manage the risks associated with traﬃc accidents and violations. Speciﬁcally, as well as establishing related rules, standardizing accident report forms, and acquiring Certiﬁed Driving Records*, Sumitomo Forestry has rolled out a Safe Driving Management System to each Group company which centrally manages basic driver and vehicle information (licenses, traﬃc violation histories, vehicle inspections, insurance, etc.), and has established systems for ensuring that the fulﬁllment of statutory obligations and driver instruction are carried out in a timely and appropriate manner. Sumitomo Forestry also holds monthly meetings for the Safe Driving Working Group, which is comprised of safe driving coordinators from Head Oﬃce and business divisions. The group shares and analyzes the state of traﬃc accidents and violations, helping in the formulation of prevention measures and educational activities. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry also conducts hands-on vehicle training such as daily inspections, basic driving and slalom driving in addition to training to teach the potential of personality and other factors that inﬂuence driving as well as driving skills for the future based on a driving aptitude assessments, targeting new employees who are at a greater risk of accident due to insuﬃcient driving skills and experience. Training is also provided to give participants hints on how to avoid traﬃc accidents so that they can reaﬃrm their mental readiness for safe driving. * A certiﬁcate issued by the Japan Safe Driving Center showing a driverʼs violations and administrative disciplinary actions, etc. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜85＞ Business Continuity Management Business Continuity Management System To counter risks which could signiﬁcantly impact Head Oﬃce functions and are beyond a company's capacity to prevent, such as natural disasters and pandemic inﬂuenza, Sumitomo Forestry has established the BCM Subcommittee*. The subcommittee sits under the Risk Management Committee, is chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and is comprised of the persons responsible for risk management including Group company, which enhances business continuity management system (BCM) and promotes initiatives based upon business continuity plans (BCP). Since Sumitomo Forestry Group companies are an integral link in the supply chain of one another's business, each Group company is committed to BCP Simulation Training constantly improving the resilience of the whole Group, and tackling Group-wide issues with the intention of enhancing business continuity. In ﬁscal 2018, Sumitomo Forestry held four BCP Subcommittee meetings. Critical initial responses in the event of a powerful earthquake, such as Tokyo Inland Earthquake was reviewed; in the meantime various training programs were planned and implemented. * The BCP Subcommittee was renamed to BCM Subcommittee in April 2019 in order to promote its BCM system in the entire Group, and improving business continuity with responding to variety of crises, expanding alternative locations, and strengthening disaster recovery headquarters functions. Measures for Employee Safety and Systems for Business Continuity Portable Guide for Risk Responses, Safety Conﬁrmation and Information Communication System Sumitomo Forestry Group distributes Portable Guides for Risk Responses to all Group employees in Japan, promoting the basic response procedure to take in the event of a disaster. A safety conﬁrmation system has also been introduced, allowing the safety of employees to be checked quickly in the event of a natural disaster. Safety conﬁrmation drills are conducted at domestic Group companies every year, and in ﬁscal 2018, a sum of 14,763 employees have participated in them. Furthermore, we have been operating a crisis management portal site since October 2016 as an information communication tool indispensable to business continuity from Portable Guide for Risk Responses the moment disaster strikes through the recovery. This portal site allows employees Group-wide to conﬁrm notices from the company and disaster information with only access to the Internet even when verbal communication networks and transportation infrastructure are down. Members and other staﬀ entrusted with the responsibilities at each division, base and aﬃliate company can also share information through SNS functionality on the portal site to regularly conﬁrm safety and conduct information communication training. ＜86＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Disaster Prevention and Damage Mitigation Measures By way of preparation for employees walking long distances back home on foot or those stranded at the oﬃce unable to return home in the event of a massive earthquake, Sumitomo Forestry has stipulated a minimum stockpile of common emergency supplies for each workplace, and has had these distributed to all Group bases. In particular, at bases in large metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya), where it is expected there would be large numbers of stranded employees, enough supplies have been stored for employees to stay at the oﬃce for up to three days. Also, when selecting new oﬃces and other facilities, rather than deciding merely on cost and convenience, the person responsible for disaster prevention at Head Oﬃce gets involved, and measures for preventing disasters and reducing damage are implemented, such as measures for preventing oﬃce equipment from falling over and multifunction printers on wheels from rolling. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry has also implemented measures from a perspective of data integrity, such as backing up data at locations physically distant from the data center. BCP Simulation Training In order to overcome the chaos immediately after a large-scale earthquake strikes and to transition quickly to action for business continuity, it is vitally important that the people in charge can make an initial response and can make decisions according to the situation at hand. For this reason, since ﬁscal 2011, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has continued to conduct BCP Large Scale Earthquake Countermeasures Simulation Training, targeted at the persons in charge at each Group company. The aim of this training is to get participants to experience a simulated “crisis” in an earthquake and to acquire an awareness of the issues, by getting them to make spur of the moment decisions again and again based on rigorous hypothetical scenarios. During the First response and rescue training training, since Group companies from neighboring areas are assembled together in one place, another aim of the exercise is to share an awareness of risks and to strengthen cooperation among them in an emergency. To date, a cumulative total of more than 550 people have participated in this training. Systems have also been developed so that, in situations where employees ﬁnd getting to work diﬃcult, payment of salaries, payments to business partners and other important business operations can still be carried out from a site designated in advance, an employee dormitory, their home or other remote locations while maintaining a high level of security. Simulation drills to check back-up oﬃce operations are also conducted every year. In ﬁscal 2018, we conducted ﬁrst-response and rescue training to learn techniques using crowbars on-site (simulating the aftermath of serious earthquakes when no immediate emergency dispatch can be anticipated), simple triage and rapid treatment (JumpSTART Triage) for injured victims, and transport techniques for injured victims. Strengthening Supply Chain Business Continuity Plan In readiness for potential disruption of its housing and construction business supply chain following a disaster, Sumitomo Forestry shares the speciﬁcations and processes for property construction along with site progress status information with business partners including component makers and building contractors. By enabling advanced procurement of materials and production in this way, the Company is striving to reduce the risk of a disruption to operations. The Company plans to work on further reducing risk of business disruption by considering reporting method for suppliers reporting the status of the disaster and systematization of history management in cases the suppliers are aﬀected by natural disasters such as earthquakes or calamities such as ﬁres. Sumitomo Forestry also reviews its suppliers of building and construction materials, with supplier evaluations conducted every year for determining whether to continue business with them. Business continuity items, such as systems for ensuring alternative supply routes during a disaster, have been added to these evaluations. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜87＞ Continuity of Customer Service Sumitomo Forestry has setup call centers in Tokyo and Fukuoka, thereby facilitating 24-hour after-sales service. Sumitomo Forestry has also developed a mechanism whereby any call center can back up the functions of another call center in the event it is aﬀected by a disaster. Through a uniﬁed emergency system, the Group can share damage information pertaining to owners nationwide, enabling us to respond quickly to disaster and requests for repairs. ＜88＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Responsible Advertising/Promotional Eﬀorts Basic Policy In keeping with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct, Sumitomo Forestry Group complies with relevant legislation, including the Copyright Act, Trademark Law, Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Law, and the Act against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Representations. Out of consideration for the perspectives of our diverse stakeholders, we also engage in accurate and appropriate advertising and promotional eﬀorts that do not cause misunderstanding or oﬀense. Observance of Laws, Standards and Norms In order to ensure thorough observance of laws, standards and norms, Sumitomo Forestry has a system which the Corporate Communications Department, the Legal Group in the General Administration Department and the Intellectual Property Department cooperate to conﬁrm and verify the content of advertisements as required. Sumitomo Forestry did not violate any of the various laws and regulations related to advertising in ﬁscal 2018. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry holds monthly meetings of the Brand Communication Committee, comprised of advertising personnel from relevant departments and relevant Japanese aﬃliates, in addition to study sessions for preventing non-compliance in an eﬀort to raise awareness. Through these eﬀorts, Sumitomo Forestry made certain of prior checks, and endeavored to ensure customers were not misled by unreliable information. Initiatives to Improve Company-Internal Literacy In ﬁscal 2018, the Brand Communication Committee held a study session about the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and the Copyright Act. This session brought understanding of the content of laws related to advertising and labeling as well as violations that can easily occur by providing explanations that included an introduction of speciﬁc examples. A web discussion session is also held once a quarter. Additionally, the Committee created website management guidelines and provided relevant division and Group company website teams in Japan with information and instructions on personal The Brand Communication information and information security. Committee Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜89＞ Information Security Information Security Policy In order to ensure the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of its information systems, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has raised the security level of its systems while maintaining the “regulation” aspects and “technology” aspects of information security in a mutually complementary manner. Based on the recognition that the protection of customer information in particular is of utmost importance, the Group continues to conduct employee training to ensure dissemination of the rules, and veriﬁes their level of awareness. In terms of the regulation aspects, we have formulated Sumitomo Forestry Group Information Asset Protection Guidelines for all Group companies in Japan and created a check list based on these guidelines at the same time. The person responsible for the department in charge of information systems at each Group company conducts checks of the information security level every year. In ﬁscal 2012, the Group also formulated guidelines for Group companies outside of Japan. As for education on information security, Sumitomo Forestry has made it compulsory for all Group employees with access to its intranet (including temporary and part-time employees) to take an e-learning course on an annual basis. On the other hand, with respect to the technology aspects of information security, the Group has introduced encrypted start-ups and restrictions on the data export from computers that are taken outside the Company. Systems for Protecting the Privacy of Customers (Protection of Personal Information) Sumitomo Forestry has formulated internal rules to safeguard the personal information of customers, such as the Personal Information Protection Policy and the Personal Information Protection Regulations. In addition, the executive oﬃcer responsible for general administration is designated as chief executive in charge of protection of personal information, head of each department as a supervisor and placed an information security oﬃcer in each department. In these ways, the Company has established a protection system covering Head Oﬃce through to each oﬃce. The Company has also established a help desk for inquiries regarding the handling of personal information within the Customer Service Department. In addition, collective training is provided for the head and general administration representative for each organization. E-learning is provided for all other employees and eﬀorts are made to increase awareness at subcontractors, in order to prevent the leaking of personal information. It is also mandatory for employees at Group companies to undertake the e-learning training. Personal Information Protection Policy ＜90＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Systems for Managing Information Security Under the supervision of the executive oﬃcer in charge of IT solutions, the general manager of the IT Solutions Department promotes information security measures for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, such as the formulation and management of rules and regulations, the proposal and implementation of technical measures, the education and training of employees, and the investigation of accidents and implementation of countermeasures. Furthermore, the person responsible for each department provides guidance and management for the execution of that department's operations as the information security supervisor, and assigns an information security oﬃcer who is the working-level manager for the department's information security. The Group also holds regular meetings of the Aﬃliated Companies IT Managers Council, which is attended by the persons responsible for departments in charge of information systems at Group companies in Japan. The council checks the content of the guidelines and promotes the introduction of security systems. Initiatives to Strengthen Information Security Investments in information security was continued to made in ﬁscal 2018 to strengthen security by building a defense in depth system based on the growing threats to information security such as the multiple leaks of personal information and the advanced email attacks occurring in recent times. In addition to these investments, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has conducted advanced email attack training for all of its employees. Since May 2016, we are also enhancing the response for consultations from employees founded in issues related to cyberattacks and strengthening information security education for employees centered upon the Information Security Oﬃce established at Sumitomo Forestry Information Systems Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜91＞ Intellectual Property Management Intellectual Property Management Policy The proper protection and use of copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights have a major impact on business competitiveness, while illegal actions such as intellectual property rights infringement is one of major risks in corporate management. The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to properly manage intellectual property, including the protection of intellectual property at the right time based on the unique characteristics of each business and consult with others as necessary, to sustain and improve competitiveness. Systems for Managing Intellectual Property Sumitomo Forestry established the Intellectual Property Department and it employs a number of patent lawyers on its department staﬀ. The Intellectual Property Department provides a wealth of support that includes education to cultivate knowledge about intellectual property in employees, legal consultation about the infringement and violation of intellectual property rights, assistance for the execution of various contracts related to intellectual property as well as the creation of intellectual property in Tsukuba Research Institute and each division in addition to ﬁlings and the protection of the intellectual property that is created. Intellectual Property Education Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts intellectual property classroom training for employees under a systematic program that compiles content appropriate to each department. The purpose is to systematically teach the correct knowledge and fundamental actions for handling intellectual property from the perspectives of compliance and risk management. In ﬁscal 2018, Sumitomo Forestry held 11 training sessions on intellectual property for employees in charge of research and development as well as marketing and planning at the Tsukuba Research Institute, business departments and aﬃliate companies in an eﬀort to ensure thorough compliance and risk management. We have also established an environment in which all Sumitomo Forestry Group employees can access intellectual propertyrelated classes that places emphasis on aspects of compliance at all times through our e-learning website. This course is a mandatory course that must be taken by each Sumitomo Group employee every year. ＜92＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Return to Shareholders and IR Activities In recent years, institutional investors have shifted the way to evaluate a company. One emphasis from this perspective of evaluation is engagement. The dialogue between companies and their shareholders as well as investors is growing in terms of strategies and eﬀorts to improve corporate value. Trends to promote even broader engagement are growing after the publishing of the Stewardship Code even in Japan. The Sumitomo Forestry Group places great importance on engagement from the perspectives of properly assessing the corporate value and earning trust from the market. The Group discloses a wide range of information, including non-ﬁnancial information, in a timely and transparent manner to facilitate understanding among stakeholders of our management policies and business strategies, while regularly feeds back the opinions and requirements of investors who are a vital stakeholder into operations to put in place measures toward sustainable growth. Returns to Shareholders Basic Policy on Returns to Shareholders and Retained Earnings Acknowledging that providing returns to shareholders is one of its most important tasks, Sumitomo Forestry has adopted a basic policy of paying stable and continuous returns. Going forward, in addition to improving return on equity (ROE) and enhancing shareholdersʼ equity by making good use of retained earnings for eﬀective investment and research and development activities that help improve long-term corporate value, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to pay an appropriate level of shareholder returns in line with earnings while reﬂecting an overall balanced consideration of factors such as business fundamentals, ﬁnancial conditions and cash ﬂow. Dividends in Fiscal 2018 In ﬁscal 2018 (year ended March 31, 2019), a year-end dividend of 20 yen per share and an interim dividend of 20 yen per share were issued. This corresponds to a full-year dividend of 40 yen per share. Share Distribution by Shareholder Type (As of March 31, 2019) * Digits below unit values displayed are cutoﬀ on the chart. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜93＞ Information Disclosure and Communication Basic Policy on Information Disclosure and Communication In the interest of greater management transparency, Sumitomo Forestry takes a proactive approach to information disclosure. We strive to provide reporting and explanations in an easy to understand manner at the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June every year. We also publish a wealth of IR information in Japanese and English such as information about the settlement of accounts and monthly order information in the housing businesses that includes short ﬁnancial statements, factoring and a summary of ﬁnancial results and forecasts on our website. In addition, we also publish our CSR initiatives in Japanese and English online. We have been publishing the Integrated Report since ﬁscal 2017 in place of the Annual Report published up until now in order to strengthen informational communication for both ﬁnancial information and non-ﬁnancial ESG information about the initiatives to improve corporate value throughout the Group. Besides the integrated report and the Japanese language report for shareholders on business activities, we also strive to actively provide information that includes the publishing of notiﬁcations for our Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in both English and Japanese in print and online forms. IR Materials (Link to IR Information) Japanese reports for shareholders on business activities (Year ended March 31, 2019) Integrated Report 2019 Two-Way Communication with Shareholders and Investors Basic IR Policy General Meeting of Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry holds its Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders every June. Through various initiatives, the Company endeavors to get as many shareholders as possible to participate at the meetings and exercise their right to vote. These initiatives include sending out and posting online convocation notices (in Japanese and English) earlier than legally required, scheduling the meeting to avoid the date when most other shareholder meetings are held, and accommodating shareholders who wish to cast their votes online or via mobile phone. ＜94＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Individual Meetings Sumitomo Forestry holds individual meetings with security analysts and institutional investors following the announcement of its quarterly results. In ﬁscal 2018, we conducted a total of 183 consultations in Japan and overseas. In addition, we will also regularly hold forums such as small meetings and on-site brieﬁngs. IR Informative Meetings for Individual Investors Sumitomo Forestry holds regular IR informative meetings for individual investors. During ﬁscal 2018, many investors attended the meetings held in Osaka and Tokyo. The meetings presented the growth strategy of the Sumitomo Forestry Group in addition to its business operations while its exhibition booth at the venue provided those investors who have requested with brieﬁngs on customized housing, rental housing, renovation, and private-pay elderly care facilities. IR Activities for Overseas Institutional Investors and Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry management team visits institutional investors and shareholders in Europe and North America in ﬁscal 2018 in addition to engaging in eﬀorts such as the distribution of English versions of ﬁnancial information to all of our institutional investors and shareholders overseas. These eﬀorts oﬀer us the chance to exchange ideas in addition to explain aspects of our business such as our business performance and business strategies. We also provide many opportunities for dialogue by participating in conferences held in Japan and overseas. Issuance of Green Bonds Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes initiatives informed by an awareness of the global environment in all of the activities it pursues. In September 2018, as part of this initiative, Sumitomo Forestry issued ten billion yen of Convertible Bonds with Stock Acquisition Rights in accordance with the Green Bond Principles and with a second party opinion received from a leading evaluation agency (hereinafter “Green CBs”). The purpose was to reﬁnance the reduced amount of cash on hand resulting from our acquisition of forest assets in New Zealand in ﬁscal 2016. This was the ﬁrst instance of the issuance of Green CBs worldwide, and it was this advanced initiative that was highly evaluated and won the New Products category at the 4th Green Bond Pioneer Awards hosted by the Climate Bonds Initiative as a result. We were the ﬁrst Japanese company to receive a Green Bond Pioneer Award. Issuance of Green CBs will contribute to activating ESG investment markets and expanding the base within and outside of Japan. Second party opinion provided by evaluation organization Vigeo Eiris Environmental beneﬁts: ex-post estimates of outputs and impacts Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜95＞ Contribution Through Our Business Overall Business and Scope of Impact Housing and Construction Business Distribution Business Manufacturing Facilities Forest Management Environmental Energy Business Business Responding to the Super-Aging Society ＜96＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Overall Business and Scope of Impact We at the Sumitomo Forestry Group strive in a wide range of business activities centered upon wood. We have built strengths unique to our Group from the technology and know-how in wood accumulated for the almost 320 years since our founding to the brand cultivated with a network in Japan and overseas that connects us to our customers. The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes wood as a healthy and environmentally friendly natural resource to provide a diverse range of lifestyle-related services that contribute to the realization of a sustainable and prosperous society. Value Chain Seedling Farming Veriﬁcation of Product Sales/Product Procurement Site Preparation Legal Compliance/ Development Development Fuel Production Garden Vegetation Sustainability Raw Material Design Power Generation Cultivation Procurement Procurement Materials Sales Harvest Shipping/Sales Manufacturing Procurement * related to the energy Transport Delivery Delivery Construction business After-Sales Support Relevant CSR Initiatives Sustainable Forest Procurement Procurement Procurement Environmental Management Initiatives Initiatives Initiatives Energy Business Protecting and Sales Initiatives Product Safety and Product Safety and Business Utilizing Domestic Quality Control Quality Control Responding to the Forest Resources Occupational Home Building Super-Aging Forest Health and Safety That Contributes Society Management to a Sustainable Overseas Society Occupational Occupational Health and Safety Health and Safety in the Forestry on Construction Business Sites Consulting Environmental Business Consideration in Reforestation Construction Sites Activities Communication Contributing to the with Our Society Customers MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Contributions to Eco Cities Through Greening Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜97＞ Relevant Stakeholders Customers Business Partners Government and Regulatory Authorities Industries and Companies NPOs/NGOs Global Environment in the Same Business Global Society and Local Employees and Their Communities Families Relevant Material Issues* Material Issue 1> Material Issue 1> Material Issue 1> Material Issue 1> Material Issue 3> Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Low-carbon society responsible society responsible society responsible society responsible society Material Issue 5> Material Issue 3> Material Issue 3> Material Issue 3> Material Issue 2> Strengthen risk Low-carbon society Low-carbon society Low-carbon society Improve safety and management Material Issue 4> Material Issue 5> Material Issue 3> quality framework Strengthen Strengthen risk Recycling society Material Issue 2> occupational health management Material Issue 4> Improve and safety framework Strengthen communication with Material Issue 5> occupational health customers Strengthen risk and safety Material Issue 3> management Material Issue 5> Recycling society framework Strengthen risk Material Issue 3> management Low-carbon society framework Material Issue 4> Strengthen occupational health and safety Material Issue 5> Strengthen risk management framework Relevant SDGs * Material issues are CSR priority issues identiﬁed by the Sumitomo Forestry Group based on economic, environmental and social approaches. Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues ＜98＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Housing and Construction Business Value Chain of the Housing and Construction Business Housing and constructions at the Sumitomo Forestry Group are mostly custombuilt detached housing designed to each customerʼs individual home speciﬁcations. We listen carefully to the requests of our customers to propose the best lifestyle based on their wishes. We enhance knowledge of each and every staﬀ member to fully grasp the needs of our customers, and oﬀer multiple communication opportunities such as meetings at model homes and showrooms. We also visualize image of the housing to provide accessible proposals through the adoption of tools such as virtual reality (VR) systems. The Sumitomo Forestry Group pursues better housing performance from a wide range of perspectives, including earthquake resistance, ﬁreprooﬁng, insulation eﬃciency and universal design in product development. Sales/Product Relevant Social Issues Development Sales endeavors face the challenge of whether appropriate information can be provided comprehensively to customers. We strive to properly communicate data related to safety, performance and beneﬁts of environmentally-friendly housing in addition to other information to oﬀer proposals customers will be happy with. Relevant CSR Initiatives Communication with Our Customers Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜99＞ The Sumitomo Forestry Group provides long-lasting, high-quality housing by fully taking into account safety, durability and the environmental impact at the design stage. We have maintained our ratio of houses certiﬁed as Excellent Long-term Housing for new custom-built houses through development such as Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) and the BF Method up until now. Relevant Social Issues The themes in particular for social challenges related to initiatives in the design stage are safety and the environment. We propose safe, secure lifestyles to Design customers in addition to ensuring we do not neglect considerations toward the global environment, including climate change. Relevant CSR Initiatives Product Safety and Quality Control Home Building That Contributes to a Sustainable Society MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business The Housing and Construction Business procures a wide range of materials from timber and concrete to kitchens and toilets. For example, this business alone procures and uses 250,000m³ of wood annually. Promoting fair and responsible initiatives for these procurement activities are the social responsibility of the Group. Relevant Social Issues We believe that the procurement responsibilities of the Housing and Materials Construction Business should include its business partners as well as upstream Procurement supply chain. Therefore, considerations are expansive from labor practices, human rights to environmental issues both in Japan and overseas. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives ＜100＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sumitomo Forestry considers safety while working carefully and eﬃciently to complete the construction on time for the customers. Therefore, we are building a system to ensure our policies and initiatives are carried out on-site by the construction contractors through thorough implementation of safety training and environmental education. Relevant Social Issues Construction sites are bound to face various dangers and occupational injuries. We cultivate the highest level of awareness about “Safety-First” practices and strive to realize accident-free construction sites with the cooperation of a variety Construction of construction businesses. The Housing and Construction Business also takes measures such as the reduction of waste and considerations for the neighboring areas, such as noise and vibrations. Relevant CSR Initiatives Occupational Health and Safety on Construction Sites Environmental Consideration on Construction Sites Contributions to Eco Cities Through Greening The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to provide housing residents can live in over the long term by pouring its strength into after-sales support. Therefore, we conduct regular inspections and customer satisfaction surveys for 25 years after homes are delivered to their owners in addition to setting up a call center. Relevant Social Issues We believe responsibility for our products (housing) lasts even after delivery as a housing manufacturer. Our Group recognizes maintenance as part of our After-Sales responsibility for product liability to not only ensure long-term safety and Support environmental performance but also a home people can live in over the long term. Relevant CSR Initiatives Communication with Our Customers Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜101＞ Procurement Initiatives Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group has been committed to responsible timber procurement and having established Timber Procurement Standard and Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in 2005 and 2007 respectively, to bring contributions to sustainable society via business activities of “wood” -a renewable resource. In July 2015, Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy were extended beyond timber and became subject to procurement of construction materials and other items, and reestablished as Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. The Groupʼs economically, socially and environmentally responsible procurement today is being carried out based on this policy. Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy Green Procurement and CSR Procurement The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Green Procurement Guidelines in 2002. The Guidelines establish standards for procuring products from two perspectives: the supplier's stance toward the environment (corporate activities assessment) and the product's impact on the environment throughout its life cycle (product assessment). In 2013, the Group revised the Green Procurement Guidelines and added items to ensure progress of CSR initiatives concerning occupational health and safety and human rights under “corporate activity assessment.” Green Procurement Guidelines (extract) Environmental Consideration and Legal Compliance in Responsible Material Procurement The Sumitomo Forestry Group procures materials for its Housing and Construction Business in accordance with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Green Procurement Guidelines. When adopting new products or reforming existing products, we create green procurement ledgers as well as waste disposal conﬁrmation forms (product/packaging) in addition to product speciﬁcations which deﬁne the speciﬁcations, standards and quality criteria of products. Green procurement ledgers conﬁrm aspects of procurement such as verifying the timber procured has been legally logged, conﬁrming the no occurrence no volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as well as use of certiﬁed chemicals such as insecticides when adopting new products. Regarding materials made of wood, documentations such as legal certiﬁcation are conﬁrmed to ensure that procured wood materials comply with the Clean Wood Act. The waste disposal conﬁrmation forms (product/packaging) verify aspects such as the type of oﬀcuts, disposal methods and processing facilities. We create two copies of each form and suppliers and we each keep copies. Status of Sumitomo Forestry Group Forest Certiﬁcation/CoC Certiﬁcation ＜102＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Communication with Procurement Partners and Partner Evaluation Sumitomo Forestry's Housing and Construction Business worksites are found in every region of the country, and they rely on support from the many business partners that the Sumitomo Forestry Group collaborates with. The Company considers communication with these companies to be vital in order to share with them its philosophy of improving the quality of homes while protecting the environment. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of Sumitomo Forestry's Housing and Construction Division Name/Scale Description Material suppliers of the Housing and Construction Business (suppliers excluding on-site equipment manufacturers, precut factories, building material operators and frame centers) are evaluated every year per type of material based on items including corporate overview, quality, cost, delivery period, environmental response as well as services. We provide feedback from the evaluation results as a way of bettering our procurement. Evaluation and feedback based on the Supplier In ﬁscal 2018, we provided 235 feedbacks, a 100% implementation Evaluation Standards rate. In addition, we regularly audit supplier plants as part of the Implementation rate: 100% (2018) evaluation. In ﬁscal 2018, we carried out plant audit in 153 plants. If buildings are constructed with materials, which are not conﬁrmed for performance quality, it would pose various risks for the people and the buildings. Therefore, we have formulated methods for auditing plants that focus on quality management to conﬁrm whether material we procure are manufactured based on our quality standards and other aspects. Initiatives for Sustainability in Timber and Timber Products At Sumitomo Forestry Group, our Procurement Policy emphasizes procurement of sustainable timber and wood products. Sumitomo Forestry Group has established the Timber Procurement Committee to carry out due diligence on timber procurement to ensure that the procurement is performed in a sustainable manner with consideration of legal compliance, human rights, occupational health and safety, biodiversity, and indigenous/local communities. Personnel from the Construction Materials Development Department of the Housing and Construction Division also attend the Timber Procurement Committee meetings as members. The Mid-Term Sustainability Targets published in May 2019 renewed our stated commitment to 100% procurement of sustainable timber and wood products, initiating an eﬀort to reach this target by ﬁscal 2021. Responsible Material Procurement Sustainable procurement practices throughout the supply chain has come to be expected in material procurement that goes beyond checking on quality, cost and delivery dates to conﬁrming eﬀorts made by the material suppliers with respect to the environment, society and other aspects of CSR. In the Mid-Term Sustainability Targets announced in May 2019, we commit to carrying out an annual sustainability procurement survey, through which we evaluate an extended set of targets in areas such as human rights, occupational health and safety, biodiversity conservation and sustainability of timber and wood products. The plan calls for administering surveys on at least 90% of suppliers (based on the purchasing cost) by ﬁscal 2021. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜103＞ Using More Domestic Timber in Home Products Sumitomo Forestry Home houses primarily take advantage of the Big-Frame Construction Method (BF Method) and the Multi-Balance Construction Method (MB Fiscal 2018 Ratio of Domestic Wood Method). We have been striving to increase the ratio of domestic wood of structural of Structural members and non-structural materials used in these two construction methods. By and Non-structural Materials ﬁscal 2018, we had achieved 50% and 71% for these two materials, for each MB Method Home respectively. FY2018 About symbol for Independent assurance 71％ Fiscal 2018 Ratio of Domestic Wood of Structural and Non-structural Materials for each BF Method Home FY2018 50％ Fiscal 2018 Percentage of Custom-Built Detached Houses Completed ＜104＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Product Safety and Quality Control Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry believes that popularizing high-quality, durable houses as social assets plays an important role in creating a prosperous society. Based on this belief, and taking the opportunity of the enforcement of the Excellent LongTerm Housing Promotion Act in Japan in June 2009, the Company formulated a basic policy for product safety and quality control in its housing and construction business in ﬁscal 2009. Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing and Construction Business Make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions Increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in lifestyles Enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep Monitor information on any production faults, and share information on handling faults promptly Sumitomo Forestry oﬀers homes that integrate seismic resistance, durability, better insulation eﬃciency, Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEHs), the promotion of universal design, and easy upkeep to improve all aspects of home performance so as to oﬀer customers homes where they can live in peace of mind and comfort for many years to come. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜105＞ Design Performance Evaluation The Company is actively promoting the use of the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System*1 for customer peace of mind and safety as well as enhancing the value of property. In ﬁscal 2018, under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System, implementation rate*2 of Design Performance Evaluation reached 99.0%, Implementation of Construction Performance Evaluation reached 98.4%, and the acquisition of Excellent Long-Term Housing certiﬁcation reached 93.8%. *1 Third-party evaluation system for design performance at the time of design and of construction performance upon completion so that customers can objectively assess the quality and performance of a house. *2 The ratio of the number of applications against the total number of detached houses constructed, including extensions and/or alterations (applications for design and construction performance evaluation, April 1, 2018 March 31, 2019) in the Housing and Construction Division. Japanese Housing Performance Indication System Implementation Rate FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Design performance 97.7％ 98.6％ 98.8％ 98.9％ 99.0％ evaluation* Construction performance 94.9％ 97.3％ 97.8％ 97.9％ 98.4％ evaluation * The implementation of design performance evaluation has been the percentage in the number of acquisitions for the design performance evaluation during the term for detached houses built (including buildings that have not yet started construction in that term) up until ﬁscal 2014. However, it was changed to the percentage in the number of acquisitions for the design performance evaluation for buildings that have started construction in that term as of ﬁscal 2015. Certiﬁed Excellent Long-Term Housing Sumitomo Forestry sets the standard speciﬁcations for its Sumitomo Forestry Home houses to exceed the highest level of Excellent Long-Term Housing *1 certiﬁcation conditions*2 (applying the evaluation under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System). From product development through to construction and after-service, the Company has established its framework for product safety and quality control in order to deliver high quality homes with superior overall balance. *1 A life-long housing certiﬁcation system of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism which aims to popularize housing that will help realize a society that values its housing stock. *2 Detached housing is evaluated for durability, seismic resistance, ease of maintenance and energy eﬃciency in accordance with the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System. Ratio of Houses Certiﬁed As Excellent Long-Term Housing for New Custom-Built Housing FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of houses certiﬁed as Excellent Long-term Housing 91.2％ 92.7％ 93.3％ 93.3％ 93.8％ for new custom-built housing ＜106＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Excellent Long-Term Housing Standards and Standard Performance of Sumitomo Forestry Home Houses Standard Performance of Certiﬁcation Type Certiﬁcation Criterion Sumitomo Forestry Home Houses Rating measures for deterioration class 3 Durability Long lasting Equivalent to highest level 3 Measures to allow regular inspection Rating of earthquake resistance Seismic Resistance Strong to earthquakes Equivalent to highest level 3 2 or higher Maintenance Rating measures for maintenance Easy maintenance home Equivalent to highest level 3 Requirement level 3 Energy-saving House Rating measures for Energy-saving house Equivalent to highest level 4 performance energy conservation level 4 * The higher the rated level, the better evaluated. Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Undertaking development such as new technology, materials, housing products and lifestyle proposals based on consumer needs and owner surveys. The Housing and Construction Division and Tsukuba Research Institute are collaborating in experiments at validation facilities and testing of prototypes, promoting the creation of products that incorporate customer feedback, including even in the details of guarantees. Sumitomo Forestry uses a unique system to check design and structure at the time of contracting and through the ﬁnal design stage. A dedicated designer responsible for the work The Materials Selection Subcommittee, which meets once every month to decide upon all materials, conducts design reviews. All materials are checked to ensure that they meet the acceptance and quality standards set by the Tsukuba Research Institute and the Materials Selection Subcommittee. After approved by the Materials Selection Subcommittee, materials are subjected to a further design review after actual on-site use (approximately two years later) to conﬁrm whether the planned quantity can be shipped and whether or not there are any quality defects. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜107＞ Sumitomo Forestry centrally manages and shares up-todate information on the construction, process management, quality control and safety management of each building through its own site management system. Each on-site operator, contractor manager and construction manager during such stages as foundation, construction and completion, conducts inspections which are managed using a construction management record. Additionally, the Head Oﬃce inspection division checks the status of the inspection Construction Management and management. Sumitomo Forestry includes 25 years of free regular inspections with its homes. Paid inspections every 10 years beginning with the 30th year are provided up to the 60th year to support over the long term to ensure a long life in these important living spaces. Sumitomo Forestry has developed a 60-year Maintenance Program that oﬀers renovation and maintenance proposals and manages maintenance records in order to support its customers. Regular inspection Renovation The performance and reliability of Sumitomo Forestryʼs proprietary materials used in anti-seismic reinforcement and so on are veriﬁed at the Tsukuba Research Institute. In addition, we are advocating seismic retroﬁtting by undergoing a technological evaluation of the Japan Building Disaster Prevention Association. Renovation (Purchase for Resale) In order to make a diagnosis of the seismic resistance and deterioration conditions of a condominium, the original construction drawings and speciﬁcations are checked, and construction reviews, reinforcement checks, concrete strength measurements and other inspections are conducted in collaboration with third-party surveyors. Conducting major renovation work properly based on the results of these inspections increases the life-span of the building. In addition, all of the inspection results and descriptions of the renovation work are disclosed at the time of sale. Sumitomo Forestry has a number of support programs in place, including issuing its own warranty, providing existing housing home buyerʼs defect warranty and latent defect insurance, and oﬀering regular after-sales maintenance checks during the ﬁrst year. Under Renovation After renovation ＜108＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Seismic Resistant Housing The Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake and the Great East Japan Earthquake as well as a recent major earthquake in Kumamoto have been among the disasters that have wrought enormous damage in Japan. In addition, major earthquakes are forecast to occur in the Nankai Trough, resulting in year-by-year increase in demand for seismic resistance for wooden houses. In response to customer need for seismic resistant houses, Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech has developed original construction methods that enable heightened seismic resistance without diminishing high levels of the home's structural strength, workability or insulation eﬃciency. Development of K-type Corner Braces and RGS Panels K-shaped corner brace bearing walls use 24 mm thick structural plywood that is in order to store 75 mm thick glass-wool insulation inside. This method has great workability because the materials are light, and it underwent a technological evaluation by the Japan Building Disaster Prevention Association (6.0KN/m² standard bearing wall). GS panels for renovation (RGS panels) are used as a seismic resistance method to limit deformation by installing these right and left panels (structural plywood with a 24 mm thickness) made of special metals sandwiching highly rigid and highly damping rubber in vertical members. Even greater workability is provided by dividing these panels into top and bottom pieces as well. The method underwent a technological evaluation by the Japan Building Disaster Prevention Association (6.1KN/m² bearing wall). Moving forward, we plan to develop new vibration dampers that can reduce earthquake damage to buildings to the greatest possible extent. RGS Panel BF Method Sumitomo Forestry started selling the Big-Frame Construction Method (BF Method) as a product for three-story building products in February 2005 and expanded this method to two-story products in October 2009 as well as to products with ﬁre-resistant speciﬁcations in four-story buildings in April 2015. Thereafter, as awareness of customers grew about risks such as disasters, the BF Method that had further evolved to provide greater strength in high seismic resistance matched customer needs and is now one of Sumitomo Forestry's main products. The proprietary BF Method from Sumitomo Forestry is the ﬁrst in Japan to realize the wooden beam Rahmen structure, which is used in high-rise buildings, in wooden houses. The Rahmen structure is designed to stand up to horizontal forces such as earthquakes and wind through rigid-joints that unify the columns and beams with the ﬁxings. The BF Method uses big columns with a large cross-section of 560 mm which is equivalent to roughly ﬁve standard 105 mm columns and incorporates structural materials in addition to a combination of metal-to-metal joints to achieve a robust Rahmen structure. The beams and bases of the big columns join strongly thanks to the metal-to-metal joints. This brings about horizontal vibration resistance equal to a 22.4 (times/meter) shear resistance of walls. We ensure seismic resistance while being able to provide both large spaces and wide openings. In addition, expanding and introducing a variety of original technology can support an even wider range of design requirements. Twin-bolt columns (shear resistance of walls equivalent to 33.6 times/meter) that doubles metal joints as well as double-large columns that layer two large columns (shear resistance of walls equivalent to 44.8 times/meter) provide freedom in ﬂoor plans and more spaciousness even on land with many restrictions. The pre-stressed timber beams are large-span beams enable the design for built-in garages ready for parking multiple vehicles, large open living rooms, multidwelling homes in addition to a wide range of other purposes. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜109＞ Sumitomo Forestry conducts vibration tests on veriﬁcation models of structural framework, using the BF Method as well as full-scale structures to examine seismic resistance in anticipation of a large-scale earthquake. The full-size veriﬁcation model for a three-story building constructed with the BF Method cleared testing for vibrations of a maximum acceleration of 2,699 gal, which is equivalent to the Great East Japan Earthquake (3.3 times the Great HanshinAwaji Earthquake). Our technology has been proven tough through a total of 22 harsh vibration tests; two of which were conducted at a magnitude of 7 equal to the Great East Japan Earthquake and 20 of which at a magnitude of 7 equal to the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake. We also estimate strong aftershocks after a massive earthquake by implementing a repetition of a total of 246 vibration tests. We have repeatedly conducted testing with strong vibrations from a magnitude of 4 to a magnitude of a weak 6 and beyond to magnitude of 7 to ensure continued seismic resistance of the structural framework. In this way, the BF method responds to the needs of customers with powerful structures to bring security as well as ﬂexible designs able to provide comfortably spacious spaces. Strong Big Column with a Width More Than Realizing a Robust Rahmen Structure via Five Times a Standard Pillar Metal-to-Metal Joints ＜110＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Universal Design Sumitomo Forestry is a pioneer in establishing soft closers for all indoor furnishings such as sliding doors and hinged doors as an initiative to increase the safety of residents. In addition, an all ﬂat design that does not create any level diﬀerences in ﬂooring is now a standard speciﬁcation while convex corners for inner walls and wall-mounted convex sections have an Rshape speciﬁcation around living spaces and halls. We have set the standard speciﬁcations for the width of hallways to 780 mm to allow the use of assistive wheelchairs with the assumption that wheelchairs and care will be necessary in the future. We also ﬂexibly respond to customer requirements through a freedom in design that includes slopes to entrances and the installation of home elevators. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry is placing its strength in the design of living spaces to satisfy the needs of customers such as roof balconies without level diﬀerences from the interior, heat shocks, and the Air-Dream Hybrid total air conditioning system that reduces house dust and realizes a comfortable space without any temperature ﬂuctuations. Sumitomo Forestry also provides comfortable bedroom environments with original wooden interiors that have indirect lighting to oﬀer better sleep quality and reduce fatigue in indoor environments perfect for sleeping. R-Line Frames with Consideration to Safety Ordinary Frame Stairs with enhanced step visibility. Ordinary stairs Received KIDS DESIGN AWARD in FY2012 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜111＞ Home Building That Contributes to a Sustainable Society Basic Policy Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) and other housing measures in Japan oﬀer guidance to creating eco products as well as advocate excellent long-term housing as an asset. By promoting ZEH-speciﬁcation housing, Sumitomo Forestry reduces each household's primary energy consumption while also providing living spaces that are disaster-resistant and comfortable to live in year-round. We provide environmentally friendly houses that meet the needs of each customer while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. Promotion of Net Zero Energy House (ZEH) Speciﬁcations The household sector in Japan still has high level emission of CO2 although the trend has slowed down. Japan has launched policy targets that aim for more than ZEH Standardization Target half of all custom-built detached houses constructed by housing manufacturers and (2020) other companies to be ZEH compliant by 2020 in the measure to counter global warming approved by Cabinet decision in May 2016. ZEH is a scheme for housing 80％*2 to provide less than zero annual net primary energy consumption by combining equipment to generate energy such as high thermal insulation eﬃciency, energysaving equipment, and solar power generation. Wood is conventionally a renewable natural resource that absorbs and stores CO2 ZEH Standardization during its growth process. As well as using wood for its principal structural Performance members, Sumitomo Forestry has oﬀered housing proposals where residents can (2018) live comfortably all year round by incorporating its own unique Ryouonbou design, which takes advantage of natural blessings such as the wind and sun. The 40％*2 Companyʼs expertise in utilizing these unique characteristics of wood and blessings of nature together with its technologies for the reduction of energy consumption, such as improvements in thermal insulation as well as the adoption of energysaving equipment, and its technologies for the smart use of energy, such as equipment for generating and storing energy and HEMS*1. Given the ZEH targets established by the Japan, Sumitomo Forestry has set the goal of 80%*2 ZEH housing by ﬁscal 2020, and had reached 40%*2 as of ﬁscal 2018. We are making greater insulation eﬃciency in buildings and around openings as well as built-in solar power generation systems basic speciﬁcations as of April 2017 in our new housing. *1 Home Energy Management System— a system whereby residents can visualize the amounts of energy they generate and use *2 Values include Nearly ZEH while they exclude Hokkaido and Okinawa Pref. respectively. The ﬁscal 2018 results and 2020 target for Hokkaido are, respectively, 0% and 51%. While ZEH is deﬁned as a primary energy reduction rate of 100% including solar power, Nearly ZEH is deﬁned as between 75% to 100%. Ryouonbou Design Concept (in Japanese) ＜112＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Wooden Houses with Superior Insulation If the thermal conductivity of wood is 1, the thermal conductivity of concrete would be almost 13 and steal upwards of 440. Wood as a material is a superior insulator to mitigate the transfer of heat. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry uses highperformance thermal insulators based on its own unique standards. Unique Standards of Thermal Insulators of Sumitomo Forestry Comparison of Materials by Thermal Conductivity Limiting Energy Loss with Highly Insulating Glass Windows cause the greatest loss of heat in living spaces. Shielding interior spaces from heat in the summer and preventing heat from escaping in the winter is vital. As windows cause the largest heat loss, Sumitomo Forestry uses low-E multi-layered glass with argon gas inside. Argon gas is injected between the multi-layers of glass to mitigate heat transfer to the air while the panes are coated with special metal ﬁlm. The superior thermal insulation and insulation properties shield interior spaces from heat in the summer and prevent heat from escaping in the winter. Insulation of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses (in Japanese) Insulation using low-E multilayered glass Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜113＞ Heat Loss Ratio of Houses Double Power Generation Sumitomo Forestry recommends the installation of solar power generation system, as well as residential fuel cell units. Double power generation can generate the necessary electricity for daily life in the home. Furthermore, Home Energy Management Systems (HEMS) realize zero energy homes (ZEH speciﬁcations) by proﬁciently managing energy consumption throughout the home. ＜114＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Trends in Installation Rates of Environmentally-Friendly Equipment (based on number of houses) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Solar power generation 43% 35% 48% 46% 51% systems Ene-Farm units 51% 43% 34% 34% 35% Eco One*1 16% 18% 16% Environmentally conscious 66% 58% 68% 69% 72% equipment installation rate*2 *1 Hybrid electric and gas hot water and central heating systems *2 Installation rate of solar power generation system or Ene-Farms until ﬁscal 2015. Fiscal 2016 includes Eco One on the left Expanding Choices with the Launch of the Forest BF Design, a Home to Enjoy the Four Seasons In September 2018, Sumitomo Forestry launched a renewed The Forest BF nationwide (excluding Okinawa), a detached house design that enables large, open spaces and built to ZEH speciﬁcations. The Forest BF represents a further structural enhancement of Sumitomo Forestryʼs original Big-Frame (BF) construction method for large, open spaces and wide openings among the features allowing for greater freedom in the use of space. The latest design renewal oﬀers distinctive features of design coordinating diverse aspect of external appearance and interior, as well as providing abundant lifestyle that can feel the nature and the taste of Japan. While attending in particular Combining Comfortable detail to the overall design as well as interior and exterior materials, we developed Habitability and High these homes especially for the younger generation homeowners in their 30s, and Environmental Performance in The those with design sensibilities, making this a product that can appeal to a wider range Forest BF of customers than previously. In addition to oﬀering insulation eﬃciency greater than the local standards, The Forest BF can also achieve ZEH, which requires zero or less primary energy consumption each year, through equipment such as solar power generation systems. Moreover, we have adopted versatile partitions that do not require structural materials to build a structure with less waste when changing room plans such as the partitions separating living areas for children and parents alike. This product aims to receive orders of 5,500 houses a year. Expanding Choices with the Launch of the Forest BF Design, a Home to Enjoy the Four Seasons (in Japanese) The Forest BF page (in Japanese) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜115＞ Renovating to Improve Function and Asset Value Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. promotes renovations from energy-saving points of view. This brings success in reducing the environmental impact by proposing solutions through thermo insulation as well as installation of facility equipment with high energy eﬃciency together with better thermal eﬃciency. The insulation renovation, speciﬁcally, can mitigate the health risk from heat shock in addition to lower the cost of heating and lighting. We propose new lifestyles that reduce the energy consumed in daily life and decrease lifetime heating and lighting costs by heightening insulation eﬃciency and using energy-saving equipment. We will continue to focus on seismic retroﬁtting proposals and actively strive to bring about excellent long-term housing in existing properties as well as long-term excellent extension and alteration standards by improving the performance in thermal eﬃciency, energy-savings and seismic retroﬁtting. Seismic Resistant Housing Installation of a Thermal Insulator Given Japan's establishment in recent years as a major tourism destination country, we began focusing eﬀorts on renovation of hotels and inns. In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry joined the All Japan Ryokan Hotel Association*1 and Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech joined the Japan Ryokan & Hotel Association*2. Sumitomo Forestry Group enjoys strong name recognition, and is building a track record in renovations. Before Renovation of Japanese Inn After Renovation In 2017, Sumitomo Forestry and Kumagai Gumi Co. entered into a business and capital partnership and collaboration between Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co. and K&E K.K., companies belonging to the respective corporate groups is in progress. Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech handles interior renovations optimizing wood, while K&E is in charge of building exterior and other renovations that fully leverage its comprehensive abilities as a general contractor. The partners participate jointly in events as they move forward. By renovating the whole building, we are able to heighten its value as an asset. ＜116＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 *1 The association promotes Japanese inns and hotels throughout Japan to be more sanitary facilities, conduct better maintenance and stable management among other aspects of accommodation businesses. *2 The organization aims to help provide comfortable accommodations for travelers from within Japan and overseas, improve the level of hospitality service and otherwise work to realize Japan's status as a tourism destination country, develop local economies, and promote the national health. Moving Higurashi Bettei, Shisakajima, Reopened as a Commemorative Hall Higurashi Bettei was designed by Magoichi Noguchi, a renowned architect of the Meiji period. Built as a guest house and other purposes for the Sumitomo family in 1906, it is located on the island of Shisakajima in the Seto Inland Sea, about 20km oﬀ the shore of Niihama(where the copper mine was located). As one of 20 Sumitomo Group companies involved in the project to move the structure to a hilltop location in the city of Niihama, Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech was engaged in the reconstruction of the structure, which opened to the public in November 2018 as the Higurashi Bettei Museum and conveys the history of Sumitomo. The history behind the construction of Higurashi Bettei is that it was built as an adjacent structure when Sumitomoʼs copper smelter was moved to Shisakajima in order to overcome the smoke pollution in Niihama caused by the Besshi Copper Mine operation. More than 110 years after its construction, the building was deteriorating despite its many invaluable design features inside and out. In the relocation construction work, we used timber produced in Ehime Prefecture to build the structure with improved seismic resistance. Design features such as ﬁreplaces, ceilings and ﬂoors were carefully dismantled from the original structure, and reconstructed upon relocation. Exterior view Interior Cleaning drainage water stains Research and Development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus (LCCM) Housing Sumitomo Forestry is engaged in the development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus housing to achieve negative CO2 emissions across the entire life cycle of a home—from material procurement, occupation and renovation through to demolition and disposal—by using environmental sound equipment such as solar power generation systems. In addition to eﬀective use of electricity in housing that uses technology such as energy storage systems and sharing energy among multiple households, we conducted inspections through repeated simulations in our research into eﬃcient use of energy which began in ﬁscal 2016. Sumitomo Forestry also began looking into the eﬀectiveness of Vehicle-to-Home (V2H) and Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) with energy provided between households and the introduction of electric vehicles, which are expected to become standard in the future. In the future, we plan further research and development not only of simple energy savings but also of the eﬀects that wooden spaces have on human health and comfort, as well as the impact that the living environment has on the sensibilities of people. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜117＞ Carbon Stock in the Housing and Construction Business Trees retain CO2 as carbon even after they are turned into products. Constructing wooden houses can therefore be likened to building forests in the city. The total domestic carbon stocks* in timber that was used in construction of the houses in the MOCCA (timber solutions) business in ﬁscal 2018 reached 193,000 t-CO2. The Sumitomo Forestry Group contributes to measure to counter global warming by increasing carbon stocks for forests and cities. * CO2 ﬁxation is calculated by categorizing the actual amounts of timber used per tree species Carbon stock of the timber used in for new detached houses, rental housing, and MOCCA business, and calculating carbon content the construction of houses and from the speciﬁc gravity of each tree species. MOCCA (timber solutions) business in Japan in ﬁscal 2018 Sustainable Forest Management (Carbon Stocks for Forests and the Housing Business) Housing Sales Adapted to Climate Change Disaster Recovery Guidelines were put in place in the Housing and Construction Division and measures and action guidelines for operations were deﬁned to quickly and accurately respond to damages from natural disasters to our customersʼ houses as they become more prevalent due to climate change. On November 2016, BF-Si Resilience Plus was released to pursue security, safety and comfort when disasters such as earthquakes or ﬂooding strike. The BF Method that boasts structural strength only oﬀered by Sumitomo Forestry ensures the safety of buildings and provides functionality for an uninterrupted lifestyle until recovery even when lifelines are cut thanks to equipment such as enhanced storage space, solar power generation systems, wall-mounted electrical boards and water tanks. A video intercom with a network camera allows the interior to be clearly seen with a wireless camera as well as gives owners the ability to check the state of their house in a disaster even while out-and-about. The large storage space helps keep rooms clean in daily life while the original built-in furniture eﬀectively prevents the furniture from toppling in an earthquake and can achieve a space in harmony with the interior. BF-Si Resilience Plus for Durability in Disasters and Greater Comfort in Each Day Launch of BF-Si Resilience Plus Lifestyles with High Disaster Preparedness; Peace of Mind and Safety in Disasters Plus Everyday Comfort (in Japanese) ＜118＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sales of Home in-line with Various Needs and Lifestyles The Housing and Construction Division proposes housing to a broad range of customers from ﬁrst time home buyers to married couples that plan to live with their children in multi-generational homes or who plan to live as a couple after their children are grown. DUE CLASSO was released as custom-built housing for double-income families in August 2017. In response to needs such as eﬃcient traﬃc lines and room plans easy for families to interact as well as storage ideas and the latest equipment, DUE CLASSO proposes Saku-kaji (prompt housework), Tomo-kaji (housework together) and Shin-kaji (new housework). These innovations are plentiful and help families spend a wonderful time together in this important space created through family cooperation. DUE CLASSO helps create a living space to achieve a leisurely lifestyle in both personal and professional life. In addition, Forest Selection BF was launched to propose 1,000 carefully selected plans from approximately 300,000 proven custom-built homes in November 2017. This housing is realizing living suited to the needs and lifestyles of customers from a rich selection of choices. Both of these products promote ZEH speciﬁcations to provide living spaces that value the lifestyle environment as well as the global environment. Launch of DUE CLASSO Houses for Dual-Income Families: Rich lifestyles through ingenious houses that expedite housework and work style reforms New Launch of Forest Selection BF Select Style Product: Choose from 1,000 Plans for and Custom-Built Lifestyle (in Japanese) Initiatives for Overseas Housing Sumitomo Forestry is furthering the expansion of the housing business overseas centered upon detached house sales in United States and Australia. We sell environmentally-friendly housing in addition to fully grasping the culture of each region and the way people live to provide housing tailored to the demand. Sales of Environmentally-Friendly Housing in Australia The Sumitomo Forestry Group sells housing with high energy-saving performance overseas. In 2001, Henley Properties, a Group company, drove forward eﬀorts to enhance energy-saving performance in the Australian housing industry, such as pioneering its own standard speciﬁcations ahead of competitors, by recommending a ﬁve-star energy rating*1 for the standard energy-saving performance in Victoria at the time. Eﬀorts toward the environment accelerated further after the involvement of the Sumitomo Forestry Group in 2009. We conducted a variety of initiatives to reduce the environmental impact, including the realization of a commercial zero emission house*2 for the general consumer for the ﬁrst time as a major builder in the country. In Victoria, we use a blended cement replacing approximately 20% of cement, the primary ingredient in concrete used in foundations of homes, with ﬂy ash (ash produced when burning charcoal) and blast furnace slag (byproduct separated from iron ore in the iron manufacturing process in blast furnaces). The blended cement reduces CO2 emissions by about three tons per home in the construction stage. Japanese housing generally uses multi-layered glass, but this is not common practice in Australia due to the cost. More than 80% of the new housing uses single-pane glass. However, in 2018, we were the ﬁrst in Victoria to make multi-layered glass a standard speciﬁcation to increase the insulation eﬃciency of homes*3. We are also actively working to improve airtightness. The homes built by our Group company have shown airtightness three times higher than the average home in Australia shown by airtightness inspections conducted in 2017*4. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜119＞ Henley Properties is taking advantage of the know-how cultivated in eﬀorts to develop energy-saving housing over many years in a wide range of endeavors. As interest in realizing a sustainable society grows worldwide, Henley Properties is striving to develop housing with a high-level of energy performance by continually conducting improvements of materials and equipment as well as surveys of performance. *1 An evaluation metric of the energy burden for heating and cooling the inside of a building in Australia. Insulation, windows, the type, size and orientation of the building, and the climatic zone are all items included in this metric. The highest rating of 10 stars indicates that no heating or cooling whatsoever is needed to maintain a comfortable indoor living environment. Five stars indicate that the building has high insulation performance, but that a minimum of energy is required for heating and cooling. The ﬁve star standard speciﬁcations pioneered by Henley Properties brought competitors to do the same. As a result the government of Victoria enacted policy to make ﬁve stars the standard. Thereafter, Henley Properties leading the environmental performance standards in the Australian housing industry through eﬀorts that including raising the internal standard to six stars, which then led Victoria to also raise their standards to six stars. *2 Environmentally-friendly housing expected to have an energy-saving eﬀect of more than 70% compared to conventional housing. *3 Multi-layered glass is eﬀective in improving insulation eﬃciency of homes by limiting the thermal reﬂux to approximately 35% less compared to veneer glass. *4 The average value for Henley Properties is 5 ACH where the average housing in Australia is 15.4 ACH (ACH is an index that indicates the air leakage per hour at a 50 Pa indoor-outdoor air pressure diﬀerence. The lower the value the higher the airtightness). Henley Properties Home Inspection of Airtightness Performance Received Five Star Housing Award for Providing Valuable Housing in Hong Kong Soeng Jyu / 2GETHER, a multi-unit housing complex project jointly developed (25% owned by Sumitomo Forestry) from October 2013 to December 2017 by Sumitomo Forestry and HKR International Ltd.*, received a Five Star Housing award in the Housing category at an evaluation conference of the Hong Kong Professional Building Inspection Academy 2018. Developed and sold in Hong Kong's Tuen Mun area, Soeng Jyu / 2GETHER (completed in December 2017) is a 25-story condominium complex (comprising 222 housing units, one day care center and a commercial facility [approximately 1,900m²]). In Hong Kong, which has a low rate of architectural greening, the complex received high praise for incorporating green walls as part of a highly environmentally conscious design. Exterior view Also, in Hong Kong, where homes are typically small, the building features a sophisticated level of completeness and the functionality of a fully appointed clubhouse exclusively for residents. These are among the features that earned praise for the project as one eﬀort to help solve the societal problem of the supply of valuable housing. Other features that helped earn the award include clearly delineated traﬃc ﬂows among residences, the daycare center, commercial facility, clubhouse and parking lot, for a high level of security. * The Hong Kong Professional Building Inspection Academy (BIA) has been holding evaluation conferences since its founding in 2012 in order to provide comprehensive evaluations of structures throughout Hong Kong with attention to the perspectives of those who use newly constructed buildings, the degree of completeness of buildings, their levels of sophistication, and the environment. Honoring the Most Outstanding Building Development and its Developers ＜120＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Clubhouse Green wall surfaces Collaborating to Build Aﬀordable Housing Model Homes in Myanmar SumitomoForestry worked with the Japan-Myanmar Association for Industry of Housing and Urban Development (JMHU)* and the Myanmar Construction Entrepreneurs Association (MCEA) to provide technical assistance and donations necessary to construct model homes of aﬀordable houses (homes that are aﬀordable for even low-income earners). In Myanmar, where housing shortage has become a social issue, this project was aimed at building model homes for aﬀordable housing while disseminating Japanese Aﬀordable houses built in housing construction technical capabilities, quality and building materials. The model Myanmar homes were built in the Mingaladon Township in the Yangon suburbs. Forty-two Japanese companies that are JMHU members donated money, housing materials, technological support or other forms of assistance. As a chairman member of JMHU, we did the basic design of the model structure, supervised construction and provided other support in an eﬀort to help raise living standards and realize a more prosperous society in Myanmar. * JMHU was dissolved in March 2019 upon the formation of the new Japan International Association for the Industry of Building and Housing (JIBH). In addition to taking over the projects of the former JMHU, the newly organized JIBH also hosts seminars and mutual exchange visits to exchange information with various related countries. At the same time, it joins together with government, administrative and private sectors in countries overseas to provide uniﬁed support for the development of the construction and housing industry. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜121＞ Occupational Health and Safety on Construction Sites Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry prioritizes occupational health and safety above all else on housing construction sites. Therefore, we raise awareness about information and important items about safety in employees of the Sumitomo Forestry Group of course but also every worker involved with Sumitomo Forestry Home houses, such as on-site construction contractors. Occupational Health and Safety on Construction Sites At the beginning of every ﬁscal year, the Divisional Manager of the Housing and Construction Division formulates an Occupation Health and Safety Policy to provide notiﬁcation based on circumstances such as the accidents that occurred in the previous period, the state of occupational health and safety promotion as well as compliance with relevant laws. In addition, permeating a safety culture has been designated as a basic policy, and we are working to achieve this in primarily three ways; compliance with the law, promotion of occupation health and safety education and eradication of occupational Safety check at construction site injuries. Always raising awareness toward the recognition of safety ﬁrst permeates this safety culture. Oﬃces, branches and building contractors set important management targets for the ﬁscal year to eliminate ﬁve-types of major accidents; falls, accidents with tools, things tipping over, accidents with heavy machines and heat strokes. Occupational Health and Safety System for Housing Business Sites (Revised October 1, 2010) ＜122＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate for Contractors on Housing Construction Sites FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of occupational 11 6 12 9 7 injuries*1 Lost-time injury frequency 3.63 2.23 3.35 2.31 2.79 rate*2 Work-related illness frequency 0 0 0 0 0 rate *1 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. *2 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 About symbol for Independent assurance Occupational Injuries Training Designed to Improve Awareness for Occupational Health and Safety Based on the results of the monthly health and safety patrols and work site surveys, the Housing and Construction Division and each branch organize training programs with speciﬁc cases promoting health and safety, targeting the OHS managers, as well as the leaders (subcontractors) in each job category on construction sites. In addition, training is designed for maintaining safety such as when workers use grinders*, which are fraught with great hazard, and when they work with circular saws, which are susceptible to accidents due to misuse despite being simple and easy to use. Training for circular saw work * Operation with an electric tool to cut by rotating a grinding stone Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜123＞ Together with Construction Contractors Sumitomo Forestry publishes monthly safety and environment information that includes information and topics about safety and the environment to help prevent accidents and avoid risks by repeatedly raising awareness at branches and construction contractors. Safety Training for Construction Contractors Sumitomo Forestry conducts safety training throughout Japan by visiting building and demolition contractors throughout Japan. Directly instructing the people working on-site advances our initiatives toward on-site safety and the environment by building understand about instructions from our company such as permeating a safety culture. Education for Construction Contractors Sumitomo Forestry holds monthly health and occupation councils at branches for the purpose of preventing construction accidents by promoting health and safety. On-site health and safety patrols help bring awareness about safety to construction contractors and provides advice to enhance knowledge, such as conﬁrming the state of sites and improving guidance. The District Safety Improvement Committee launched in ﬁscal 2018 is advancing system development to raising awareness and verify policies and measures in divisions related to safety by strengthening links with oﬃces, divisions, and branches. ＜124＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Consideration on Construction Sites Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry is working to advance toward building a sustainable circular society. Particularly at construction and building sites, where the environmental impact of waste is high, we endeavor to reduce environmental impact through appropriately restricting the production of industrial waste, reusing and processing materials for recycling. Initiatives to Reduce Waste Initiative for Reduction of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites FY2018 Initiatives to Reduce Waste In July 2014, Sumitomo Forestry set up the Waste Reduction Working Group comprising representatives from the product development, material procurement, production management and environment divisions. The working group has been planning and implementing a wide range of measures to reduce waste on new housing construction sites. We discovered two-thirds of all our waste is made up of wood waste, gypsum board and cardboard from detailed data about waste aggregated from the industrial waste management system used under this inter-region certiﬁcation. We are working to reduce waste by concentration on these three primary forms of waste. In ﬁscal 2018, we changed the packing materials for interior materials and the standard size of the sub-ﬂoor gypsum board and also revised our curing methods for ﬂooring and other materials. In particular, revised curing methods can realize approximately 150 kg reduction of waste (cardboard) per home by replacing conventional disposable curing materials with reusable curing materials. Furthermore, we strive to raise awareness on construction sites and conduct educational activities by providing feedback of data for waste emissions of each property. Reduction Rate of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites The Sumitomo Forestry Group also upholds the ﬁscal 2020 target in its former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan to reduce the industrial waste generated at new housing construction sites by 30% from the ﬁscal 2013 level. In ﬁscal 2018, the initiative described above achieved major results, reducing the amount of industrial waste per new houses by 31.9% from the ﬁscal 2013 level and we achieved our ﬁscal 2020 target early. Promotion of Waste Reduction and Recycling Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜125＞ Reduction Rate of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites Reduction Rate FY2013 (Baseline) FY2015 -2.5％ FY2016 -8.8％ FY2017 -15.5％ FY2018 -31.9％ FY2020 (Target year) -30％ Initiative for Recycling of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites Sumitomo Forestry meticulously sorts waste produced on new housing construction sites. We will raise awareness through mediums such as posters including speciﬁc waste information to make sorting of the 11 categories of waste easier. Acquisition of the Inter-Region Recovery and Recycling Certiﬁcation by the Ministry of Environment Sumitomo Forestry acquired the inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation from the Ministry of the Environment in December 2010. This certiﬁcation enabled us to build our own industrial waste recycling system by allowing transport of waste by proprietors other than waste disposal operators. Our industrial waste management system for new housing construction sites helps contribute to the rationalization of waste disposal by using returning transportation for collecting waste while also securing traceability by applying bar codes to waste and collecting detailed data about the waste that is produced. Operations at the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center Sumitomo Forestry used the acquisition of the inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation to establish the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center in Kazo, Saitama Prefecture for advanced sorting and data collection. The Metropolitan Area Recycling Center started full operation in ﬁscal 2012 and has been collecting and processing waste produced by new housing construction sites of the metropolitan and six prefectures of Kanto (Metropolitan Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, Saitama, Ibaraki, Tochigi, and Gunma prefectures). Metropolitan Area Recycling Setting up the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center brings data feedback to product Center development, material procurement and production management divisions by facilitating the collection of speciﬁcations, construction branches as well as the detailed status and trends of waste generation in each region. This data is being leveraged in our initiatives to reduce waste. ＜126＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 This initiative works to expand operation under the certiﬁcation for the inter-region recovery and recycling, build processing routes led by Sumitomo Forestry, and further promote recycling even in regions outside the metropolitan area. Flow of Materials Distribution and Collection of Industrial Waste Using Material Relay Centers Waste Management for Demolition Work Sumitomo Forestry is strengthening management by building a system able to conﬁrm the type, quality and packaging of waste to transport from demolition work sites using mobile phones and smartphones. The delivery conﬁrmation invoice sent thanks to input into an electronic manifest checks whether the issuance is correct via our system. Moreover, this system has been fully adopted by all demolition partners as of ﬁscal 2013. Together with Construction Contractors Sumitomo Forestry publishes monthly safety and environment information that includes information and topics about safety and the environment to help prevent accidents and avoid risks by repeatedly raising awareness at branches and construction contractors. Conducting Environmental Training for Business Partners In ﬁscal 2017, we began conducting joint trainings for personnel in charge of industrial waste management and administration personnel in charge of manifest input at demolition contractors at branches. This joint learning environment becomes a venue for communication with our business partners and realizes close contact between branch administration and demolition contractors to ensure smooth electronic manifest input vital to industrial waste management. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜127＞ Communication with Our Customers Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry provides proposals for ideal home building to customers who are thinking about buying a home through continuous communication with useful and eﬀective information oﬀering. We introduce information helpful in housing development such as the design examples as well as structural and technological information as part of the stream of home building. Next, we provide guidance at showrooms to help customers see Sumitomo Forestry home building and exhibitions to provide a ﬁrst-hand experience of the warmth in wood. We also provide information in various other forms such as tours in the homes our customers are actually living in. In addition, Japanese housing policy is encouraging the standardization of excellent long-term housing to transition to emphasis on the importance of creating high-quality stock which is easy to maintain so that each house can be valued and lived in for a long time. Sumitomo Forestry conducts housing maintenance and replaces equipment in addition to providing appropriate proposals such as exterior renovations to sustain comfortable living in the long term for every owner. We are able to create opportunities such as consultation and inquiries through ongoing communication at owners events held in each location throughout Japan in addition to sustaining ongoing asset value through long-term support for the comfortable living of our customers. Strengthening Sales Capabilities Sumitomo Forestry oﬀers a unique application system that realizes ideal home building. Once a customer applies, we meet to discuss everything from the exterior and room plan to the interior and housing exteriors with a home building team dedicated to the customer made up of a person in charge of sales, design, interior design, production and housing exteriors. At the point of application, each person with expert knowledge inquires about the requirements for the home such as the budget, family composition, lifestyle and any other areas of emphasis to help achieve the ideal home in all respects. In addition, we ensure ideal home building by escorting our customers to the actual construction site and giving them an image of the real home upon completion. Model Homes/Showrooms Sumitomo Forestry has roughly 300 model homes and about 80 showrooms located throughout Japan. Technology housing display centers in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya specialize in appealing to the technological and performance features of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses. Sumitomo Forestry provides ﬁrst-hand experience of the attractive living it provides through these model houses. Sumitomo Forestry model homes oﬀer variety of homes on display such as western and Japanese styles to three-story homes in addition to smart homes. 1. High-quality Luxurious Wooden Spaces Each of these model houses let customers interact with luxurious wooden spaces that fully take advantage of design capabilities unique to Sumitomo Forestry, which has cultivated expertise in both the quality and charm of wood. In particular, visitors can get a taste of the high-quality atmosphere only provided in these real spaces from the ﬂooring made from the world's precious wood and wooden ﬁttings that impeccable ﬂuidity with the interior design. 2. Design Proposals Founded in Comfortable Living The strength of a structure is obviously important in a home, but a room plan, ﬂow planning and storage plan as well as other aspects to provide comfortable lifestyles is also vital to every family living in the home. Visitors to these exhibitions can see the innovative room plans and ease of cleaning provided by Sumitomo Forestry with their own ＜128＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 eyes. Families with children can also get a picture about raising their children there, including proposals for ﬂoor plan and children room as well as a study corner perfect to raise children. 3. Environmentally-Friendly Design and the Latest Equipment Sumitomo Forestry is revolutionizing design with the Ryouonbou design concept. This design concept aims to incorporate the soothing qualities of nature and facilitate a lifestyle which does not rely too much on air-conditioning and heating systems. Everyone can see the actual innovations at our model houses, such as a design to create airﬂow from the south to north of the home with wonderful light via deep eaves. Furthermore, the smart house exhibition builds in an Ene-Farm solar power generation system and fuel cell units for homes as well as central airconditioning systems in addition to the latest environmental devices. The Sumitomo Forestry model homes oﬀer a unique line-up only possible from a housing builder. Every visitor can form a speciﬁc vision of their home while comparing a broad line-up of curtains, wallpapers, interior materials, furniture as well as exterior materials such as exterior walls and entrance doors in addition to plumbing equipment such as system kitchens and bathrooms. 1. Large Exhibition of a Variety of the Latest Equipment We exhibit system kitchens from multiple product manufacturers. Design features from the sink tops to the color and texture of doors from diﬀerent manufactures can be examined while comparing the storage space and convenience. Our model homes also provide a sanitary corner for bathrooms sinks and other equipment so that visitors can imagine the usability of these kitchens, restrooms and any other rooms requiring plumbing. 2. Total Coordination of Interiors and Exteriors A wealth of ﬂoor materials, doors and windows, furniture and more are on display together with curtains and wallpaper with a wide variety of colors and patterns. These displays can provide a base to speciﬁcally consider an indoor feel suitable to the interior decor of each customerʼs image. We also have brought together a broad line-up of exterior materials for entrance doors and external walls to help visitors solidify their exterior images, which can oﬀer coordination for the entire home. Everyone can get a distinct individual feel with wood that varies in color and look for each tree species. The showrooms make available ﬂoor materials in addition to a broad range of other interior and exterior materials. Each person can experience the look and actual feel of these materials from the touch to texture which cannot be felt in catalogs or on websites. 3. Exhibition of the Housing Structure and Latest Environmental Devices Sumitomo Forestry puts on display the housing structure which brings the most concern. This lets potential buyers experience the strength for themselves. In addition, we have the latest environmental devices on display, such as solar power generation. Hit Akeno Model Homes (Oita) Opens 2018 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜129＞ Technology Exhibition Houses At model homes at which fosters opportunities to communicate with customers about home building, Sumitomo Forestry set up “technology exhibition houses” where displays special technologies and functionalities of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses in major cities. The exhibition houses put in creativity in explaining excellent competencies of wooden homes and structural features of Big Frame Construction Method -Sumitomo Forestryʼs own building method that is Japanʼs ﬁrst timber rigid frame structure so that visitors are able to understand through direct exposure to the basic structures of the homes. Currently, the exhibition houses are in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya, and total visitors exceeded 2,975 groups in ﬁscal 2018. Inside of Technology Exhibition House Outside of Technology Exhibition House Respect for and Application of Customer Feedback Operation of Sumitomo Forestry Customer Service Department Sumitomo Forestry established the Customer Service Department in April 2000 as a Group-wide customer service help desk. Communicating the opinions and complaints of customers, including neighboring residents, to improve each department as well as management is an important mission for the Customer Service Department in enhancing customer ﬁrst actions even further. The Customer Service Department holds periodic meetings and working groups with each business division and Group company as well as shares information to provide high-quality products and services which will bring sensation to our customers. The Department discusses the issues and examples of solutions to bring together as speciﬁc measures. The measures then are executed throughout the Group, and the Customer Service Department regularly evaluates progress and eﬃcacy of the measures, and undertakes reviews and corrective actions, in line with the PDCA cycle. Additionally, the Company regularly introduces example creative solutions that can be easily adapted in daily work routine and attributable to customer satisfaction as well as heart-warming stories on the intranet. Direct feedback and opinions of customers sent to the Customer Service Department, details of the consultations and their analysis results, and examples of superior response are consistently communicated to prevent recurrence of factors causing problems. The support for internal training and one-on-one meetings with Group companies are also provided. Operation of Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers Sumitomo Forestry established Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers that open 24 hours a day 365 days a year toll free as a consistent dedicated helpline throughout Japan that allows immediate support such as an emergency response lifeline to assist our customers. The telephone number is introduced on magnet cards, owner dedicated websites, magazines and other mediums so that this helpline will be used broadly by our customers. Presently the centers are located in Tokyo and Fukuoka, and are linked together, shortening wait times for customers who call via the uniﬁed national free-dial number. In addition, the system is organized to enable response in emergency situations. The system facilitates prompt response to customer requests and consultations and also strives for improved customer satisfaction. ＜130＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 * The Call Center has been receiving an increased number of calls as general housing support since July 2015. Counting of the total number of calls was changed in ﬁscal 2017 (to include calls from customers while excluding relevant business partners) Customer Surveys Sumitomo Forestry conducts resident surveys three times from the second to tenth year from when residents move in to collect opinions and feedback of owners in order to deliver greater satisfaction and services to customers. The survey questions primarily elicit responses about speciﬁcations, design, building materials, systems and ﬁxtures, and the support service provided by the staﬀ. The Company then statistically processes and analyzes these results, and applies any ﬁndings to product development and employee training. In ﬁscal 2018, the satisfaction ratio for overall satisfaction was 96.1% in the survey of new owners, and 95.0% in the survey of second-year owners. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry has adopted the Net Promoter Score (NPS)* advocated by the housing industry for the purpose of enhancing customer satisfaction. In October 2017, we revised the ﬁve stage evaluation to an 11 stage evaluation for the questions above. We will continue to provide high-quality products and services which bring sensation to our customers by further leveraging customer feedback through the NPS survey analysis. * NPS is a new index used to measure customer loyalty (the amount of trust and aﬃnity for the company and brand). Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜131＞ Communicating Information to Customers Website Operation and Magazine Publication Sumitomo Forestry operates its clubforest special website for owners of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses. As of March 2019, about 116,000 owners had registered as members. Through a variety of content on the site, we provide information that is useful in helping members get more enjoyment and comfort out of their lives as homeowners. The site oﬀers various contents such as a page where members can see photos of the construction site as its progresses, exclusive sales pages where only owners can purchase Sumitomo Forestry Home products at special discount prices and a 24-hour inquiry that accepts requests for building repairs. Lovely Family is a home and lifestyle magazine sent out twice a year. It also features details about Group company activities such as renovation and utilization of lands. About 290,000 prints were The cover of Lovely issued for each issue in ﬁscal 2018. Family , fall and winter 2018 issue Progress check page in clubforest ＜132＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry is advancing the MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business specialized in proposing wooden non-residential medium to large-scale construction to brand MOCCA (Timber Solutions) as a business. Sumitomo Forestry has been engaging in forest management for more than 300 years. In addition, we create living spaces which take advantage of wood through our expertise in the various properties of wood worldwide. By dramatically furthering wide-ranging experience, knowledge and technology, we propose wider use of wood and timber in non-residential buildings, such as medium to large-scale construction. Funding Trends for the Initiatives (FY2014-2018 Performance/FY2019 Forecast) Basic Concept of Product Safety and Quality Control in MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Sumitomo Forestry is promoting MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business in which proposes wider use of wood in nonresidential buildings such as industrial and public facilities. The MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department provides high-quality buildings with consideration for usersʼ health, safety, and comfort via wooden architecture, and obtained ISO9001 in September 2015 in response to customer expectations. Complying with this international standard, policies were established as shown in the following. Each plant sets tangible quality targets and a business expansion plan adhering to the policy to attain maintained safety and enhanced product quality. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜133＞ Quality Policy We will strive in the eﬀorts below as an organization that loves wood because we believe it is the path to respond to the expectations of our customers by consistently providing high-quality buildings with consideration to people's health, safety, and comfort via wooden architecture. 1. Continually better quality and improve customer satisfaction We will work to heighten our quality performance and improve customer satisfaction while continually bettering the eﬀectiveness of our quality management systems by conforming to standards and meeting the requirements of our customers. 2. Complying with the law We will have full knowledge of applicable laws and other requirements we see as a duty for the company in the design and construction of buildings. 3. Establishing policies We will set quality targets and periodically evaluate our success and revise those targets and goals to speciﬁcally promote this quality policy. 4. Conducting Education and Training We will conduct education and training for the staﬀ we employ to raise awareness so that all of our employees working in the MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department and the company will understand this quality policy. 5. Publishing this policy We will publish this policy externally on the Housing and Construction Division's MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department website. Product Safety and Quality Management System in MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Sumitomo Forestry MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department consolidates the quality management system under the aforementioned policy and is building a strict process management system. The Department also conducts biannual internal audits at all construction sites to follow the PDCA cycle incorporated in the quality management system as stipulated by ISO9001. Quality Management ＜134＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Initiatives Senri Rehabilitation Hospital Annex Building, Wooden Space that Heals Body and Mind Sumitomo Forestry completed the annex building for Senri Rehabilitation Hospital in Osaka in September 2017. Most of the conventional hospitals had been built inorganically, with a priority on eﬃciency from the perspective of the hospital operation. The concept that gave rise to Senri Rehabilitation Hospital is consideration for the patients on what kind of hospital would provide the ideal environment. The annex building was completed in October 2007 as Japan's ﬁrst hospital to have a concept of rehabilitation resort. The new annex building built for the 10th anniversary of the hospital maximizes the utilization of wood, both interior and exterior, to enable patients to relax as much as possible and feel the natural power as they undertake their recovery. It is a rehabilitation hospital that represents a new endeavor, with painting and music ward and a gardening ward, all of which use arawashi exposed timber* style. In order to support those patients who experienced deep trauma through sudden illness and to regain their positive attitude and physical abilities, the hospital oﬀers rehabilitation facilities that are close to real daily life environment. The ultimate goal is to return and live in their own home. To achieve this concept, it chose a design with uneven levels and stairs instead of making the facility completely accessible. In addition, painting and music ward and gardening ward are available separately for patients to ﬁnd their new joy in life and possibility. Accessing to these wards is part of rehabilitation. As with the main building, Creative Director Kashiwa Sato has undertaken design direction for the annex building. Paintings by Sato have been incorporated into the interior design to convey a sense of energy. Wood oﬀer comfort through all ﬁve senses, from its aroma, texture, and sound echoes in the air. The qualities of wood contribute not only to physical treatment but also physiological treatment during the stay. This integration of wood and medical sites of this annex building is a great example of the new possibility of MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business. In addition to this kind of medical facilities, Sumitomo Forestry aims to create attractive environments that motivate residents and provide impetus for the business success of residents and users by using timber in the structure and interior and exterior ﬁnishing materials of educational, elderly care, commercial and other facilities. Senri Rehabilitation Hospital Annex Building * A ﬁnishing technique in wooden constructions which structural members such as columns and beams are exposed to view. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜135＞ Using Wood in Buildings to Help Transform Work StylesKokubunji Head Oﬃce Building of Flavor Life Co. Ltd. Flavor Life Co., Ltd., which has its head oﬃce in Kokubunji City, Tokyo, provides aroma products that incorporate blessing of nature into daily life. It is a company that creates lifestyles with fragrance and smiles through aromatherapy. As a company that handles products made of natural materials, wish for a building that used natural materials it is a matter of course to wish Above all else, the company wanted an environment in which employees could work comfortably. A wooden-hybrid building was realized in July 2017 with the passion of the proprietor. Time spent in a workplace is no ﬂeeting moment for the working people. It is surely fair to say that bringing comfort and coziness to a living space in which so much time is spent to be an important element of in promoting work style reform. The eﬀects of a peaceful workplace incorporating wood, in which employees say they can relax while working, and communicate more with coworkers, has begun to be reﬂected in employee satisfaction levels and productivity of work. This wooden-hybrid building has a steel frame structure for the ﬁrst three ﬂoors and a wooden-hybrid structure for fourth through seventh ﬂoors. Its most distinctive characteristic is its use of hybrid laminated engineered wood which the steel frame is completely covered in wood. Featuring a combination of the soft texture of wood and the strength of steel, it enables the wood to protect the steel from heat as a ﬁreresistant coating, contributing to disseminate incorporation of wood as a material for buildings. The aim of Sumitomo Forestry is to create vistas lined with buildings that provide a Head oﬃce building of Flavor Life sense of the warmth of wood in cities, where contact with wood is rare. We apply our with full use of quality of wood knowledge and experience in using wood to propose new ways of doing so. * This project was selected as a pilot program for sustainable buildings (wood type) of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in ﬁscal 2015. Toward the Future -Aiming for the Timberized Eco Cities with W350 PlanSumitomo Forestry announced its W350 Plan in February 2018. The W350 plan is a research and technological development roadmap aiming to build a 350-meter-tall wooden high-rise building in 2041, which will mark the 350th year since foundation of business in 1961, in preparing to create Timberized Eco Cities . The plan is intended to develop future technologies that contribute to people's lives, society and the global environment, including building construction methods, environmental technologies, wood for building materials and resources. The plan is to move forward at a new research building of the Tsukuba Research Institute, where frame erection was completed in December 2018, and construction is slated for completion in October 2019. Toward Realizing the W350 Plan In February 2018, Sumitomo Forestry created and announced a research and technological development concept “W350 Plan” aiming to build a 350-meter-tall wooden high-rise building by 2041, which will mark the 350th year since foundation of business, in preparing to create Timberized Eco Cities. Managed mainly by our research and development center, Tsukuba Research Institute, this research and technological development plan is a roadmap for the future technologies; to develop building construction methods, environmental technologies, wood for building materials and resources and will expand the possibility of wooden structures. This plan of creating Timberized Eco Cities centered on wooden high-rise buildings will revitalize the forestry industry with increased demand of timber and mitigate climate change with increased ﬁxation of CO2; in essence, Sumitomo Forestry will contribute to invigorate the community and to realize coexistence with the global environment. ＜136＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Building outline: Height 350m, Number of ﬂoors above ground 70 ﬂoors Building use: Stores, oﬃces, hotels, residences Building area: 6,500m² Design collaboration: Nikken Sekkei Ltd. Architectural area: 455,000m² (6,500m² × 70 ﬂoors) Amount of timber used: 185,000ｍ³ Structure: Wood and steel hybrid structure (Internally, pure wooden structure) New Research Building of the Tsukuba Research Institute, Which will Serve as the Research Base for the W350 Plan It has been 28 years since Tsukuba Research Institute was established. The deterioration of the main research building and increase in staﬀ have become issues needing to be addressed. Post-tensioning*1 technique, a new technology related to wooden structures used in this building will form the foundation for the W350 Plan. Energy saving technology and renewable energy will also be used with a view of achieving a zero energy building (ZEB). The new research building is a three-story building with a ﬂoor area of 2,532.67m². The beams, pillars, and walls use arawashi*2 exposed timber that has either received Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) certiﬁcation or has been designed using the semi-ﬁreprooﬁng technique. Full building evacuation safety veriﬁcation [Route C (Ministerʼs certiﬁcation)]*3 makes it possible to eliminate restrictions on wooden interiors so that spaces with the qualities of wood can be presented. The building greatly reduces CO2 emissions by installing solar panels on the roof and adopting absorption water chiller-heaters ﬁred using wood pellets. Research and development of green technologies for nonresidential wooden architectural structures will be conducted while oﬃce space will be used for veriﬁcations such as green layouts that seek to improve intellectual productivity. It will also be used to test greening on the roof, balconies, and external walls. This facility has been accepted as a pilot program for sustainable buildings (wood type) in ﬁscal 2017 promoted by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Plans include an oﬃce for housing 140 persons, and a gallery, etc., to provide information about timber. With the new research building positioned as the cornerstone of the W350 Plan, we also began a construction plan for a sixto seven-story wooden building (20m to 30m tall) as the next actual step forward. This plan has been named “W30” and is currently under way. *1 A construction method where high-strength steel poles and wire ropes running through load-bearing members is tensioned to increase the ﬁxation of position between members. *2 A ﬁnishing technique in wooden constructions which structural members such as columns and beams are exposed to view. *3 A method for verifying safety performance where everyone within a building is able to evacuate safely to the ground level given a predetermined ﬁre scenario. If safety can be conﬁrmed, some of the regulations of the Building Standards Act of the Japanese government are eased, enabling greater freedom of design, such as exposing wood structural members to view. Route C designation requires certiﬁcation by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, but since evacuation safety performance is conﬁrmed using sophisticated calculation methods not stipulated by the notice, it allows for the highest level of design freedom. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜137＞ Ad for the W350 Plan Received the Environment Minister's Award for Environmental Excellence at the Nikkei Advertising Awards The ad titled “Changing Cities into Forests. The W350 Plan Begins,” which ran in the Nikkei on February 15, 2018, received the Environment Minister's Award for Excellences in the Environment Category at the 67th Nikkei Advertising Awards. The judging considered a total of 1,027 entries across all categories, with 59 receiving awards including the highest honors. The award was conferred on this ad on its excellence as an ad that expresses the environmental aspect of the design that emphasizes wood as a renewable natural material, while also expressing the aspect of sophisticated technology involved in constructing a 350m, 70-story high-rise building with wood. ＜138＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Contributions to Eco Cities Through Greening Basic Policy The use of as many plants as possible which are native to the region in urban development is a growing trend as society shifts toward a goal to co-exist with nature. In the midst of these trends, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. has deﬁned guidelines Harmonic Plants® for selecting plants species based on greening areas with the concepts that using indigenous and local species in greening plans is in the best interest of natural revitalization. The Company has been promoting this model up until now. There are plants that have grown in Japan since long ago (native plants) and plants that have come to Japan from abroad (migration plants) for trees. Among these migration plants, there are species that will overrun areas where native plants live due to their characteristics, which endanger the biodiversity of the region (invasive plants*). Some of these plants are cultivated plants classiﬁed as garden vegetation (agrotype). Garden vegetation plans are separated into four areas that take into account the conservation level (protected areas, conservation areas, satoyama areas, urban areas) to select plant species based on these areas. For example, in urban areas when building gardens for residences, the colorfulness is represented by selecting a balance of greening plants from noninvasive migration plants around a main selection of native plants, including agrotype plants. In addition, the Group has in place a policy of not using invasive plants that clearly have an adverse impact on local ecosystems and a division responsible for coordinating technology at Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. checks that such species are not used. * Speciﬁed alien species and alien species requiring caution as stipulated by the Invasive Alien Species Act Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜139＞ Contributions to Property Development Forest Garden Hadano Receives the First ABINC Certiﬁcation As a Detached Housing Complex. Forest Garden Hadano, a detached housing complex in Hadano City, Kanagawa Prefecture, received the ﬁrst ABINC (Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community) certiﬁcation under the detached housing complex and city area category in March 2018. The ABINC certiﬁcation system certiﬁes results of biodiversity preservation activities of companies to promote coexistence of nature and people. The certiﬁcation began the certiﬁcation of oﬃce buildings and commercial facilities from 2014 and has expanded its scope to include housing complexes and factories. Forest Garden Hadano Furthermore, detached housing complex and city area category and city area category and logistic facilities were newly added in ﬁscal 2017. Forest Garden Hadano received the ﬁrst certiﬁcation for the detached housing complex and city area category for its innovative initiatives. The property design of Forest Garden Hadano is green property that coexists with life. It realizes rich greenery through the use of local tree species and Harmonic Plants®. Consideration toward sustainable circulation of water utilizing spring water was one of the major factors of receiving the certiﬁcation. Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping work together with the residents through holding study sessions, monitoring, and regularly supporting maintenance of garden vegetation to continue creating rich residential environment and support improvement of asset value. Biodiversity Greening and ABINC Certiﬁcation Support Business We supported Aioi District (Hyogo Prefecture) of the IHI Corporation in obtaining the ABINC certiﬁcation. In ﬁscal 2018, the Branch conducted a landslide disaster prevention construction to reinforce the slopes with consideration of reusing resources such as fallen trees that had been blown down by winds in Hyogo Prefecture as well as timber and pruned branches produced by tree thinning and pruning as well as planting local tree species. HIGHLIGHT 2 Contributing to the Protection of Biodiversity Planting trees with “Tree Shelter” protective structure to increase the rate of seedlings taking root ＜140＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Participating in Gardening Exhibit at the 35th National Urban Greening Fair From September through November 2018, the 35th National Urban Greening Fair “Yumehana Yamaguchi” was held at Yamaguchi Kirara Expo Memorial Park (sponsored by Yamaguchi Prefecture, Yamaguchi City, and Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure, and advocated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism). The national urban greening fair is a ﬂower and greenery fair that has been held every year since 1983 in diﬀerent locations nationwide to promote the comfortable and prosperous living that greening provides. The garden that won the Gold Prize At this fair, we exhibited a model garden rich in wood textures in collaboration with the Yamaguchi Branch of Housing and Construction Division of Sumitomo Forestry. Garden vegetation centered on native plants of Yamaguchi including Japanese sapphireberry, viburnum japonicum, elaeocarpus japonicus and Nippon daisies for a design that considered of the local environment. The garden won the Gold Medal, as well as the Special Prize presented by the Japan Landscape Contractors Association. It enabled us to communicate nationwide a comforting new garden design from Yamaguchi. Education for Biodiversity Conservation Publish of Biodiversity Handbook Vol. 2: Local Vegetation We are receiving a wide range of concerns for information about what the local vegetation is to the production, distribution and consumption of native plants and the cultivation plans for native plants in addition to future trend of local vegetation required for greening that consider biodiversity. Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping has responded to these concerns by publishing the Biodiversity Handbook Vol. 2: Local Vegetation in January 2018. This handbook oﬀers explanations while interweaving cutting-edge examples that use locally cultivated plants to address primarily the information below. 1. Reconstruction projects for the Great East Japan Earthquake using local plants Cover of the 2. The development of large-scale test driving course using local plants in Biodiversity Handbook Vol. 2: 3. Beach plant revitalization project using local plants Local Vegetation 4. Urban redevelopment using local plants from the Edo period 5. Mixed tree revitalization using local plants cultivate on large-scale artiﬁcial grounds We believe these initiatives will help as one measure for use of local plants toward future revitalization. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜141＞ Publish of an Illustrated Guide to Home Trees Revised Edition The Ministry of the Environment and The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan newly released a list of alien species which harm biodiversity of Japan (list of potentially harmful alien species for biodiversity) for the purpose of deepening interest and understanding about alien species to incite the appropriate action by various independent entities. This list not only stipulates the speciﬁed alien species up until now but also selects alien species which have the potential to become highly invasive to the ecosystem or kill or harm people as well as damage agriculture, forestry and ﬁsheries. Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping has reorganized criteria for alien species unique to its business in accordance with the regulations on the list of harmful alien species for biodiversity with Cover of “An considerations to further impact on the ecosystem. The Illustrated Guide to Home Trees published Illustrated Guide to based upon this criteria has released a revised edition in March 2017 which replaces some of the Home Trees Revised tree species included therein. Edition” We will continue to advocate Harmonic Plants® and the use of these standards for alien species to include in proposals for plants to customers as well as in raising the awareness of our employees. Overseas Greening Businesses In North Melbourne, Australia, we are leveraging our expertise in a design partnership with Tract Landscape, a local landscape design ﬁrm, for the Annadale estate project (1,087 total lots for sale), which is a joint residential development project between Sumitomo Forestry and NTT Urban Development. In this design partnership that began in January 2017, Sumitomo Forestry proposed a concept, Growing Wellness Life & The Five Sense, for the basic design of Tract. Tract highly evaluated this proposal as a fantastic reference because a story is not usually incorporated into standard design plans in Australia and playground equipment using Nature Play Equipment Using natural stone and logs was employed to better the motor skills of the children as well Natural Stone as the vegetation plans. Even in the second stage of park planning conducted thereafter, we proposed basic concepts to further tasks to bring together the basic design founded upon this idea. Green zones in Australia and the U.S. is imperative to raise the value of the estate development and pursue the creation of eﬃciently green open spaces. We have just begun our eﬀorts in the overseas greening business, but will continue to further these businesses in the future with the aim of creating beautiful and comfortable spaces loved by residents overseas. ＜142＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Distribution Business Value Chain of Distribution Business Under the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy, we carry out due diligence on timber procurement to ensure that the procurement is performed in a sustainable manner with consideration of compliance, human rights, labor practice, biodiversity, local communities, and other matters. When performing due diligence, the Company ensures suppliers supply the timber that meets logging compliance requirements and use only the timber products made with raw materials that satisfy the requirements by consulting the provided information. In ﬁscal 2018, we conducted sustainability surveys at all 109 direct suppliers under study, as well as to 43 suppliers for overseas Group companies engaged in distribution. We strengthened the management system by scoring and improving the visualization of initiatives based on the responses from questionnaire survey. Moreover, we demanded improvement on the suppliers that did not satisfy our standards. In addition, in order to comply with the Clean Wood Act from 2017, our applications for registration as Wood Related Entities were processed by the Veriﬁcation of registration application agency, and we were registered. Also in compliance with Legal the law, we completed our reporting on timber procurement for ﬁscal 2018. Compliance and Sustainability Relevant Social Issues In our veriﬁcation of legal compliance and sustainability, we directly confront broad social challenges related to wood, such as human rights, occupational health and safety, biodiversity conservation and local communities. We continually endeavor to mitigate these issues, all of which impose risks on our business. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜143＞ The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to conduct procurement activities while making considerations about human rights and labor in all timber and wood products veriﬁed to be sustainably and legally compliant as well as conserve biodiversity and contribute to the local community. The progress of these initiatives is reported to the Timber Procurement Committee made up of managers from each section procuring timber to encourage continued improvements in the supply chain. In addition, given that it is characterized as being a regional industry, Sumitomo Forestry Group maintains close communication with the suppliers and purchasers of timber and building materials in each region. Relevant Social Issues In eﬀorts at the stage of procurement in distribution operations, we verify legal Procurement compliance and sustainability while also endeavoring to respond to broad social issues such as human rights, occupational health and safety, labor, biodiversity conservation and the local community. In response, we have built a management system which deliberates matters such as timber procurement standards and illegal timber with the Timber Procurement Committee at its core. We are conﬁrming traceability of timber and legal compliance while also conﬁrming consideration towards human rights, labor and biodiversity conservation. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Group commercializes and ships the timber that is procured not only as raw wood but also plywood, commercial timber, building materials and other products. Relevant Social Issues In developing and delivering products, we engage in appropriate information disclosure regarding our initiatives related to social challenges from not only the Commercialization quality as products but also with certiﬁcation of sustainability and legal and Delivery compliance. Relevant CSR Initiatives Sales Initiatives ＜144＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 The Sumitomo Forestry Group fulﬁlls accountability by encouraging sales of certiﬁed timber as well as labeling with considerations to traceability. Increasing support to generate demand for wood not only from Japan but overseas as well as increasing exports of Japanese timber is helping revitalize forestry in Japan. Relevant Social Issues Social challenges related to initiatives at the point of sales such as certiﬁed and Japanese timber include the depletion of forest resources, illegal logging and Shipping and regional revitalization. Sales Our Group believes it is our social responsibility to respond to social challenges related to wood now and into the future by encouraging sales of certiﬁed materials and Japanese timber. Relevant CSR Initiatives Sales Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜145＞ Procurement Initiatives Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to contribute to a sustainable and prosperous society through business activities that use wood, a renewable resource. To do so, we engage in responsible timber procurement activities in accordance with our Timber Procurement Basic Policy formulated in 2005 and our Timber Procurement Principles and Policies formulated in 2007. To deliver legal and sustainable timber, we only engage in responsible timber procurement. In 2015 with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy, we expanded our scope beyond timber to include a wide range of other procured products, such as metals, ceramics, resin and other building materials, and based on this policy, are engaged in procurement activities that take into consideration the economy, society and environment. Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy Promotion System of Timber Procurement Management Sumitomo Forestry Group established the Timber Procurement Committee, chaired by the general manager of the Sustainability Department and comprising managers from departments in charge of timber procurement for the trading and housing operations. (as of the end of March 2019). The committee discusses issues related to group-wide timber procurement, including procurement standards and risk assessments for illegal logging. In ﬁscal 2018, the Timber Procurement Committee met three times as stipulated and conﬁrmed legality and conducted the Sustainability Survey for all 109 direct import Timber Procurement Committee source companies who are covered in the study and 43 companies that our overseas meeting group companies (distribution) procure from. Regularly (once a year or once every two years), we conﬁrm legality and sustainability of both new and ongoing parties we conduct business with. Sustainable Timber Procurement Initiatives Promoting Initiatives Adhering to the Procurement Policy Procurement Policy Under the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy, Sumitomo Forestry Group carries out due diligence on timber procurement to ensure that the procurement is performed in a sustainable manner with consideration of legal compliance, human rights, labor practices, biodiversity conservation, and local communities. ＜146＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes wood as a renewable natural resource in its business operations. To contribute to a sustainable society, we are committed to procurement activities that take into account economic, environmental and societal interests and comply with the following policy: 1. Procurement based on legal and highly reliable supply chains Our procurement activities will strictly adhere to all relevant laws, regulations and societal norms, and be built on mutual understanding and trust with our business partners. Furthermore, to provide the highest quality products and services, we will work with our business partners to ensure that our procurement takes place within a sound and fair supply chain. 2. Procurement based on fair opportunity and competition We will provide all our suppliers, both Japanese and foreign, a fair opportunity for business. Selection of our business partners will be based on a comprehensive evaluation of the companyʼs reliability and technological expertise, the productʼs quality, economic eﬃciency, delivery date and environmental performance, and the companyʼs CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives, such as advocacy of basic human and worker rights, anticorruption eﬀorts and so on. 3. Procurement of sustainable timber and wood products Wood is a renewable natural resource. To actively utilize it, we will work with our business partners on the following initiatives related to the procurement of timber and wood products: Procure timber from forests that are sustainably managed Work to improve the traceability of procured timber and wood products Strictly adhere to the laws and regulations of the countries and regions of harvest, protect biodiversity and forests with high conservation value, and respect the cultures, traditions and economies of regions that coexist in harmony with forests. 4. Communication To ensure the transparency of our procurement eﬀorts, we will disclose information appropriately. In addition, we will communicate with our stakeholders to further improve our procurement activities. Revised July 23, 2015 Compliance Timber & Building Materials Business, Housing & Construction Business and each of the relevant Group timber procurement divisions conﬁrm that the timber provided by suppliers has been legally harvested, or that the wood products they provide have been made only from legally harvested timber as a raw material. Each person in charge of procurement is required to follow the Timber Procurement Due Diligence Manual, gather the following information, cross-check relevant documents for each location and tree species, and conﬁrm traceability of the entire supply chain all the way to the logging site. No. Category name 1 Supplier name 2 Supplier address 3 Timber type 4 Tree species of timber type 5 Country or region of logging Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜147＞ No. Category name 6 Annual procurement volume (weight, area, volume or quantity) 7 If sold to a legal entity, the name and address of that legal entity 8 Results of supplier surveys and other, inspection records and other Documents certifying that harvesting was conducted in accordance with laws and regulations of the logging 9 country With these information sorted by country, region, wood species, and timber type, risk assessment on the illegal logging or human rights violation is carried out based on procurement standards stipulated by the Committee. Risk categories are A (low risk), B (medium risk) and C (high risk). Timber and wood products in the B (medium risk) and C (high risk) categories should not be solely evaluated with documentation to prove that they are legally harvested according to that countryʼs laws and regulations. In addition, when necessary, company staﬀ are sent for on-site inspections to ensure traceability back to the logging site. Consideration for Human Rights, Labor Practices, Biodiversity Conservation and Local Communities Following items are checked, through Sustainability Procurement Surveys to suppliers and local interviews for the products that are being procured: Whether the rights of workers, local and indigenous community are abused in the area where we procure the products and their raw materials from. If this is the case, whether suppliers check their logging practices take place with consideration for these rights. Whether the high conservation values forests are included in the area where we procure the products and their raw materials from. If this is the case, whether suppliers check their logging practices with consideration to forests with high conservation value. Review Each procurement division reports the status and progress of these initiatives to the Timber Procurement Committee, facilitating continuous improvements throughout the supply chain. In ﬁscal 2018, we strengthened the management system by scoring survey outcomes to improve the visualization of suppliersʼ sustainability initiatives. Sumitomo Forestry requested that improvements be made at ﬁve suppliers that did not satisfy our standards. Timber Procurement Management System ＜148＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Reinforcing Measures for the Sustainability of Timber Products There is increasing concern about deforestation as climate change. Our Groupʼs timber procurement sustainability measures comply with our own Timber Procurement Due Diligence. In May 2019, we newly implemented an Action Plan to further reinforce evaluation standards for sustainability. Policy on “Sustainable Timber and Wood Products” We deﬁne timber and wood products as sustainable if they fulﬁll one of the following: 1. Certiﬁed timber and pre-certiﬁed timber: FSC, PEFC, and SGEC (Regardless of CoC connection, we place emphasis on certiﬁcation at time of production and promote a shift to certiﬁed timber) 2. Timber from plantation forests 3. Natural timber where forestry management and distribution can be assessed as sustainable. (this does not include timber from conversion forests = timber harvested from natural forests that were converted to farm land such as oil palm plantations) 4. Recycled wood In the “Mid-Term Sustainability Targets as part of the 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan” announced in May 2019, Even in situations where legality can be conﬁrmed, we will promote the gradual increased use of alternative wood (natural timber from forest thinning or plantation timber) to stop the handling of items that do not fall under our deﬁnition of sustainable timber or wood products. By our target ﬁscal year of 2021, we strive to achieve our procurement goal of 100% sustainable timber and wood products. Reinforcing Timber Procurement Due Diligence Through Our Action Plan The Company engages in responsible timber procurement as a Group in accordance with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. To respond to recent concerns, in May 2019, we launched an Action Plan to reinforce on a regular basis our timber procurement due diligence. Major areas of reinforcement to further promote responsible procurement include the appointment of the director in charge of sustainability as the chairman of the Timber Procurement Committee, the holding of regular study sessions for persons in charge of procurement、and for suppliers with low scores, a two-year probation period to implement requested improvement measures and the cessation of transactions in the event that no improvement is seen. Education for Personnel in Charge of Procurement As concern about deforestation increases worldwide, interest is focusing on eﬀorts by companies with regard to procurement of tropical timber. In this connection, we held a seminar on October 31, 2018 titled “Timber Production in Indonesia and Malaysia and Eﬀorts Toward Sustainable Forest Management.” It was attended by a total of 32 managers and other responsible personnel at international distribution departments handling tropical timber and other imported timber. At the seminar, participants learned the latest information about timber legality certiﬁcation systems in both countries, the current state of certiﬁed timber, and sustainable forest management. Institute for Global Environmental Each year, we keep up with changing circumstances by providing seminars and Strategies (IGES) training sessions on the latest societal and environmental issues. These are separate A lecture by Research Manager from the ordinary training provided to all employees by the Personnel Department. Hiromitsu Samejima Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜149＞ Reinforcing Engagement with NGOs and Other External Stakeholders To formulate and implement our Action Plan, to respond sincerely to societal demands and to promote responsible procurement, we organized a stakeholder dialogue with environmental NGOs, ESG specialists and researchers (held in July 2019). Experts from the certiﬁed NPO Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Japan, FoE Japan, Global Environment Forum、Institute for Global Environmental Strategies, Takasaki City University of Economics and Waseda University participated to discuss various themes, such as the implementation of the Sustainability Procurement Survey, the process and timeframe for demanding The scene at the Dialogue improvements, timber from conversion forests and recycled timber. Conference During the discussions, in addition to considering ways to build capacity, participants agreed on the need for adequate communication with suppliers in implementing Sustainability Procurement Surveys and requesting improvement measures in a manner that would enhance the quality of suppliers and consequently, lead to utilization of sustainable forest resources throughout the industry. For timber from converted forests, while keeping close watch on measures for sustainable commodity production in other industries, it should be conﬁrmed that appropriate assessment, such as for forests with high protection value (HCVA), is being conducted. Participants voiced the opinion that recycled timber should be deﬁned as timber that has been used once by the consumer (building materials, etc.) and that wood waste, old fruit trees and such should undergo the same level of due diligence as regular timber. With these opinions in mind, the Company revised and is implementing its Timber Procurement Management Regulations and its Timber Procurement Due Diligence Manual to fulﬁll its goal of 100% sustainable timber and wood materials as outlined in the Management Plan 2021. ＜150＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Timber Procurement in Romania Several environmental groups have expressed concerns about forest management and timber production in Romania in terms of whether or not logging has been appropriately conducted. In April 2017, members of the Timber Procurement Committee conducted on-site inspections, ﬁrst gathering information through meetings with such organizations as the Ministry of Environment and Forests of the Romanian Government, the Embassy of Japan in Romania, ASFOR (Romanian Forest Association), among others. The members also went to a supplier manufacturing facility and inspected representative logging sites of logs that were transported to the facility. At the manufacturing facility, they conﬁrmed that the supplier properly checks transport permits and the logs bundled on the trailer when receiving raw material logs at the lumber manufacturing plants. For example, the visiting team was able to conﬁrm that the supplier was thorough in segregated management to ensure that logs exceeding the amount permitted were not used and that they engaged in such measures as reporting to forestry authorities. The team received an explanation about forest management from a forest ranger at the logging site and checked the actual hammer stamp mark and process when loading the trailer in the ﬁeld. In addition, they were able to conﬁrm the dedication to preserving the rare forest ecosystem by observing forest conservation areas under the Romanian governmentʼs jurisdiction. The Company regularly meets with environmental groups that we receive concerns from, most recently, in January 2019, where we obtained information and provided the latest on our Group initiatives. Inspection of harvest land still covered in snow Check when loading the trailer Properly checking the delivery at the plant using tablet Segregated management of round wood beyond the amount terminals on the permit Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜151＞ Concrete Form Plywood from Indonesia In recent years, several environmental groups have expressed their concerns about the legality of the logs used as raw material for plywood manufactured in Indonesia. In Indonesia, the SVLK timber legality veriﬁcation system is in place, requiring timber product manufacturers and exporters to register by obtaining SVLK business certiﬁcation issued by an independent evaluation and certiﬁcation organization recognized by the National Accreditation Committee. Upon doing so, the business obtains documentation (V-Legal documents) from the independent veriﬁcation and certiﬁcation body certifying the timber as legal, and expressly conﬁrming the legality of the entire supply chain, from logging to timber processing at manufacturing plants to export. In July 2018, we conducted an on-site inspection of the concrete formwork paneling plywood manufacturing plant that serves as our supplier. At a timber yard near the harvesting site, we were able to use QR-code labeling on tags attached to logs to conﬁrm the harvesting information at the Indonesian Ministry of the Environment and Forestry website, as well as with V-Legal documentation. After the same logs were transported to the plant, we were once again able to use QR codes at a plant timber yard to access the ministry website and V-Legal documents, successfully tracing them back through the transport process to their harvest location. In terms of the procurement of raw material logs used to process plywood, the Company continues to work with suppliers on various initiatives as we strive to fulﬁll our “Mid-Term Sustainability Targets as part of the 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan” to achieve the targets of 100% procurement of sustainable timber and wood products. Conﬁrming tags attached to the logs at the plant timber Conﬁrming tags at an intermediate timber yard yard Conﬁrming the harvest site from tag information at the logging company (2) Conﬁrming the harvest site from tag information at the logging company (1) ＜152＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 In terms of concrete formwork plywood for the construction of sports facilities, in November 2018, environmental NGOs reported to the Organizing Committee their concerns that the Companyʼs supplier may be using raw material logs that were not appropriately managed or harvested. With this, we responded by submitting relevant documents and explaining to the Olympic Organizing Committee that these types of raw material logs were not part of the Companyʼs supply chain. As a result, the Olympic Organizing Committee concluded that the concerns were unfounded and not eligible for reporting, which was disclosed in February 2019 on their website. Promoting Certiﬁed Timber Sumitomo Forestry Group works with its procurement partners to build a reliable supply chain and to procure sustainable timber. As an index to conﬁrm whether timber was obtained from forests with sustainable forest management, we support and utilize the Forest Certiﬁcation System, a third-party certiﬁcation system. Furthermore, the Company itself receives the Forest Certiﬁcation and we believe we can contribute to the systemʼs wider use by providing the market and consumers certiﬁed forest timber. Sumitomo Forestry Group has obtained FM certiﬁcation for 221,000 hectares and CoC certiﬁcation for 10 organizations. Status of Sumitomo Forestry Group Forest Certiﬁcation/ CoC Certiﬁcation*1 (FSC-C113957) Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Organization Date Certiﬁed System Number Issuing Body December 14, CU-COC-823910／ Control Union FSC® 2017 CU-CW-823910 Certiﬁcations Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Timber and Building Materials Division, Japan Gas International Marketing Department, Branch December 14, Appliances PEFC CEF1201 2017 Inspection Association (JIA) Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Timber and Building Materials Department, Japan Forest Timber and Building Materials Division, January 24, SGEC JIA-W045 Technology Hokkaido Branch 2017 Association (JAFTA) MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department, Housing and Construction Division Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜153＞ Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Organization Date Certiﬁed System Number Issuing Body Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Timber and Building Materials Division, Japan Forest Hokkaido Branch SGEC October 1, 2017 JAFTA-W038*2 Technology Materials Development Department, Housing Association (JAFTA) and Construction Division Japan Forest September 25, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Co., Ltd. SGEC JAFTA-W017 Technology 2016 Association (JAFTA) FSC® April 18, 2018 SGSHK-COC-006693 SGS Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan Forest December 26, SGEC JAFTA-W041 Technology 2017 Association (JAFTA) Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) (New SAI-COC-001290 / QMI-SAI CANADA FSC® June 21, 2019 Zealand) SAI-CW-001290 Limited January 10, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) (Indonesia) FSC® TT-COC-002009 BM TRADA 2015 PT. Mutuagung PT. Sumitomo Forestry Indonesia FSC® April 26, 2016 TT-COC-005903 Lestari December 5, NC-COC-005542 / Sumitomo Forestry (Singapore) Ltd. FSC® NEP Con 2018 NC-CW-005542 *1 CoC (Chain of Custody) certiﬁcation is a system that covers the processing and distribution of forest products. In addition to determining whether the forest product was from a certiﬁed forest (certiﬁed timber) at each stage of processing and distribution, it certiﬁes risk assessments for uncertiﬁed timber. When all companies in the entire process obtain CoC certiﬁcation, a certiﬁcation mark can be displayed on the product. *2 Includes operators other than Sumitomo Forestry Group companies due to being a comprehensive certiﬁcation. Major Forest Certiﬁcation Systems FSC (Forest Stewardship Council®) (FSC-C113957) FSC is an organization founded in 1993 led by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and consists of representatives from environmental organizations, forest workers, timber users and traders, human rights organizations, and local forestry unions. It is considered a pioneer amongst forest certiﬁcation system operators. Adhering to the 10 principles and 56 regulations encompassing environmental impact, local society, and indigenous people's rights, FSC-accredited certiﬁcation bodies will undertake reviews. Recently, country or regional standards as well as the review procedure for small-scale forest owners have been introduced to provide greater support for diverse forests and owners. ＜154＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation) Forestry organizations of 11 European countries established PEFC together in 1999 as an organization to mutually authenticate the system of each country. PEFC does not directly authenticate an individual forest, but when the PEFC's required conditions that adapted “the inter-governmental process” implemented by 149 countries is met, the country's own forest certiﬁcation system is authenticated by PEFC. Joined by non-European countries in 2003, the organization originally called Pan European Forest Certiﬁcation Schemes changed its name to Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation. Since then, PEFC has shown drastic growth, and to date its total certiﬁed area is the largest across the world. Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC) SGEC authenticates forest management that demonstrates both rich natural environment and sustainable timber production in Japan. With reverence for Japan's indigenous natural environment, social customs, and culture, the review premises on seven criteria. SGEC can also authenticate forestry operations and distribution systems under CoC. SGEC joined PEFC in November 2014 and submitted a mutual authentication application to PEFC in March 2015, which was mutually approved in June 2016. Promoting the Use of Certiﬁed Timber The most important aspect of selling certiﬁed timber is managing the procurement of certiﬁed timber separately from other types of timber. With CoC certiﬁcation, because we are inspected by a third party, we are able to guarantee that timber and other products are from certiﬁed forests and sell them to our customers. Sumitomo Forestry Group has set a goal to achieve by 2020 at least a 12% sales volume ratio of imported certiﬁed timber and other products. In ﬁscal 2018, the actual ﬁgure was 11% . Furthermore, for sales of SGEC certiﬁed timber, Japanʼs forest certiﬁcation system, we have set a sales volume target of 85,000 square meters or more by 2020. In ﬁscal 2018, the actual ﬁgure was 78,000 square meters. About symbol for Independent assurance Smooth Response to the Clean Wood Act The Act on the Promotion of Use and Distribution of Legally Harvested Wood and Wood Products (the Clean Wood Act) was enacted in May 2017 to encourage use of timber from trees harvested in compliance with the laws and regulations of Japan and other countries and to create a market where illegally logged timber, which damages the environment, is not made available. Sumitomo Forestry was the ﬁrst in the country to register the Timber and Building Materials Business, which imports and sells timber, as a Type 1 Wood-Related Entity on November 22, 2017. This same division was registered as a Type 2 Wood-Related Entity on August 1, 2018. Subsequently, Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products was registered as a Type 1 and Type 2 Wood-Related Entity (purchase and sale of timber) on February 20, 2018, and furthermore, the Housing and Construction Business (on March 16, 2018) and Sumitomo Forestry Crest (on May 9, 2018) were registered as Type 2 Wood-Related Entities as part of our eﬀorts to procure legal timber throughout the entire Group. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜155＞ Registered Wood Agency Issuing Type Registration Date Registration Number Related Entity Registration Timber and Building Type 1, Type 2 Wood No. JIA-CLW-Ⅰ Ⅱ Japan Gas Appliances November 22, 2017 Materials Division Related Entity 17001 Inspection Association Building Materials Procurement and Japan Housing and Type 2 Wood Related No. HOWTEC-CLW-Ⅱ Logistics Department, March 16, 2018 Wood Technology Entity 0001 Housing and Center Construction Division Sumitomo Forestry Type 1/Type 2 Wood Japan Forest Technology February 20, 2018 No. JAFTA-CLW-Ⅰ Ⅱ-3 Wood Products Related Entity Association Sumitomo Forestry Type 2 Wood Related Japan Gas Appliances May 9, 2018 No. JIA-CLW-Ⅱ 18002 Crest Co., Ltd. Entity Inspection Association Participation in JBIB（Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity） Sumitomo Forestry participates as a member of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), made up of companies that engage in activities aimed to conserve biodiversity. In ﬁscal 2018, the supply chain working group conducted research and worked on creating lists of disclosed information that could be used to assess risk. Communication with Our Business Partners In the distribution operations of timber and building materials, given that it is characterized as being a regional industry, Sumitomo Forestry maintains close communication with the suppliers and purchasers of timber and building materials in each region. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of the Timber and Building Materials Division Name/scale Description Established in diﬀerent regions around Japan as a forum for The Sumirin club -a membership organization communication with business partners for distribution operations of to communicate with regional suppliers of timber and building materials. Training sessions and informational timber and building materials exchange meetings are held two or three times a year in each region, Number of members: 871 companies (as of July allowing members to deepen mutual friendships, promote product R&D, 2018) enhance production and distribution, and support improvements in the industry as a whole. With a history spanning more than half a century, this monthly magazine Publication of Building Materials Monthly publishes timely information and topics regarding timber, building Monthly print run of approximately 4,200 copies materials and the housing industry from a distinctive perspective unique to Sumitomo Forestry. ＜156＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sales Initiatives Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry Group engages in responsible procurement in accordance with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. Up to now, we have been promoting the procurement of sustainable timber as domestic timber, plantation timber and certiﬁed timber. In keeping with our “Mid-Term Sustainability Targets as part of the 2021 Mid-term Management Plan”, we will work for still more widespread use of sustainable timber and building materials throughout the broader community by procuring 100% sustainable timber and wood products. Promotion for Sales of Environmentally-friendly KIKORIN-PLYWOOD Sumitomo Forestry has set a ratio of products that use plantation trees and certiﬁed timber from the procurement of import wood board products such as plywood as a 2020 target and it strives to expand this business. Plywood that uses 50% or more plantation timber, FSC-certiﬁed or PEFC-certiﬁed timber is marketed as KIKORINPLYWOOD, and some of its revenue is invested in plantation businesses in Indonesia. This product made using 50% or more plantation timber, was praised as being environmentally conscious. It received a Commendation Prize in the 1st EcoPro Awards* on September 12, 2018. It accounted for 9.1% of our plywood sales volume during ﬁscal 2018, amounting to about 50,541m³. We will contribute to environmental KIKORIN-PLYWOOD protection by expanding this volume ﬁvefold in ﬁscal 2020 to 240,000m³. * Hosted by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry. It was established in ﬁscal 2004 in order to help further develop and spread the use of Japanese eco-products by broadly communicating information about eco-products among current and prospective clients while also supporting the eﬀorts of the relevant suppliers. The EcoProducts Awards were renovated in ﬁscal 2018, now presented as the EcoPro Awards. Sales of KIKORIN-PLYWOOD 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 31,900m³ 28,100m³ 30,200m³ 46,255m³ 50,541m³ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜157＞ Exporting Domestic Timber Overseas demand for timber is forecast to grow in emerging countries including China propelled by economic development and population growth. Under these circumstances, Japanese timber exports have also been on the rise in recent years, and a target of 262,000 m³ has been set for Japanese timber export volume within our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, to be reached in ﬁscal 2021 as we explore overseas market opportunities for Japanese timber. In ﬁscal 2018, export volumes from existing ports centering around Kyushu increased in response to robust demand from China, while new port development and the start of exports from ports other than in Kyushu also began, resulting in a 33.3% annual increase in domestic timber exports to 160,000 m³. About symbol for Independent assurance Fiscal 2018 Breakdown of Net Sales in the Timber & Building Materials Business (Non-consolidated) ＜158＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Manufacturing Facilities Value Chain of Manufacturing Operations We work to meet customersʼ needs not just through design, but also by moving forward with product development that optimizes the characteristics of raw materials. Our slab and board operations include lightweight plywood and board development using light plantation timber such as Falcata (Albizia falcataria) and balsa. For building materials and carpentry operations, we develop materials for such applications as ﬂooring and furniture that optimize the sense of quality wood. Our manufacturing operations include systems for using raw materials without any waste. Relevant Social Issues Product Forests around the world continue to decline due to practices such as illegal Development/ logging and excessive slash-and-burn farming, making sustainable timber Raw Material procurement a crucial issue. Procurement We procure plantation timber and certiﬁed timber which are legal and highly sustainable in order to achieve ongoing timber and materials procurement that considers sustainability and biodiversity. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜159＞ By operating according to the ISO9001 International quality management system and through management that meets or exceeds JIS/JAS product quality requirements, we go beyond merely manufacturing high-quality products as we strive to build products with even greater safety. With so many employees working at our manufacturing plants, our Group regards the establishment of a safe, healthy work environment to be our responsibility, and we therefore continually pursue a goal of zero occupational injuries. We also recycle and make energy and resource saving eﬀorts in our manufacturing processes. Relevant Social Issues In our manufacturing operations, it is crucial that we strive (1) to manufacture and market safe, reliable products, (2) to create positive work environments, and (3) to reduce environmental impact. In manufacturing products that are reliable and safe, we place great importance on customer feedback in our eﬀorts Manufacturing to promote the development and sale of reliable and safe products and services that consider the environment and society. In promoting a vibrant work environment where a diverse workforce can unharness their skills and individuality, we enhance our manufacturing plant safety policies and improve working environments, to provide safe, secure work environments. In addition, in order to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities, we are working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while increasing recycling rates. Relevant CSR Initiatives Product Safety and Quality Control Occupational Health and Safety ＜160＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 We ship and sell processed and manufactured products not only in Japan, but in countries around the world. We have been moving forward with continual improvements such as redesigning packaging to cut waste, revising delivery methods to provide customers with greater ease of access, and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Relevant Social Issues We do business in each country by complying with the rules and regulations from a compliance perspective for shipments and product sales. The extent to which delivery can be made more eﬃcient by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions associated with transport has become a societal issue. In order to Delivery reduce the environmental impact of our business activities, our Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while increasing recycling rates. We have increased loading eﬃciency as we use the return trips after construction materials delivery for the transport of waste materials. Relevant CSR Initiatives Product Safety and Quality Control Reducing CO2 Emissions from Transportation Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜161＞ Procurement Initiatives Basic Policy Overseas manufacturing facilities can be broadly categorized into two raw timber slabs and board operations and building materials and timber products operations. Slab and board operations use the renewable resource wood as its primary raw material and with the use of heat-hardening adhesives, manufacture plywood, MDF (medium density ﬁberboard) and particle board. The building materials and timber products operations use the plywood and MDF manufactured by the slab and board operations to manufacture building materials used for housing, furniture, musical instruments and other products. Our domestic manufacturing facilities use the plywood, MDF, engineered wood and other products manufactured overseas to manufacture and sell wooden housing materials, stair materials, counters and other products. The raw materials used for manufacturing are procured legally and sustainably in accordance with Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Procurement Policy. Promoting Sustainable Timber Procurement PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI), a production site in Indonesia, has been working to build a system for sustainable forest management in cooperation with local plantation cooperative associations to heighten the ratio of plantation timber used as raw materials. KTI also began reforestation with fast-growing trees such as Falcata (Albizia falcataria) in 1999. With the system of social forestry , KTI has aimed to support the environment, community and economy by distributing seedlings to local residents for free to plant on the lands they own and promises to purchase timber when the trees are mature at its market value. In addition, the KTI Reforestation Cooperative View of Plantation Forest supported by KTI (KBM KTI)* has acquired the FSC-FM certiﬁcation for forests owned by KTI (KAM-KTI)*. In the future, KTI will strive to expand the manufacture and sales of products with high environmental value by expanding the area of certiﬁed forests and procuring sustainable timber in order to fulﬁll the requirements of many of our business partners. * KAM KTI: FSC-C023796, KBM KTI: FSC-C133562 ＜162＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Promoting the Use of Plantation Timber and Certiﬁed Timber PT.Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk uses sustainable timber that takes into consideration the environment and at the same time, manufactures high-quality wood interior materials (ﬂoors, stairs, counters, etc.) of a consistent design and supplies products primarily for Sumitomo Forestry houses. The timber used as the main raw material procured for these products is solely plantation timber or certiﬁed timber. In ﬁscal 2018, approximately 60% of our overall timber used was imported from abroad, and all of the imported timber from our overseas suppliers is certiﬁed timber based on AHEC (American Hardwood Export Council) or QWEB (Quebec Wood Export Bureau). The remaining 40% of our overall timber used is timber from plantation Timber Storage Warehouse forests purchased from a forestry company in Indonesia (Perum Perhutani), all of which is material that has received SVLK (Sistem Veriﬁcasi Legalitas Kayu) certiﬁcation. We will continue to pursue sustainable timber procurement and manufacture and sell high-value-added products that use veriﬁed as legal and sustainable timber. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜163＞ Product Safety and Quality Control Basic Policy In response to legal requirements and customer requests, we use PDCA cycles as we work to ensure and improve product safety and quality at each stage of our business activities, from planning and product development to production and sales. Moving forward with continual improvement is a policy we pursue in our manufacturing operations in order to elevate the quality of the products and services we provide. Product Safety and Quality Control in the Domestic Manufacturing Operation of Wood Building Materials Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has established a quality policy based on ISO 9001 as described below. Each plant and division has formulated speciﬁc quality targets and action plans in line with our quality policy, and is committed to maintaining safety and improving quality. Operating in keeping with the 2015 version of the ISO 9001 quality management system, we strive to elevate quality and service by reinforcing its integration with our actual business operations. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.'s Quality Policy 1. Provide products that always give ﬁrst priority to customer satisfaction, from product development and manufacture, to distribution and post-construction follow-up. 2. Cooperate with internal and external partners, understand appropriate costs, and manufacture in a way that ensures safety, performance and quality. 3. Establish quality targets, and develop systems that allow all employees to make continual improvements. Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Since October 2010, Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has been operating with integrated ISO 9001 at its plants nationwide. Having developed a framework for quality control based on the quality policy as well as a strict framework for process control, the company manufactures products of high quality. Furthermore, by utilizing a quality information management system, the company endeavors to reﬂect customer feedback and demands at production sites. Internal audits are also carried out twice a year at all plants for the purpose of following the PDCA cycle for the quality management system established under ISO 9001. In order to ensure product safety, we have put in place a system in which any key information on a product defect can be communicated by the person in charge through an emergency contact network to the company president within two hours of obtaining the information. ＜164＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Quality Improvement Activities Based on Company-Wide Targets Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has set quality targets at each plant and division, and is promoting quality improvement activities. During ﬁscal 2018, it strived to enhance and maintain quality control systems at manufacturing locations as well as at business partners' plants. These management control systems will be maintained in ﬁscal 2019 as continual improvements are also made, including measures to help prevent human error through standardization of procedures, revision of logs, work operation standardization and QC process chart compliance. Quality Check in Plant Sumitomo Forestry Launches Full-Scale Sales of Light, Low-Cost and AttractivelyDesigned Wooden Fire-Prevention Door Using Balsa Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. launched in May 2015 full-scale sales of original wooden ﬁre-prevention doors, made from “balsa” known as the lightest timber in the world, which are lighter, less-expensive and more attractively-designed than existing products. The product was developed to meet the needs of wooden ﬁre-prevention doors in threeand four-story buildings in urban areas, and in constructions for mixed use such as medical facilities with adjacent accommodation. The doors are also environmentally-friendly products, with the raw material balsa being sourced from plantation timber raised from saplings and processed by a Group company, PT. Kutai Unique wooden ﬁre-prevention Timber Indonesia (KTI). doors made from balsa Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜165＞ Safety and Quality Control in Overseas Manufacturing Business Basic Policy and Framework for Safety and Quality Control Group companies engaged in the manufacture of wood building materials overseas have acquired quality certiﬁcations such as ISO 9001, Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS). In line with the requirements of these certiﬁcations, each company has established policies and standards for quality control, and through education and training, strives to ensure that its employees understand them well. Furthermore, each company is making ongoing improvements to quality control management systems by means of annual certiﬁcation audits through external organizations as well as periodic internal audits. The quality standards of every company are being further improved to provide greater safety by focusing on communication and feedback from users about product safety and quality, especially in the production of products for Japan which demands the utmost safety and quality. Quality Management Updating to ISO9001:2015 Six consolidated companies have completed their update to ISO9001:2015: Nelson Pine Industries (NPIL), Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI), Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI), AST Indonesia (ASTI), Canyon Creek Cabinet (CCC), and Vina Eco Board (VECO). Under the new quality management system, we will move forward with even greater continual improvement, maintaining and increasing the safety and quality of our products. Three-Company Technical Study Session on Particle Board In 2018, three particle board companies, KTI and RPI of Indonesia and VECO of Vietnam, began holding study conferences aimed at mutually elevating their levels of particle board manufacturing technology, while improving quality. While the eﬀort is similar to those conducted in the past, leadership by national staﬀ is leading to greater awareness among all companies. ＜166＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Initiatives in Japan Basic policy of Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. is to move “from zero accidents to zero danger.” Its goal is to achieve zero occupational injuries by nipping danger in the bud. To achieve this, Sumitomo Forestry Crest began operating an Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) in July 2012, and acquired OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation in February 2013. Through repeating the PDCA management cycle with near-miss incident reports submitted voluntarily by employees (643 reports by 505 employees in ﬁscal 2018), and sharing opinions through small-circle activities at each workplace (held weekly), eﬀorts are being made to reduce risks while engaging in production. In addition, with OHSAS18001 set to migrate to ISO45001 in March 2021, we plan to migrate systems in ﬁscal 2019. There was one occupational injury in ﬁscal 2018. Measures to prevent recurrence have been established by reviewing procedures and equipment based on inspections and factor analysis. Number of Occupational Injuries in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials in Japan FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 0 0 1 0 1 * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. Safety Patrols and Risk Assessments Each plant of Sumitomo Forestry Crest regularly conducts safety patrols at the workplace. Any sign of danger discovered in these patrols is immediately addressed with safety measures to prevent that risk from being realized. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry Crest is committed to ensuring the safety of its workplaces, responding from the following three perspectives by identifying operations and facilities at risk, such as of workers getting caught in or between machinery. 1. Reduce the frequency with which sources of danger are approached (keep A safety patrol people away, use of protective equipment etc.) 2. Reduce the likelihood of accidents (covers, auto-shut oﬀ, etc.) 3. Reduce the severity of injuries (protective gear, lower speeds, etc.) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜167＞ Overseas Initiatives We are proactively moving forward with risk assessment (recognizing unsafe conditions at facilities) and danger prediction training (not having workers engage in unsafe actions, increased sensitivity to unsafe conditions) at overseas manufacturers*, particularly in Indonesia. We also implemented safety promotion procedures at other preceding group companies in our eﬀorts to ensure workplace safety. * Six consolidated group companies: Nelson Pine Industries (NPIL), Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI), AST Indonesia (ASTI), Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk (SRP), Canyon Creek Cabinet (CCC), and Vina Eco Board (VECO). Risk prediction training for local employees at Indonesian manufacturers Number of Occupational Injuries in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials in Overseas FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 6 18 16 23 11 * Indicates the number of injuries eligible for compensation beneﬁts for a temporary absence from work under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan. ＜168＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Forest Management Value Chain of Forest Management Sumitomo Forestry Group was the ﬁrst to modernize seedling production considering a decline in producers and other concerns. We are contributing to the sustainability of forest resources and active resource production through eﬀorts such as the construction of greenhouse-type cultivation facilities with proper environmental management using proprietary production technology for seedling containers. We have put in place a system able to produce 1.6 million seedlings annually throughout Japan as of ﬁscal 2018. We also engage in tree cultivation under the concept of “the right tree in the right place,” with consideration of soil conditions at a given plantation, orientation and geography, etc. Seedling Farming and Relevant Social Issues Cultivation In addition to resource recycling and other environmental issues, we have taken the ﬁrst step toward sustainable forest management. These steps are related to solving broad social challenges such as regional revitalization with the establishment of seedbeds, in addition to resource recycling and other environmental challenges. Relevant CSR Initiatives Sustainable Forest Management Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜169＞ The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages a total of approximately 48,000 hectares of company-owned forests in Japan and a total of around 230,000 hectares of company-owned plantation forest area overseas. The Group works to maintain and enhance the public functions of forests by carrying out underbrush clearing, pruning, thinning and other appropriate management required for them to grow. Relevant Social Issues Forests are managed in a way that allows the diverse needs for timber to be lastingly satisﬁed by maintaining a healthy ecosystem throughout the forest while receiving the beneﬁt of the timber it provides. Within Japan, this Cultivation management not only contributes to revitalizing the forestry industry, but also to addressing both economic and environmental challenges, such as climate change measures and biodiversity conservation. Relevant CSR Initiatives Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Forest Management Overseas Consulting Business Reforestation Activities Contributing to the Society ＜170＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 The Sumitomo Group logs in forests it owns or manages based on long-term logging plans. Forest operations include appropriate thinning, which helps to preserve and increase forest resources, while taking into consideration the surrounding environment including the ecosystem. The Group aims for highly productive management of its forests based on operational plans that follow the principle of performing the appropriate management for the appropriate tree species on the suited land. The timber that is harvested is transported to business partners and plants. The Sumitomo Forestry Group furthers mechanization of transport operations and supports the use of domestic timber through the reduction of costs. Relevant Social Issues Logging/ Sumitomo Forestry Group realizes sustainable forest management through longTransport term planned harvesting to address a variety of social challenges, including resource recycling and response to climate change as well as the conservation of biodiversity. In addition, ensuring the safety of every worker is an important issue when harvesting trees. Sumitomo Forestry Group pays close attention to the occupational health and safety of every employee who is working for the Group, including business partners. Relevant CSR Initiatives Sustainable Forest Management Occupational Health and Safety in the Forestry Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group prepares plantations that have been harvested to build an environment allowing subsequent planting. Relevant Social Issues Site The Sumitomo Forestry Group always recognizes sustainability from an Preparation/ environmental perspective in a cycle that starts with planting, cultivation, harvest, use, and back to planting. We strive to address social challenges such Planting as use of Japanese timber and forest revitalization. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜171＞ Sustainable Forest Management Basic Policy Forests perform a variety of functions for the public good, such as storing and purifying water, preventing ﬂoods and landslides, and absorbing and retaining CO2, which is linked to global warming, preserving biodiversity, production of timber, and recreation. On a basis of appropriate management, the Sumitomo Forestry Group advances sustainable forest management both in Japan and overseas to ensure that timber resources will be available in perpetuity while preserving the public functions of forests. In the domestic forestry business, production in company-owned forests is aimed at realizing proﬁtable forestry together with ensuring legality with due consideration for biodiversity and unique local cultures. By practicing sustainable forest management, we have obtained and maintain certiﬁcation of 100% of certiﬁable forests. We operate under the following philosophy when obtaining new forests in our overseas forestry business. 1. To build good relationships with surrounding villages and local communities. 2. The major presumption is that HCVA*1, HCSA*2 and FPIC*3 are to be implemented. It is also possible to eliminate environmental risk, and there must be no identiﬁed past environmental problems. 3. FSC®-FM certiﬁcation must be obtained (FSC-CW and PEFC certiﬁcation are also desirable). (FSC-C113957) *1 High Conservation Value Assessment: inspection and assessment to establish conservation policies for areas speciﬁed as having high conservation value, such as rare ﬂora and fauna habitat. *2 High Carbon Shock Assessment: inspection and assessment to specify and restrict development in areas with high carbon absorption volumes so that the volume of carbon retained by forests does not decline when forest land is converted to other uses. *3 Free Prior Informed Consent: Prior sharing of information and consensus formation with indigenous people and others in cases where there is likelihood that operations could impact the lands, territories or resources of indigenous people. Forest Management and Timber Usage ＜172＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Area of Forest Managed and Owned in Fiscal 2018 Niihama Forest New Zealand Forests Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜173＞ Promoting Certiﬁcation of Forests In upstream forest management, middlestream timber distribution and downstream construction of wooden houses, the Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes the acquisition of FSC forest certiﬁcation as well as PEFC forest certiﬁcation and the mutually authenticable SGEC forest certiﬁcation both domestically and abroad. Status of Forest Certiﬁcation * Uncertiﬁed forest includes social forestry and other plantation area Status of Sumitomo Forestry Group Forest Certiﬁcation/FM Certiﬁcation*1 Certiﬁed Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁed Forests (Company) Date Certiﬁed Area (ha) System Number Issuing Body Japan Forest September 25, Technology Forests Owned by Sumitomo Forestry 47,746 SGEC JAFTA-010 2006 Association (JAFTA) December 5, NC-FM/COC12,854 FSC® NEP Con 2018 005600 Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) (Papua New Guinea) December 5, NC-CW/FM7,066 FSC® NEP Con 2018 003093 OBT Total 19,920 PT. Wana Subur Lestari (WSL) PT Almasentra 40,750 PHPL*2 June 25, 2013 LPPHPL-006-IDN (Indonesia) Konsulindo PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI) September 24, 015/EQCPT Equality 74,870 PHPL*2 (Indonesia) 2013 PHPL/IX/2013 Indonesia Koperasi Serba Usaha Alas Mandiri KTI December 22, SA-FM/COC1,005 FSC® Woodmark (KAM KTI) (Indonesia) 2008 002083 ＜174＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Certiﬁed Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁed Forests (Company) Date Certiﬁed Area (ha) System Number Issuing Body Koperasi Bromo Mandiri KTI (KBM KTI) January 4, SA-FM/COC460 FSC® Woodmark (Indonesia) 2017 005493 Tasman Pine Forests Ltd. (TPF) (New September 7, SGS-FM/COCSGS South Africa 36,200 FSC® Zealand) 2016 010806 (Pty) Ltd *1 Forest Management (FM) certiﬁcation authenticates sustainable forest management by having a third-party inspect based on objective indicators with focus on: (1) compliance with laws and system frameworks, (2) forest ecosystem and biodiversity maintenance and conservation, (3) respect for rights of indigenous people and local communities, and (4) maintenance and enhancement of forest productivity. *2 Pengelolaan Hvtan Produksi Lestari (PHPL) is an Indonesian certiﬁcation of sustainable production forest maintenance. Seedling Farming and Cultivation: a First Step Toward Sustainable Forest Management Securing superior seedlings is a crucial ﬁrst step toward sustainable forest management. Stable production of superior seedlings enables appropriate forest establishment. Sumitomo Forestry was the ﬁrst to modernize seedling production. We are contributing to the sustainability of forest resources and active resource production through eﬀorts such as the construction of greenhouse-type cultivation facilities with proper environmental management. With the opening of a new facility in Midori City, Gunma Prefecture in ﬁscal 2018, we have established a system capable of cultivating 1.6 million seedlings a year with ﬁve locations throughout Japan. Also, in overseas plantation forest operations , we practice sustainable forest management, producing our own seedlings for planting, cultivation, logging and replanting. Cultivation: Preserving the Public Functions of Forests Through Appropriate Management The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages a total of approximately 48,000 hectares of company-owned forests in Japan and a total of around 230,000 hectares of company-owned plantation forest area overseas. The Group works to maintain and enhance the public functions of these forests by carrying out underbrush clearing, pruning, thinning and other appropriate management required for them to grow. Carbon stocks* of forests in Japan owned by Sumitomo Forestry Group at the end of ﬁscal 2018 were 13.1 million t-CO2 (+40,000 t-CO2 from the previous year). Carbon stocks at overseas plantation forests were 7.38 million t-CO2 (-450,000 tCO2). * The amount of CO2 absorbed by forests and stored as carbon. Calculated using a formula that multiply volume density, carbon content, and other coeﬃcients set per type of tree against the accumulated amount in the forest. Furthermore, if there is a purchase of large forest during this period, they are omitted as its increase of accumulated amount within the last year cannot be identiﬁed. Natural trees and planted trees are within the scope in Japan but only planted tree are included for overseas. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜175＞ Carbon Stock of Forests in Japan and Overseas *1 Domestic: Carbon stock as of the beginning of each ﬁscal year *2 Overseas: Carbon stock as of the beginning of each calendar year Logging and Transport: Supplying Timber Products Through Systematic Logging The Sumitomo Forestry Group logged approximately 70,000 m³ of trees in Japan and approximately 930,000 m³ of trees overseas in ﬁscal 2018 in forests it owns or manages based on long-term logging plans. Harvested trees are milled and processed before ﬁnally reaching the market as products such as housing and furniture. In the case of timber turned into structural members for housing, the products are used for several decades. Even after being dismantled or at the end of their product life, wooden construction and timber products can be reused as ﬁberboard or other wood materials in construction or as raw material for making paper, and all that time it will continue to retain CO2. The CO2 released when timber is ultimately burned as a wood fuel is what has been absorbed from the atmosphere as trees grow, and therefore it does not represent an increase in CO2 in the atmosphere over the life cycle of the tree. Carbon Stock in the Housing and Construction Business Site Preparation and Planting: Preparing for the Next Cycle Harvesting and using timber alone will lead to a diminishing of forest resources. The Sumitomo Forestry Group therefore promotes sustainable forest management by always planting new trees after harvesting. In ﬁscal 2018, we planted forests on 139 ha in Japan, and on 5,829 ha overseas. The newly planted trees will absorb CO2 during their growth and retain it as carbon. ＜176＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Basic Policy In recent years, the degradation across Japan of artiﬁcial forest plantations of cedar, Japanese cypress and other species has resulted in the alarming loss of the multifaceted functions of forests, such as water source recharge. The reasons for this devastation include the stagnation of timber value and worsening proﬁtability as well as the inability for proper thinning or other management of the forests. In order to prevent further devastation of forests by revitalizing the forestry industry, the government of Japan has set a goal of raising Japan's timber self-suﬃciency rate to roughly 50% by 2025. Breakdown of Company-Owned Forests Preserving and Increasing Forest Resources Through Management of Company-Owned Forests The Sumitomo Forestry Group owns a total of approximately 48,000 hectares (about 1/800 of the national land area) of forest land area. Company-owned forests are categorized as either “commercial forests,” where the production of timber is the priority, or “environmental forests,” where conservation of the environment is the focus. Sumitomo Forestry acquired a forestry certiﬁcation from Japanʼs Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC)*1 for all company-owned forests*2 in 2006 and third-party evaluations have conﬁrmed that the forests are being properly managed, including with regard to measures to conserve biodiversity. New forest purchases after the acquisition of the forest certiﬁcation have each been under evaluation for certiﬁcation and our certiﬁcation rate is 100%. Forest operations include appropriate thinning, which helps to preserve and increase forest resources, while taking into consideration the surrounding environment including the ecosystem. Sumitomo Forestry also aims for highly productive management of its forests based on operational plans that follow the principle of performing the appropriate management for the appropriate tree species on the suited land. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜177＞ *1 Japan's own forestry certiﬁcation system through which forest management is veriﬁed as sustainable by third parties. Certiﬁcation is based on seven criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources. Due to the June 2016 approval of mutual recognition of the PEFC*3 international forest certiﬁcation system, international recognition has increased. *2 The forests owned by Sumitomo Forestry exclude the lands leased to Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd., which is a Group company responsible for operating a golf course. Newly purchased forests are excluded because they underwent expanded inspections during the subsequent ﬁscal year. *3 The programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation Schemes is an international NGO that mutually authenticates certiﬁcation standards created in each country and region as criteria to be shared internationally. Forest certiﬁcation systems in 49 countries have joined PEFC of which 44 have been mutually recognized as forest certiﬁcation systems. Distribution and Area of Company-Owned Forests (as of March 31, 2019) ＜178＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Forest Revitalization Initiatives Seedling Production for Regional Revitalization Increasing number of municipalities are working to foster forest resources that are not yet eﬀectively utilized as one part of regional revitalization measures. Areas of clear cutting is expected to increase in the future as the harvesting period approaches for cedar and Japanese cypress planted after World War II, and a stable supply of seedlings is desired for reforestation. However, due to circumstances such as a lower number of producers, it is expected that the resources will be insuﬃcient. Sumitomo Forestry was the ﬁrst to modernize seedling production. We are contributing to the sustainability of forest resources and active resource production through eﬀorts such as the construction of greenhouse-type cultivation facilities with proper environmental management using proprietary production technology for seedling containers. More speciﬁcally, starting from the development of an environmental control greenhouse facility in Hyuga City, Miyazaki in 2012, we established the know-how for production in Mombetsu City, Hokkaido as well. The production per unit of area signiﬁcantly increased by controlling the temperature and humidity and allowing cultivation throughout the year compared to conventionally raising seedlings in the open. We opened greenhouse facilities in Gero City, Gifu Prefecture in ﬁscal 2016, in Motoyama City, Kochi Prefecture in May 2017, and in Midori City, Gunma Prefecture in ﬁscal 2018 to establish a system capable of cultivating 1.6 million seedlings a year throughout Japan. We are also linking to local municipalities to contribute to the revitalization of the region by establishing greenhouses with local employment as well as the development and standardization of new technology related to seedling cultivation in addition to as well. Cultivating Sumitomo Forestry Seedlings Throughout Japan Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜179＞ Eﬀorts in Fast-Growing Trees Sumitomo Forestry has begun eﬀorts in fast-growing tree forests that are gaining more attention in recent years. Fast-growing trees are trees such as Chine ﬁr, chinaberry, willow and white birch that grow quickly and allow harvests in a short cutting cycle compared to Japanese cedar or Japanese cypress. The Hyuga Forestry Oﬃce is conducting a test harvest of Chinese ﬁr in the Hitoyoshi company-owned forest in Kumamoto prefecture. This test monitors aspects that include the reduction in weeding and tolerance against elements like wild animals through growth surveys and other research to examine the potential as a new tree species for garden vegetation. Chinese ﬁr In addition, Sumitomo forestry is also advancing the implementation of plans for test harvesting these fast-growing trees with the Forest and Landscape Research Center. Launch of FRD Forestry Roadway Design Support System Forests in Japan often have insuﬃcient roads or strip roads in place which prevent smooth management of forests and transport of the timber that is harvested. Currently, when constructing roads or strip roads in forests, lines are drawn by hand over a paper topographical map before visiting the site to see if that plan for the road network can be executed as is. This process of examination is usually done over and over again. The work to create these line drawn plans as well as check and verify the site rely heavily on individual intuition and experience as well as cost a vast amount of time and labor. This software takes advantage of precise topographical data obtained from aerial laser and other measurements to design forestry road networks such as forest roads and strip roads. The main feature is a function for automatic design able to automatically create the line drawings by inputting the site of departure and destination in the operation screen. This feature creates low-cost line drawn plans based on parameters, including requirements such as longitudinal slope and the curvature radius, width, and operation costs speciﬁed in advance. In addition, the software packs more features than necessary for the job, such as allowing the design of safety lines that reﬂect areas which should be avoided due to potential collapse and other circumstances when creating a plan. The on-site exploration of the line drawn plans for roadways designed in the software oﬀers eﬃcient on-site veriﬁcation. Automatic Design Screen (Image) ＜180＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Spearheading Forest Revitalization and Developing Power Assist Suits for the Forestry Industry Sumitomo Forestry exhibited the TABITO-03 prototype at the International Robot Exhibition 2017 to demonstrate the ﬁrst power assist suit for the forestry industry able to reduce physical labor by 17%. In ﬁscal 2018, we tested the improved TABITO-04, featuring improvements making it easier to put on and take oﬀ, as well as more eﬀective functionality. This consortium is comprised of the Forest Research and Management Organization, ATOUN Inc. and the Nara Institute of Science and Technology. Development is moving forward with the aim of practical application by 2025. The power assist suit for forestry work now under development can reduce manual labor done by forestry workers by 17%. This is the ﬁrst time a reduction in the physical load has been broken down into data in the forestry industry. The load on the During Evaluation of the TABITOshoulders and feet of works can also be reduced by wearing this assist suit when 03 carrying heavy seedling packs and planting tools for several dozen kilometers. Forestry workers make their way to worksites by climbing up sudden slopes on mountain routes that zig-zag through the landscape when working in steep mountain forests. Practical applications of the power assist suit for the forestry industry would dramatically improve work eﬃciency in the shortest climbs and descents without worry of exhaustion. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜181＞ Forest Management Overseas Basic Policy As national governments throughout Southeast Asia strengthen their promotion of natural forest conservation, they are implementing restrictions on harvesting and exports, among other measures that reduce the supply of natural wood. In addition, as momentum toward SDGs and sustainable development increases, it has become necessary to convert to timber obtained through forest plantation and certiﬁed forest management practices that ensure both environmental consciousness and stable supply. The Sumitomo Forestry Group implements forest plantation operations that take local communities and ecosystems into consideration to enable a stable and sustained timber supply while helping to reduce the impact on natural forests. Overseas Plantation Area (Unit: ha) Plantation Planted Logged Managed Area for Country Name of Plantation Business Area in Area in Area Social FY2018 FY2018 Forestry PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri 104,664 0 2,558 2,991 Industrial tree PT. Wana Subur Lestari 40,750 0 2,134 2,392 plantation PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) 4,400 0 0 0 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) 0 6,144 0 0 Koperasi Serba Usaha Alas Mandiri (KAM Indonesia 0 1,005 0 0 KTI) Social forestry Koperasi Bromo Mandiri KTI (KBM KTI) 0 460 0 0 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI)*1 0 637 0 0 Other*2 0 3,633 0 0 Subtotal 149,814 11,879 4,692 5,383 Industrial Papua New Guinea tree Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) 31,260 0 469 113 plantation Industrial New Zealand tree Tasman Pine Forests Ltd. (TPF)*3 36,360 0 668 753 plantation Total 217,434 11,879 5,829 6,249 *1 The land area is calculated by conversion from the number of seedlings distributed at RPI. Vegetation determined to have withered is included in the harvest. *2 Others includes data of environmental reforestation for social contribution and consulting business for other companies *3 Acquisition of the forest area managed by TPF was completed in June 2016. ＜182＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Forest Management Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group is expanding three approaches to conducting plantation forest operations; industrial tree plantation, environmental reforestation, and social forestry. The purpose of industrial tree plantation is to produce wood and increase the supply of plantation timber (raw material). By zoning its managed land appropriately, the Group aims to achieve both the conservation of valuable ecosystems and the development of local communities through plantation forest operations. In addition, the Group also conducts environmental reforestation, planting trees for environmental conservation. It aims to contribute to environmental conservation through the expansion of forested areas and the fulﬁllment of the ecosystem services function of forests, by actively planting trees on land where natural regeneration would otherwise be diﬃcult. The Group has also been engaged in “social forestry” which shares the economic beneﬁts of forest plantation with local communities while enlisting the cooperation of local residents. Plantation Forest Operations in West Kalimantan, Indonesia (Industrial Tree Plantation) Since 2010, under the license from Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry permitting utilization of timber from commercial forests*, Sumitomo Forestry has been committed to a large-scale forest plantation business conducted in cooperation with the ALAS Kusuma Group, a company involved in forestry management and plywood manufacturing in Indonesia. The project covers areas in which forest degradation has advanced due to commercial harvesting from the 1960s to the mid 1990s in addition to repeated illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming practices. In these types of lands, Sumitomo Forestry Group actively uses devastated forests where productivity is not expected as plantation forests while taking on the responsibility of preserving forests with high conservation value. In addition, we believe it is important to prevent further degradation of forests by providing an economic infrastructure to local communities through businesses. The Group aims to plant trees with appropriate management for each piece of land with consideration to diﬀerent environmental factors such as topography and soil conditions in its plantation forest operations. Furthermore, we conduct research and monitoring based on the latest knowledge from third parties to continually improve our operations. The planting, cultivation and harvesting work done by human hands largely contribute to local communities by creating jobs. * Issued by the Indonesian government, this is a business license to engage in industrial tree plantation operations in Indonesia. The license is valid for 60 to 100 years. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜183＞ Signed a contract with International Finance Corporation (IFC)—member of the World Bank Group for the provision of advisory services. In accordance with the concept of High Conservation Values Forests (HCVF)* that draws great attention in recent years, Sumitomo Forestry conducted assessments on its operational 2012 properties with IFC and investigated whether the property use plan is implemented as stated and adequate consideration is made for biodiversity and livelihood of local residents. The reports of the investigation results were audited by a third-party organization, and valuable comments made by stakeholders on the report were adapted in the business plan. Held public hearings where stakeholders such as local residents, companies in the communities, academics, NGOs, and government oﬃcers were invited to share the results of the investigations. 2013 Obtained the PHPL certiﬁcation, formally called Sertiﬁkat Pengelolaan Hutan Produksi Lestari issued by Ministry of Forestry (Departemen Kehutanan) on sustainable forest management. Held public hearings with stakeholders prior to plantation forest harvest with the aim of deepening stakeholdersʼ understanding about our businesses and consideration to environment and social issues that we 2015 promote. This venue also actively pursued cooperation from our stakeholders to prevent forest ﬁres. Participants not only shared a lot of positive feedback but also gave us comments fruitful in the formulation of our business plans. Advanced eﬀorts with the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry to build a model for sustainable plantation forest operations and peat management methods in peatlands through our businesses and research activities. 2016 The Commissioner of Peat Land Recovery visited the local grounds to observe the peat management technology. Gained high praise for groundwater level control technology and the newest initiatives founded in data as well as introduced both in an international venue for government oﬃcials as beneﬁcial examples for Indonesia. Entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry for a pilot project that aims to examine unique water level management technologies to sustainably manage peatlands and establish peatland management models in Indonesia. The term of this project is set for ﬁve years. The project is being conducted with the cooperation of the Ministry of the Environment and Forestry 2017 as well as the Peatland Restoration Agency. The peatland management technology from this project was introduced as an example of excellent, leadingedge peat management at the November 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP23) held in Bonn, Germany. In 2018, the Group formulated a grievance mechanism with the help of the IFC. Together with the University of Indonesia, we also conducted a social survey of operational and surrounding areas on a three-year plan. 2018 We reported on peatland management technology at the December 2018 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP24) held in Poland. * In considering the value of forests, it goes beyond their value as absorbers of greenhouse gases, outlining methods of extracting each one of the many aspects of value forests contain. These aspects include their value as habitats of rare, endangered animal species, as water resources, as providers of essential natural services such as soil erosion control, and as land that has an intimate relationship with the lifestyles and cultures of local communities. ＜184＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Conservation of Peat Swamp Forests Conventionally, reforestation in peatlands* pushed water out of the soil and dried the land by digging many drainage routes for planting. However, drying-out land results in the decomposition of organic matter in the peat soil and acts to heighten global warming due to the emission of greenhouse gases. Dried peat, once ignited, is very diﬃcult to extinguish, creating the risk of large-scale forest ﬁres. The soil needs to always be in a damp state to prevent ﬁres, but this means maintaining a constant groundwater level throughout the year through proper water level management is extremely vital. Therefore, in drawing up a forestation plan, the Sumitomo Forestry conducts detailed measurements and surveys based on which the following areas are identiﬁed: (1) forests to be protected with riparian forest and high rarity value, (2) areas to set as buﬀer zones between protection zones and plantation zones, and ﬁnally (3) areas the ﬁnal determination as plantation zones. In plantation zones, water routes that function as round log transport, water level control, and ﬁre belts are constructed while allowing a constant water level in the peatlands to always be maintained without aﬀecting the rivers by not directly connecting the water routes and the rivers. Maintaining a constant groundwater level not only prevents forest ﬁres and minimizes the breakdown of peats but also limits the emission of greenhouse gases. These results have been announced at relevant government agencies, universities and other institutes and some aspects have even been adopted as new policy measures. In addition, we actively release technical abstracts as we work to spread technologies to reduce environmental impact. The technology we have developed also has the potential to be utilized in reforestation of areas devastated by large-scale ﬁres. * Characteristics of the peat soil found in the peat swamps is known to emit enormous amounts of greenhouse gases, typically carbon dioxide and methane gas, if the soil was inappropriately exploited. Owing to joint researches by Japanese and Indonesian academic institutes, this project takes consideration to minimize greenhouse gas emissions that accrue as the peaty soil dissolves during exploitations. Land for plantation forest operations Monitoring the water level in peatlands designed based on detailed data Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜185＞ ＜186＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Occupational Health and Safety in the Forestry Business Domestic Initiatives in Forestry In Japan, the Sumitomo Forestry Group manages approximately 48,000 hectares of company-owned forests. Contractors conduct planting, weeding, improvement cutting, thinning and clear cutting operations. For the purpose of preventing occupational injury to these contractors, the Group conducts safety patrols and holds Workplace Safety Conferences at each forestry oﬃce once every half year. In ﬁscal 2018, there were 4 instances of occupational injury requiring payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act in Sumitomo Forestry-owned forests. As a A safety patrol result, with the contractors involved, response measures to prevent recurrence were discussed and agreed. Additionally, warnings were issued to other contractors through the Workplace Safety Conferences. Number of Occupational Injuries Involving Contractors at Forestry Work Sites in Company-Owned Forests FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 2 1 3 1 4 Overseas Initiatives in Forestry The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages a total of approximately 230,000 hectares of company-owned plantation forests overseas. As in company-owned forest, overseas plantation companies (Open Bay Timber Ltd., PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri, PT. Wana Subur Lestari and Tasman Pine Forests Ltd.) take thoroughgoing companywide safety measures and are thoroughly equipped to prevent occupational injury. Regular safety lectures are also provided. Number of Occupational Injuries Involving Contractors at Forestry Work Sites in Company-Owned Forests PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri PT. Open Bay Timber Ltd. Tasman Pine Forests Ltd. Wana Subur Lestari 2 1 0 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜187＞ Lectures Given by External Experts The Sumitomo Forestry Group in Japan has enhanced educational activities at its Workplace Safety Conferences, including occupational safety instructions using examples of common forestry accidents, as well as environmental education, lectures given by experts on such topics as emergency ﬁrst aid, and on-site safety guidance. Furthermore, so as to prevent lack of concentration when performing dangerous work by becoming accustomed to the work, the Group conducts safety education repeatedly. At the Workplace Safety Conferences held at various forestry oﬃces in ﬁscal 2018, On-site guidance by experts experts from the Forestry and Timber Manufacturing Safety & Health Association gave (Hyuga Forestry Oﬃce) lectures on accident prevention measures based on analysis of causes of recent forestry occupational injuries, and on-site emergency training was also conducted. ＜188＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Consulting Business Domestic Case Example Supporting Municipalities in Introducing Forestry ICT Platforms While quantitative forest resources are analyzed through aerial surveys and forest resource data systems are prepared in some advancing areas, many of the forests in Japan do not have suﬃcient forest resource information. Sumitomo Forestry built the Forestry ICT Platform together with AS Locus Corporation as a measure to address this situation. The Forestry ICT Platform is a holistic system with a wide range of functionality related to advance forest resource information as well as forests and forestry that has been provided to municipalities throughout Japan and organizations in the forestry business since ﬁscal 2013. The key distinctive feature of this platform is that it is provided in regionally customized form, with a variety of forest and forestry-related data and functions optimized for local characteristics. We have supported 13 municipalities with the platform as of the end of ﬁscal 2018. System screen (geographical information) System screen (forest resources information) Supporting the Creation of a Forest and Forestry Master Plan for Itoshima City, Fukuoka Prefecture Sumitomo Forestry is providing consulting in planning of forest management and forestry development conducted by local municipalities by taking advantage of its wealth of knowledge in forest management cultivated in company-owned forests over a long period of time. As part of these eﬀorts, we supported the creation of a Forest and Forestry Master Plan in Itoshima City, Fukuoka Prefecture as an initiative to use local forest resource since January 2016. This plan is the foundation for measures related to proper forest maintenance and eﬀective use of city lumber in Itoshima, which is positioned as the basic plan under which businesses are to build supply chains for city use of timber that takes advantage of ICT promoted by Itoshima. As methods to create this master plan, we are zoning areas that consider attributes such as the growth rate and accessibility of forests as well as the environmental conservation functions after grasping the amount of forest resources within the city limits through aerial laser measurement. Sumitomo Forestry formulated a harvesting plan and a plan for a transportation network that would be optimal to haul timber cultivated in the forest out by deﬁning policies for conducting operations in the forest for each zone. Moreover, we also examined the systems to build to execute measures that follow this master plan. Itoshima expects to achieve regional revitalization that utilizes the forest based on this Forest and Forestry Master Plan in the future. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜189＞ Overseas Case Example Corporate needs for forest management are diverse. In recent years, a considerable number of companies have been conducting forest conservation and planting activities in developing countries to mitigate the impact on forests in overseas countries and regions where they engage in various business activities, and to otherwise fulﬁll their corporate social responsibilities. Drawing on its knowledge of forest management in Japan and overseas, Sumitomo Forestry implements its consulting business for the restoration of degraded forests in tropical regions, the rehabilitation of biodiversity, and for the protection and cultivation of forests that takes into account local communities. ＜190＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd.'s Project for the Rehabilitation and Regeneration of the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary (Environmental Reforestation / Social Forestry) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. has been involved since 2005 in eﬀorts to restore the devastated forests in the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary (Gunung Kidul Regency in the Special Region of Yogyakarta) in Indonesia. Sumitomo Forestry has provided associated consulting services. During the ﬁrst phase of activities to March 2011, around 300,000 trees were planted on 350 hectares of land. As second phase of activities since April 2011, with a goal of creating a framework for local people to voluntarily protect their abundant forest areas, Sumitomo Forestry has been providing support for an agricultural guidance program aimed at improving the livelihoods of local residents, the establishment of an Social Forestry Monitoring inclusive organization to examine ways of managing protected forests, and an environmental education program in cooperation with local schools. As third phase of activities since April 2016, we have been supporting additional planting in areas with few trees in protected forests as well as social forestry through local communities around protected forests. As part of this project, the Company has also opened the doors to its plantation forests, seminar house and other related facilities in a positive eﬀort to make information on its experiences and know-how on forest restoration available to the public. These have been well attended by local elementary and middle school students, by Indonesian and foreign university students and experts in such ﬁelds as forestry, the environment and education, as well as by many government oﬃcials. Technical Support (Citizen Participation Type Reforestation) Consulting Services Related to Indonesian Forestry Conservation Plans Through Environment Programs for Free Capital Assistance (Environmental Reforestation / Social Forestry) The Japan International Cooperation System is working in citizen participation type reforestation in Manupeu Tanah Daru National Park in Indonesia (East Nusa Tenggara), Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park (East Java) and Ujung Kulon National Park (West Java) over ﬁve years starting in 2015. Sumitomo Forestry has been involved as a consultant in these activities. Reforestation was conducted in 2015 and ﬁscal 2016. In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry implemented ﬁre prevention measures through maintenance such as cutting grass, patrols, and environmental education for citizens. The purpose of these operations is to teach forest management to local residents through joint plantation activities so that they will be able to continue managing Seedlings Planted in Bromo forests after they have been returned. Tengger Semeru National Park Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜191＞ Reforestation Activities Contributing to the Society Reforestation Activities Contributing to the Society Distribution of Free Seedlings and Buy Back Guarantee of Logs Indonesian Group companies KTI and RPI distribute free tree seedlings to local communities guaranteeing that the companies will buy round logs as raw materials at the current market value once the seedlings grow into harvestable woods. In November 2015, KTI's aforementioned operations were recognized by the Indonesia Ministry of Environment and Forestry and awarded the Minister's Prize for contributing to local communities by generating stable income while protecting communal societies as well as environments. Number of Seedling Stocks Given to Indonesia Local KTI Staﬀ Celebrate the Ministerʼs Prize Company FY2018 results KTI 1,020,000 trees RPI 220,000 trees Promoting Certiﬁcation of Forests Together With Local Communities KTI organized KSU ALAS MANDIRI KTI (KAM KTI)*, which is a community plantation cooperative association. In 2008, KTI obtained the ﬁrst FSC®-FM certiﬁcate for the 152-hectare plantation and has expanded its certiﬁcation to 1,005 hectares in 2015. Koperasi Bromo Mandiri-KTI (KBM KTI)*, which is a second reforestation cooperative with the same certiﬁcation, acquired a certiﬁcate for 206 hectares in January 2017. In 2018, the area expanded to 460 hectares and began extracting raw wood. The area of certiﬁed forest has reached a total of 1,465 hectares. These certiﬁed forests will strengthen the manufacture and sale of products with high environmental value based on a growing supply of certiﬁed timber materials. * KAM KTI: FSC-C023796, KBM KTI: FSC-C133562 Sustainable Plantation Business by Leveraging Forestry Certiﬁcation System Of an approximately 30,000-hectare plantation owned and managed by OBT* of Papua New Guinea, about two-thirds, or 20,000 hectares, has received FSC® forest certiﬁcation. Under the goal to plant on the 500-hectare land a year, OBT practices sustainable forest management that lays basis for communities and environment to function in harmony. The area planted in ﬁscal 2018 was 469 hectares. Approximately 36,000 hectares managed by Tasman Pine Forests Ltd. (TPF) of New Zealand has been FSC®-FM certiﬁed*. In ﬁscal 2018, they planted approximately 668 hectares of forest, carrying out sustainable forest management in harmony with the local community and environment. * OBT: CW certiﬁcation FSC-C019117, FM certiﬁcation FSC-C103694, TPF: FM certiﬁcation FSC-C132002 ＜192＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Contributing to Reforestation in Collaboration with Governments Since 2013, Sumitomo Forestry has teamed up with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to engage in forest management activities with Dien Bien Province in Vietnam, including forest conservation and planting of deforested areas. Our comprehensive support has also included livelihood assistance to help reduce excessive dependency on forests. Among Vietnam's poorest areas, Dien Bien has suﬀered severe forest depletion due to practices by local residents such as expansion of farmland and burning of ﬁelds. Given its importance as the location of a hydroelectric generator dam and sources of water crucial for all of Vietnam, however, we assist with a portion of the support that JICA provides to the province, such as the Award ceremony formation of organizations to protect forests, conservation activities, forest planting, fruit tree and vegetable cultivation support, as well as helping to provide feed for ﬁsh and livestock. As of ﬁscal 2018, we had reforested a total of approximately 19.5 hectares in ﬁve locations. In Dien Bien Province, where open livestock grazing has been the local custom, the resulting damage to planted tree seedlings has become an issue as it prevents them from taking root and growing. We are therefore promoting a forestation model that introduces the use of protective barriers. The seedling survival rate has increased compared to previous forestation models, thus conﬁrming the eﬀectiveness of the forestation model using protective barriers. The results have been acknowledged by the provincial Rural Agricultural Development Bureau, and received an award in October 2018. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜193＞ Environmental Energy Business Value Chain of Environmental Energy Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to further use scrap wood produced during construction and renovation of housings in urban areas and unused forest resource from forests as fuel for wood biomass power generation plants to promote renewable energy and enhance forest value. In ﬁscal 2018, 394,000 tons of wood fuel was manufactured and procured to be supplied to fuel-burning electric power generation plants. Of that total, unused forest resource comprised 297,000 tons. We will continue to work on building up systems for the eﬃcient, stable collection of unused forest resource. Relevant Social Issues Procurement We promote the use of construction debris and unused forest resource, generating fresh demand for timber at the procurement stage of the energy business, revitalizing the timber industry, which is a crucial issue for local businesses. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives The energy business of the Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to recycle wood waste into wood resources through our business operations supplying chips as fuels including for biomass power generation plants. We make chips from waste wood such as oﬀcuts produced in the logging process for timber as well as wood waste produced on construction sites, in addition to unused forest resource from plantations. Relevant Social Issues Production The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to develop and standardize renewable green energy while expanding the applications for wood and increasing its asset value. Relevant CSR Initiatives Procurement Initiatives ＜194＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 The Sumitomo Forestry Group is making progress in the generation of renewable energy and we aim to build a power generation system able to generate 300MW in the future. The wood biomass power generation business at the core of these eﬀorts is expanding our energy business by leveraging the characteristics and conditions of each area in four regions. Relevant Social Issues The theme of social challenges related to initiatives at the power generation and Power wholesale stage is an insuﬃcient supply of sustainable energy services. The Generation/ trend toward expansion of renewable energy is not only occurring in Japan but Wholesales worldwide. However, many countries are still in the middle of trials for renewable energy. Our Group strives to expand and standardize the renewable energy business. Relevant CSR Initiatives Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Through the Renewable Energy Business Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜195＞ Procurement Initiatives Promoting the Use of Unused Forest Resource Unused wood resource is left-over woody biomass generated from logging or thinning of standing trees in forests. Wood biomass power generation plants are Amount of unused wood operating in each area and the demand for wood biomass is growing following the resource from domestic adoption of the FIT law (Feed-in Tariﬀ for Renewable Energy). By using unused forest (FY2018) wood resource, we can expect an eﬀective increase in the value of forests while also promoting renewable energy. In ﬁscal 2018, the Group used 297,000 tons of 297 kt unused wood resource. We will continue to work on building up systems for the eﬃcient, stable collection of unused forest resource. Promoting Eﬀective Wood Procurement Through the Adoption of HighPerformance Silviculture Machines Eﬀectively Extracting Unused Forest Resource for Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant Mombetsu Forestry Oﬃce introduced Scandinavian harvesters and forwarders able to turn in small circles in 2015 to begin eﬀorts to deliver log harvest/thinnings (unused forest resource) as biomass electric power generation plant fuels. Moreover, by selecting forestry equipment with high-level driving performance in narrow forest areas, operators are able to execute all harvesting and transport operations while on the machine. We consider this is an initiative that improves safety and will play a role even in eliminating occupational injuries. Scandinavian harvester*1 Scandinavian forwarder*2 *1 Self-propelled high-performance forestry machine that brings together each operation to cut, de-limb, and vertically cross-cut*3 timber, which had traditionally been done with a chainsaw *2 Self-propelled high-performance forestry machine that collects and feeds vertically cross-cut timber on a cargo bed *3 To cut crude timber to a standard length ＜196＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Fuel Manufacturing (Chips, Pellets) New Wood Pellet Company Established to Use Unused Forest Resource for Electric Power Generation Fuel Forests are approaching the cutting cycle throughout Japan while the challenge is the cycle of these forests from harvest through use and reforestation. Encouraging further use of forests from use of unused forest resource to other wood resources helps realize a sustainable society. The Sumitomo Forestry Group leverages the wood procurement network throughout the entire Group. This led to a joint venture with the Electric Power Development Company to establish a manufacturing and sales company for wood pellets*1 in July 2018. The new company aims for use of unused forest resource from forests in Japan*2 as fuel for power generation in addition to examining the largest wood pellet supply system in Japan for the purpose of commercialization by 2021. Proper management of forests and a stable supply of domestic timber secure sources for sustainable wood resources. Forests have a variety of public welfare beneﬁts from the production of timber to the cultivation of groundwater, the prevention of sediment run-oﬀ and absorption of carbon dioxide. Through these eﬀorts, Sumitomo Forestry and Electric Power Development Company promote domestic reforestation and regional revitalization as well as sustain and conserve the social welfare functions of forests by using unused forest resource as renewable energy. *1 Wood ground, dried and compressed into a pellet form *2 Unused woody biomass generated from logging or thinning of standing trees in forests Production with Consideration for Environmental Conservation Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. Recognized as Superior Industrial Waste Disposal Operator Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd., which manufactures and sells wood biomass chips, was recognized as a superior industrial waste disposal operator in May 2016 by Kawasaki City. The system to recognize superior industrial waste disposal operators evaluates and certiﬁes superior industrial waste disposal operators through the prefecture or city. In order to receive this recognition, the business must satisfy a full set of criteria including legal compliance, business transparency, eﬀorts in environmental friendliness, and a healthy ﬁnancial strength. The validity of certiﬁcation in industrial waste disposal is extended from ﬁve to seven years by receiving recognition through this system. Rovander Foundation Filler Made with Incineration Ash, Has Been Certiﬁed As a Hokkaido Government-Certiﬁed Recycled Product At the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant, incinerator ash emitted by the biomass boiler is used to manufacture foundation ﬁll material (product name “Rovander”) for forest roads. This environmentally-friendly product is aimed at building a cyclical operation in which the amount of waste is controlled, reducing environmental impact by helping maintain forests using a by-product of power generated with timber resources. In addition, Rovander has been recognized as meeting environmental safety standards, and is a The Hokkaido Hokkaido Government-certiﬁed Recycled Product. Governmentcertiﬁed Recycled Product mark Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜197＞ Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Through the Renewable Energy Business Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group is advancing renewable power generation by establishing solar power generation systems at model homes as a prerequisite for power use at companies in addition to its wood biomass power generation and solar power generation businesses. In ﬁscal 2018, the combined output of power generation that resulted from all of these eﬀorts was 485,950,000kWh. The Amount of Power Generation Shifted*1 to Renewable Energy *1 Results are only for solar power generation in ﬁscal 2015 *2 The amount of electricity generated from wood biomass power generation covers only consolidated subsidiaries and includes the use of coal as an auxiliary fuel to ensure smooth operation and maintenance ＜198＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Wood Biomass Power Generation Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates wood biomass power generation facilities that are fueled by recycled chips primarily using leftover from construction as raw materials, wood not suitable as a building material, and thinning leftover in forests and other unused forest resource. The CO2 emitted by burning wood does not contribute to CO2 in the atmosphere as part of the life cycle of the timber because the CO2 in the atmosphere is absorbed through photosynthesis as the trees grow (concept of carbon neutrality). Therefore, the Group has been engaged in wood biomass power generation as a type of business that contributes greatly to the advancement of forestry, such as the eﬀective use of wood, reductions in CO2 emissions and the maintenance of local forest environments. In February 2011, the Sumitomo Forestry Group entered this sector with the operation of the urban-oriented Kawasaki Biomass Power Generation Plant (generation capacity: 33 MW), which primarily uses scrap construction wood as fuel. Thereafter, full operations began at the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant in December 2016 with a generation capacity of 50 MW, the Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Plant in April 2017 with a generation capacity of 6.2 MW and the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant in April 2018 with a generation capacity of 12.4 MW. All of these plants generate power primarily from unused forest resource from Japan. Once the Kanda Biomass Power Generation Plant begins full operation in 2021, the Group will have a total power generation capacity of roughly 177 MW, which will supply electricity to approximately 387,000 households. Drawing on past experience in the wood biomass power generation business, the Group will continue to expand renewable energy business operations suited to local conditions and other requirements, aiming to build a power generation system with a capacity of 300MW primarily generated from wood biomass. Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant The Groupʼs Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Power Start of Business Location generation Main features operations capacity Largest biomass power generation facility in Japan that primarily burns scrap wood as fuel Utilizes recycled chips produced from construction debris and waste pallets from Kawasaki Biomass Power Kanagawa Tokyo and surrounding suburbs, as well as Generation Business Prefecture February pruned branches (Joint investment with Sumitomo 33MW Kawasaki 2011 Equipped with environmental mechanisms, Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. and City such as ﬂue gas desulfurization equipment, an Fuluhashi EPO Corporation) exhaust gas denitrizer and a bag ﬁlter, the urban-sourced biomass power generation plantclears Kawasaki Cityʼs strict environmental standards Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜199＞ Power Start of Business Location generation Main features operations capacity Unused timber and forest material is primarily Mombetsu Biomass Power procured from within a 75km radius of the Hokkaido Generation Business December power plant and turned into chips at an Mombetsu 50MW (Joint investment with Sumitomo 2016 adjacent plant before being used as fuel. City Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd.) Palm kernel shell, plus some coal is also partially used as an auxiliary fuel Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Business Hokkaido All of the fuels are from unused forest resource (Joint investment with Mitsui & Co., Tomakomai 6.2MW April 2017 in Hokkaido. Ltd., Iwakura Corporation and City Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd.) Unused forest resource from forestlands in the Hachinohe Biomass Power Aomori Sanpachi-Kamikita-Shimokita region of Aomori Generation Business Prefecture Prefecture, timber oﬀcuts, and railway forest (Joint investment with Sumitomo 12.4MW April 2018 Hachinohe thinnings from the nearby railway lines will be Osaka Cement Co., Ltd. and East City used as the main source of fuel Japan Railway Company) Some palm kernel shell will be used Kanda Biomass Power Generation Business Fukuoka Fuel uses thinnings and unused forest resource A joint capital venture between Prefecture 74.0MW June, 2021 from northern Kyushu in addition to American Renova Inc., Veolia Japan K.K., Miyako pellets and Indonesian palm kernel shell Kyuden Mirai Energy Co. Inc., and District Mihara Group K.K. Solar Power Generation Business Sumitomo Forestry owns a solar power generation facility that generates 3,429 kW in Kashima City, Ibaraki Prefecture. The Company gives consideration to mitigating the environmental impact of the power generation facility and expanding applications for the use of timber by installing some wooden mounting frames that are mainly made of domestically produced Japanese cedar. Solar panels and environmentally friendly wooden frames ＜200＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Business Responding to the Super-Aging Society Contributing the Super-Aging Society Through Our Business The rate at which Japanʼs population is aging continues to accelerate even after having become a super-aged society in 2010. In October 2017, the aging rate reached 27.7%*, and is estimated to exceed 30% by 2025. This rapidly advancing trend toward a super-aged society is one of the most critical societal issues our country faces. In order to address this issue, we are making use of the experience and knowledge in creating comfortable living spaces that we have cultivated over many years in the housing business. We apply this know-how as we strive to enhance both quality and quantity in implementing various services centering on enabling the elderly to continue living with vitality for every possible day in safely living environments. * Source: Annual Report on the Aging Society, 2018 ed. Expanding Services for Customer Need Sumitomo Forestry provides long-term healthcare for the elderly through consolidated subsidiary Sumirin Fill Care Co., Ltd. (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo; formerly Fillcare Co., Ltd.), which joined the Sumitomo Forestry Group in December 2007, and Sumirin Care Life Co., Ltd. (Nada-ku, Kobe; formerly Shinko Care Life Co., Ltd.), a consolidated subsidiary whose shares were acquired in April 2017. In May 2018, Sumirin Fill Care opened Gran Forest Nerima-Takamatsu, its 16th private-pay elderly care facility, with nursing care and day-service. The facility brings to 768 the total number of living spaces provided by Sumirin Fill Care. During the three years since ﬁscal 2016, it has added 324 living spaces to the total by opening Gran Forest Nerima-Takamatsu ﬁve private-pay elderly care facilities with nursing care within the 23 wards of metropolitan Tokyo and one facility in Kobe. The company is operating a total of three day-service center facilities. Sumirin Care Life has begun construction on Elegano Nishinomiya, an elder residential facility with 309 living units and peripheral services, slated to begin operating in the spring of 2020. Elegano Nishinomiya will be a mixed-use facility combining the location of a Group-run long-term care insurance business. This will enable the facility to provide appropriate support based on care plans that accommodate a wide range of residents, from those living independently to those needing assisted living or nursing A view of the facility's interior care. Construction began in June 2018, with a Senior Residence Gallery sales center opening in September that year, providing virtual-reality simulated model room experiences. Once Elegano Nishinomiya is completed, it will bring to 998 the total number of living spaces available in combination with the existing three facilities. The company also operates a total of eight Service Stations oﬀering visiting nurse services, in-home nursing care and day-care facilities. Eﬀorts to Help Extend Healthy Lifespans from the Customerʼs Perspective —Providing Visibility Using ICT, and Health Maintenance Programs with Specialist Support— With the segment of the population requiring nursing care expected to increase drastically from 2025, when all members of the Baby Boom generation will have reached old age, attention is focusing on a wide range of eﬀorts to help the elderly maintain activities for daily living (ADL) and extend their healthy lifestyles. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜201＞ Sumirin Fill Care is adopting the ICT-equipped Life Rhythm Navi*1 Plus Doctor resident monitoring system in private-pay elderly care facilities that have opened since ﬁscal 2016. The system analyzes data from numerous sensors such as bed sensors, motiondetection sensors, and temperature/humidity sensors. It provides a detailed real-time grasp of the interior environments of living spaces, as well as residentsʼ sleep states and activities, converting all of this information into data. Life Rhythm Navi Bringing “visibility” to resident monitoring data in this way can be useful in preventing falls and in keeping up on the condition of each resident. Advice from specialized medical institutions based on the data makes it possible to eﬀectively maintain and improve the medical condition of each patient. Also, implementing the system in conjunction with nurse-call functions enables uniﬁed management of information from residents, enhanced information sharing and collaboration among staﬀ, which is expected to help reduce staﬀ workloads. A system using Sumirin Fill Care's Life Rhythm Navi Plus Doctor won the highest honor in the Living of the Year 2017 prize contest (hosted by the Council of Senior Housing Industry Executives) for advanced systems using ICT. Beginning in ﬁscal 2019, Sumirin Fill Care plans to phase the system in at facilities where it has yet to be adopted. In ﬁscal 2018, Sumirin Fill Care made still more progress with these types of systems, developing and making available the Forest Life daily health support service program. Forest Life focuses attention on four elements that determine healthy lifespans: highquality sleep, comfortable living environments (air quality), healthy diet (swallowing function*2) and appropriate exercise (walking function). This is a service aimed at extending the healthy lifespans of residents by using ICT technology to bring visibility to their status in terms of these four elements, in combination with guidance by doctors and rehabilitation specialists based on data that has been rendered “visible”. In ﬁscal 2018, the system was adopted in a veriﬁcation trial at Gran Forest Gakugei Daigaku, a private-pay elderly care facility operated by Sumirin Fill Care. On the basis of the trial results, the decision was made that its implementation would be phased in at other facilities beginning the subsequent ﬁscal year. *1 Life Rhythm Navi is a registered trademark of EcoNaviSta Ltd. *2 The function by which food in the mouth is transported to the stomach. Providing Day-to-Day Peace of Mind and Vitality Through Links to Healthcare and a Varied Activity Program Sumirin Care Life Co. currently operates three large-scale private-pay elderly care facilities in Kobe that combine independent living and nursing care services. Sumirin Care Life facilities have at least double the number of staﬀ on duty as are speciﬁed under nursing care insurance standards, and nursing staﬀ are on site 24 hours a day. All facilities also include conjoining clinics and partnerships with participating general hospitals as part of the high level of overall service provided. The quality of service has earned high praise from external institutions. The Elegano Nishinomiya facility slated to open in spring 2020 will help each and every Exterior view of Elegano resident live full intellectual and individualistic day-to-day lives through a Senior Nishinomiya College Program featuring diverse lectures in the arts, sciences, sports and other topics by guest speakers invited from outside based on residentsʼ requests. In addition to nursing care and nurse staﬀ, as well as an adjoining clinic and partnerships with external medical institutions, staﬀ sports instructors, certiﬁed nutritionists and care managers will work as a team to provide preventive medicine and support tailored to the circumstances of each resident. The system is aimed at further heightening the quality of service provided. ＜202＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Social Report Human Rights Health and Safety Employment and Human Resources Development Social Contribution Quality Management Social Data Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜203＞ Human Rights Initiatives Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Policy in July 2019 and complies with international human rights bills (Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Covenants on Human Rights), the International Labour Organization (ILO) Core Labour Standards, and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Based on these international standards, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has put forth a commitment to human rights respect and a healthy workplace in its Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct. In addition, the Code calls for the respect of the human rights of all individuals, including women, children, indigenous people, minorities and other socially vulnerable people and stipulates that there will be no discrimination whatsoever on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, religion, ideology, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or other. The Code also does not permit forced labor or child labor in any form. Furthermore, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is permeating these policies and conducts proper assessments to ensure this same level of respect by business partners as well. We are also conducting human rights due diligence and respond to human rights risks in an eﬀort to fully grasp and mitigate any risk to human rights. Corporate Philosophy Our Values Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Policy Implementation of Due Diligence and Managing Important Risks Through human rights due diligence, Sumitomo Forestry Group identiﬁes factors that may have a negative impact on human rights and works to prevent or reduce them. Internal CSR Survey of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Since ﬁscal 2012, an Internal CSR Survey is conducted every year at each of the Group companies regarding their CSR initiatives to review and improve the human rights situation. In ﬁscal 2018, based on the surveys for the major 57 Japanese and overseas Group companies (28 Japanese companies, 29 overseas companies), 44 subsidiaries implement human rights trainings, 40 have functions to handle grievance and 47 implement mitigation plans. For our suppliers, we strive to prevent human right infringements through conducting surveys and face-to-face interviews. Based on this survey, in ﬁscal 2018, we did not ﬁnd any human rights violations. Respect for Human Rights Through CSR Procurement Sumitomo Forestry Group is conducting fair and responsible procurement under the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy which obligates suppliers to protect human rights and basic rights of labor as well as preventing corruption. For procurement of imported materials, speciﬁcally, the Group ensures whether rights of workers and local communities in the areas where raw materials of the supplies are procured from, have not been violated; if there is a risk, then whether adequate consideration for these rights during logging is inspected through surveys and on-site inspection to the suppliers. The Group has conducted surveys more than 200 to suppliers in two years as well as engaged in on-site inspection and interviews with any suppliers which measures to mitigate risks was deemed necessary based on the risk categories. Procurement Initiatives ＜204＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Identifying and Managing Human Rights Risks In conjunction with the formulation of its Human Rights Policy, Sumitomo Forestry Group has created a risk map to clearly identify important human rights risks aﬀecting stakeholders in the value chain of each of its business divisions. Each business division identiﬁed its important risks as follows: The Environment and Resources Division “Infringing indigenous or community land rights and managing related laws” as well as “Occupational safety and health management in mountain forests (dangerous work, etc.).” The Timber & Building Materials Division “Infringing indigenous land rights,” “Occupational safety and health management at factories (ﬁres, dust explosions, etc.),” and “Child labor at timber plantations (including dangerous labor).” The Housing and Construction Division and the Overseas Housing and Real Estate Division “Labor conditions of migrant workers (forced labor, etc.).” In addition to risk measures already being undertaken, the Company is working on countermeasures and implementation plans for each stakeholder to further prevent, avoid, lessen or rectify these identiﬁed important risks. Sumitomo Forestry Group Human Rights Impact Analysis Map Respect for Human Rights at Overseas Plantations For timber plantations in Indonesiaʼs West Kalimantan, the Company signed an advisory agreement with International Finance Corporation (IFC), the World Bankʼs group institute in 2012. Sumitomo Forestry conducted inspections of its operational properties with the IFC to examine whether plans for use of commercial land were being implemented properly considering the rights of indigenous people and protection of cultural heritage as well as livelihood of local residents, which are indicators in the High Conservation Values Forests (HCVF) that has drawn great attention in recent years. Sumitomo Forestry Group held hearings and invited stakeholders (local residents, neighbor corporations, academics, NGOs, and government workers) to conduct forest operations with considerations toward human rights. Hearing was held in 2013 to share the content and result of a survey and hearing held in 2015 to deepen stakeholders understanding about content of the business and environmental considerations prior to harvesting the plantation forest. In 2018, the Group built a grievance mechanism with the help of the IFC in PT. Wana Subur Lestari (WSL) and PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI). This mechanism provides two routes for grievances. The ﬁrst allows local residents to share their opinion in writing with WSL or MTI while the second provides WSL and MTI the opportunity to conduct informal visits with local residents to gather feedback. Both of these grievance routes provide a response to local residents within seven business days with the approval of the WSL and MTI management team. In addition, the Group has begun social surveys as part of the three-year plan with the University of Indonesia around its business zones and neighboring area. Grievance Desk Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜205＞ Human Rights Training The Sumitomo Forestry Group provides lectures about human rights in its new employee training in Japan. Sumitomo Forestry also incorporates classes about human rights in its training for new general managers. We also require all Group employees with access to the intranet to take the “Work and Human Rights” module in e-learning every year with the intention to promote respect for human rights and a workplace where no discrimination is permitted (completed with a test score of at least 80 points). In ﬁscal 2018, 10,605 employees of whom 5,379 and 5,226 belong to the parent company and Group companies, respectively, took the class. The eﬀort in raising human right awareness via e-learning will be continued into the future. Prevention of Harassment Sumitomo Forestry makes its policy on sexual harassment, workplace bullying and maternity harassment clear, having included in its Employment Regulations, under one category of rules to be observed by employees (discipline on the job), a provision prohibiting such harassment as well as disciplinary standards. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct also prohibits all forms of harassment and this is communicated via the internal website and handouts. In addition, awareness within the Company is fostered by providing information with case examples and implementing regular awareness promotion notices, through human rights and ethics training and other activities. Furthermore, the Group distributes an email to every employee from the General Manager of the Personnel Department every six months to raise awareness about stopping all harassment. Furthermore, a framework to properly handle inquiries and complaints was put in place in ﬁscal 2000 with the establishment of the Harassment Consultation Hotline within the Personnel Department and Compliance Hotline both inside and outside of the Company. The privacy of all those involved is protected and every eﬀort are made to ensure that neither the complainant nor those cooperating are treated detrimentally. Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Preventative Measures for Mental Health Care ＜206＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Management Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry has established Rules for OHS Management with an aim of fostering a workplace environment in which employees can perform their jobs in a safe and healthy manner. The rules prescribe that a general OHS manager is to be stationed at each place of business regardless of how big it is, and every year, the Company checks on the status of the oﬃcer and OHS committee meetings. With the aim of preventing accidents at construction sites and maintaining the health of workers, each division, such as the Environment and Resources Division, Timber and Building Materials Division, and the Housing and Construction Division, has also established separate OHS management policies and manuals in view of the distinctive characteristics of their respective businesses. Occupational Health and Safety Management System Personnel department responsible for OHS across the Sumitomo Forestry, and heads of personnel department provides OHS instructions and support for each Branch to establish OHS system. The OHS Committee where the general manager of the Personnel Department serves as chairman meets monthly has been established, and matters discussed are posted on the intranet for the purpose of information sharing and enlightenment. Targets and Performance Concerning Occupational Injuries In the Mid-Term Sustainability Targets as part of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan, Sumitomo Forestry Group sets critical targets by ﬁscal 2021 as “zero occupational injury and lost work time.” The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to achieve its critical targets and deﬁnes priority sustainability measures in each division. The performance toward achieving these targets is reviewed each ﬁscal year. Occupational Injuries (Non-Consolidated)*1 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of serious occupational injuries 1 0 3 0 2 (incidents)*2 Lost-time injury frequency 0.19 0.19 0.30 0.10 0.20 rate*3 Work-related illness frequency 0 0 0 0 0 rate *1 No occupational injuries resulting in death occurred during the reporting years shown. *2 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. *3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜207＞ In addition to developing occupational health and safety promotion activities in accordance with the laws and regulations in Japan and overseas where the Group is active, each Sumitomo Forestry Group company also promotes acquisition of certiﬁcations such as OHSAS* Certiﬁcation. * Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS): An international standard developed for the purpose of reducing occupational health and safety risks and clarifying where responsibilities lie. Acquisition Status of Occupational Health and Safety Certiﬁcations at Each Group Company Type of Company Country Date acquired Date renewed certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan OHSAS18001 February 2013 February 2016 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) Indonesia OHSAS18001 March 2013 March 2019 December PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) Indonesia OHSAS18001 October 2013 2016 December September Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) New Zealand AS/NZS4801 2012 2018 Henley Arch* Australia AS/NZS4801: 2001 May 2018 * Aﬃliated two companies of the Henley Group have also acquired the same certiﬁcation. Occupational Health and Safety on Construction Sites Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety in the Forestry Business ＜208＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Work-life Balance Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry recognizes employees' diverse work styles and strives to create a workplace where they can be motivated in their jobs, and still enjoy a fulﬁlling private life. Reﬂecting these aims, the Company has worked on such initiatives as providing childcare and family care programs, promoting greater participation by women, and reducing overtime. In ﬁscal 2013, the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department was established within the Personnel Department, bringing together support desk functions relating to work styles and careers, including childcare and family care, career support, mental health and post-retirement re-employment. In developing a counseling system which is easier for employees to access, the Company supports diverse work styles. A ﬂextime system and a work interval system were adopted with the purpose of reducing long hours and improving productivity in ﬁscal 2017. The transition is not only in working hours but also from a labor system to a true count system in addition to adopting measures such as a per hour productivity assessment. These programs aim to improve employee motivation as well as productivity by preventing harm to health from accumulated fatigue due to working long hours in addition to heightening awareness about cost versus time to realize a work-life balance. Addressing Long Working Hours Sumitomo Forestry sees long working hours left unaddressed as a factor causing occupational injuries and damage to the image of plants and it recognizes the lack of a workforce in the future as a grave management risk. However, close communication with customers is indispensable in the sales and construction of custom-built detached housing, and long working hours occur as a result of this need. Therefore, average overtime hours and individual overtime hours are reported to the head of each department to increase awareness about mitigating long working hours. Additionally, the Workstyle Improvement Committee has been set up at branches of the Housing and Construction Division and each of the branches implement an initiative to address long working hours. As to the working system and operational ﬂow reform that are diﬃcult to tackle at a branch level, the Long Working Hours Mitigation Committee set within the Housing and Construction Division continuously leads the long working hours mitigation campaign by making proposals for the systems improvement. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜209＞ Revisions to the Personnel System In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry revised the personnel system to transition overtime work to an actual count system paying employees based on deemed number of working hours. Moreover, we are promoting a reduction in long working hours and higher productivity by adopting a ﬂextime system, work interval system and a productivity assessment by hour. The transition to an actual count system and the adoption of a productivity assessment primarily aims to grow the cost awareness by hour, reduce long hours as well as heighten the quality and productivity of work. We are also striving to equalize operational working hours overall by stipulating the total working hours per month in a ﬂextime system. In addition, the interval system makes sure employees have 11 hours of leisure time between the end of the work day until the start of the next work day and exempts employees from working at the start of a workday or core time if it overlaps this leisure time. These systems aim to prevent overwork and further the preservation of employee health. Mental Health Care Practical Mental Health Care Based on the Guidelines for Maintaining and Improving Workers' Mental Health formulated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in August 2000, Sumitomo Forestry implements four types of care for mental health: self-care; care provided by line managers; care provided by occupational health staﬀ within the workplace; and care using resources from outside the business. In April 2013, the Company established the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department within the Personnel Department. It is responsible for providing support related to childcare and family care, career support and support for mental health. In order to Mental Health Education for further enhance mental health care, the Company put eﬀort into providing mentally ill Management individuals with follow-up support and help in returning to work. The Company assigned an employee, who is a qualiﬁed clinical psychologist, to the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department, and it worked in close cooperation with an external provider of the employee assistance program (EAP)*. We adjust stratiﬁed working hours and the work load to suit the circumstances of each individual by adopting an occupational rehabilitation system to help employees return to work to create and execute rehabilitation plans so that each person can both physically and mentally get used to the work environment. Sumitomo Forestry distributes a Mental Absentee Guidebook when employees take leave with corporate rules and other information related to how to spend that time oﬀ as well as the suspension of their work to elevate worry as much as possible during their break. We also distribute a Guidebook for Managers to supervisors as well to provide information that includes ways to handle each situation. * A workplace mental health care service for employees ＜210＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Preventative Measures for Mental Health Care As part of its prevention of mental health disorders, the Company has oﬀered stress checks, which were made mandatory after amendments to the Industrial Safety and Health Law in December 2015, on a website to employees covered by health insurance (excluding those employees on long-term leave, such as maternity leave or convalescence leave) since ﬁscal 2013. Sumitomo Forestry has also provided an education program for managers run by the company counselor (clinical psychologist). The aim of this program is for those employees in managerial positions to appreciate the importance of mental health care and to implement appropriate prevention measures in their respective workplaces. The number of participants reached 161, 187, 198, and 152 in ﬁscal 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 respectively. In ﬁscal 2017, consultation and self-assessments for general managers (103 participants) and self-learning seminars (22 participants) were conducted in departments with a particularly high level of risk based on the analysis results of stress checks. In addition, self-care seminars (70 participants) and line care seminars (11 participants) were held at the Tsukuba Research Institute. In ﬁscal 2018, as health care training, Sumitomo Forestry held a sleep toughness seminar for executives, general manager of each department at the head oﬃce, and all management employees appointed as a group manager or higher (124 employees) to teach the techniques for high-quality sleep to heighten the work capacity of employees and increase corporate productivity. Line care seminars were also held for how-to to prevent mental health disorders before they occur for 49 trainers in charge of the education of junior technical employees. Moreover, self-care seminars were conducted for 52 ﬁrst-year technical employees to help them notice and handle mental health disorders. Furthermore, since ﬁscal 2009, Sumitomo Forestry also provides guidance to all of its employees twice a year through general manager of personnel department while fostering communication with staﬀ on a daily basis to prevent harassment with the purpose of building a lively, comfortable and friendly workplace. In conjunction, a harassment consultation desk has also been put in place in personnel departments to support consults from employees. In addition, Work and Human Rights e-learning is required for all Group employees as training that includes education about harassment (passing the comprehension test require a score of at least 80 points). In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry conducted harassment prevention seminars through outside instructors for 360 general managers. An employee who is a certiﬁed public health nurse has been hired into the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department to not only oﬀer mental health care but also provide assistance such as various health consultations, enlightenment about health for new employees, and follow-up after health check-ups. We also conduct health check-ups before appointing or returning an employee to a post for overseas appointees as well as interview individuals, gain information and provide advice about the state of their health as well as address other needs they may have. Human Rights Initiatives Practical Mental Health Care Results FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Stress Check Response Rate (%) 92.8 91.6 88.2 92.1 91.6 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜211＞ Encouraging Employees to Take Paid Leave Sumitomo Forestry encourages employees to take at least 14 days of planned paid leave each year, inclusive of refresh leave and the summer holiday period. The list Paid Leave Usage Ratio of results for the paid leave usage by employees at each site is published on the (Fiscal 2018; Non-consolidated) intranet to encourage employees to take their paid leave. As for ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry has consolidated the working hour 53.2% management system in a way that not only employees but also their supervisors can see their leave plans, and thereby, enabled employees to plan their paid leaves better. In addition, the Housing and Construction Division established planned annual leave for all departments as of ﬁscal 2017 (general rule of four days). As a result, the average paid leave usage by employees in ﬁscal 2018 was 10.1 days, increasing from 9.0 days in the previous ﬁscal year. The percentage of paid leave taken was 31.6%, 35.2%, 32.8%, 35.9%, 47.4%, and 53.2% in ﬁscal 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 respectively. The Company has again listed “take at least 12.3 days of paid leave” in its Sustainability Budget, and will continue to further promote this initiative during ﬁscal 2019. About symbol for Independent assurance Refresh Leave and Family Friendly Day Leave So that employees can engage energetically in their jobs with healthy body and mind, Sumitomo Forestry is developing workplace environments that allow employees to take leave as they wish. As part of those eﬀorts, employees are encouraged to take consecutive days of “refresh leave” at a time that suits them in addition to the summer and New Year holiday periods. Each workplace is required to draw up refresh leave schedules for individual employees. The number of days available for the refresh leave program changed from “three days” to “ﬁve days” in ﬁscal 2019 to put in place an environment where employees can take leave more easily. At housing business branches, which are regularly closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, employees often meet with customers on the weekends, which sometimes make it hard to take time oﬀ to participate in family events and other private occasions. This has been addressed with the introduction of Family Friendly Day leave, which allows employees to take either one Saturday or one Sunday oﬀ each month to spend with family or on a chosen pursuit. Branch employees are encouraged to cooperate on adjustment of job responsibilities and meeting schedules, thereby helping to create a workplace environment that makes it easy to take leave on the weekends. Refresh Leave and Family Friendly Day Programs Performance (Non-consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Percentage of Refresh Leave Program takers 50.0 46.0 42.3 38.9 32.1 (%)* Percentage of Family Friendly Day Leave 29.5 26.0 27.0 28.3 28.7 takers (%) * Decline of the ratio who takes refresh leave is due to implementing various measures to encourage employees to take paid leave since the introduction of programs that match diverse work styles. ＜212＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Supporting the Workstyles of Employees Currently Raising Children Sumitomo Forestry has put in place a number of support programs that allow employees to work while also raising children. For example, supervisors conduct interviews with employees who plan to take childcare leave together with a person in charge of the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department upon request. These interviews explain the programs related to childcare leave and provide advice about the work style after the employee returns to work in addition to introducing information such as examples of other employees who have found balance between raising children and work. Moreover, employees who want to work while raising children can apply for programs such as the ﬂextime system as well as reduced working hours so that they can have a ﬂexible workstyle. The 6th Next Generation Law Action Plan (for Fiscal 2015 to 2019) Sumitomo Forestry formulates and implements action plans for supporting employees who are raising families, in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextGeneration Children (Next Generation Law). Sumitomo Forestry has formulated its 6th Action Plan for ﬁscal 2015 to 2019 with the following targets. 1. Host seminars themed on work style reforms in order to foster a work environment which “Kurumin” mark actively involves female employees who are rearing infants 2. Hold “Family Open Day” to create a pleasant work environment for all employees to execute their talent 3. Create systems for male employees who are raising children to consult with superiors about available programs to encourage male employees to participate in raising their children The usage status of programs related to child raising are also published on our intranet. An Iku-boss Seminar was held by inviting an outside instructor in September 2017 with the theme of renewing the way of thinking to continually improve results while realizing a work style in-line with each person's circumstances by limiting long hours according to an action plan. Approximately 120 people participated with most being general managers who work at the head oﬃce in ﬁscal 2016. Approximately 180 general managers from around Japan from the Housing and Construction Division as well as others participated in ﬁscal 2017. Family Open Day Since July 2014, Sumitomo Forestry holds the “Family Open Day,” an event for the families of employees to visit their oﬃces. The ultimate aim of this event is to create pleasant work environment and lively atmosphere for all employees by expressing the Company's appreciation for the support provided by employees' families, assisting the families in understanding about the work at Sumitomo Forestry better, and fostering opportunities for employees to gain mutual understanding with others. In ﬁscal 2018, the event was held in three branches and four locations in the head oﬃce, totaling 129 participants from 49 families. The children took part in the morning Hanshin Sales Oﬃce brieﬁng, exchanged business cards, interviewed employees about their work, tour of the showroom, planning of 3D design and made wooden crafts. Celebrating its ﬁfth anniversary in ﬁscal 2018, Family Open Day was held as summer event by spearheading innovation in each place it was held. Sumitomo Forestry plans to continue and expand this initiative to as many more sites in ﬁscal 2019. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜213＞ Promoting Paternal Support for Male Employees In the process of receiving the lump-sum childcare allowance oﬀered to male employees with newly born children, the employees are required to submit “the questionnaire for a parental support request,” which is followed by an interview with a direct supervisor about the answers to the questionnaire as well as details of the request. The supervisor then adds resulting comments on the questionnaire including instructions for the subordinate and consideration that should be made by the Company, at the end of the process. This system is believed to encourage more male employees to take part in the parenting duties and raise mutual understanding between the parenting males and their colleagues. Main Childcare Support Programs (FY2018) Program Description Childcare leave may be taken by employees until March 31 immediately following the Childcare leave childʼs second birthday Until the child completes the sixth grade of elementary school, employees may use the Shorter working hours ﬂextime system, work shorter hours, work a four-day week and be exempt from overtime work, limit statutory overtime work, and limit late-night work. Employees may take the equivalent of ten days a year for their ﬁrst child or 15 days a year for two or more children in 30-minute increments with full-pay to care for a sick or injured child until their children have completed the sixth grade of elementary Leave to care for child and attend school. special events Of these ten days, up to ﬁve days may be used for attending special events with their child (ten days for two or more children). Employees who have two or more children may use up to 10 days to take care of their children even if they have used ﬁve or more days for special events (however, leave that exceeds 15 days is unpaid). *1 During pregnancy, childbirth leave, childcare leave, within one year after the childbirth *2 Until March 31 immediately following the childʼs second birthday *3 Employees who have worked continuously for one year or more *4 Employees who have worked for six months or more ＜214＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Supporting Workstyles for Employees Caring for Family Members Sumitomo Forestry provides support to employees who are working while also nursing family members. In ﬁscal 2010, family care leave was revised so that employees may take up to 365 days of leave per applicable family member, and employees may also take advantage of the ﬂextime system, work shorter hours or work a four-day week. Sumitomo Forestry has also established family illness and injury leave, enabling employees to take up to 10 days of leave each year in 30 minute increments. Main Family Care Support Programs (FY2018) Program Description Usage in FY2018 This system allows up to 365 cumulative days Family care leave of leave per family member requiring care, and is available to employees Employees may use the ﬂextime system, work shorter hours, work four-day a week, be Number of family support Shorter working hours exempt from overtime work, limit statutory program users: Total of 3 overtime work, and limit late-night overtime (Flextime System: 2; Four-Day work. Work Week: 1) Regular employees may take the equivalent of No. of employees who took ten days a year in 30-minute increments family care leave: 1 (employees may take an additional ﬁve days for Family illness and injury two or more family members who require care). Employees may take ﬁve of the ten days of leave to take care of a sick or injured family member Family Care Support Program Performance (Non-consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Family care leave (Persons) 1 1 2 2 1 Number of family support program users (Persons) 2 3 3 7 3 (Flextime System, Shorter Working Hours, Four-Day Work Week, etc.) Telework Program Sumitomo Forestry introduced the telework option in ﬁscal 2009 for such reasons as the time saved from commuting can be spent on work or family activities, and employees can concentrate when working in a quiet home environment. Since ﬁscal 2017, this program was expanded to all employees (approval system) except new graduates who joined the company less than three-years ago or career hires who have only been with the company for less than six months with emphasis on employees who are taking care of children or a family member as well as employees who have a long commute. In ﬁscal 2019, in order to promote ﬂexible work styles further, the Company will again work to expand use of the program, such as by explaining the program details and recommending its use to employees on an individual basis when they appear for work style consultations. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜215＞ First Participation in “Telework Days” In ﬁscal 2018, Sumitomo Forestry participated in the “Telework Days” campaign promoted by the Ministry of Internal Aﬀairs and Communications, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, the Cabinet Secretariat, the Cabinet Oﬃce, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in addition to relevant associations and corporations as a special cooperative organization to promote work style innovation. 227 employees worked remotely at home or mobile for at least two days of the week, and the participation of 182 employees throughout Japan on July 24, the focus date of the campaign. Through this campaign by providing opportunity for many employees to experience the beneﬁts of telecommuting and working remotely ﬁrst hand, Sumitomo Forestry promotes understanding and create a foundation for a telework system. Transfer Request Application Systems (Spouse Relocation / Family Care) In ﬁscal 2008, Sumitomo Forestry established a program facilitating the transfer of employees to a certain destination for reasons limited to marriage or a spouse transfer accompanied by a change of residence. The program enables employees to continue working for the Company even after marriage or their spouse being transferred. In ﬁscal 2014, with the new addition of “childcare” to the reasons for application, transfers are now considered in cases where an employee wants to live with their spouse for the purpose of balancing work and parenting. Also, a new system was established whereby employees can submit a transfer request for reasons of “family care.” Transfers are now also considered in cases where the location of employment restricts the employee from balancing work with family care. As at the end of March 2019, a total 35 employees have made use of these programs to transfer to a diﬀerent location. ＜216＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Fair Employment and Beneﬁts Basic Policy According to internationally accepted human rights norms, we shall of course respect equal opportunity and diversity as well as respect the human rights of all individuals, including women, children, indigenous people, minorities and vulnerable people in the employment and treatment of employees as stated in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Guidebook. In its recruitment activities too, the Company emphasizes the ambition and volition of the applicant, and does not diﬀerentiate selection processes according to academic background or gender. At Group companies outside Japan, the employment of local staﬀ is actively promoted, and talented personnel are employed and promoted to management positions, irrespective of race or gender. As for the disciplinary punishment and dismissal of employees, if there has been a compliance violation, the employee will be dealt with appropriately in accordance with Employment Regulations. Unfair dismissals are not allowed. Recently, talent acquisition has been recognized as one of the major management issues for management in Japan triggered mainly by low birth rate and thereby aging population. Sumitomo Forestry communicates its employment and beneﬁt policies with potential employees during recruitment and expands supportive programs to foster diverse work styles and performance of female employees in eﬀort of acquiring valuable, next-generation talent. Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Promotion System The Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department, which was established as an independent organization in the Personnel Department in April 2013, supports the utilization of a wide range of employees from female staﬀ to re-employed retirees and employees with disabilities as well as promotes diversity. Promoting the Active Involvement of Female Employees The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to a workplace environment where motivated employees can be actively involved irrespective of gender, age, Ratio of Female employees in nationality, race, religion or disability. In an endeavor to actively engage female management positions FY2021 employees in particular, the Group has sought to improve its systems relating to targets childcare, education and training, and at the same time, has taken a proactive (non-consolidated) stance on promoting the use of these systems. During ﬁscal 2013, the Group surveyed the attitude and needs of employees with At least 5.5％ respect to: work and careers; promoting the active involvement of female employees; and childbirth and parenting. A survey was conducted to gauge the awareness of all female employees at Sumitomo Forestry to assist the Group in promoting the active involvement of female employees and in supporting the workstyles of employees currently raising children. In December 2013, the Group Ratio of Female employees in released the “Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women.” It management positions as of March was issued to the entire Group under the name of the President, and formally 31, 2019 summarizes the signiﬁcance of promoting the active involvement of female (non-consolidated) employees into three policies. The Group is actively engaged in activities under the policy described in the Declaration. 3.7％ In December 2014, numerical targets for the appointment of women to managerial posts have been set in order to foster further empowerment of female employees Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜217＞ at Sumitomo Forestry. We have publicly announced our goal of raising the ratio of female managers to at least 5% by 2020 (3.7% as of March 31, 2019), and have worked to achieve this goal. In ﬁscal 2016, in accordance with The Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace of the Japanese Government, the Companyʼs ﬁrst phase action plan (April 1, 2016 March 31, 2019) was implemented. In ﬁscal 2019, the second phase action plan (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2022) was formulated in conjunction with the 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan. This phase advocates and is advancing eﬀorts toward the goal of raising the ratio of female managers to at least 5.5% as a new numerical target to achieve by ﬁscal 2021. Sumitomo Forestry has been conducting a mentoring system for the purpose of encouraging growth for the active participation of female employees as management since ﬁscal 2016. The mentoring system is a program where assigned mentors periodically interview mentees to support the growth of the mentee. In ﬁscal 2018, nine female manger and manager candidates mentees where mentored by male managers in positions of general manager or above with the aim to further success and self-reformation. Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women Supporting the Workstyles of Employees Currently Raising Children Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Second Phase Action Plan (in Japanese) About symbol for Independent assurance Employment and Promotion of Women (Non-consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Female employees including 18.8 19.4 20.0 20.4 21.0 contract employees*1 (%) Female employees in management 2.2 2.6 2.8 3.2 3.7 positions*1 (%) Female new graduates*2 (%) 29.0 26.8 22.8 18.0 24.8 *1 The ratio of female employees and the ratio of female employees in management roles is based on the number of employees as of March 31 each year. *2 The ratio of new female graduates is calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. Employment and Promotion of Women (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Female employees including 29.6 30.4 30.7 31.6 32.0 contract employees*1 (%) Female employees in management 3.6 4.0 4.2 4.6 6.0 positions*1 (%) Female new graduates*2 (%) 36.1 48.0 40.3 40.2 43.5 *1 The ratio of female employees and the ratio of female employees in management roles is based on the number of employees as of March 31 each year. *2 The ratio of new female graduates is calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. ＜218＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Development and Sales from a Womanʼs Perspective Having started in March 2013, Womenʼs Perspective Project which gathered diverse female employees from the headquarters, branch oﬃces across Japan, and Group companies in intention to bring homes designed from their residentsʼ perspectives. Previously, the project provided the “comama” spatial design proposal and also nine houses built and sold in just half a year at East Hills Seya in the Ikoma district in Nara Prefecture. In addition, the brush-up customer service training from a womanʼs perspective is intermittently held for female home advisors in each sales oﬃce and branch. This training is held for the purpose of making proposals after understanding Sumitomo Forestry products which utilize the perspective of women as well as building trusting relationships with customers after understanding the current concerns and dreams from a womanʼs perspective through an open dialogue. Up until now, 293 female employees took this training program. Main Initiatives Aimed at Increasing the Motivation of Female Employees Sumitomo Forestry provides various training for female employees. The training for women salespersons in ﬁscal 2018 was held to strengthen proposal techniques and closing through utilizing knowledge and skills to improve the ﬁrst contact with customers. The education not only helped enhance knowledge but also increase motivation by sharing information beyond area and generation. Furthermore, versatile contents of the female sales training program are incorporated into the junior sales training to better the customer service of the sales staﬀ as a whole. The Sumitomo Forestry Group on-site training for female engineers provided an informational exchange with other companies in the same industry as well as construction site tours for female on-site managers with the goal of teaching successful examples of construction engineers who are women outside Sumitomo Forestry as well as improving skills and motivation. Main Initiatives Aimed at Increasing the Motivation of Female Employees Number of Eligible Persons Description Date Participants Female Sales Staﬀ Training December 2018 52 Sales Staﬀ Networking Event for Female Housing Sales November 2018 4 Staﬀ: Joint Program by Nine Housing Builders Sumitomo Forestry Group On-site Training for Production Staﬀ August 2018 54 Female Engineers Managers and July 2018 to May Mentoring Program 9 Manager Candidates 2019 October 2018 to Management External Management Leadership Training 2 February 2019 Promoting the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Sumitomo Forestry promotes the employment of people with disabilities, giving the highest priority to matching the individuality of each person with a disability with Ratio of Disabled Employees the workplace and business activities. The ratio of disabled employees as of end As of March 31, 2019 March, 2019 was 2.32%. Furthermore, to improve the retention rates for current (Non-consolidated) employees, the Company provides regular face-to-face meetings as well as phone interviews and career advice as required. 2.32% Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜219＞ Employment of Persons with Disabilities (Non-consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of Disabled Employees 2.24 2.12 2.12 2.26 2.32 (%) *The calculation includes the subsidiary Sumirin Wood Peace Co., Ltd. for ﬁscal 2017. *The calculation includes the subsidiary Sumirin Wood Peace Co., Ltd. as well as the aﬃliated Group company Sumirin Business Services Co., Ltd. for ﬁscal 2018. Promoting Proactive Employment of Persons with Disabilities -Sumirin Wood Peace Founded For the purpose of providing employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, the Company in July 2015 founded a subsidiary in Niihama-shi, Ehime Prefecture in Japan with business lines such as shiitake mushroom farming, wooden products manufacturing, processing, and printing. The Sumitomo Forestry Group hired ﬁve persons who have intellectual and psychological disabilities in October 2016. In March 2017, a new oﬃce building was completed and in April the Sumirin Wood Peace obtained the certiﬁcation of a special subsidiary company in accordance with the Act Exterior of new Sumirin Wood for Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Peace Oﬃce Building Re-Employment of Retirees Sumitomo Forestry has a system in place whereby it re-employs personnel, who retired at 60, on temporary contracts until they turn 65, on the condition that they have had at least 10 years of continuous service, they have speciﬁc qualiﬁcations and experience, and they wish to be re-employed. The Company re-employed 48 people who had retired in ﬁscal 2018.They are all actively involved in the Company, making the most of their abilities and experience. Over the past three years, Sumitomo Forestry has re-employed 81.7% of employees who retired. The re-employment rate of people who requested re-employment is 100%. As an interim measure following revision of the Act on Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons on April 1, 2013, the Company re-employs all workers who wish to return to work. Number of Re-employed Retirees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 43 33 47 52 48 In addition, “senior human resource asset bank center” system began operations in April 2018 to utilize human resources over the age of 65 who are necessary to the company and would like to keep working with the purpose of actively using human assets regardless of age. As of the end of March 2019, 19 of the 23 people registered with the senior human asset bank are currently active in the Sumitomo Forestry Group. ＜220＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Return to Work Application System Sumitomo Forestry has operated the Return to Work Application System since ﬁscal 2008. The aims of the system are to meet the re-employment needs of workers to secure talented personnel who resign due to unavoidable circumstances such as childcare and eldercare. Employees register their wish to return to work at the time they resign, and applicants must have had worked for at least three consecutive years before the resignation. As at the end of March 2019, the Company received 232 applications. When the Company receives an application, it goes through a selection process based on the Companyʼs needs and the skills of the applicant. Applicants who are successfully re-employed within three years of the resignation are able to regain the same levels of position as before. Direct Employment of Non-permanent Employees In recent years, regulations for dispatched employees have been strengthened to correct disparities arising out of diﬀerent forms of employment. In response, Sumitomo Forestry reviewed its personnel systems to appoint competent employees, and in April 2011, changed the status of its dispatched employees to directly employed ﬁxed-term employees, referred to as “partner employees.” Sumitomo Forestry also operates a system for promoting partner employees to permanent status. It promoted 14 workers to permanent employee status in ﬁscal 2019. Number of Partner Employees Promoted to a Permanent Employee FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 19 14 19 12 14 * As of Aril 1 of each ﬁscal year Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜221＞ Human Resources Development Basic Policy Guided by the policy for human resources development of “autonomy” and “support,” Sumitomo Forestry aims to realize its Corporate Philosophy by developing employees with a strong sense of pride and motivation, and by creating a culture that is open and inclusive. Promotion System Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute, Personnel Department The Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute within the Personnel Department of Sumitomo Forestry plans and conducts training to teach business skills in which employees can participate widely even outside of their Group company or business division. In addition, meetings for people in charge of Sumitomo Forestry Group Training are held to exchange information about human resource development. Human Resources Development Department, Housing and Construction Division The Human Resources Development Department conducts practical education around the axes of the customer perspective and professionalism for employees who belong to the Housing and Construction Division (sales, design, interiors, production, general aﬀairs, and head oﬃce staﬀ). This department also supports training at each company by working closely with each Group company managed by the Housing and Construction Division. Group company and each department Training to develop professionalism in each ﬁeld is conducted at each Group company and in each department. Development of the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute Under a theme of “Supporting Motivated People,” since the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute launched in ﬁscal 2011, the Institute has shifted emphasis, from “training for each level,” which had previously been advocated across-the-board, to more “self-development” and “selective” training, and the content of e-learning has been expanded. In addition to the training for each level that includes new employee training, we are conducting selective and elective group training jointly throughout the Group. Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute e-learning provides a ﬂexible learning environment to Group employees in Japan. ＜222＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute Training System, Personnel Department (FY2018) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜223＞ Number of Employees Attending Main Training Programs (FY2018) Number of people Number of people Training program attending attending Total (Non-consolidated) (Group companies) Training by speciﬁc levels 876 154 1,030 (13 courses) Elective training 74 24 98 (24 courses) Self-development training 144 1 145 (40 courses) e-learning 4,798 4,911 9,709 (6 mandatory courses) Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Hours of training received per 6.8 9.3 9.4 13.1* 13.6 employee Expenditure on training per 91,000 91,000 100,000 100,000 97,000 employee (yen) * Calculation method was changed from ﬁscal 2017. Support for Obtaining Qualiﬁcations and Attending External Education Sumitomo Forestry promotes independent eﬀorts for capacity building and career development. For instance, the Company's Regulations for Assistance in Obtaining Qualiﬁcations and Attending External Education include provisions for assistance when an employee seeks to obtain qualiﬁcations or use an external educational institution. With regard to obtaining qualiﬁcations needed for managing operations and qualiﬁcations recommended for capacity building, the regulations prescribe assistance limits for each qualiﬁcation. In particular, a lump-sum payment is provided to employees who pass the examination for ﬁrst-class registered architects to acquire a ﬁrst-class registered architectʼs license. 29 employees satisﬁed the criteria in ﬁscal 2018. ＜224＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Initiatives in the Human Resources Development Department, Housing and Construction Division The Human Resources Development Department engaged in training and a variety of other initiatives in accordance with the training and education policies. Among the trainees, junior employees aim to become independent (fully qualiﬁed) by the end of their third year in education that concentrates on making trainees think. OJT strengthens the coordination with trainers and incorporates methods for ﬂipped learning as a means to strengthen OJT. The training aims to provide faster mastery of the content as a place to ﬁnd more practical follow up. Flow of Flipped Learning To ensure the OJT for junior and mid-level employees reaches its full potential, we are nurturing management skills, product knowledge, and human assets development capabilities of current and future managers to support and guide on eﬃcient work styles. Training Framework of the Housing and Construction Division Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜225＞ Handing Down the Techniques Used in Building Wooden Houses Sumitomo Forestry recognizes that in order to preserve the way of building houses that makes best use of the traditional Japanese wooden post-and-beam construction method, it is important to pass on these skills and techniques to the next generation of workers. The Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques is an in-house educational institution certiﬁed by the governor of Chiba Prefecture, and was founded by the Company in 1988 as a corporate boarding school for vocational training. Implementation of a one-year training curriculum, the school provides training for new employees at Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. who aspire for a job in carpentry. In terms of construction-related subjects, students study classroom-based subjects such as an introduction to building, structure, drawing, methods of construction, materials and supervision, as well as practical subjects, such as tool operation and maintenance, the traditional technique of marking timber with sumi ink and a carpenter's square, processing, safety work, model-based practical training, demonstrationbased practical training and computing with the goal of acquiring a 2nd class carpenter license upon completion. On completion of their training, graduates are assigned to places all around Japan, and after a few years, they return to the school to undertake seven to ten days of training in Japanese rooms and in a preparatory course for acquiring the 1st class carpenter license as a certiﬁed specialist. In ﬁscal 2018, the school welcomed 69 new enrollments, including carpenters employed at partner ﬁrms outside the Company and saw 68 graduating. In ﬁscal 2019, the school had another 57 new enrollments. Practical training in construction of a house New Students and Performance at The Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (28th (29th (30th (31st (32nd graduating graduating graduating graduating graduating students) students) students) students) students) Number of new students 64 63 67 69 57 Number of graduates 57 61 66 68 Students who acquired the 2nd 54 57 49 62 class carpenter license ＜226＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Communication with Employees Basic Policy Sumitomo Forestry strives to create an environment that facilitates free and vigorous expression as well as an exchange of opinions by employees so that they can perform their responsibilities with vigor, integrity and consideration for others. The Company wants each and every employee to grow within a corporate culture of respect for individual employees, and fair evaluation of accomplishments and eﬀorts. Communication in Employee Evaluation and Job Execution Sumitomo Forestry has a policy of providing all employees feedback on their evaluation results, with the main objective of nurturing and developing human resources through employee evaluations. Meetings between individual employees and supervisors must be held once every six months, providing an opportunity to set targets and receive an explanation of evaluation results. In ﬁscal 2018, the multi-faceted evaluation system (360 Degree Evaluation) was conducted for management employees in charge of organizational management. This program increases management skills by providing feedback to evaluation results and bring new awareness to each individual. The evaluation results are utilized for measures in future personnel systems. Sumitomo Forestry also recognizes the continuous service of employees who have worked for 10 and 20 years to thank them for their contributions to the company over so many years. In addition, the Personnel Department conducts direct self-report hearings of all employees once a year to ascertain opinions on jobs and workplaces, transfer requests and family circumstances, among other matters. Casual Discussion Casual Discussions have been held on a regular basis since 2007 as a platform for discussion between the President and employees, with an aim of facilitating new ideas for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The Sumitomo Forestry Group held two dialogues by recruiting participants from Group companies in ﬁscal 2018. The ﬁrst dialogue was held by bringing together junior employees under the theme to better the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The second dialogue provided an exchange of ideas while oﬀering practical experience under the Casual Discussion theme of Customers First. As an opportunity for face-to-face dialogue between management and employees, discussions will be organized again in ﬁscal 2019. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜227＞ Employee Satisfaction Survey In November 2017, Sumitomo Forestry conducted its eighth bi-annual Employee Satisfaction Survey, targeting its 4,852 employees. This survey included items to gain feedback on ten indicators such as work motivation, career goals and employee satisfaction with a 92.0% response rate. The satisfaction of employees was 81.0%, which is the highest ever on this survey. Furthermore, in terms of improving motivation, we appealed to the importance of good bilateral communication in vitalizing an organization. Based on the results of this survey, Sumitomo Forestry revised feedback interviews of assessments and techniques for guiding careers as an eﬀort to improve motivation while reviewing training for assessments and career guidance. In addition, we will share favorable examples and initiatives based on the results of this feedback to employees and work to promote work-style reforms to enhance productivity. From ﬁscal 2019, this survey set to be conducted every year and will also include aﬃliated companies in Japan. Employee Satisfaction Survey Trend Relationship with Labor Unions All of the eligible employees at Sumitomo Forestry (3,664 people) have joined the labor union as of April 1, 2019. Within the labor agreement completed between the Membership rate in labor unions Company and the Sumitomo Forestry Labor Union, the Company recognizes the (Non-consolidated) Labor Unionʼs right to freely engage in activities and to collective bargaining, and promises to guarantee the stable livelihoods of labor-union members, and to 100％ maintain and improve labor conditions by establishing meetings with management comprised of both labor and management members. In ﬁscal 2018, joint labor-management discussions were held on 20 occasions, and following on from the previous year, consideration was given to measures for reducing long working hours and innovating work styles. ＜228＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Basic Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group advocates “the development and sale of reliable and safe products and services that consider the environment and society” as one of ﬁve important issues. Even in business processes, the Group makes considerations that include community development and local social welfare. Other social contribution activities are expanding globally around ﬁelds that include the environment and education of the next generation around an axis of forests and wood, which are closely related to the Group's businesses. In addition to the emphasis on education in elementary and junior high schools, such as forest ﬁeld trips and support for building monastic schools in developing countries, Sumitomo Forestry actively promotes reforestation of forests aﬄicted by disasters and cultivation of heritage and precious trees as well as other activities. Sumitomo Forestry also supports volunteer activities undertaken by individual employees in local communities to create a workplace environment that encourages people to contribute to their local communities. Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities Social Contribution Donations Breakdown of Social Contribution Donations by Category (FY2018) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜229＞ Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities Breakdown of Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities (FY2018) *1 Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori operation costs, etc. *2 Costs of community cleaning activities and the Forester House operation, etc. Volunteer Leave Program To support its employees' volunteering activities, in May 2011 the Company established a volunteer leave program that allows employees a total of ﬁve days of leave a year for volunteer activities. One employee took volunteer leave in ﬁscal 2018. Moreover, the Company provided special support for volunteer activities for the Great East Japan Earthquake, for a speciﬁc time period, it paid the travel expenses and volunteer insurance premiums of employees who wanted to help. In addition to the ﬁve days that can be taken in the current volunteer leave program, employees can now take an additional ten days of leave (unpaid) if participating as a competition volunteer recruited by the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 20 employees are expected to take advantage of this additional leave. Contributions to Public Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group coordinates and cooperates with national and local governments, the business community and others, making recommendations toward the improvement and resolution of worsening environmental and social issues. ＜230＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Public Service (As of April 1, 2019) Position in the Organization Position Name Company Chairman of the Board and The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry Special adviser Ryu Yano Representative Director Chairman of the Board and The Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry Special adviser Ryu Yano Representative Director Chairman of the Representative Japan International Association for the Industry of Building Board and Supervisory Oﬃcer & Ryu Yano and Housing Representative Chairperson Director Chairman of the Representative Board and Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Supervisory Oﬃcer & Ryu Yano Representative Chairperson Director Chairman of the National Conference for Promoting Forestry Revival and Board and Vice-chairperson Ryu Yano Regional Revitalization Representative Director Chairman of the Japan Global Exchange Forum for Housing, Building and Supervisory Oﬃcer & Board and Ryu Yano Urban Development Vice Chairperson Representative Director Chairman of the Industrial Strategy Board and Yamaguchi Industrial Strategy Committee Ryu Yano Advisor Representative Director Chairman of the Board and Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Council member Ryu Yano Representative Director Representative Director Akira 32nd Local Government System Research Councils Chairperson President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Akira Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation Vice-chairperson President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Akira Japan Association of Corporate Executives Vice Chairperson President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Akira The Machinami Foundation Director President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜231＞ Position in the Organization Position Name Company Representative The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry Japan Director Akira Vice-chairperson Committee for the Japan-New Zealand Business Council President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Akira The Building & Housing Center of Japan Outside director President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Supervisory Oﬃcer & Director Akira Japan-China Association for Building and Housing Industry Vice Chairperson President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Special guest Director Akira Gifu Academy of Forest Science and Culture professor President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Akira Japan Indonesia Association, Inc. Director President and Ichikawa Executive Oﬃcer Representative Chairperson Director Akira Wooden Home Builders Association of Japan (Representative President and Ichikawa Supervisory Oﬃcer) Executive Oﬃcer Representative Vice Chairperson Director Akira Japan Federation of Housing Organizations (Representative President and Ichikawa Supervisory Oﬃcer) Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Japan Association of Corporate Executives Sustainable Vice-chairperson Executive Vice Tatsuru Satoh Development Goals (SDGs) Workshop President and Executive Oﬃcer Representative Director Institute for Innovative Healthcare Director Executive Vice Tatsuru Satoh President and Executive Oﬃcer Director Committee Wooden Home Builders Association of Japan Senior Managing Ken Wada chairperson Executive Oﬃcer Director Toshiro Japan 2x4 Home Builders Association Director Senior Managing Mitsuyoshi Executive Oﬃcer Director Akihisa Japan Lumber Importer's Association Chairperson Managing Fukuda Executive Oﬃcer Japan Federation of Housing Organizations Environment Committee Adviser Hideki Nose Committee chairperson ＜232＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Position in the Organization Position Name Company Japan Federation of Housing Organizations International Committee Adviser Hideki Nose Foreign Relations Committee chairperson Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation Director Adviser Hideki Nose Chief Engineer, Environment and Japan Greenery Research and Development Center Trustee Akito Kataoka Resources Division Chief Engineer, Environment and National Land Aﬀorestation Promotion Organization Director Akito Kataoka Resources Division Chief Engineer, Environment and The Forest Culture Association Director Akito Kataoka Resources Division General Manager, Overseas Kaori Japan Overseas Plantation Center for Pulpwood Director Resources Hasegawa Department General Manager, Overseas Kaori Japan-Papua New Guinea Association Director Resources Hasegawa Department Costs Such as to Various Associations Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜233＞ Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Project In 2018, the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project celebrated its 20th anniversary since it began in 1998 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Companyʼs establishment, setting out to restore the vitality of the rich national forest cloaking the foothills of Mt. Fuji that was extensively damaged by a typhoon. As a commemoration, Sumitomo Forestry published the “20-year History of Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori” booklet in July 2018 and distributed them to local elementary and junior high schools as well as other relevant facilities. Furthermore, as a 20th anniversary volunteer activity, volunteers refurbished the Forest Ark*1 using three-blend hardpacked dirt*2 (approx. 200 m²) in addition to the tour of the Manabi no Mori held in November to check the growth of planted trees over the 20 years. A total of 169 people (including staﬀ) participated in the event over three days. In ﬁscal 2018, the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori was used for environmental education programs as well as opened to NPOs and other organizations. A total of 1,630 people visited Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori from inside and outside of the Company with a total of 28,264 people visiting the project between ﬁscal 1998 and 2018. *1 An environmentally friendly facility located at the entrance of Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori and is a site for education and volunteer activities. *2 Three-blend hard-packed dirt is made from natural soil, lime and bittern that are mixed and packed. The mixture of these three materials is the reason it is called three-blend hard-packed dirt. The volunteer activities reused the existing soil of the doma earthen ﬂoor inside the Forest Ark to fully refurbish the area packed the soil. 20-year History of Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Booklet (in Japanese) Volunteer Activities in Forestry Development Since the start of the project in 1998, up until now, a cumulative total of 28,000 volunteers have helped to plant approximately 30,000 region-speciﬁc saplings and conduct other forestry eﬀorts. In ﬁscal 2017, reforestation eﬀorts of national forest damaged by typhoon were completed by removing the hexatubes. The activities from ﬁscal 2018 moved from reforestation to volunteer tree survey eﬀorts to verify the growth of the forest. The Manabi no Mori project will shift to a more suitable forest for learning while visualizing the growth of the trees that have been cultivated by the volunteers up until now under the guidance of arborists and other tree experts. Employees Participating as Volunteers Students of the Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques Participating as Volunteers ＜234＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Forest Recovery Volunteer Activities Trend Environmental Education Program Sumitomo Forestry has been implementing an Environmental Education Program for local elementary and junior high school students since ﬁscal 2006 in collaboration with the NPO Whole Earth Institute. Activities include nature observation and games incorporating the ﬁve senses. The aim of these opportunities to rediscover the natural world is for the students to learn about the importance of nature and encourage them to consider new ways in which people can coexist with nature in the future. In ﬁscal 2018, a total of 957 students and children from 10 schools were invited to the program. Environmental Education Program Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜235＞ Environmental Education Program Trend Vegetation Monitoring and Wildlife Habitat Survey We have been conducting vegetation surveys since ﬁscal 2000 to monitor the recovery of the natural forest under the guidance of Vegetation Management Science Laboratory, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology. From the same year, we have been conducting wildlife surveys with the cooperation of the Minami Fuji Branch of the Wild Bird Society of Japan. The vegetation monitoring was able to conﬁrm the gradual growth of beech, Japanese zelkova, and other trees that were planted as well as dogwood and amur cork trees that grew naturally after the damage caused by the typhoon. Over the last 20 years, the survey revealed that the planted trees had not only gotten larger but entire species in the forest also recovered. The environment where the ground was bare after the removal of fallen trees gradually transformed from grasslands to forests. With this, on the wildlife habitat survey, the population of pheasants and shrikes is declining, and in their place, the population of such birds of the forest as narcissus ﬂycatchers and varied tit is increasing with opportunities to view them becoming more frequent, indicating that the forest is steadily recovering. Cultivating a forest is a never-ending job and Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori, too, is a 100-year project. To ensure that the project is still running 100 years from now, forest management and environmental activities will be continued as a way to communicate the importance of nature to as many people as possible. ＜236＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Vegetation Shift in the Wind-aﬄicted Area (2001) (2008) (2016) HIGHLIGHT 2 Contributing to the Protection of Biodiversity, 20th Anniversary of the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Natural Forest Restoration Project Link to Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori (in Japanese) Cooperation with Local Communities The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts biodiversity conservation in surrounding areas where it engages business in and conducting and activities tied to local communities with local residents. Forest Maintenance Activities at Gunma Manabi no Mori In July 2012, Sumitomo Forestry and Gunma Prefecture signed a prefectural forest maintenance partnership agreement, and are working with the prefectural authorities to promote the maintenance of forest at the foot of Mt. Akagi. Located within the jurisdiction of Maebashi City, Akagi Forest is owned by Gunma Prefecture, which promotes maintenance and conservation of its forests in cooperation with companies and organizations. Sumitomo Forestry held Gunma Manabi no Mori during ﬁscal 2018. 33 employees of Sumitomo Forestry and partner building Gunma Manabi no Mori contractors as well as their families participated in the activities which included planting of Japanese cypress seedlings and thinning work with the help of local forest associations in August. Advocating the Kanagawa Zero Plastic Waste Declaration In February 2019, the Sumitomo Forestry sales oﬃces in Kanagawa (Yokohama Branch, Yokohama North Branch, Kanagawa West Branch, Shonan Branch, and Tokyo South Branch of Housing and Construction Division) pledged their support for the Kanagawa No Plastic Waste Declaration. In the future, we will continue the beach cleaning activities that began in ﬁscal 2018 as well as providing environmental education for local communities about plastic waste. Kanagawa Zero Plastic Waste Declaration Development of Technology to Pass Down Heritage and Precious Trees to the Next Generation Sumitomo Forestry uses the most cutting-edge biotechnology in addition to conventional grafting and cutting based on the request of owners to pass down heritage and precious trees to the next generation. We are also putting our strength into breeding seedlings that provide the properties in the ﬂowers and leaves of heritage and precious trees as a way to pass down both heritage and precious trees to the next generation. In addition, we are building a DNA database for trees to further advance a sophisticated program to identify individual varieties. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜237＞ Protected Species that Survived the Great East Japan Earthquake FukushimaReturn of the Successor of “Izumi no Ichiyo Matsu” Pine Tree Izumi no Ichiyo Matsu is a pine tree adored locally since long ago that is estimated to be over 400 years old. Fukushima prefecture has designated the tree as a protected species. However, since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the weevil damages has greatly impacted the vitality of the tree. While exploring the potential of cultivating a new generation of the tree, Minamisoma City asked Sumitomo Forestry for help based on its success in cloning the Miracle Pine Tree. Sumitomo Forestry began to cultivate the successor tree of the Izumi no Ichiyo Matsu in 2013. The few remaining pine cone seeds that were successfully harvested sprouted in March 2015. The single leaf, “Ichiyo” as the distinction of the Izumi no Ichiyo Matsu appeared at the end of 2018 Izumi no Ichiyo Matsu on the seedling that had grown and was decided for it to return home. Launch of the TOKYO Sakura Project -Preserving and Popularizing the Tokyo Sakura by Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Sumitomo ForestryThe Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Sumitomo Forestry launched the TOKYO Sakura Project to preserve and popularize the cherry blossoms that has close ties with Tokyo. Sumitomo Forestry is passing on the genetic strains of Tokyo Sakura through species identiﬁcation via the genetic information as well as the cloning techniques via tissue cultures unique to Sumitomo Forestry in accordance with the Partnership TOKYO Sakura Project Logo Agreement on the Natural Park Business concluded by Sumitomo Forestry and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in April 2018. Training and Education for the Next Generation Sponsoring the Marunouchi Kids Jamboree 2018 to Share the Importance of Trees and Nature with Children Sumitomo Forestry sponsored and exhibited a booth at the Kids Jamboree held at the Tokyo International Forum in August 2018. The Kids Jamboree is an event for children that have been held continually throughout the summer season since 2007 under a concept to deliver wonder, discovery and surprise to nurture aspiration for the future in the next generation. Sumitomo Forestry has sponsored the Kids Jamboree for three consecutive years since 2016. This year the Company introduced the life and nature around us in a quiz format under the theme of biodiversity. Anyone who answered the quiz was given Kikorin merchandise as a present. Both parents and children alike were able to experience the fun and thrill of learning at the Kids Jamboree. Parents and Children Trying the Quiz ＜238＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Teaching a Course Under the Theme “The Dream of Bio Hanami to Create a Future for the Earth Through the Power of Trees!” to High School Students Sumitomo Forestry Group cooperated in the 18th Nikkei Education Challenge (Host: Nikkei Inc.) held in July 2018. The Group conducted a course under the theme “The Dream of Bio Hanami to Create a Future for the Earth Through the Power of Trees!” for high school students who will be entrusted with the future of our society. Through participation in this program, Sumitomo Forestry introduced the broad range of its businesses center upon trees and the direct connection to businesses through the research results of the Tsukuba Research Institute. This eﬀort was able to share the sensation, dreams and joy earned through research experience and work. This course reviewed the project for the weeping cheery blossom trees synonymous In the Classroom with Toyotomi Hideyoshi at the Daigoji temple in Kyoto found in the research to cultivate and pass down these heritage trees utilizing the research and development in tissue cultures for plant life. We talked about the many failures in thousands of attempts to ﬁnd a culturing medium suitable for cherry blossom trees until ﬁnally ﬁnding success in cultivating the ﬁrst weeping cherry blossom tree in the world. High school students also passionately worked in actual experiments to harvest cells for growth using a microscope. Conducting Corporate Research Seminars for SGH-Designated Ehime Prefectural Matsuyama Higashi High School As part of the Super Global High School (SGH) Program underway since 2014, the students of Matsuyama Higashi High School visit Niihama, Ehime, where the Sumitomo Forestry Group was founded, to take part in a seminar every year. The seminar held in June 2018 was made up of two sections; a lecture to introduce the businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group as well as a discussion about the experiences of employees working abroad among other things in Niihama Oﬃce as well as ﬁeld work at the Forester House in Kyubesshi. These students learned about Forester House the corporate spirit passed down through the close to 325-year history of Sumitomo Forestry as well as the contributions to current business expansion overseas. In ﬁscal 2014 and ﬁscal 2015, students visited the Djakarta oﬃce to experience the Sumitomo Forestry business expansion in Indonesia. Sumitomo Forestry sponsors and cooperates with the Super Global High School Program to foster global leaders starting from high school who can participate on the international stage through these series of activities. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜239＞ Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities Contributing to Communities Where Sumitomo Forestry Operates The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to contribute to sustainable local development through its operations. When starting new businesses or expanding its overseas business sites, the Group's policy is to consider the environment, revitalize local economies and promote employment and thereby operate in harmony with local communities. Activities Which Contribute to Local Communities in Indonesia Support for Children Through the KTI Educational Foundation PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) founded the KTI Educational Foundation in 2000 to commemorate its 30th anniversary with the purpose of improving the livelihood of people in Indonesia through education as well as engaging in social activities. This foundation primarily provides support for academic supplies and uniforms at elementary and junior high schools to impoverished children in Probolinggo in the East Java province where a Sumitomo Forestry Group plant is located. In ﬁscal 2018, the foundation provided support for supplies to elementary schools as well as IDR 12,715,000 (approx. 100,000 yen) in ﬁnancial support to children. KTI Educational Foundation provided environmental education and donated garbage bags to an elementary school Community Development Through Project EARTH Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry conducts Project EARTH as an eﬀort to oﬀset the carbon dioxide emitted in processes from the harvest of primary building materials to transport, fabrication, and building of detached houses in Japan delivered from April 2009 to March 2017 by planting in Indonesia. New reforestation eﬀorts have already been completed and the work has currently migrated to cultivation, harvest and subsequent reforestation. The project also encompassed activities leading to enhanced regional infrastructure through eﬀorts such as the preparation of roads necessary for the reforestation work, thereby contributing to improvement of the livelihoods of residents. Sumitomo Forestry also makes donations such as academic supplies to kindergartens and elementary schools in addition to setting up public restrooms in villages. Following the lead of KTI which implemented the project, we have provided seedlings to local residents and guarantee purchase of plantation timber that is cultivated at a fair price to contribute to creating a revenue source for the local people while taking responsibility for one aspect of sustainable plantation activities. Reforestation Activities Contributing to the Society News Release: KTI Reforestation Cooperative Newly Acquires the FSC Forest Certiﬁcation (in Japanese) ＜240＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Public Bathrooms Set Up in Village Harvesting and Transport of Timber Contributing to the Community Through Free Seedling Distribution and Support for Infrastructure Provision PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, which conducts the manufacture and sales of particle board, distributes free seedlings to local residents and guarantees the purchase of the timber at a fair market price from the seedlings that are cultivated, which helps the community economically and in terms of greening. In addition, the company continues to support mosque repair work and in road surfacing. Donation of seedlings to the local Kendal Regency Respect for Local Tradition and Culture at Overseas Plantations The plantation forest operations in Indonesia communicate with the local residents and associations to gain a deep understanding of the local traditions and culture and conduct safety festivals together with the local people when starting operations in accordance with those traditions. Sumitomo Forestry also engages in eﬀorts to respect the traditions and cultures of local communities, such as capital support for traditional events held by local residents. Village meeting Technical Development for Sustainable Peatland Use Sumitomo Forestry strives to develop forestry technologies together with the region through large-scale plantation operations in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Plantation Forest Operations in West Kalimantan, Indonesia (Industrial Tree Plantation) Building Infrastructure and Providing Basic Educational and Medical Support in Neighboring Business Regions PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI), a large-scale plantation forest business operator in Indonesia, views sustainable development of local communities as a vital managerial challenge, and thereby, undertaking community services that meet the needs of local residents in the areas through education, medicine and hygiene, infrastructure development, agriculture, and livelihood enhancement. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜241＞ Up unitl now, a water purifying plant was setup in villages in business regions to supply safe water for daily life to residents. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry works to provide basic educational support by building local elementary schools and deploying teachers where facilities and instructors are lacking in addition to medical support which includes free examinations for neighboring residents. In ﬁscal 2018, adoption of ﬂood disaster prevention in neighboring communities began with the water level management technology developed through the Sumitomo Forestry business. Infrastructure that is easy to maintenance and able to eﬀectively adjust water levels is oﬀered to neighboring communities. Support for stationary at elementary Educational Environment at the Elementary Ladakh Water Level Management schools in operating areas School Infrastructure Building Social Infrastructure in Papua New Guinea Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) in Papua New Guinea has been operating a plantation forest since 1984 and it contributes greatly to the economic development of the region. In April 2007, OBT became a Group company of Sumitomo Forestry to further healthy expansion and eﬀective use of reforestation timber resources. OBT also operates its own clinics and super markets for their employees and local residents to use because the preparation of social infrastructure is insuﬃcient in Papua New Guinea. In neighboring villages, OBT nurses periodically visit neighboring villages to perform infant health checkups and provide advice to the sick as well as conduct educational activities. Furthermore, a dedicated clinic vehicle was arranged to transport patients to larger hospitals. Full View of Open Bay Clinic Four-wheel drive vehicle to transport patients available at the clinic As support for the economic activities of local residents, OBT builds a public sales space with a roof that is open to the community so that anyone can sell their own fruits and vegetables after establishing company-owned land facing the coast. The building which had collapsed due to strong winds and rains was also rebuilt. OBT also plans to build three additional buildings in the future to respond to the strong requests of nearby residents who ﬁll this sales space. ＜242＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Local Community in the Newly Built Community Market Place A large-scale charity medical event was also held at the Open Bay Clinic built and operated by OBT to oﬀer local citizens a place to be examined properly for those that cannot visit major town to receive such examinations with the cooperation of the health department of the province. The medical staﬀ of over 40 professionals brought together from around the worldexamined for diagnosis for approximately 500 people over the three days of this event. Diagnosing and Treating Adults and Hygiene Guidance for Children Children Alike Stand-by generators were newly installed in the Open Bay Clinic in anticipation of power-outages in the evening when the main generators stop. These generators have been able to provide support in case of emergencies or childbirth in the middle of the night. OBT employs full-time health workers day and night at the Open Bay Clinic to provide general medical care, support childbirth and pharmaceutical needs, accept patients into the hospital, and transfer patients with serious medical concerns to major hospitals by land and sea. The patients receiving care are not only employees and their families but also many people who travel from far away for treatment. Therefore, the Open Bay Medical Clinic contributes greatly to the local community as the most advanced medical clinic within a 60 km radius from its grounds in a country where medical facilities are lacking. Books were donated to the Open Bay Elementary School attended by the local children (elementary, junior, and senior high students) in addition to the student community classroom (origami experience) that was held. Junior and Senior High School Students Elementary School Students Showing Oﬀ Receiving the Books Their Origami Art Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜243＞ Social Contribution Through the Housing Business in Australia and the United States The Henley Properties Group builds and sells detached and multi-unit housing and spec homes in Australia and the United States. The Groupʼs social contribution activities whereby the money raised from the sales of spec homes, built with cooperation of a housing lot developer, materials supplier and other business partners, is donated to childrenʼs hospitals and other facilities. The Henley Properties Group held the Good Friday Charity Auction in April 2019, which was the 26th year of the event. Several hundred business partners from the provision of land to design, estimation, material manufacturing, procurement, and labor management have participated in these activities. The Henley Properties Group donated the entire 761,000 Australian dollars (approx. 63 million yen) earned from the charity auction this year of two-story homes built in Clyde North, a southeastern district of Melbourne, to a childrenʼs hospital. Since these eﬀorts began in 1993, more than 15.4 million Australian dollars (1,271 million yen) in total donations have been provided through the auction to be used for the medical costs of children suﬀering from intractable diseases. MainVue Homes has been working to donate proceeds from the building and sale of charity homes since 2015. The charity auction sold a charity home built in Tehaleh located in the southern area of Seattle, Washington in 2018 and donated 705,000 US dollars (78 million yen) raised for research into treatment of intractable diseases. This is the second charity home built and sold by MainVue Homes in the United States. Henley Properties Group detached house MainVue Homes charity home auction Regional Contribution Activities in New Zealand Tasman Pine Forests Ltd. (TPF) in New Zealand engages in local contribution activities to bring health and safety to the local community. In ﬁscal 2017, TPF donated activity capital as a sponsor to the Nelson Marlborough Rescue Helicopter Trust. This trust is deploying rescue helicopters roughly 500 times a year for natural disasters that occur in the region and for leisure accidents. The TPF logo is posted on the helicopter. Furthermore, TPF donated the funds to Fire and Emergency New Zealand (FENZ), the ﬁre-ﬁghting organization of New Zealand, for the purchase of a small ﬁre engine to ﬁght forest ﬁres. In New Zealand, TPF worked together with the Rural Fire Network made up of forestry companies and FENZ engaged in forest ﬁre prevention and ﬁre-ﬁghting activities. In ﬁscal 2018, TPF donated to the new care hospital wing built at the Nelson Tasman Hospice as New Zealand faces an aging population. The Nelson Tasman Hospice is a charity (non-proﬁt) organization rooted in the community which has been providing hospice care in Nelson since its founding in 1987. ＜244＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Rescue Helicopter Fire Engine Support for the Next Generation in the United States Through Joint Eﬀorts with Local Residents The Canyon Creek Cabinet Company, which manufactures and sells wooden cabinets in the United States, continually makes contributions to the region from providing oﬀcuts of timber produced in manufacturing products to local charity organizations which donate toys to make donations of wooden toys and puzzles to child protection facilities and children's hospitals. Trains and Other Donated Wooden Toys Local Charity Organization Members Making Toys Construction of Monastic Schools in Myanmar Sumitomo Forestry is involved in the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team and the secretariat, bodies established to support the construction of monastic school-style community schools in Myanmar. Activities which began in 2014 have completed ﬁve monastic-style schools as of January 2019 thanks to the donations of companies and individuals who see the beneﬁt. These schools were small shacks before they were rebuilt but have now transformed into three-story schoolhouses built from steel and concrete. At the completion of a school, the donor companies held an opening ceremony with participants from advocating companies and an opportunity to engage with the local children. The milestone of the ﬁfth anniversary of the project this year was captured on video through the use of drones and other methods. Moving forward, the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team will continue to provide support with a goal of building one school per year. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜245＞ School before rebuilding Monastic School After Rebuilding and Attendees at the Ceremony Construction of Monastic Schools by Myanmar Monastic School Support Team, in Number Number of Monastic School Completion Construction Region Sponsors Students Wutt Kyway Taw Pyay Mingaladon Township, Yangon 18 companies, October 2014 Approx. 260 Monastery School City 4 individuals Pyin Nyar Theingi Mingaladon Township, Yangon 18 companies, November 2015 Approx. 120 Nun School City 4 individuals Myittar Yaung Chi South Dagon Township, 19 companies, November 2016 Approx. 180 Nun School Yangon City 5 individuals Shuepi Paremiin Monastery Aung Myay Tharzan Township, 20 companies, Elementary and Middle March 2018 Approx. 520 Mandalay 6 individuals School Aung Mingalar Pyigyidagun Township, 19 companies, Monastery Elementary and January 2019 305 Mandalay 6 individuals Middle School Support and Cooperation in Nepal Manaslu Forest Restoration Project with Planting Technologies Sumitomo Forestry provides tree-planting technological support and cooperation in the Manaslu Forest Restoration Project in Nepal led by the NPO Peak Aid, where alpinist Ken Noguchi serves as a representative. Manaslu is one of the mountains in the Himalayas and its peak reaches 8,000 meters high. Sama village, located at the foot of the mountain, once had virgin forests with rich vegetation and soil; nonetheless, recent population growth in the villages and deregulated logging have deprecated the forests. The degraded forest system has resulted in increased frequency of landslide and adversely aﬀecting lives of the villagers. Approx. Two-Year Old Japanese Larch Seedlings Ready for Planting Sumitomo Forestry, therefore, has been providing advice from the technical aspect by sending experts of nurturing seedlings and forests to the project site. In ﬁscal 2018, we gave advice on seedling production, proposed sites for reforestation, and reforestation methods locally and implemented test reforestation with approximately 3,000 trees. ＜246＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Quality Management Acquisition Status of Management System Certiﬁcations at Each Group Company Type of Date Date Group companies Country certiﬁcation acquired renewed MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department, Housing September and Construction Division, Sumitomo Forestry Co., Japan ISO9001:2015 August 2018 2015 Ltd. December Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan ISO9001:2015 2017 Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. September September Japan ISO9001:2015 Environmental Greeniﬁcation Division 2002 2018 Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd Japan ISO9001:2015 March 2006 March 2018 Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. Japan ISO9001:2015 March 2017 September Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) New Zealand ISO9001:2015 July 1993 2017 September September PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) Indonesia ISO9001:2015 1997 2016 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) Indonesia ISO9001:2015 June 2003 March 2019 PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI) Indonesia ISO9001:2015 October 2002 October 2017 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO) Vietnam ISO9001:2015 March 2014 March 2017 Canyon Creek Cabinet Company (CCC) United States ISO9001:2015 August 2003 March 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜247＞ Acquisition Status of Product Certiﬁcations at Each Group Company Date of Group companies Country Type of certiﬁcation certiﬁcation renewal JIS certiﬁcation (MDF) March 2003 JAS (LVL) May 2008 JIS certiﬁcation: 2014 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) New Zealand October 2015 (MDF) CARB certiﬁcation(MDF)* October 2008 EPA certiﬁcation (MDF) August 2017 JAS (Plywood, LVL, laminated engineered July 2002 wood) Q-Mark (Door blanks) August 2016 CARB certiﬁcation (PB) May 2017 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) Indonesia EPA certiﬁcation (PB) December 2018 CARB certiﬁcation (Plywood) December 2018 EPA certiﬁcation December 2018 (Plywood) CE Marking (Plywood) February 2018 JIS certiﬁcation: 2014 January 2019 (PB) PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) Indonesia CARB certiﬁcation (PB) February 2018 EPA certiﬁcation (PB) November 2018 JAS (Flooring/laminated PT. Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk Indonesia March 2012 engineered wood) Timber Legality PT. Wana Subur Lestari Indonesia February 2013 Assurance CARB certiﬁcation (PB) July 2017 EPA certiﬁcation (PB) August 2017 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO) Vietnam JIS certiﬁcation: 2014 December 2018 (PB) * The standards in regulations related to the air pollution stipulated by the California Air Resources Board are stricter than federal regulations ＜248＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Social Data Basic Employee Data Number of Employees (Unit: Persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Non-consolidated 4,499 4,417 4,485 4,693 4,824 Consolidated 18,137 17,001 17,802 18,195 19,159 Breakdown of Number of Employee (Non-Consolidated) (Unit: Persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Management level 2,047 1,995 2,030 2,117 2,164 Non-management level 2,297 2,292 2,303 2,398 2,458 Fixed-term employees 125 98 92 97 119 Hosted from other companies 30 32 60 81 83 Total 4,499 4,417 4,485 4,693 4,824 Breakdown of Number of Employee (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) (Unit: Persons) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Management level 1,509 1,803 1,546 1,460 Non-management level 3,383 3,361 4,043 4,440 Fixed-term employees 688 799 825 818 Hosted from other 330 263 231 218 companies Total 5,910 6,226 6,645 6,936 Breakdown of Number of Employee by Age (Non-Consolidated) (Unit: Persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 under 30 707 693 690 769 860 30-50 2,881 2,959 2,817 2,799 2,875 Older than 50 911 765 978 1,125 1,089 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜249＞ Number of Newly Hired Graduates* (Non-Consolidated) (Unit: Persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Male 60 73 80 100 90 Housing sales Female 13 17 21 13 17 Male 23 22 27 37 40 Housing engineering Female 8 13 7 9 12 Male 15 17 22 22 28 General management Female 6 5 6 6 11 Male 0 0 0 0 0 Clerical Female 13 6 4 7 12 Male 98 112 129 159 158 Total Female 40 41 38 35 52 Total 138 153 167 194 210 * Calculated based on the number of new graduate recruits as of April 1 of each ﬁscal year. Employment Average Annual Pay (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 8,337,767 yen 8,483,875 yen 8,518,404 yen 8,635,865 yen 8,593,312 yen Average Length of Service* (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 15 years and 15 years and 15 years and 15 years and 15 years and Male 5 months 3 months 8 months 9 months 11 months 11 years and 11 years and 11 years and 11 years and 11 years and Female 0 month 1 month 1 month 2 months 4 months * Calculated at the end of the ﬁscal year (as of March 31 every year) Separation Rate*1*2 (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Voluntary separation rate (%) 2.5 2.4 2.6 2.1 2.3 Separation rate*3 (%) 3.0 3.9 3.1 3.0 2.7 *1 Calculated by dividing the number of people who left during the year by the number of employees at the beginning of the year, including employees seconded to partner companies but excluding executive oﬃcers, hosted from other companies and exchange employees. *2 The data for each ﬁscal year has been calculated retrospectively. *3 The calculation includes voluntary separations and excludes hiatuses and the end of terms. About symbol for Independent assurance ＜250＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Diversity Employment and Promotion of Women (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Female employees including 18.8 19.4 20.0 20.4 21.0 contract employees*1 (%) Female employees in 2.2 2.6 2.8 3.2 3.7 management positions*1 (%) Female new graduates*2 (%) 29.0 26.8 22.8 18.0 24.8 *1 The ratio of female employees and the ratio of female employees in management roles is based on the number of employees as of March 31 each year. *2 The ratio of new female graduates is calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. About symbol for Independent assurance Employment and Promotion of Women (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Female employees including 29.6 30.4 30.7 31.6 32.0 contract employees*1 (%) Female employees in 3.6 4.0 4.2 4.6 6.0 management positions*1 (%) Female new graduates*2 (%) 36.1 48.0 40.3 40.2 43.5 *1 The ratio of female employees and the ratio of female employees in management roles is based on the number of employees as of March 31 each year. *2 The ratio of new female graduates is calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. Employment of Persons with Disabilities (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017*1 FY2018*2 Ratio of Disabled Employees 2.24 2.12 2.12 2.26 2.32 (%) *1 The calculation includes the subsidiary Sumirin Wood Peace Co., Ltd. for ﬁscal 2017. *2 The calculation includes the subsidiary Sumirin Wood Peace Co., Ltd. as well as the aﬃliated Group company Sumirin Business Services Co., Ltd. for ﬁscal 2018. Employment of Persons with Disabilities* (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of Disabled 1.45 1.45 1.75 1.76 Employees (%) * As of June each ﬁscal year Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜251＞ Rate of Local Employment in Group Companies Outside Japan* FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Rate of Local Employment in Group Companies Outside 99.3 99.2 99.6 99.8 99.1 Japan (%) * Calculated by dividing the number of employees hired locally by consolidated subsidiaries and working for the company at the end of the year by the total number of employees at the end of the year Training and Education Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Hours of training received per 6.8 9.3 9.4 13.1* 13.6 employee Expenditure on training per 91,000 91,000 100,000 100,000 97,000 employee (yen) * Calculation method was changed from ﬁscal 2017 Work-Life Balance Work-Life Balance Program Usage (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of childcare leave Male 7 13 13 19 38 users (Persons) Female 33 40 43 41 43 Percentage of childcare leave Male 4.2 7.8 8.5 11.6 24.1 users*1 (%) Female 103.0 105.0 95.7 120.6 97.7 Percentage of returnees after childcare 92.8 96.4 96.2 93.6 96.2 leave*2 (%) Number of reduced hours program 29 32 40 53 61 users*3 (persons) Number of telework program users*4 21 19 19 25 49 (persons) *1 The number of childcare leavers starting in the respective ﬁscal year divided by the number of employees who had a baby in respective ﬁscal year *2 The number of returnees for the ﬁscal year divided by returnees for the ﬁscal year plus employees who resigned for childcare leave but have not returned to work *3 Available for reasons such as childcare and family care; combined ﬁgures of employees on programs of the reduced working hours and the four-day work per week *4 Available for any reasons other than childcare or family care ＜252＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Work-Life Balance Program Usage (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of childcare leave Male 1 3 3 6 users Female 68 110 92 73 Percentage of childcare leave Male 0.6 5.0 3.0 4.3 users* (%) Female 115.3 102.8 85.2 104.3 * The number of childcare leavers starting in the respective ﬁscal year divided by the number of employees who had a baby in respective ﬁscal year Paid Leave Usage Ratio (Non-Consolidated) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average paid leaves taken 6.7 6.3 6.9 9.0 10.1 (day) Paid Leave Usage Ratio* (%) 35.2 32.8 35.9 47.4 53.2 * Paid leave entitlements are issued each year in January, therefore the table shows ﬁgures as of December 31 of the respective year. Calculated by dividing the number of days of paid leave taken by the number of days of paid leave issued. About symbol for Independent assurance Paid Leave Usage Ratio (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average paid leaves taken 7.1 7.3 7.6 8.7 (day) Paid Leave Usage Ratio* 39.7 40.0 43.9 50.5 (%) * Paid leave entitlements are issued each year in January, therefore the table shows ﬁgures as of December 31 of the respective year. Calculated by dividing the number of days of paid leave taken by the number of days of paid leave issued. Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Injuries (Non-Consolidated)*1 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of occupational 1 0 3 0 2 injuries (incidents)*2 Lost-time injury frequency 0.19 0.19 0.30 0.10 0.20 rate*3 Work-related illness frequency 0 0 0 0 0 rate *1 “0” work-related accidents resulting in death occurred during the reporting years shown. *2 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. *3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜253＞ Occupational Injuries (Subsidiary Companies in Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of occupational 10 8 5 10 injuries* * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. Occupational Injuries of Contractors at On-Site Construction of Houses FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of occupational 11 6 12 9 7 injuries*1 Lost-time injury frequency 3.63 2.23 3.35 2.31 3.01 rate*2 Work-related illness frequency 0 0 0 0 0 rate *1 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. *2 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 Number of Occupational Injuries in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials in Overseas FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 6 18 16 23 11 * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. Number of Occupational Injuries Involving Contractors at Forestry Work Sites in Company-owned Forests FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 2 1 3 1 4 Relationship with Labor Unions Labor Union Membership (Non-Consolidated)* FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Labor union membership rate 100 100 100 100 100 (%) * As of April 1, 2019, the number of eligible employees is 3,664. The scope of eligibility for labor union membership is stipulated in the labor agreement. ＜254＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Report Environmental Management Environmental Impact of Business Activities Responding to Climate Change Responding to Waste and Pollution Biodiversity Conservation Efficient Use of Water Resources Environment Related Data Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜255＞ Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group advocates contributions to the realization of a sustainable society in its Corporate Philosophy. The Group established its Environmental Philosophy in 1994 and Group-wide Environmental Policies in 2000. Moreover, in 2015, the Group has initiated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Action Guidelines. The Environmental Policies applies to the product life cycle and all business processes from product and service development, design and manufacturing to material procurement, distribution, waste management, supplier and partner selection, new project launches, mergers, and acquisitions in all businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group to promote businesses that contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. A green procurement survey is conducted for the selection and evaluation of suppliers based on the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policies to assess risks from both environmental and social perspectives in each business when launching new businesses as well as in mergers and acquisitions. To share and raise awareness of the Environmental Policies among Group employees, they were printed in employee handbooks. Opportunities to read through and discuss them were also arranged, for example as part of new employee training, ISO 14001 internal environmental auditor training courses and departmental meetings. The environmental policies are also posted in meeting rooms, and the environmental approach of the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been shared with business partners. Furthermore, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct established in 2017 not only encompasses Group companies but everyone in the supply chain. The Code of Conduct drives coexistence with the environment and clariﬁes the approach to advance eﬀorts toward the environment, including all of the business partners of Sumitomo Forestry Group. We formulated the Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan (ﬁscal 2010 to 2014) with speciﬁc numerical targets for the ﬁrst time in ﬁscal 2009 as environmental goals and established the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan (ﬁscal 2015 to 2020) that includes environmental targets in ﬁscal 2014. The plan was incorporated into CSR budget as concrete numerical targets for each ﬁscal year and environmental activities have been steadily enhanced through implementation of the PDCA (plando-check-act) cycle at each organization. In May 2019, We have announced the Sumitomo Forestry Group 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan (ﬁscal 2019 to 2021). As one of four basic policies, the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan (ﬁscal 2015 to 2020) was revised to promote the integration of business and ESG eﬀorts in addition to the formulation of non-ﬁnancial targets as Mid-Term Sustainability Targets. In the future, the Sumitomo Forestry Group will further enhance its environmental management in accordance with these goals. New Business Plan Risk Assessment Sumitomo Forestry Group Corporate Philosophy and Sustainability Management ＜256＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Through our experience nurturing forests since our founding, Sumitomo Forestry Group has learned to appreciate the wonders of wood and the importance of nature. As a corporate entity with a close aﬃnity to nature, we will pursue business activities that balance both environmental and economic interests and contribute to a sustainable society. 1. Develop business operations centered on wood and forests We will cultivate forests and their ability to preserve and enhance the rich ecosystem to protect biodiversity, actively utilize timber resources and create new corporate value. 2. Develop and oﬀer environmentally conscious products and services We will develop and sell products and services that are environmentally conscious throughout the entire product lifecycle. 3. Minimize and improve environmental impact To minimize and improve environmental impact, we will employ procurement practices that prevent environmental pollution and climate change and promote the eﬀective utilization of natural resources. 4. Ensure strict legal compliance We will adhere to all environmental laws, rules and regulations, global standards, voluntary standards and accords with stakeholders. 5. Make continual improvements to our environmental management system We will accurately access environment-related risks associated with our business activities and with a mid-to-long-term outlook, set and work to fulﬁll yearly environment goals. In addition, we will regularly evaluate our environmental management system and make continual improvements. 6. Promote environmental education We will provide environmental education for all parties involved in Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs business operations and encourage voluntary environmental eﬀorts. 7. Pursue active communication We will actively disclose information about our environmental policies and initiatives and pursue activities that convey the wonders of trees and forests and the importance of nature. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜257＞ Environmental Management Structure Environmental Management Structure To ensure that management is practiced in accordance with the Environmental Policies, whose objective is to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has established an environmental management structure with the President of Sumitomo Forestry assuming overall responsibility. The General Manager of Sustainability Department under the President (CEO) acts as the Environmental Management Oﬃcer to raise the eﬀectiveness of environmental activities by drafting a Sustainability Budget as a quantitative targets for each ﬁscal year for environmental activities that each department of the Group is advancing and regularly checks in with the Sustainability Committee. Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues ＜258＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Roles of Environmental Management Personnel Group Overall Environmental Representative: President (CEO) Group Environmental Management Oﬃcer: General Manager, Sustainability Dept. Division Environmental Management Oﬃcers: General Manager, Administration and Planning Dept. (Timber and Building Materials Div.); General Manager, Administration and Planning Dept. (Housing and Construction Div.); General Manager, Overseas Administration Dept. (Overseas Housing and Real Estate Div.); Management and Administration Dept. (Environment and Resources Div.) Department Environmental Managers: General Managers, presidents of group companies, etc. Environmental activity personnel: Environmental promotion personnel ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry introduced an environmental management system in ﬁscal 1995 and acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for its housing operations in ﬁscal 1997 ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Rate ahead of other players in the housing industry. Certiﬁcation was subsequently (Based on Sales) acquired for other operations with all departments and divisions in Japan achieving integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in ﬁscal 2002. 85.7% The scope of certiﬁed Group companies has been extended to businesses that have a large inﬂuence on the environment, and today the Group has four certiﬁed companies in Japan. Progress is also being made on certiﬁcation of overseas Group companies, focused on manufacturing companies, with six companies already certiﬁed. As of March 2019, the certiﬁcation rate of consolidated organizations was 85.7% (based on sales). Sumitomo Forestry Group ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Company Name Date acquired Date renewed Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. August 2002*1 (excl. overseas operations) Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. November 2002*2 Expanded Certiﬁcation at August 2016*1 Group Companies in Japan Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. September 2003*2 Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. March 2013*2 Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. August 2014*2 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) July 2001 September 2016 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) July 2003 April 2018 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) October 2005 October 2017 PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI) January 2007 October 2017 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO) March 2014 March 2017 Pan Asia Packing (PAP) April 2017 *1 Certiﬁcation was acquired by individual departments and divisions from 1997 before integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation was acquired for the entire company. *2 Acquired by inclusion in Sumitomo Forestryʼs integrated certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜259＞ Audits by External Certiﬁcation Bodies Companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in Japan undergo routine reviews conducted once a year by certiﬁcation body JIC Quality Assurance Ltd. In ﬁscal 2018, 37 departments at 5 companies went under migration and surveillance reviews for the ISO14001:2015 (JISQ14001:2015) standards. As a result of these reviews, all of the entities were approved for registration on August 30, 2018 after examining 42 points of advice for improvement without any incompatibilities. In addition to examining methods of improvement and taking action for each of the observation items, notices were issued by the Sustainability Department to share information on any issues common to the Group companies, and internal environmental audits were conducted to check the implementation of preventive measures. Internal Environmental Audits In addition to reviews conducted by external certiﬁcation bodies, companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation periodically carry out internal environmental audits. These audits are implemented by employees who have passed an exam upon completion of an in-house training course to become internal environmental auditors. Two courses of internal auditor development training are being held; one course for the Company-certiﬁed auditors based on old standards and another course based on new standards were oﬀered following the amendments of the international standards in September 2015. In particular, requiring these courses be taken and passed by all general managers within the scope of the registration enhances understanding about the revisions to these standards and strengthens leadership. As a result, the number of employees certiﬁed as internal environmental auditors has reach a cumulative total of 1,102 (as of the end of ﬁscal 2018). Internal environmental audits are in the fourth year since the update to the ISO14001:2015 standard. After a full audit of all the departments at ﬁve Japanese companies within the scope of the registration, internal environmental audits were conducted at 98 departments from September to December in ﬁscal 2018 with emphasis on departments that had many points of improvement. When irregularities due to the amendments were found, the audited departments took corrective actions and subsequently submitted the action reports to the audit department. Audit results were reported to management by the General Manager of Sustainability Department and a review was conducted. Compliance and Violations of Environmental Laws There were no signiﬁcant violations* of any, environment-related laws or ordinances in the past ﬁve years. Signiﬁcant violations in the last ﬁve years * Violation with a penalty or punishment of one million yen or more 0 ＜260＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Risk Management Understanding and Responding to Environmental Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group is aware of the risk upon our business activities from environmental changes such as climate change or reduced biodiversity and works to gather related information, analyze this information as necessary as a way to evaluate business risks. We also determined speciﬁc measures as evaluation metrics in each department for risk with the potential to arise in daily operations and report on the progress of those measures to the Risk Management Committee each quarter while the Sustainability Committee formulates measures for risk with the potential to arise in the medium to long term. Risks with the potential to high impact business are reported to the Board of Directors to discuss their countermeasures. In ﬁscal 2018, each business department cooperated to analyze scenarios based on TCFD, and the Sustainability Committee deliberated on the results. Risk Management Framework Responding to TCFD Climate Change and Biodiversity-related Risks and Strategies Responding to Natural Disasters Damage from a major earthquake, windstorm, ﬂood or other natural disaster could result in signiﬁcant costs arising from restoring operations at facilities, verifying the safety of delivered housing products, delays in the completion and handover of contracted properties, or other events. Such costs could inﬂuence the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. As countermeasures, Sumitomo Forestry promotes the sale of homes built with highly seismic resistant BF construction method as well as the sale of resilience housing equipped with the functionality to sustain living for a certain period of time even if lifelines are cut. Furthermore, we are building a service framework that aims to provide rapid assistance through IoT technology that rapidly grasps the damage during a disaster in real time. HIGHLIGHT 1 Providing Reliable and Safe Housing BF Method Housing Sales Adapted to Climate Change Responding to Changes in the Wood Cultivation and Procurement Regulations Because Sumitomo Forestry positions wood as its principal material and product, the risk of higher costs as well as the risk of having to change suppliers in the event of limitations being imposed due to the depletion of timber resources or changes to habitats resulting from climate change. Sumitomo Forestry imports timber and wood products from more than 20 diﬀerent countries and strives to place representatives in primary locations to collect information to mitigate the risk of changes in timber cultivation and timber procurement regulations. The company also makes eﬀorts to verify legal compliance, such as deploying employees from the head oﬃce. We work to procure legally harvested timber throughout the entire Group in accordance with the Clean Wood Act enacted in May 2017, such as becoming the ﬁrst company to register in Japan. HIGHLIGHT 4 Expanding the Utilization of Sustainable Forest Resources Procurement Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜261＞ Setting Carbon Pricing Such as Mandatory Emission Reductions As reduction of greenhouse gases advances globally, there is the possibility that reduction obligations will be imposed upon businesses in countries where the Sumitomo Forestry Group has bases. If Group companies with bases in these countries are unable to meet reduction obligations, they will be required to purchase emission credits, creating the risk of increased business costs. Even in Japan, carbon pricing has been implemented as the introduction of a global warming tax in October 2012. Achieving targets outlined in the Paris Agreement could result in changes such as higher taxes and the adoption of new carbon taxes, which could inﬂuence business activities and costs. As a countermeasure, Sumitomo Forestry sets greenhouse gas reduction target for each Group company and department and pursues those reductions based on the numerical targets that are drafted each ﬁscal year. Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues Responding to Energy Supply Shortages In countries like New Zealand, where hydroelectric power is used, there is a risk that a change in the amount of rainfall will cause dam levels to fall and lead to a disruption of supply from hydroelectric power stations, forcing Sumitomo Forestry Group sites in those countries to suspend plant operations. As a countermeasure, Sumitomo Forestry sets greenhouse gas reduction targets for each Group company and department and promotes energy savings while pursuing those reductions based on the numerical targets that are drafted each ﬁscal year. Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results Corporate Image Deterioration Any failure in addressing various risks such as climate change measures and the preservation of biodiversity may be detrimental to the corporate image, directly aﬀecting sales and other performance indicators. Sumitomo Forestry comprehensively analyzes and addresses risks from environmental, social and governance perspectives in the short to medium and long term through the Risk Management Committee and Sustainability Committee. Risk Management Responding to Environmental Laws and Regulations The Sumitomo Forestry Group is striving to reduce and to prevent the manifestation of legal risks such as the disposal of industrial waste, soil and water pollution caused by toxic substances, noise and vibration. In ﬁscal 2018, there were no signiﬁcant violations of any environment-related laws or regulations or any grave environmental incidents. Processing of Industrial Waste Construction-related waste makes up the highest percentage of industrial waste that is illegally dumped in Japan. Viewing the environmental risks presented by the processing of industrial waste as one of the biggest in terms of the potential impact on society and business, the Sumitomo Forestry Group works to ensure that industrial waste is disposed of appropriately. Speciﬁcally, to comply with the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act and other related laws and regulations, the Group has established a set of industrial waste management regulations covering appropriate disposal, reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial, as well as manufacturing regulations stipulating standards essential for production activities. In ＜262＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 keeping with these regulations, voluntary audits of waste manifests and terms of outsourcing agreements with waste processors are carried out twice a year for each Group company oﬃce in Japan emitting industrial waste. If an audit concludes that corrective action is required, appropriate action is taken and it is subsequently conﬁrmed through reports submitted in line with the industrial waste management system that waste is being properly treated. In addition, industrial waste managers at each oﬃce conduct site checks of contractorsʼ waste treatment plants at least once a year. In ﬁscal 2018, managers from the Housing and Construction Division conducted approximately 608 on-site checks at roughly 500 waste treatment plants run by 363 waste treatment contractors. Divisions other than the Housing and Construction Division as well as oﬃces of Group companies are being instructed to continue using waste treatment plants which the Housing Division has already inspected. To be able to determine whether industrial waste is being processed in an appropriate manner, the Group asks waste treatment contractors to employ electronic manifests. All branches of the Housing and Construction Division as well as all contractors accepting industrial waste from new housing construction sites have already introduced electronic manifests. In ﬁscal 2018, 99.7% of all manifests, including those for housing demolition waste, were electronic. In conjunction with this, training is also provided for employees who coordinate the processing of industrial waste. In ﬁscal 2018, a total of 101 people participated, including newly appointed personnel in charge of industrial waste processing at Group companies in Japan. Moreover, training was conducted in the same way for building contractors, demolition contractors and industrial waste disposal operators. Promotion of Waste Reduction and Recycling Initiatives Against the Risk of Soil Contamination Soil contamination is diﬃcult to discover as contaminants build up and spread underground out of sight. The Sumitomo Forestry Group implements soil contamination countermeasures for land owned or administered by the Group and conducts voluntary soil contamination studies prior to new land purchases in the subdivision business. We are in compliance on land applicable to the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. Water Pollution Water pollution creates the risks of human health being directly aﬀected by contamination of drinking water and of contamination aﬀecting the habitats of organisms living in rivers, lakes and seas. Inspections entrusted to external measurement agencies are conducted once every two months and daily water quality tests are done internally through automatic COD measurement devices for the waste water expelled from waste water processing facilities in the Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Imari Plant, which is a speciﬁed oﬃce under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan, and the inspection results are issued to the local municipals every six months. Water is also sampled and inspected by the prefecture once a year and by the city three times a year. Through this measure, all inspections found the level of water pollution to be within the statutory limit for wastewater. In addition, the Tsukuba Research Institute is considered a speciﬁed oﬃce under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan and therefore, delivers notiﬁcation of updates to some testing equipment and new installations according to this law. The Institute also conducts water quality inspections once every month through an external measurement agency to monitor those results and issue reports to Tsukuba City once every six months. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances and Appropriate Disposal Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜263＞ Contamination by Hazardous Chemical Substances Contamination caused by hazardous chemical substances leads to risks of a major impact on human health or the environment and the risk of a disaster. The Sumitomo Forestry Group keeps track of amounts of hazardous chemical substances including volatile organic compounds (VOCs) used and discharged as part of appropriate management, meanwhile making an eﬀort to reduce the use of these chemicals. The Group takes appropriate action in response to the Air Pollution Control Act. Sumitomo Forestry Crest's Niihama Plant equipped with boilers and Kagoshima and Shizuoka plants equipped with incinerator make regular measurements of emission volumes and concentrations of NOx, SOx and soot and dust, and dioxins, respectively, and monitor that these ﬁgures are maintained below the statutory limits. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances and Appropriate Disposal Noise and Vibrations Sumitomo Forestry makes an eﬀort to prevent noise and vibrations during housing construction. When complaints about noise or vibrations are received, the circumstances are recorded and the information is shared with the rest of Group to prevent the occurrence of similar incidents. Sumitomo Forestry Crest conﬁrms that noise levels within the site boundaries of plants are below the statutory limit by taking regular measurements. No complaints about noise or vibrations having a major impact on the environment were received from local residents during ﬁscal 2018. Global Warming (Addressing the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons) In April 2015, the Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law came into force for the purpose of promoting drastic measures over the entire lifecycle of chloroﬂuorocarbons that have a strong greenhouse eﬀect, from manufacture to disposal. In most cases, the Sumitomo Forestry Group leases its oﬃces in buildings, and since the Group is primarily engaged in the construction and sale of housing and the manufacture and distribution of processed wood products, it does not own (or manage) that much commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment (air-conditioners, refrigerators, etc.). However, in response to the enactment of this law, we are conducting periodic simple inspections of the same equipment that is using ﬂuorocarbons as a coolant as well as executing legal and periodic inspections for devices with compressors that have 7.5kW or higher rated output. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry promotes the transition to products that do not use ﬂuorocarbons in accordance with the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing when replacing existing equipment or purchasing new equipment. ＜264＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Balance of Input & Output Balance of Input & Output The Sumitomo Forestry Group accurately understands how its business activities impact the environment and make evaluations and manage them in its environmental management. As such, data on environmental impact is collected at each stage from energy and raw material input to manufacturing and disposal per plant and business to utilize them for reduction initiatives. Fiscal 2018 Sumitomo Forestry Group Material Balance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜265＞ About symbol for Independent assurance ＜266＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 R&D* * Subject: Tsukuba Research Institute Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜267＞ Forest Management* * Subjects: Forestry oﬃces (Hyuga, Niihama, Osaka, Mombetsu), seedling tree farming centers (Hyuga, Motoyama, Gero, Midori, Mombetsu) ＜268＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Manufacturing Business* Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜269＞ * Subjects: Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant and Imari Plant), Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (Shinshiro Plant and Tobishima Plant), Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI, Indonesia), Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI, Indonesia), Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk (SRP, Indonesia), AST Indonesia (AST, Indonesia), Nelson Pine Industries (NPIL, New Zealand), Vina Eco Board (VECO, Vietnam), Canyon Creek Cabinet Company (America), Japan Bio Energy, Okhotsk Bio Energy, Michinoku Bio Energy. ＜270＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Housing Business (Domestic)* * Boundary: Sumitomo Forestry Housing and Construction Division, Sumitomo Forestry Archi Techno Co., Ltd. (Design), Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. (Execution), Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. (Renovations), and Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. (Garden Landscaping/Greening) About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜271＞ Environment and Energy Business* * Subjects: Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation, Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Data Aggregation Scope and Method ＜272＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation (Balance of Input & Output) Boundaries (Organizational Range) Classiﬁcation Boundary All Business Activities All Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies R&D Tsukuba Research Institute Forestry oﬃces (Hyuga, Niihama, Osaka, Mombetsu), seedling tree farming centers Forest Management (Hyuga, Motoyama, Gero, Midori, Mombetsu) Sumitomo Forestry Crest (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant and Imari Plant), Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (Shinshiro Plant and Tobishima Plant), Japan Bio Energy, Manufacturing Facilities Okhotsk Bio Energy, Michinoku Bio Energy, Rimba Partikel Indonesia, AST Indonesia, Kutai Timber Indonesia, Nelson Pine Industries, Vina Eco Board, Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk and Canyon Creek Cabinet Company Power Generation Business Mombetsu Biomass Electric Power Co., Hachinohe Biomass Electric Power Co. Sumitomo Forestry (Housing and Construction Division), Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech, Housing Business (Domestic) Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping, Sumitomo Forestry Archi Techno Oﬃces and other sites Sumitomo Forestry and Group companies other than the above All Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies Prerequisites Classiﬁcation Prerequisites Energy/CO2 Energy use and CO2 emissions at research institutes Raw Materials Raw materials used during research and development R&D Water Water used during research and development Waste Waste produced during research and development Energy use and CO2 emissions from harvesting and seedbed Energy/CO2 production at Company-owned forests Raw materials use during harvesting and seedbed Raw Materials production at Company-owned forests Forest Management Water use from harvesting and seedbed production at Water Company-owned forests Waste produced during harvesting and seedbed production Waste at Company-owned forests Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜273＞ Classiﬁcation Prerequisites Energy/CO2 Energy use and CO2 emissions at each plant Raw materials used during production of wood products, Raw Materials construction materials and horticulture Manufacturing Facilities Water used during production of wood products, Water construction materials and horticulture Waste produced during production of wood products, Waste construction materials and horticulture Energy/CO2 Energy use and CO2 emissions at power generation plants Raw Materials Raw materials used during power generation Power Generation Business Water Water used during power generation Waste Waste produced during power generation Energy use and CO2 emissions for business sites (including Energy/CO2 model homes) related to the housing business Raw Materials Materials invested in housing construction Housing Business (Domestic) Water Water use at business sites related to the housing business Waste emitted from housing construction (including Waste renovations) and demolition Energy use and CO2 emissions at Sumitomo Forestry and other business sites of Group companies not related to Energy/CO2 domestic or overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Water use at Sumitomo Forestry and other business sites of Oﬃces and other sites Water Group companies not related to domestic or overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Waste produced at Sumitomo Forestry and other business sites of Group companies not related to domestic or Waste overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Aggregation Method CO2: Refer to the pages below Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation Waste: Calculating Emissions with Data Collected from Manifests ＜274＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation Boundary of CO2 Emissions (Organizational Range) The amount of CO2 emissions published in this report is an aggregation for companies throughout the Group, including all consolidated subsidiaries in and outside of Japan unless otherwise noted. Furthermore, the boundaries of calculating CO2 emissions by scope are as shown below. Scope 1, 2 and 3 All Group companies, including consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and oversea. * For scope 3, the boundary was expanded to include the entire Sumito Forestry Group in ﬁscal 2017 from Japan * Performance of Mark Ⅲ and Crescent Communities Group were included in the statistical scope, following new equity acquisition from ﬁscal 2018. List of Applicable Companies Scope 1 CO2 Emissions The CO2 emissions both inside and outside of Japan are calculated by using heat conversion, carbon dioxide emission coeﬃcients stipulated in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and average value of emission coeﬃcient measured at the biomass power plant. Wood waste used for energy in manufacturing plants is included in the heat conversion calculation for input energy since ﬁscal 2017. Scope 2 CO2 Emissions The CO2 emissions caused by use of purchased electricity in Japan are calculated by the carbon dioxide emission coeﬃcient for each power provider in each ﬁscal year stipulated in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. The CO2 emissions due to the use of purchased heat are calculated by the CO2 emission coeﬃcient stipulated in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. The CO2 emissions caused by use of purchased electricity overseas in ﬁscal 2018 are calculated by the carbon dioxide emission coeﬃcient of each country according to the IEA Emission Factors 2018 issued by the International Energy Agency (IEA). Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜275＞ Scope 3 CO2 Emissions Category 1. Purchased goods and services (Portion of outside contracts during construction of wooden detached houses) ∑ (energy use during on-site construction per home × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient by energy) × Portion of outside contracts used in houses completed in the current ﬁscal year (Purchased products) ∑ (Amount of procured product or sales × Emissions per weight or per price) Overseas companies handling timber and building materials: Sales per unit of housing in Japan is calculated and multiplied to the sales of each overseas company. Domestic companies handling timber and building materials: Sales per unit of timber and building materials in the Timber & Building Materials Business is calculated and multiplied to the sales of each aﬃliate company. Category 2. Capital goods ∑ (Capital goods procurement value by all Group companies × Per unit emissions by industrial division) Category 3. Fueland energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) (Procurement) ∑ (Energy and water use × Per unit emissions of energy) (Transport from retailers) * The target of calculations is the use on operational sites such as plants ∑ (Energy use (weight conversion) × Estimated transport distance × Per unit use of fuel in ton-kilometers × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient) * Calculation based on transportation scenario Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution (Transport in Japan) ∑ (Amount procured by each plant ×Estimated transport distance ×Per unit use of fuel in ton-kilometers × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient) CO2 emissions related to owner shipments (value to report based on the energy saving law; however, this excludes waste transport) * Waste transport is included in Category 5 (Transport by sea) ∑ (Amount of import products procured × Distance to transport by sea from the country of procurement × Per unit emissions of ship transport) Category 5. Waste generated in operations ∑ (Amount of emissions by type of waste × Per unit emissions by the type of waste or processing method) ＜276＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Category 6. Business travel Number of employees of all Group companies × Per unit emissions during business trips Category 7. Employee commuting (Type of transportation: Train/bus) Number of employees of all Group companies × Per unit emissions during commute * Per unit emissions during commute: Calculated from the emissions during commute for the past three years (2013, 2014, 2015) of Group companies in Japan (Type of transportation: Automobile) Number of employees of all Group companies × Per unit emissions during commute by automobiles * Per unit emissions during commute: Calculated by dividing the costs of commuting by automobiles by average unit price of gasoline of that ﬁscal year, and then multiplying the emission coeﬃcient of burning gasoline * Emissions during commute using employee-owned vehicles is included in Scope 1 Category 9. Downstream transportation and distribution (Wood yard pick up such as the plywood or ﬁberboard that is sold) ∑ (Sales volume × Estimated transport distance × Per unit fuel use in ton-kilometer × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient) * Calculation based on transportation scenario Category 10. Processing of sold products (Plywood work and Precut factories) ∑ (Sales volume of crude wood and processed materials × Per unit emissions during processing) * Per unit is based on the LCA procurement implemented in the past by the company Category 11. Use of sold products (CO2 emissions during habitability) ∑ (Annual energy use per household × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient by energy) × Number of households × Number of houses completed by construction method for ﬁscal 2017 * Emissions related to renovations are omitted because there is a possibility to count a portion of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions twice for aﬃliate companies engaged in the renovations business (Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd.) * Energy use per household (electricity/city gas)︓ In Japan : Calculated by using the Building Research Instituteʼs energy consumption performance calculator program Overseas: Average of dividing amount of fuel and electricity used per state released by the government by number of households Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜277＞ Category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products (CO2 emissions during demolition) ∑ (Fuel use during demolition per household × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient by fuel) × Number of houses completed for the current ﬁscal year * Fuel use during demolition per household (diesel/gasoline): Estimated based on sample surveys related to the fuel use in model house demolition conducted by Sumitomo Forestry in 2006 (CO2 emissions during disposal (including transport)) ∑(Amount of waste during demolition per household × Per unit emissions by volume reduction rate , disposal rate , recycling rate for each type of waste × Per unit emissions by type of waste or processing method) × Number of houses completed in the current ﬁscal year * Amount of waste during demolition per household: The amount of waste produced during demolition annually by Sumitomo Forestry Group for ﬁscal 2016 is calculated by converting the equivalent building weight of the standard plan (ﬂoor area:147m²) of Sumitomo Forestry for ﬁscal 2010 Category 15. Investments ∑ (Scope 1 and 2 emissions from companies the Group invests × Equity interest of Sumitomo Forestry Group) * Scope 1 and 2 emissions are the public values from the company the Group invests or the values released in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures ＜278＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Responding to TCFD Responding to TCFD Established by the direction of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in April 2015, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) issued its ﬁnal report in June 2017. At Sumitomo Forestry Group, our Sustainability Committee, tasked with taking up the medium to long-term ESG challenges, has undertaken this as one of its agenda items, recognized the risks associated with climate change as serious risks, and announced its support to the TCFD in July 2018. Based on the TCFD recommendations, scenario analysis was begun the same year. Identifying and Evaluating Risks and Opportunities In business operations in which we position wood as our principal material and product, a major transitional business risk that we face is the increase in timber procurement costs associated with measures against illegal logging such as reinforced regulations. Examples of physical risks include the increased costs associated with increasingly intense natural disasters, which cause delayed construction processes and require checking on safety at homes already delivered. At the same time, the advance of regulations against fossil fuels provide a boost (opportunities) for our biomass energy generation operations business and demand for fuels made from wood chips. Our corporate headquarters has worked with each business department to identify the risks and opportunities and to evaluate the ﬁnancial and other impacts. We discuss measures to take with respect to the items identiﬁed as critical risks and opportunities, and report them to the Sustainability Committee, chaired by the president and executive oﬃcer. Moving forward, we will increase the accuracy of our scenario analyses and discuss how to reﬂect them in our business planning, while moving forward with the creation of business strategies for the resilience that will see us through into the future. Governance Risk Management Framework Climate Change and Biodiversity-related Risks and Strategies Climate Change and Biodiversity-related Opportunities and Strategies Expanding Housing Sales in Concert with Government ZEH Promotion Japan has launched policy targets that aim for more than half of all custom-built detached houses constructed by housing manufacturers and other companies to be ZEH compliant by 2020 as a countermeasure global warming approved by Cabinet decision in May 2016. Working in concert with this policy, Sumitomo Forestry is promoting ZEH housing sales while also leveraging the appeal of Double Power Generation that distinguishes our ZEH homes by using both solar panel cells and fuel cell batteries for residential use. This gives us a competitive edge that is boosting our ZEH market share. Promotion of Net Zero Energy House (ZEH) Speciﬁcations Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜279＞ Expanding Renewable Energy Demand The need for renewable energy sources such as biomass power generation and solar power generation is increasing as a means of countering climate change. By moving forward with our renewable energy business, we are able to increase our revenue from energy sales. These eﬀorts include our wood biomass power generation business, which had expanded to four domestic locations by March 2019. Once the Kanda Biomass Power Generation Plant, slated for completion in 2021, begins operation, the Group will have a total power generation capacity of roughly 177MW, which will supply electricity to approximately 378,000 households. Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Through the Renewable Energy Business Response to ESG Evaluation (Impact on Capital Procurement) The ﬁnal TCFD recommendations have resulted in ﬁnancial markets seeking climate change countermeasures. While climate change can be addressed through business operations, appropriate information disclosure can increase trust from ﬁnancial institutions through improved corporate ESG evaluations, making smooth capital procurement possible. At Sumitomo Forestry, we engage in appropriate information disclosure and respond to inquiries and questionnaires, and have earned a place on the A List of the CDP Climate Change for three consecutive years. This gives us a high ESG evaluation. In 2018, we became the ﬁrst Japanese company to receive a Green Bond Pioneer Award from Climate Bonds Initiative. External Recognition The ﬁrst Japanese company to receive a Green Bond Pioneer Award Climate Change Countermeasure Indices and Targets At Sumitomo Forestry, our climate change countermeasures are driven by quantitative targets that are set each ﬁscal year by each department within each group company based on the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan indexes by which climaterelated risks and opportunities are evaluated and managed, as well as our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets. Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues ＜280＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Establishment and Certiﬁcation of Science Based Targets (SBT) As the impact of climate change becomes more urgent globally, companies are being asked to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases as a measure to counter global warming. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has announced the formulation of SBTi* and set new greenhouse gases reduction target for the entire Group in June 2017 and was certiﬁed as SBT in July 2018. Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs new SBT is as follows: 1. Scope 1&2: 21% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 2017 (base year) by 2030. 2. Scope 3: 16% reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions from Category 1 and Category 11 compared to 2017 (base year) by 2030. Sumitomo Forestry Group will further strengthen its energy-saving activities, promote use of renewable energy, and other initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate climate change based on the SBT. * The SBTi was established in 2015 as a collaboration of four organizations CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The SBTi deﬁnes and promotes best practice in science-based target setting, to help companies determine a pathway for reducing their emissions in line with what is required to keep global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures. In Japan, the Ministry of the Environment has translated this in Japanese as “Corporate 2℃ Target” and is supporting company eﬀorts. Toward to SBT Certiﬁcation Goals In July 2018, the Sumitomo Forestry Group greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets have been oﬃcially approved by international SBT initiative (SBTi). Its progress and results are explained below. Base Year FY2018 Rate of Change Target Details FY2017 t-CO2e % t-CO2e Scope 1&2: 21% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 2017 (base year) 369,785 381,613* 3.2 by 2030. Scope 3: 16% reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions from Category 1 and Category 8,895,066 9,009,596 1.3 11 compared to 2017 (base year) by 2030. * The ﬁscal 2018 increase in greenhouse gas emissions was caused by the start of full operations in April 2018 at the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation plant. Material Issue 3: The Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜281＞ Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Scope Based on the GHG Protocol Since ﬁscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has ascertained the volume of its CO2 emissions according to diﬀerent scopes*1 based on the GHG Protocol, a set of widely used international accounting tools for quantifying GHG emissions. In view of the increasing demand of renewable energy in recent years, the Sumitomo Forestry Group entered the biomass power generation business in 2011 and has begun operation of Okhotsk Bio Energy in December 2016 as a consolidated subsidiary. This power plant uses coal as supplemental fuel for smooth operation and maintenance while using wood leftover from logging as the primary fuel. Therefore, the total CO2 emissions in Scope 1 and 2 for ﬁscal 2018 at the Sumitomo Forestry Group were 381,613t-CO2e, a 3.2% increase compared to the previous year. In addition, when looking by business, our plants in Japan and the power generation business make up 56.9% while our plants overseas compose 29.0%. We started to calculate Scope 3 in ﬁscal 2013 and the targets for this calculation largely expanded in ﬁscal 2015 and ﬁscal 2017. Among these results, the impact in category 11, “emissions during use of detached houses sold,” is acknowledged to be a major factor, and the increase in residential and construction operations in ﬁscal 2020 of Net Zero Energy House (ZEH) projects is expected to reduce CO2 emissions volumes while the homes are in use. In the future, we will work to meet targets via SBT*2 in an eﬀort to take greenhouse gas emissions reduction to another level. *1 The GHG Protocol requires businesses to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions according to the following categories Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions of a company, including emissions from fuel consumption. E.g. CO2 emissions from the use of gasoline for company vehicles. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and heating. E.g. CO2 emissions from the use of electricity by oﬃces. Scope 3: GHG emissions occurring in the supply chain. E.g. CO2 emissions generated during the use of products sold. *2 Science Based Targets. These targets are set for companies to achieve reduction goals in-line with scientiﬁc knowledge to limit the raising average temperature around the world to 2°C or less. Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 Emission Trends * Electric power generation (Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation, Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation) ﬁgures are excluded. ＜282＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Scope 1 and 2 Breakdown by Business (FY2018) FY2018 Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Emissions Breakdown (Thousand t-CO2e) Domestic and Domestic Overseas Total Overseas Oﬃce Non-Oﬃce Non-Oﬃce Scope 1 28 213 22 264 Scope 2 16 11 90 118 Total 45 224 113 382 Scope 3 Emissions by Category Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜283＞ Scope 3 Emissions by Category (three years) (Thousand t-CO2e) Boundary of Emissions Category FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 included in the Category Emission from upstream of 1 Purchased products and services 1,228 2,543 2,625 products and purchased by Sumitomo services Forestry Emissions from upstream 61 71 72 2 Capital goods of purchased equipment Emissions from the 3 Fuels and energyupstream of purchased related activities 9*2 21*2 20*2 fuels, electricity, heat excluded from capacity, and water Scope 1 and 2 Emissions from Sumitomo Forestry distribution from suppliers of purchased 4 Transport and products and services in 268 420 433 deliver (upstream) (1) and emissions due to logistics services other than (1) for costs incurred by Sumitomo Forestry. 5 Waste generated Emissions from waste 10 8 8 through treatment and its transport businesses Emissions related to business trips of 6 Business trips employees such as use of 1 2 2 public transportation and accommodation Emissions from employee 7 Employee 3 5 5 commuting commute (Emissions from use of upstream leased property 8 Leased property such as oﬃce buildings, (Upstream) heavy machinery, vehicles, and facilities are included in Scope 1 or 2) 9 Transport and Emissions during transport deliver 7*2 106*2 107*2 of products sold (downstream) Emissions from processing 10 Processing of of raw wood into plywood 50 52 54 sold products as well as of sold precut processing of sold lumber Emissions during use of 11 Use of sold 2,054 6,352 6,384 homes sold products ＜284＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Boundary of Emissions Category FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 included in the Category Emissions from demolition 12 Disposal of sold and disposal of homes sold 42 47 48 products by the Company (Tenants must belong to 13 Leased property the Group and the ﬁgures (downstream) are included in Scope 1 and 2 of the Group) (excluded) 14 Franchised Emissions from the investees (based on the 91 90 117 15 Investment Company's proportional share) *1 Figures through ﬁscal 2016 are calculated domestically, and from ﬁscal 2017, they are calculated for overall Group companies. Some of the numerical values that are used are data such as that from the database published by the Ministry of the Environment. The data with greater accuracy will be obtained progressively in the future by requesting the provision of primary data. *2 From ﬁscal 2017, the estimated overseas transport distances have been set as follows. Short distance: 20 km; Medium distance: 500 km; Long distance: 1,000 km FY2018 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accrued From Corporate Activities Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜285＞ Emission Trends in Scope 1, 2, and 3 * The scope of calculation of Scope 3 expanded from the traditional three categories to ﬁfteen categories as of ﬁscal 2015. * The scope of calculation of Scope 3 expanded from the traditional domestic scope in Japan to the entire Sumitomo Forestry Group as of ﬁscal 2017. Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation About symbol for Independent assurance Energy Consumption from Business Activities The Sumitomo Forestry Group consumed 3,015,835 MWh* of energy in ﬁscal 2018. The energy consumption of the Group increased due to the start of trail and full-ﬂedge operations of the Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation and Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Businesses. The start of full operations at the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant makes up a dramatic amount of the rise in energy consumption, but this power consumption is forecast to decline from ﬁscal 2019. The energy consumption in business other than the power generation business has declined thanks to various energy-saving activities. * The Balance of Input & Output is calculated according to the TJ unit based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines issued by the Ministry of the Environment. Both are equivalently calculated for the amount of energy consumption. ＜286＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Energy Consumption Trends Over Four Years * Data for Alpine MDF Industries Ltd. has been excluded because the company was sold in March 2017. Reducing CO2 Emissions from Oﬃces At oﬃces, the Sumitomo Forestry Group CO2 emissions in ﬁscal 2018 were 30,455t-CO2, a 14.1% reduction compared to the base year (ﬁscal 2013) for the former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan (and a 4.4% year-on-year decrease). All business sites of Group companies in Japan are advancing the introduction of fuel-eﬃcient vehicles to make 503 of the 556 company-owned vehicles introduced during ﬁscal 2018 fuel-eﬃcient vehicles (for a 90.5% adoption rate of fuel-eﬃcient vehicles). In addition, the Group has encouraged employees who drive on the job at oﬃces and business sites of Group companies in Japan to participate in the Eco Training course run by the Japan Automobile Federation (JAF). The Group has also worked to reduce power consumption. In the Housing and Construction Division, power consumption has been reduced by moving to a “free address” oﬃce system (where personnel are not assigned to ﬁxed desks) to make more eﬃcient use of oﬃce space. In addition, the division has also proceeded to install solar power generation systems and LED lighting at its model homes and other business sites. The Group will continue to reduce CO2 emissions by such means as reducing prolonged working hours and raising awareness among employees. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜287＞ Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Reduce total CO2 emissions from all oﬃces of domestic and overseas consolidated companies by 7% compared to ﬁscal 2013 by ﬁscal 2020 Chiba Branch Narita Model Homes (Built-in Solar Panels) CO2 Emissions (t-CO2) from Oﬃces FY2013 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 FY (Baseline) (Results) (Results) (Results) (Target) Total CO2 emissions 35,440t-CO2 32,660t-CO2 31,871t-CO2 30,455t-CO2 31,407t-CO2 Compared to 2013 7.8％ 10.1％ 14.1％ 11.4％ Percentage Change reduction reduction reduction reduction Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results Reducing CO2 Emissions Outside Oﬃces To address CO2 emissions collectively, the Group set manufacturing plants of Sumitomo Forestry Crest and the AgroProducts division of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (formerly Sumirin Agro-Products Co.), as well as Tsukuba Research Institute, the Tokyo Metropolitan Area Recycling Center, Sumirin Fill Care (formerly Fill Care Co.), Kawanokita Development, and Japan Bio Energy as domestic non-oﬃce category constituents, as well as overseas manufacturing plants of RPI, ASTI, KTI, VECO, NPIL, SRP, and CCC in addition to OBT, and Canyon Creek as overseas non-oﬃce category constituents with their respective reduction targets. In ﬁscal 2018, the start of full operations at Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation caused an increase of 2.8%. ＜288＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Set company-speciﬁc reduction targets for CO2 emissions; i.e. over 1% average percent per-unit emission reduction between ﬁscal 2015 to 2020 Major Non-Oﬃce CO2 Emission Reduction Performance and Targets (Per-unit Emissions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Company Name (Results) (Results) (Results) (Target) Sumitomo Forestry Crest 4.5％ 4.1％ 2.2％ 3.0％ Co., Ltd. reduction reduction increase increase The Agro-Products division of Sumitomo Forestry 54.6％ 0.6％ 1.6％ 11.7％ Landscaping (formerly increase reduction increase reduction Sumirin Agro-Products Co.) PT. Rimba Partikel 15.8％ 9.6％ 1.2％ 0.5％ Indonesia (RPI) increase reduction reduction reduction 16.0％ 9.0％ 20.6％ 4.1％ PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI) increase increase increase reduction PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia 3.1％ 10.8％ 4.3％ 0.8％ (KTI) increase reduction increase increase Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. 0.7％ 5.8％ 0.2％ 23.7％ (NPIL) reduction reduction increase increase Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. 5.4％ 38.0％ 10.6％ 23.9％ (VECO) reduction increase reduction reduction * Increases and decreases are in reference to respective previous years. Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results Reducing CO2 Emissions from Transportation Under the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy in Japan, consigners*1 are required to reduce per-unit energy consumption by an annual average of 1% or more in the medium to long term in relation to the transportation of goods. Sumitomo Forestry and Sumitomo Forestry Crest fall under the category of “speciﬁed consigner” (annual freight transportation volume is 30 million ton-km*2 or more), obligating them to submit reports to the Japanese Government. Sumitomo Forestry therefore sets a target each ﬁscal year to reduce per-unit energy consumption*3 in transportation by 1% or more compared to the previous year. Sumitomo Forestry Crest also sets targets to reduce per-unit energy consumption compared to the previous year. In ﬁscal 2018, Sumitomo Forestry's per-unit energy consumption was 93.3% compared to the previous year and Sumitomo Forestry Crest's was 98.3%. Ongoing eﬀorts will be made to reduce CO2 emissions through cooperation with transportation partners on such measures as improving loading eﬃciency, shifting from land to sea transportation, and utilizing the return leg of construction material deliveries to transport waste. *1 Cosigners as deﬁned in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in Japan is someone who transports cargo to carriers for our businesses *2 Freight transportation volume (ton-kilometers) = freight weight (tons) × distance travelled (km) *3 Sumitomo Forestry measures energy consumption per unit of volume handled. Sumitomo Forestry Crest measures energy consumption per unit of net sales Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜289＞ Energy Consumption From Transportation, CO2 Emissions and Energy Consumption Per-Unit (FY2018 Performance) Energy Use (Crude Oil Energy Consumption CO2 Emissions Equivalent) Per Unit 0.00174kL/m³ Sumitomo Forestry 2,550kL 6,821t-CO2 (Ratio to Previous FY: 93.3%) Sumitomo Forestry 79kL/1,000 Yen 1,953kL 5,188t-CO2 Crest Co., Ltd. (Ratio to Previous FY: 98.3%) Establishment of an Eﬃcient Delivery Sumitomo Forestry is reducing the CO2 emissions in its transportation processes by bringing together Sumitomo Forestry Home houses from multiple manufactures momentarily at relay centers in 28 locations throughout Japan with a system to consolidate and transport shipments. Home Eco Logistics takes on logistics operations for the Sumitomo Forestry Group with the housing business at the core and also actively puts forward proposals for eﬃcient logistics operations to material manufacturers, housing manufacturers, housing construction companies and building material distributors. In ﬁscal 2018, we contracted as consultants to provide two construction materials operators with proposals for more eﬃcient internal warehousing operations and inventory management rationalization. As of March 2019, Home Eco Logistics had provided logistics operations to more than 56 client companies. In the future, we will actively strive in cooperative distribution through multiple companies because of insuﬃcient shipment capacity forecast due to a decrease in the amount of new housing construction. ＜290＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Waste Reduction and Recycling The Sumitomo Forestry Group makes eﬀorts in attaining zero emissions and reducing industrial waste generated at the same time as promoting reuse and recycling for each operational process in accordance with the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policies in order to build a sustainable environment. In ﬁscal 2018, overall Sumitomo Forestry Group emissions volume was up 6.9%. However, new housing construction site waste processing operations under expanded areas covered by the inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation helped reduce the ﬁnal processing volume by 11.0%. We will continue to strive to eﬀectively use resources in the future. Trends in Waste Generated and Recycling Rate Over the Last Five Years * Data for Alpine MDF Industries Ltd. (Alpine) has been excluded because the company was sold in March 2017. Initiatives to Achieve Zero Emissions The Sumitomo Forestry Group promotes zero emissions initiatives by mitigating generation and reusing and recycling of industrial waste with intention to reduce the environmental burden and enhance eﬀective use of resources. The Groupʼs Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan ended in ﬁscal 2014 deﬁned “zero emissions” as no incineration or landﬁll of industrial waste (recycling rate of 98% or more) generated by domestic manufacturing facilities and new housing construction sites. Based on this deﬁnition, the Group achieved zero emissions at domestic manufacturing facilities (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co. and Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping [formerly Sumirin Agro-Products Co.]) in ﬁscal 2009. As for new housing construction sites, including exterior landscaping, the Group achieved zero emissions in the Tokyo metropolitan area in ﬁscal 2012. Since ﬁscal 2015, the Group has been adhering to the former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan with its target year of ﬁscal 2020 while continuously working towards zero emissions. From ﬁscal 2019, we are working to achieve zero emissions in keeping with the new Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, with a target year of ﬁscal 2021. Within the Mid-Term Sustainability Targets, we take factors such as the state of progress of business activities and the resulting waste generation into account, Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜291＞ establishing the following seven categories for a more ﬁnely diﬀerentiated eﬀort to achieve zero emissions than in the MidTerm CSR Management Plan. These categories are: New Housing Construction Sites, Domestic Production Plants, Power Generation Business, Renovation Business, Lifestyle Service Business, Overseas Manufacturing Plants, and Demolition Work sites. Eﬀorts at New Housing Construction Sites We work to reduce waste generated at Sumitomo Forestryʼs new housing construction sites. At monthly meetings of our Waste Reduction Working Group, leaders of sub-groups raise and share issues while managing progress toward meeting targets. Eﬀorts to reduce waste have included the use of the bare minimum necessary packaging materials and reusable protective material for ﬂooring. Moving forward, we plan to promote the use of precut construction materials of all kinds for further progress in waste reduction. In the Tokyo metropolitan area, the Company obtained inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation, whereupon we established the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center, and implemented streamlined sorting of waste. In ﬁscal 2018, new housing construction site waste processing operations under expanded areas covered by the inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation helped improve the recycling rate by 1.7% from the previous year. Recycling Rate at New Housing Construction Sites (Housing and Construction Division, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping, Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering) ＜292＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Breakdown of Waste Generated by Disposal Process for New Housing Construction Sites (FY2018) Breakdown of Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites (FY2018) About symbol for Independent assurance Initiatives at Domestic Manufacturing Facilities Sumitomo Forestry Group managed to achieve zero emissions (recycling rates of over 98%) again at all plants in ﬁscal 2018 as a result of each plant continuing with eﬀorts to reduce waste emissions, for example by tightening the sorting of industrial waste and selling it for a proﬁt. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜293＞ Recycling Rates at Domestic Manufacturing Plants (Sumitomo Forestry Crest, the Agro-Products division of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping, Japan Bio Energy, Okhotsk Bio Energy, Michinoku Bio Energy) Breakdown of Waste Generated at Domestic Manufacturing Plants (FY2018) About symbol for Independent assurance ＜294＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Power Generation Business Initiatives In power generation business operations, incineration ash emitted by biomass boilers is blended with quicklime for reuse primarily as a forest roadbed material. In ﬁscal 2018, it was manufactured under the product name Rovander, and received approval as a Hokkaido Government-certiﬁed Recycled Product. Breakdown of Waste Generated at Power Generation Business Operations (FY2018) (Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation, Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜295＞ Renovation Business Initiatives We are working to reduce waste generated by renovation sites by using protective materials as well as other measures to mitigate waste generation. In ﬁscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. began recycling wood waste materials generated at its renovation sites. Our eﬀorts to use resources eﬀectively include recycling wood waste as raw material for particle board. The recycling rate in ﬁscal 2018 was 74.3%. The Mid-Term Sustainability Targets set the target of an 80% recycling rate to be achieved by ﬁscal 2021. Breakdown of Waste Generated at Renovation Business Operations (FY2018) (Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech) ＜296＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Initiatives at Lifestyle Service Business, Housing-Related Materials Sales*, etc. At waste-generating locations of enterprises such as Lifestyle Service Business and housing materials sales, initiatives to reduce amounts of waste generated are implemented at a department level. * Housing materials sales comprise distribution and renovation operations, Tsukuba Research Institute, etc. Breakdown of Waste Generated by Lifestyle Service Business, Housing-related Materials Sales, etc. (FY2018) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜297＞ Initiatives at Overseas Manufacturing Plants We are working toward zero emissions at our ﬁve main manufacturing companies outside Japan*. Kutai Timber Indonesia collects wood waste generated during the particle board manufacturing process and reuses it as boiler fuel or in wood building materials. In ﬁscal 2018, the total volume of waste produced was 240,283t, with a ﬁnal waste processing volume of 6,002t and a recycling rate of 97.5%. The 2021 Mid-Term Sustainability Goals set the target of a 98% recycling rate. * Indonesia: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, and PT. AST Indonesia New Zealand: Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. Vietnam: Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. Breakdown of Waste Generated at Overseas Manufacturing Plants (FY2018) About symbol for Independent assurance ＜298＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Eﬀorts at Demolition Housing Sites Sumitomo Forestry was promoting resource recycling even before the enactment of the Construction Material Recycling Law implemented in 2002 by ensuring that materials were properly sorted during demolition prior to the construction of a new house and that waste remained sorted for processing afterwards. Since the enactment in 2002, the Company has recycled the items required under the Law (wood waste, concrete, etc.), sorting them at the sites where the waste is generated. The recycling rate* for concrete and metal waste was almost 100% in ﬁscal 2018, as it was the previous year. A 100% recycling rate was achieved for wood waste through measures including the thorough removal of extraneous matter. The 2021 Mid-Term Sustainability Goals set the target of a 98% recycling rate for construction materials speciﬁed under the Construction Material Recycling Law and metals as well as at construction areas that the Law does not apply to (total ﬂoor area of 80m² or less). * Recycling rate calculation includes metals in addition to construction materials speciﬁed under the Construction Material Recycling Law (concrete, asphalt-concrete and wood waste) and metals. Breakdown of Demolition Waste Generated (FY2018) About symbol for Independent assurance Education for New Construction and Demolition Contractors Demolition contractors report about industrial waste to the Housing and Construction Division from the start of demolition work to its completion, recording the work according to a manual. The Housing and Construction Division comprehensively checks these reports and, if there are any inconsistencies, education and comprehension tests about industrial waste are conducted for new construction contractors with monthly construction contractor meetings as an important management branch to conﬁrm their capabilities. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜299＞ Recycling of Wood Resources into Chips The Sumitomo Forestry Group contributes to resource recycling through its wood chip operations, whereby oﬀcuts generated during the timber milling process and wood waste from new housing construction and demolition sites are turned into wood chips to be used as a raw material for products such as paper and particle board, and also as a fuel for powergenerating boilers or other equipment. In ﬁscal 2019, we aim to further increase the volume we handle for use as fuel in order to meet the growing demand for fuel used in biomass power generation. Handling Volume of Wood Chips * Data category adjustments resulted in revision of ﬁgures for ﬁscal 2016 and 2017. About symbol for Independent assurance ＜300＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Eﬀective Utilization of Used Activated Carbon from Water Puriﬁcation Plants The Tokyo Metropolitan Government (TMG) Bureau of Waterworks uses an advanced water treatment system combining ozonation and the use of biological activated carbon. The Agro-Products division of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (formerly Sumirin AgroProducts Co.) is making eﬀective use of this used activated carbon to develop and market potting media for agriculture and horticulture and a soil improvement agent for greening. Joint research conducted with the TMG found that these items were eﬀective in promoting plant growth, and the two parties applied for a joint patent based on the research results. The amount of used activated carbon in ﬁscal 2018 was 3,620m³, up 44.8% compared to the previous ﬁscal year. In ﬁscal 2019, Tane Baido and Karuido products that use activated carbon are expected to perform favorably with an estimate of 4,300m³, an 18.8% increase compared to ﬁscal 2018. Used activated carbon and farming-garden products made from it Endorsement of “Kanagawa Zero Plastic Waste Declaration” in Response to Plastic Waste The problem of plastic waste in the oceans is internationally acknowledged as an extremely serious environmental problem for the major impact it exerts on aquatic ecosystems and human lives. On February 12, 2019, the Yokohama Branch Oﬃce, representing the ﬁve oﬃces*1 it manages in the Kanagawa Prefecture area, announced its endorsement of the “Kanagawa Zero Plastic Waste Declaration”.*2 Eﬀorts spearheaded by the Shonan Branch Headquarters, which have included cleanup activities at the Shonan-Tsujido shoreline, will be stepped up in a collaborative Clean-up eﬀorts at the Shonan eﬀort by all ﬁve oﬃces. shore. *1 The Housing and Construction Division Yokohama, Yokohama-kita, Kanagawa-nishi, Shonan and Tokyo-minami Branches. *2 As an “SDGs Future City,” area, Kanagawa Prefecture announced its “Kanagawa Zero Plastic Wasted Declaration” as part of its speciﬁc SDG targets for a sustainable society, publicized as a “Message from the Whales” in September 2018. The project aims to achieve “zero plastic waste” by 2030 or earlier if possible by spreading eﬀorts among the municipalities, privatesector companies and residents of the prefecture to eliminate and collect plastic straws, shopping bags, etc. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜301＞ Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances and Appropriate Disposal Management of Chemical Substances Management of Chemical Substances at Plants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages chemical substances at each of three relevant Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. plants (Kashima Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant) in accordance with the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law related to promoting understanding, management, and reforms for designated chemical substance emissions to the environment in Japan. Management Table of Chemical Substances at Plants in Japan (FY2018) Total Released Total Transferred (kg/year) (kg/year) Name of Air Conversion Applicable Applicable Substance Total Use Chemical *For Outside into Company Department No. (kg/year) Landﬁll Substance VOC Water Soil Sewerage Plant Products Disposal regula Premises tions Sumitomo Methylene Forestry chloride 186 11,214 7,400 0 0 0 0 3,800 1 Crest Co., (dichlorome Ltd. Kashima thane) Plant Methy lenebis (4,1448 1,438 0 0 0 0 0 61 0 phenylene) diisocyanate Subtotal 12,652 7,400 0 0 0 0 3,861 1 Methylene Niihama chloride 186 4,810 3,500 0 0 0 0 1,300 0.6 Plant (dichlorome thane) Subtotal 4,810 3,500 0 0 0 0 1,300 0.6 Acrylic acid 4 and water12,495 0 0 0 0 0 0 12,495 soluble salts n-Butyl 7 8,659 0 0 0 0 0 24 8,635 acrylate 84 Glyoxal 2,940 0 0 0 0 0 6 2,934 Vinyl Imari Plant 134 2,226,166 2,400 97 0 0 0 41 2,223,676 acetate 349 Phenol 51,480 0 1 0 0 0 21 51,458 The watersoluble salts of 395 3,472 0 0 0 0 0 9 3,463 peroxy disulfuric acid ＜302＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Total Released Total Transferred (kg/year) (kg/year) Name of Air Conversion Applicable Applicable Substance Total Use Chemical *For Outside into Company Department No. (kg/year) Landﬁll Substance VOC Water Soil Sewerage Plant Products Disposal regula Premises tions Poly (Oxyethy lene) = 407 2,371 0 17 0 0 0 6 2,348 Alkylether (alkyl group: C12～C15) Formalde 411 160,306 48 0 0 0 0 310 159,951 hyde Methacrylic 415 834 0 0 0 0 0 0 834 acid Methy lenebis (4,1448 phenylene) 11,060 0 0 0 0 0 54 11,006 diisocy anate Subtotal 2,479,783 2,448 115 0 0 0 472 2,476,749 Total 2,497,245 13,348 115 0 0 0 5,633 2,476,750 About symbol for Independent assurance Management of Chemical Substances at Plants Overseas Chemical substances, including adhesives and coatings, in the table below are managed at overseas plants in accordance with the management regulations for chemical substances in each country. Management Table of Chemical Substances at Plants Overseas (FY2018) Total Total Released Transferred (kg/year) Applicable Name of Chemical Total Use (kg/year) Country Company Substance (kg/year) Air Waste * For VOC Waters, etc Processing regulations KTI Indonesia Adhesives at MA, UA, etc. 21,367,961 53,420 ASTI Indonesia Styrene, xylene, solvents 28,290 849 Isocyanate/ RPI Indonesia 552,091 0 formaldehyde NPIL New Zealand Formaldehyde 385,410 0 Isocyanate/formaldehyde, VECO Vietnam 234,097 27 3,040 0 etc. United States of CCC MEK, alcohols, etc 147,688 142,667 5,103 America Total 22,715,537 142,694 3,040 59,372 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜303＞ Management of Air Pollutants Management of Air Pollutants at Plants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group periodically conducts atmospheric emission concentration tests for dioxins, NOx, SOx, and smoke dust for each relevant plant at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co. (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant), the Shinshiro Plant at the Agro-Products division of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (formerly Sumirin Agro-Products Co.), and at the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant in accordance with the Air Pollution Control Act as well as local regulations. In ﬁscal 2018, emissions concentration testing results were all within the relevant standard values. Management Table of Air Pollutants at Plants in Japan (FY2018) (Baseline) Emissions to Applicable Applicable Measured Emissions Measured the Air Company Department Substances (kg/year) Concentration Unit (mg-TEQ) Sumitomo Kashima Plant Dioxin ng-TEQ/m³ 5 2.9 94 Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Dioxin ng-TEQ/m³ 5 0.64 2.3 (Baseline) Dry gas ﬂow Applicable Applicable Measured Emissions Measured rate Company Department Substances (kg/year) Concentration Unit (Nm³/h) SOx (Sulfur oxide) 52 ppm Less than 5 3,370 Niihama Plant NOx (Nitrogen (Waste Wood 822 ppm 350 110 3,370 oxide) Boiler) Sumitomo Soot and dust 51 g/Nm³ 0.3 0.014 3,370 Forestry Crest SOx (Sulfur oxide) 511 ppm 0.18 590 Co., Ltd. Niihama Plant NOx (Nitrogen (Heavy Oil 86 ppm 180 110 590 oxide) Boiler) Soot and dust 2.0 g/Nm³ 0.3 0.003 590 Imari Plant SOx (Sulfur oxide) 1,308 ppm The AgroSOx (Sulfur oxide) 48 ppm 49 10,300 Products division of Sumitomo Forestry NOx (Nitrogen Shinshiro Plant 728 ppm 200 40 10,300 Landscaping oxide) (formerly Sumirin AgroSoot and dust 213 g/Nm³ 0.2 0.024 10,300 Products Co.) SOx (Sulfur oxide) 152,906 ppm 373 8.2 189,000 NOx (Nitrogen Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant 269,575 ppm 250 89.7 189,000 oxide) Soot and dust 1,491 g/Nm³ 0.1 0.0027 189,000 SOx (Sulfur oxide) 267 ppm 32.3 0.01 71,790 Hachinohe Biomass Power NOx (Nitrogen 71,096 ppm 250 61.7 71,790 Generation Plant oxide) Soot and dust 0.0 g/Nm³ 0.3 0.0 71,790 About symbol for Independent assurance ＜304＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Air Pollutants at Plants Overseas At overseas plants, the Sumitomo Forestry Group measures the concentration of NOx, SOx and smoke dust in Indonesia and Vietnam as well as VOC emission in the United States of America in accordance with the regulations of each country and region. In ﬁscal 2018, emissions concentration testing results were all within the relevant standard values. Management Table of Air Pollutants at Plants Overseas (FY2018) (Baseline) Dry gas ﬂow Applicable Measured Country Measured Substances rate Company Concentration Unit (Nm³/h) CO (Carbon monoxide) µg/Nm³ 22,600 4,430 SOx (Sulfur oxide) µg/Nm³ 262 36 NOx (Nitrogen oxide) µg/Nm³ 92.5 60 KTI Indonesia H2S (Hydrogen sulﬁde) µg/Nm³ 42 8 NH3 (Ammonia) µg/Nm³ 1,360 137 O3 (Ozone) µg/Nm³ 200 34 Soot and dust mg/Nm³ 0.26 0.14 Below SOx (Sulfur oxide) mg/Nm³ 800 Detection RPI Indonesia Boundary NOx (Nitrogen oxide) mg/Nm³ 1,000 200 Soot and dust mg/Nm³ 350 341 CO (Carbon monoxide) µg/Nm³ 15,000 2,517 SOx (Sulfur oxide) µg/Nm³ 632 25 NOx (Nitrogen oxide) µg/Nm³ 316 33.4 Below H2S (Hydrogen sulﬁde) µg/Nm³ 0.02 Detection ASTI Indonesia Boundary NH3 (Ammonia) ppm 2.0 0.073 TSP (Debu Total) Total Suspended Particulate µg/Nm³ 230 131.4 Matter SOx (Sulfur oxide) mg/Nm³ 500 51.63 VECO Vietnam NOx (Nitrogen oxide) mg/Nm³ 850 158.76 Soot and dust mg/Nm³ 200 125.14 United States of Volatile organic compounds CCC 1bs 200,000 153,146 America (VOCs) Management of Water Pollutants Management of Water Pollutants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts periodic water quality concentration tests of waste water at all of the relevant plants at the Tsukuba Research Institute and Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant) in accordance with the Water Pollution Control Act of Japan. In ﬁscal 2018, emissions concentration testing results were all within the relevant standard values. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜305＞ Management Table of Water Quality at Plants in Japan (FY2018) Applicable Applicable (Baseline) Measured Test Items Company Department Unit Concentration pH 5～9 7.8 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L ＜ 600 7.3 Demand) COD mg/L SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L ＜ 600 8.25 Normal hexane extracts (mineral mg/L ≦5 1 oils) Normal hexane extracts (animal mg/L ≦ 30 1 and vegetable oils and fats) Tsukuba Research Iodine consumption mg/L ≦ 220 7.08 Sumitomo Forestry Institute Phenol content mg/L ≦5 ＜ 0.025 Cyanogen compound mg/L ≦1 ＜ 0.1 Copper content mg/L ≦3 ＜ 0.02 Zinc content mg/L ≦2 0.023 Soluble iron content mg/L ≦ 10 0.049 Soluble manganese content mg/L ≦ 10 ＜ 0.02 Benzene mg/L ≦ 0.1 ＜ 0.001 Boron and other compounds mg/L ≦ 10 0.05 Fluorine and other compounds mg/L ≦8 ＜ 0.17 pH 5.8～8.6 12.5 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 2.6 Kashima Plant Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 10.0 5.3 SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 10.0 1.0 pH 5.8～8.6 7.6 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L ≦ 160 28.0 Shizuoka Plant Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L Sumitomo Forestry SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L ≦ 200 ＜ 0.5 Crest Co., Ltd. pH 5.8～8.6 6.8 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L Niihama Plant Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 160 13 SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 200.0 4 pH 5.8～8.6 7.8 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L Imari Plant Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 70 31.9 SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 70 5.6 pH 5～9 7.5 1,000 mg/L or BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant mg/L less over ﬁve 3.4 Demand) days SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 1,000 2.8 Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant pH 5.8～8.6 7.5 ＜306＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management of Water Pollutants Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts concentration tests of water pollutants at overseas plants in accordance with the water quality regulations for waste water in each country. In ﬁscal 2018, emissions concentration testing results were all within the relevant standard values. Management Table of Water Quality at Plants Overseas (FY2018) Applicable Applicable (Baseline) Measured Test Items Company Department Unit Concentration pH 6～9 6.8 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 75.0 11.3 Demand) KTI Indonesia COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 125.0 39.5 TSS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 50.0 6.3 NH3-N (Ammonia concentration) mg/L 4.0 0.94 Fenol (Fenol concentration) mg/L 0.25 0.04 pH 6～9 7.6 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 75 6.5 Demand) RPI Indonesia COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 125 81.4 TSS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 50 20 NH3-N (Ammonia concentration) mg/L 4 0,16 Fenol (Fenol concentration) mg/L 0.25 ＜ 0,001 pH 6～9 7.3 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 50.0 7.0 Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 100.0 21.7 Soluble iron content mg/L 5 1.2 Soluble manganese content mg/L 2 0.6 Copper content mg/L 2 0.01 ASTI Indonesia Zinc content mg/L 5 0.1 Chromium hexavalent compound mg/L 0.1 ＜ 0.0001 Chromium compound mg/L 0.5 0.0014 Cadmium compound mg/L 0.05 0.0112 Lead compound mg/L 0.1 ＜ 0.0547 Hydrogen sulﬁde compound mg/L 0.05 0.0256 Nitrate compound mg/L 20 0.1782 Nitrite compound mg/L 1 0.0003 pH 5～9 6.9 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 100 49.0 Demand) VECO Vietnam COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 300 100.0 SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 200 23.0 Nitrogen compound mg/L 40 35.0 Phosphate compound mg/L 6 1.0 pH 6～9 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 2,350 2,006.0 NPIL New Zealand Demand) COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg/L 6,400 4928.8 SS (Suspended Solids) mg/L 650 436.1 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜307＞ Appropriate Disposal of Building Materials Containing Asbestos The Sumitomo Forestry Group has secured the proper disposal routes for asbestos. Sumitomo Forestry strives to prevent the spread of asbestos in the demolition work of residences through the formulation of the Guide for Appropriate Measures during Demolition Work. The Group is also engaged in proper disposal of asbestos in the buildings of each oﬃce based on the law. Proper Disposal of Building Materials Containing Asbestos We are also furthering the proper management and processing of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) contained in equipment such as spent high-voltage capacitors in accordance with the Act on Special Measures Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes. Disposal Status of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) Waste*1 Total Disposal in Total Disposal in Total Disposal in Applicable Company Applicable Facility FY2016 (kg)*1 FY2017 (kg)*1 FY2018 (kg)*1 Imari Plant 1,385 0 0 (Former) Nagoya Sumitomo Forestry Crest 0 44,190 0 Plant*2 Co., Ltd. (Former) Kyushu 8,570 0 0 Plant*2 Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd. 0 350 0 Subtotal 9,955 44,540 0 *1 The total disposal amount is based on the disposal notiﬁcation and includes the weight of the storage container. *2 The (Former) Nagoya Plant and the (Former) Kyushu Plant were closed in June 2015. Management Status of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB)*1 FY2018 Onward Applicable Company Applicable Facility Estimated Management Status Processing (Units) Sumitomo Forestry Crest (Former) Nagoya Plant*2 513 unit Stabilizers in storage Co., Ltd. ASTI ASTI Plants 169 kg Electrical Boards *1 The equipment included above is equipment currently in use or in storage which is being evaluated for processing *2 The (Former) Nagoya Plant was closed in end of June 2015. Management of Fluorocarbon Emissions The Sumitomo Forestry Group is managing ﬂuorocarbon emissions related to the ﬂuorocarbon gases that are used as coolants by equipment such as air-conditioning and refrigeration at aﬃliate companies, and for testing equipment at the Tsukuba Research Institute, through periodic inspections of ﬂuorocarbon emissions indicated in the table below in accordance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons enacted April 2015. ＜308＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Management Status of Fluorocarbon Emissions Calculated Fluorocarbon Location Fluorocarbons Filled Emissions (kg) Coeﬃcient Emissions (t/CO2) Sumitomo Forestry R410A 1.5 2,090 3 Tsukuba Research R404A 1.2 3,920 5 Institute R22 8.1 1,810 15 Total 23 * Fluorocarbon emissions are managed by the amount of ﬂuorocarbons ﬁlled at periodic inspections of the equipment Project for Soil Puriﬁcation Technology and Environmental Remediation Aided by Plants An issue in re-using the site of an old factory is the environmental impact associated with soil contamination and the cost burden of any remedial measures. For example, under the revised Fire Service Act of Japan, gasoline stations are now obliged to repair any underground tanks that have lain under the ground for more than 40 years, and as a consequence of this, it is expected that between 1,000 and 2,000 stations will close down each year. In order to meet the demand for environmental remediation and measures dealing with soil contamination, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been working on cleansing Grass laid on the site where a contaminated soil by using the functions of plants (phytoremediation). As part of this, gasoline station once stood during ﬁscal 2012, in collaboration with JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy (JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation at the time), the Group developed a method for purifying soil contaminated with oil using Burning Field, a variety of Japanese lawn-grass independently registered by the Group. One of the functions possessed by the variety of Japanese lawn-grass used in this method is that the nutrients transpiring from its roots activate microorganisms in the soil, and the upshot of this is that it has the potential to inexpensively reduce the oil content in polluted soil. This method has been adopted at nine sites so far to purify areas where gasoline stands or oil depots once stood, with puriﬁcation at three sites now complete. In ﬁscal 2013 and 2014, the Ministry of the Environment conducted a study on lowcost, low-impact technologies for surveying and for counteracting contaminated soil in addition to presenting the Environmental Measures Exemplary Eﬀorts Awards (Minister of the Environment Award) in 2013. The study found that oil-degrading microorganisms tend to become more active, and were recognized as having potential to be applied at sites heavily contaminated with oil. Received the Good Design Award in October 2018 from the Japan Institute of Design Promotion. Moving forward, by steadily producing results in soil puriﬁcation based on this technique, the Group will continue to help resolve the nationwide problem of oil contamination. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜309＞ Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation Declaration of Biodiversity and Biodiversity Action Guidelines Sumitomo Forestry established its policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-owned Forests in Japan in ﬁscal 2006, and its Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in ﬁscal 2007. The Company also revised its Environmental Policies in ﬁscal 2007 to incorporate biodiversity considerations. Then in March 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group established its Declaration of Biodiversity, setting out the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs understanding of and stance on biodiversity; Biodiversity Action Guidelines, specifying an internal set of guidelines; and Biodiversity Long-Term Targets as speciﬁc goals of activity. In July 2015, the Group initiated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies*, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Action Guidelines. Therefore, the eﬀorts in biodiversity are also operated based on the policies integrated in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy. * The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Environmental Philosophy in 1994 and the Environmental Policies in 2000. Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Long-Term Biodiversity Targets As well as advancing biodiversity conservation initiatives, the Group established its Long-Term Biodiversity Targets in March 2012 as a way of contributing to the international community in respect to attainment of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets adopted at the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10) in 2010. Rough schedules for achieving each of the long-term targets were put in place covering the period up until 2020 and serve as a guideline for advancing initiatives. The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Long-term Biodiversity Targets (summary) Group-wide Targets 1. (Aim to achieve sustainable forests) In all timber-related businesses, from upstream to downstream, we will work to prevent a reduction in forest areas and pursue forest sustainability. We will strive to regenerate forests through reforestation and natural regeneration and logging a planned, sustainable manner that takes into account the forestʼs ability to grow. We will increase the procurement and use of sustainable timber, such as forest certiﬁed timber, plantation forest timber and Japanese timber. We will promote the eﬃcient use as well as the recycling and reuse of timber. 2. (Increase the amount of CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber) By cultivating healthy forests and promoting the use of timber through the greater use of timber construction materials and the construction of wooden buildings, we will strive to increase the amount of CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber to contribute to the protection of biodiversity and the alleviation of climate change. ＜310＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Individual Targets 3. (Forests) We will promote forest management that regenerates, maintains and increases biodiversity. We will carry out zoning to protect ecosystems and the habitats of living creatures. We will ensure that in terms of area, 20% or more of our Company-owned forests in Japan are environment forests that emphasize environmental protection. We will maintain that 100% Company-owned forests remain forest-certiﬁed. We will maintain and increase biodiversity at our operation sites based on results of our biodiversity monitoring of Company-owned forests in Japan. We will conduct operations at plantation forests overseas while considering how best to contribute to local communities, economies and education. 4. (Products) We will provide products and services that take into account biodiversity, such as forest-certiﬁcation and products and services that have undergone environmental assessment. 5. (Construction) We will work to develop homes and communities that are in harmony with the natural environment and their surrounding urban landscapes. 6. (Design) We will manage and minimize the generation of waste by promoting a zero-emissions policy in building and construction. 7. (Greening) We will be considerate to the surrounding ecosystems and tree species and actively cultivate native species. 8. (Plants) We will manage and minimize pollutants, waste and noise, and reduce their impact on biodiversity. 9. (Public relations) We will actively communicate the importance of biodiversity to all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, and local communities. 10. (Research) We will gather the latest information and develop conservation technologies to implement biodiversity initiatives. 11. (Social contribution) We will protect trees that are historically and culturally important and also preserve their genetic material. Company Structure for Biodiversity Conservation In accordance with our environmental management structure, the Representative Director and President is the person in charge of Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs biodiversity conservation initiatives, and the Executive Oﬃcer in charge of the Sustainability and the General Manager of the Sustainability Division manage Sumitomo Forestry Group company activities. Commitment to Protected Areas To manufacture and secure timber resources, Sumitomo Forestry owns or manages many forests both in Japan and overseas. None of these forests is located in areas designated as world heritage sites. Furthermore, we have not and will not operate in areas designated as world natural heritage sites. Regardless of land ownership, national parks in Japan, which has a small land area, operate under the Regional Natural Park System and many national parks include private property. A portion of Sumitomo Forestryʼs Company-owned forests are located inside national park areas, and as is the case for other areas designated as protected forests or other, we operate in strict compliance with all legal regulations. Furthermore, in terms of risk assessment, in areas determined to be important from a biodiversity perspective, we not only strictly adhere to all legal regulations, also work to mitigate our impact through reevaluation, minimization, revitalization, oﬀsetting and other eﬀorts. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜311＞ We manage approximately 48,000 hectares of Company-owned forests in Japan and approximately 230,000 hectares of forests overseas. These managed forests are categorized as environmental forests, economic forests and other. Both in Japan and overseas, a nature conservation area is created according to its categorization as an environmental forest or protected forest and operations in such areas are not permitted in principle. Speciﬁcally, at the operation site of the Indonesian aﬃliated company PT. Wana Subur Lestari (hereinafter, WSL), we concluded an advisory contract with International Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank Group organization, to designate High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF). These protected areas account for over 20% of our operating land, higher than the 17% goal for protected regions set out in the Aichi Biodiversity Targets. Evaluation of Stakeholder Initiatives At WSL, we worked jointly with IFC to survey our operation sites as part of the process of designating HCVF, and investigated if operation site land-use plans were appropriately implemented and if adequate consideration to biodiversity and the lifestyle of local residents was given. Based on the results of these surveys, we hold stakeholder meetings (with local residents, surrounding companies, academics, NGOs, government oﬃcials) to exchange opinions. In addition, in our urban greening business, we obtain third-party evaluations by actively encouraging our customers to register for “Ikimono Kyozon Jigyousho” certiﬁcation set by the Association for Business Innovation in Harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) or the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) green certiﬁcation implemented by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. Support of Related Initiatives and Cooperation with Organizations Sumitomo Forestry participates in many organizations that are actively involved in biodiversity conservation. The president of Sumitomo Forestry serves as vice chairman of the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation, made up of Keidanren member companies. In addition, employees are temporarily assigned to serve as secretariat members and committee members are dispatched to the planning task force, which is in charge of operations. We also participate in Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), made up of companies passionate about biodiversity, and conduct joint research on corporate biodiversity initiatives in numerous subcommittee meetings. In the Double 20 Project in Japan to achieve the targets for Aichi, we have registered three projects as of June 2016; The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Long-term Targets, Sumitomo Forestry-owned Forest Operations Friendly to Biodiversity, and the Environmental Education Program at Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Project. These three projects are highly praised for many reasons that include the creation of many independent links, content with a great impact that utilizes the features of the company in its eﬀorts and for the ripple eﬀects to related industries that can be expected thanks to the relationship outlined with Aichi targets. In March 2017, these projects were bundled and recognized as a business tie-up with the Japan Committee for United Nations Development Business (UNDB-J; 10th). Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. is actively striving toward the registration of certiﬁcations in the JBIB Guidelines for Sustainable Business Sites promoted by the Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) and the SEGES Green Certiﬁcation promoted by the Organization for Landscape and urban Green Infrastructure for properties undertaken with the environmental greening business. Moreover, the chairman of Sumitomo Forestry acts as the chairman of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. Sumitomo Forestry Group biodiversity conservations activities have been certiﬁed as an aﬃliated operation of the Japan Committee for United Nations Development Business (UNDB-J) (in Japanese) Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) ＜312＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan The Policy on Biodiversity Conservation for Company-owned forests in Japan calls for eﬀorts to promote diversity of ecosystems through proper management of protected areas and consideration toward the continuity of forests, diversity of species through protection of rare ﬂora and fauna, and genetic diversity through the maintenance of populations. In keeping with these policies, forests are subject to appropriate zoning and management according to certain criteria, such as the increment of trees. Sumitomo Forestry is also making eﬀorts to create endangered species lists and manuals and conduct monitoring surveys of wildlife. Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan(Excerpt) (Formulated June 2006) 1. Diversity of ecosystems We will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the Natural Parks Law of the Japanese government and other legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. In other areas, we will ensure continuity of forests by limiting the area of forest harvested, particularly when clear cutting is conducted. 2. Diversity of species We will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by refraining from expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the replacement of species that would have a major impact on existing ecosystems. We will also give the utmost consideration to the protection of rare ﬂora and fauna in all operations, making reference to the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book. 3. Genetic diversity Genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in the future. However, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring activities carried out by government and public institutions and their ﬁndings. Red Data Book and Riparian Forest Management Manual Sumitomo Forestry creates a Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book listing ﬂora and fauna at threat of extinction which may exist in Company-owned forests and distributes it to employees and contractors involved in forest management. By carrying the book with them during operations, personnel can refer to the opinions of specialists when they come across ﬂora and fauna included in the book and take action. While using the latest version of this book today, we will continually advance measures focused on biodiversity and update the content of the text as necessary. The Company has also created the Riparian Forest Management Manual to ensure the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book appropriate management and preservation of areas around bodies of water that are rich in biodiversity. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜313＞ Wildlife Monitoring Surveys Sumitomo Forestry monitored wildlife inhabiting Company-owned forests. Every year, surveys are conducted in one of four areas— Mombetsu (Hokkaido), Niihama (Shikoku), Hyuga (Kyushu) and Hyogo/Mie (Honshu). Data for each area is therefore accumulated in four-year cycles. This is used to create basic reference materials relating to biodiversity and to ascertain the impact of forestry on the surrounding environment over the long-term. Monitoring surveys conduct nine times up until now have clearly shown diverse life being maintained through the production of a habitat environment and a change in the number of mammals and birds during the gradually transition from a clear-cut area to forest. While a number of species decline temporarily, the clear-cut areas have been shown to distribute places suitable for umbrella species such as hawks and land appropriate for hunting in a mosaic shape in addition to realizing a favorable environment for life such as the species above to thrive. In the future, we will consider monitoring results to date as we work to properly sustain functions such as maintaining environmental conservation and biodiversity in company-owned forests. Species of Mammals and Birds Conﬁrmed by Past Surveys Managed Veriﬁed mammal and avian species Area (ha) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CompanyMammals 14 11 10 owned 14,783 forests in Shikoku Birds 31 34 24 CompanyMammals 11 12 owned 9,182 forests in Kyushu Birds 33 29 CompanyMammals 10 9 owned 18,199 forests in Hokkaido Birds 38 40 Companyowned (Wakayama) forests in Mammals 12 10 Honshu (Hyogo) 6 * 2013 acquisitions in Okayama, 5,813 Hyogo, and Mie (Wakayama) * 2015 Birds 25 29 additional (Hyogo) 21 acquisitions in Wakayama Total 47,977 * Conducted in two areas in 2015; Wakayama and Hyogo ＜314＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Japanese deer conﬁrmed in Niihama Japanese monkeys conﬁrmed in Niihama (Shikoku) forests in 2016 (Shikoku) forests in 2016 Biodiversity Conservation in Plantation Forests Overseas Indonesia has the third largest area of rainforest in the world, however, it is said that around 700,000 hectares of forest are lost each year due to such factors as illegal logging and forest ﬁres. The Sumitomo Forestry Group, which runs a large-scale plantation in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, has formulated appropriate land-use plans based on a scientiﬁc standpoint for the purpose of ﬁnding harmony between biodiversity and economy. In particular, we device business areas into protection zones and reforestation zones and reduce the impact on protection zones by setting a buﬀer zones between the protection and plantation zones for indigenous trees to grow. Protection zones with a high rarity value are properly managed through patrols and periodic survey activities because various environmental functions are at work from the water cultivation functions as well as areas where rare types of animals live to genetic resource preservation functions. In addition, long-nosed monkeys endangered due to poaching are known to like to live along rivers. The conventional 50 to 100 meter protected area along the banks of rivers had been expanded up to a maximum of 500 meters based on scientiﬁc information. Furthermore, establishing a route between the mangrove forest where the long-nosed monkeys live and the designated protective forest contributes to expanding the habitat for the long-nosed monkeys. We regularly conduct surveys of rare wildlife for protection zones by inviting in experts and will reﬂect these results in management and protection in the future. We strive in eﬀorts to conserve biodiversity via a new landscape management approach by cooperating with local NGOs and local companies because ecosystems are expanding beyond boundaries of business zones stipulated by government agencies. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜315＞ Eﬃcient Use of Water Resources Reduction of Water Consumption in Business Activities Around the world, there is a growing sense of crisis over water shortages. It is expected that this problem will become more and more urgent as the demand for water rises with population increase and economic growth in developing countries. The primary businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group include the Timber & Building Materials Business and the Housing Business, which operate on a business model that does not use high-volume of water. However, our businesses are expanding into sectors that do use water as a valuable resource. Our policy is to reduce the amount of water used with emphasis on these businesses while conducting risk assessments and examining countermeasures for problems that arise. In addition to manufacturing plants inside and outside Japan, since ﬁscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group began examining the consumption of water and the associated sources at bases where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. In ﬁscal 2017, we discovered 98.1% of water use is at eight group companies which make up 7.2% of the consolidated net sales by analyzing the water use of all Group companies in ﬁscal 2016. Therefore, we have positioned these eight companies as important water management companies and conducted risk assessments for water use at ﬁve companies in Japan as well as brought together speciﬁc measures to address any cases of insuﬃcient water. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has also begun to grasp the actual state of water use even at three overseas companies. In ﬁscal 2018, water usage volume targets at our overall domestic group companies and at departments in which data collection became possible in ﬁscal 2018 speciﬁed a reduction of 2.5%. Actual performance, however, was a 3.7% reduction (excluding the biomass power generation operations that were on the verge of beginning full operation). Major factors included water conservation through recycling of industrial water at Sumitomo Forestry Crestʼs Imari Plant. Our Mid-Term Sustainability Targets include water use targets for the entire Group, in eﬀect beginning with ﬁscal 2019. The target for ﬁscal 2019 is less 2,981,000m³. Sumitomo Forestry conducted a sample survey of water used by partner companies at on-site construction of houses in ﬁscal 2015 to grasp the water consumption in the supply chain and found the volume of water used per 1m² of ﬂoor area is approximately 0.0887 m³. ＜316＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Water Usage over the Past Four Years*1 Water Usage per Department*1 Plants and Power Generation Oﬃce Departments in Japan, Total Business Departments in Overseas Plants etc. (Unit: Japan (Unit: 1,000m³) (Unit: 1,000m³) 1,000m³) (Unit: 1,000m³) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Service 80 73 79 114 1,258 1,302 581 460 475 1,856 Water Ground 0*2 0 29 0*2 10 14 168 175 174 217 Water Industrial 131 119 125 718 263 470 215 297 310 904 Water Total 211 192 232 832*3 1,531*3 1,786 964 932 959 2,978 *1 Covers sites where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. *2 Since ﬁscal 2016, water purchased from the water authorities is all included as service water based on standard disclosure. *3 A portion of the industrial water for ﬁscal 2016 was calculated as public water in ﬁscal 2017 due to a revision in the data collection category. About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜317＞ Eﬀorts at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Sumitomo Forestry Crestʼs Imari Plant manufactures synthetic resin adhesives and other products. It promotes water conservation by using industrial water to cool manufacturing equipment, then uses the water to dilute plant eﬄuent. New water conservation measures were begun in ﬁscal 2018, including subjecting waste water (after processing for coagulating sedimentation) to further biological processing, so that water used for dilution in plant waste water quality management could be restricted. These measures are estimated to have resulted in conservation of approximately 350m³ of water per day. Also, the volume of industrial water used in ﬁscal 2018 was 147,730m³, down 27% from ﬁscal 2017. Biological processing facility (aeration Biological processing facility (aeration tank) blower) Measuring the COD of eﬄuent Measures Used at the Sumitomo Forestry Crestʼs Imari Plant for Saving Water 1. Subjecting waste water (after processing for coagulating sedimentation) to further*1 biological processing makes it possible to restrict the water used for dilution in plant waste water quality management (approximately 350m³/day). 2. Maintain water-quality control by measuring COD*2 and treat wastewater using only the minimum amount of water necessary. 3. After water is used to cool manufacturing equipment, it is used to dilute plant waste water. 4. Improve the proportion of rainwater used, such as by upgrading the pumps used for collecting rainwater. *1 Beneﬁcial microorganisms are supplied with air (oxygen), whereupon they absorb and break down organic substances, lowering COD values. *2 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): An indication of the amount of oxygen required to oxidize an organic compound in water; one of the most important indicators of water quality. Participation in Relevant Incentives The Sumitomo Forestry Group provides answers to the CDP Water questions and discloses more detailed information about eﬀorts on risks related to water. ＜318＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Related Data Environmental Data of Group Companies in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group reports information about its environmental impact of each company and each plant for domestic manufacturers and power plants that have a large inﬂuence on the environment. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Item (unit) Kashima Plant Shizuoka Plant Niihama Plant Imari Plant Subtotal Energy Input (GJ) 34,059 26,964 27,132 14,961 113,116 Raw Material Input (t) 8,675 33,872 5,301 8,128 55,976 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 3,628 4,147 3,603 165 11,543 Lakes Lake Kitaura in Kasumigaura (Protected Groundwater -Main Water Source region: A Reservoirs Oi River Basin portion is part of Suigo-Tsukuba Quasi-National Park) Industrial water 147,730 147,730 River -Aritagawa River Groundwater basin (partly Mt. Main Water Source (water authority Kurokami in Niihama City) mammal and avian species wildlife refuge) Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 1,304 1,194 1,824 857 5,179 Methane (CH4)* 10.2 4.9 4.2 19.3 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* 2.4 0.5 0.4 3.3 Waste generations (t) 2,427 2,050 1,011 274 5,761 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 2,468 0 3,603 0 6,071 Ocean 0 0 0 129,722 129,722 Rivers 0 4,147 0 0 4,147 Lakes 0 0 0 0 0 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SOx) 563 1,308 1,871 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜319＞ Item (unit) Kashima Plant Shizuoka Plant Niihama Plant Imari Plant Subtotal Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 908 908 Soot and dust 51 51 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide About symbol for Independent assurance The Agro-Products division of Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping (formerly Sumirin Agro-Products Co.) Item (unit) Tobishima Plant Shinshiro Plant Subtotal Energy Input (GJ) 2,211 5,184 7,395 Raw Material Input (t) 13,796 5,462 19,258 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 574 481 1,055 River -Kiso-gawa River River -Toyokawa Main Water Source Basin Prefectural Water System Industrial water Main Water Source Well water Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 128 329 457 Methane (CH4)* Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* Waste generations (t) 41 18 60 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 0 0 0 Ocean 0 0 0 Rivers 573 481 1,054 Lakes 0 0 0 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SOx) 48 48 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 728 728 Soot and dust 0 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide About symbol for Independent assurance ＜320＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Power Plants Mombetsu Hachinohe Okhotsk Bio Japan Bio Michinoku Biomass Biomass Item (unit) Energy Co. Energy Co., Bio Energy Subtotal Power Power Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Generation Generation Energy Input (GJ) 5,361,506 1,620,991 17,693 10,495 6,973 7,017,657 Raw Material Input (t) 3,820 990 126,872 59,949 58,647 250,278 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 1,043,205 8,741 180 6,485 192 1,058,803 Lake Sagami, Mount Haku Mount Haku Sagami River Shokotsu Water System Shokotsu Water System Main Water Source System, and River System Service River System Service Miyagase Reserve Reserve Dam Industrial water 322,256 322,256 Main Water Source Mabechi River Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 87,573 171 1,159 221 475 89,599 Methane (CH4)* 5,991 2,562 8,553 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* 86,011 26,044 112,054 Waste generations (t) 12,743 2,282 1 665 15,691 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 415,536 122 415,658 Ocean 89,305 89,305 Rivers Lakes Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SOx) 152,906 267 153,173 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 269,575 71,096 340,671 Soot and dust 1,491 0 1,491 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide About symbol for Independent assurance Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜321＞ Total for All Plants in Japan Item (unit) Total Energy Input (GJ) 7,141,450 Raw Material Input (t) 325,512 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 1,071,400.5 Main Water Source As indicated above Industrial water 469,986 Main Water Source As indicated above Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 96,083 Methane (CH4)* 8,572 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* 89,750 Waste generations (t) 21,746 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 429,246 Ocean 219,027 Rivers 5,201 Lakes 0 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SOx) 155,092 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 342,307 Soot and dust 1,542 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide ＜322＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Data of Group Companies Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group reports information about its environmental impact for each plant for overseas manufacturers that have a large inﬂuence on the environment. Overseas Manufacturers 1/2 PT. Rimba Partikel PT. AST Indonesia PT. Kutai Timber Item (unit) Indonesia (RPI) (ASTI) Indonesia (KTI) Energy Input (GJ) 528,761 86,243 1,374,285 Raw Material Input (t) 102,618 43,990 559,203 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 604 Industrial water 34,495 275,099 Ground water 57,690 114,203 Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 19,211 6,288 48,075 Methane (CH4)* 473 1,283 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* 44 120 Waste generations (t) 24,030 3,760 69,891 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 0 2,529 0 Ocean 0 0 8,521 Rivers 54,837 0 0 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide Overseas Manufacturers 2/2 Nelson Pine Canyon Creek Vina Eco Board Item (unit) Industries Ltd. Cabinet Company Total Co., Ltd. (VECO) (NPIL) (CCC) Energy Input (GJ) 1,864,281 398,485 66,801 4,318,857 Raw Material Input (t) 773,607 195,788 9,187 1,684,393 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 368,540 101,998 3,998 475,140 Industrial water 309,594 Ground water 174,310 Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 13,241 15,224 3,204 105,243 Methane (CH4)* 1,394 125 3,275 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O)* 256 12 432 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜323＞ Nelson Pine Canyon Creek Vina Eco Board Item (unit) Industries Ltd. Cabinet Company Total Co., Ltd. (VECO) (NPIL) (CCC) Waste generations (t) 117,674 24,928 240,283 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 323,140 29,580 3,998 359,247 Ocean 0 0 0 8,521 Rivers 0 0 0 54,837 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide Environmental Accounting Results for Fiscal 2018 Sumitomo Forestry publicizes aggregated data of environmental conservation costs and eﬀects and also economic impact of its activities for the purpose of promoting environmentally sound management. * The basis of calculation includes Sumitomo Forestry on a non-consolidated basis and certain Group companies Environmental Preservation Costs Total Cost Cost Category Main Activities (Million yen) Sustainable forestry cultivation 695 Global environmental Environment-related business 123 protection costs*1 (Overseas consulting, REDD+ business, etc.) Costs within Carbon oﬀset 25 operational area Promotion of appropriate treatment, reduction, and recycling 6,384 Resource recycling of industrial waste costs*2 Waste wood chip distribution operations 266 Recycling Used Activated Carbon, etc. 287 Upstream / Downstream costs*3 Green purchasing 25 Operation and promotion of environmental management activities 187 (ISO14001 certiﬁcation, environmental education, LCA surveys, etc.) Management activity costs*4 Monitoring of environmental impact 1 Disclosure and administration of environmental information (CSR Report, environment-related advertising, environment20 related exhibitions, etc.) R&D costs*5 R&D activities related to environmental conservation 838 Management and operation of Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori 21 Management and operation of Forester House 8 Social contribution costs*6 Other social contribution activities 3 Donations to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund 2 Total 8,887 ＜324＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 *1 Global environmental protection costs: Expenditures for preservation and management of Company-owned forests to foster sustainable forestry, expenditures in Japan and overseas relating to the environmental business, and overseas reforestation expenses for implementing carbon oﬀset. *2 Resource recycling costs: Expenditures on waste wood distribution operations and sorting, recycling, appropriate treatment, transportation and management of construction waste, as well as costs incurred in the recycling of used activated carbon, etc. *3 Upstream/Downstream costs: Expenditures for green purchasing. *4 Management activity costs: Oﬃce expenses and auditing costs relating to maintenance of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation; expenditures relating to disclosure of environmental information through advertising, environment-related exhibitions and sustainability reports; expenditures relating to lectures on environmental education; and costs for LCA inspections and environmental impact oversight. *5 R&D costs: Expenditures for environment-related research conducted at the Tsukuba Research Institute *6 Social contribution costs: Expenditures related to operating the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori natural forest restoration project, and maintaining and operating Forester House; expenditures related to other social contribution activities; donations to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund; and provision of ﬁnancial assistance to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund commissioned by the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation. Link to the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation Environmental Beneﬁts Category Eﬀects Beneﬁts Volume of recycled waste wood from distribution 1,009,000m³ Beneﬁts from costs within operational operations(converted into chip equivalents) area Volume sold of potting mix using recycled sediment from water 15kt puriﬁcation Beneﬁts from Upstream/Downstream Green procurement ratio 66.0％ costs Beneﬁts from management activity Employees designated as internal environmental auditors 217 costs Success in cultivating Senhime clone cherry blossom seedlings of Choukouzan Shoutai-ji Temple weeping cherry blossoms Contributions to urban development and preservation of culture by protecting and cultivation of notable tree species invaluable to the traditions of each region Biodiversity-friendly Forest Garden Hadano First ABINC certiﬁcation for detached housing estates A foundation reinforcement method jointly developed by Tobishima Corp., Sumitomo Forestry Co. and Misawa Homes Co., and recognized by the Building & Housing Center of Japan as for Beneﬁts from R&D costs the ﬁrst time Started operations of the Tomakomai Biomass Power Plant Supplied electricity equivalent to roughly 10,000 households via local unused wood materials Started operations of the Hachinohe Biomass Electric Power Co., Ltd. Supplied electricity equivalent to electricity to roughly 27,000 households via local unused wood materials Launched FRD roadway design support software Supported more eﬃcient development of better roadways to contribute to the revitalization of the forest industry Beneﬁts of social contribution costs Volunteers who participated in Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project 169 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜325＞ Category Eﬀects Beneﬁts Children participating in the Environmental Education Program at 957 Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project Visitors to Forester House 2,141 The Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2018 Presented the Excellence Award for Biodiversity Reporting at the 22nd Environmental Communication Awards ＜326＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Proﬁle Corporate Proﬁle Company Name Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Address of Headquarters Keidanren Kaikan, 3-2, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8270, Japan Paid-in Capital 32,752 million of yen (as of March 31, 2019) Incorporated February 20, 1948 Founded 1691 Number of Employees Non-consolidated: 4,824; Consolidated: 19,159 (as of March 31, 2019) Business scope ■ Environment and Resources Business Management of domestic forests, biomass power generation business, plantation forest operations overseas, plantation forest tree sales, forest-related consulting in Japan and overseas, etc. ■ Timber & Building Materials Businesses Purchase, manufacture, secondary processing and sales, in Japan and overseas, of timber (logs, wood chips, processed timber, laminated engineered wood, etc.) and building materials (plywood, ﬁberboard, processed wood materials, concrete and ceramic building materials, metal building materials, housing systems and ﬁxtures, etc.) ■ Overseas Housing and Real Estate Business Overseas leasing of detached houses, contract construction and sales of housing and real estate development. ■ Housing & Construction Business Contract mid-range and large-scale construction, after-sales maintenance and renovation of detached houses and multi-unit residences; sales of spec homes; sales of interior products; rental, management, sales, and brokerage of property; contract work for housing exteriors, garden landscaping and urban greening; CAD work and site surveys, etc. ■ Lifestyle Service Business Operation and leasing of private-pay elderly care facilities, insurance agency; information systems development, temporary staﬃng, etc. Company-managed or owned forest area Approximately 48,000 ha in japan, Approximately 230,000 ha in Overseas (As of March 31, 2019) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜327＞ Key Financial Data Consolidated Net Sales, Operating Income, Recurring Income and Net Income FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net Sales (Billions of yen) 997.3 1,040.5 1,113.4 1,222.0 1,308.9 Operating Income 34.0 (3.4％) 30.1 (2.9％) 54.0 (4.8％) 53.0 (4.3％) 49.2 (3.8％) (Billions of yen) Recurring Income 36.4 (3.7％) 30.5 (2.9％) 57.8 (5.2％) 57.9 (4.7％) 51.4 (3.9％) (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of yen) 18.6 (1.9％) 9.7 (0.9％) 34.5 (3.1％) 30.1 (2.5％) 29.2 (2.2％) * Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales Consolidated Net Sales, Net Sales Ratios by Segment (FY2018) Timber & Housing & Overseas Housing Building Materials Construction and Real Estate Other Businesses Businesses Business Business Net Sales (Billions of yen) 487.1 452.8 364.9 40.4 Ratio of Net Sales (%) 36.2 33.7 27.1 3.0 *1 Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales *2 The net sales of each segment include the internal net sales between segments and transfers. Therefore, the total net sales of each segment do not match the consolidated net sales (1,308.9 billion yen). Performance Highlights ＜328＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group regards the Sustainability Report as an important tool for communicating with our stakeholders. As in previous reports, the ﬁscal 2018 report continues with coverage of Sustainability Activity Highlights, Sustainability Management, Governance, a Social Report and Environmental Report, in addition to Contributing Our Business, a new section that introduces in more detail the ways in which we are applying sustainability management through our business activities. In addition to the website, we also publish a pamphlet with content centering on Sustainability activity highlights, arranged to be used in line with the interests of all our readers. We appreciate your feedback on our wide range of sustainable activities. Sustainability Report Questionnaire Page Boundary of the Report: The scope of this report is Sumitomo Forestry, its consolidated companies, and some aﬃliated companies accounted for by the equity-method. * In this report, Sumitomo Forestry refers to Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. and the Sumitomo Forestry Group includes consolidated companies in Japan and overseas as well as some aﬃliated companies accounted for by the equity-method List of Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies Published: December 2019 Reporting Period: Japan: April 2018 to March 2019 Overseas: January 2018 to December 2018 * Some activities started before the period and after April 2019 as well as future expectations are also included Reference Guidelines: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Japanese Ministry of the Environment ISO 26000:2010 procedures related to social responsibility (Japanese Standards Association) GRI Standards (2016), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reliability of Report Content The environmental and social performance indicators have obtained third-party assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., and bear the third-party guarantee mark. The respective departments of the Sumitomo Forestry Group have endeavored to ensure accuracy by using appropriate measurements and data collection methods for the initiatives and results reported in the Sustainability Report. These methods are also disclosed when relevant. Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜329＞ External Recognition Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices / ESG Indices Interest in Social Responsible Investment (SRI) that considers environment and social contribution on top of ﬁnancial aspects are on the rise in recent years when making investments. Sumitomo Forestry Group has been included in the following Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) and ESG Indices as of July 2019. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) The most trusted index for companiesʼ environmental and sustainability index developed by Dow Jones & Company in 1999. The index surveys 2,500 companies included in the Dow Jones Global Index around the world on their economic, environmental, and societal aspects. Sumitomo Forestry was selected as component of Industry Leaders and DJSI Asia Paciﬁc in September 2018. FTSE4Good Global Index Evaluation of companies that fulﬁll international standards in environment, social, and governance aspects by FTSE Russell, a group company of London Stock Exchange. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the FTSE4Good Global Index every year since 2004. Used as a Constituent Company in all Four ESG Indices Selected by GPIF FTSE Blossom Japan Index An ESG index for Japanese stocks by FTSE Russell, Ltd. and selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index Index for Japanese stocks selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. With Free ﬂoat-adjusted market capitalization weighted index based on the MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index of MSCI, Inc. as a parent index, it represents relative sector weights of companies that excel in ESG. ＜330＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Index for Japanese stocks selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. With MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index as a parent index, it represents weighs of companies that excel in gender diversity in the sector. * The inclusion of Sumitomo Forestry in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Sumitomo Forestry by MSCI or any of its aﬃliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI Index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its aﬃliates. S&P/JPX Carbon Eﬃcient Index Discloses the S&P/JPX Carbon Eﬃcient Index, jointly developed as an environmental index by the Japan Exchange Group, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and the S&P Dow Jones Index. The Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) selected the S&P/JPX Carbon Eﬃcient Index as a benchmark for ESG investment strategy from ﬁscal 2018. SNAM Sustainability Index ESG evaluation by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (SNAM). Evaluated based on environmental survey by Sompo Risk Management & Health Care Inc. and social and governance survey by IntegreX Inc. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the SNAM Sustainability Index since ﬁscal 2013. Awards and Recognition by Third Parties in Fiscal 2018 Scope of Date Award/Organiser Recognition Recognition Two DUE CLASSO homes for families with two working parents won prizes in the 12th Kids Design Awards. Sumitomo August 2018 Kids Design Association Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Honored as a top builder by the Urban Renaissance Agency in Kamaishi City for using local timber in Urban Renaissance Sumitomo August 2018 public housing for disaster recovery Agency Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜331＞ Scope of Date Award/Organiser Recognition Recognition Environmentally-friendly KIKORIN-PLYWOOD receives EcoPro Award Environmental Sumitomo September 2018 Management Association Forestry for Industry (JEMAI) News Release (In Japanese) Five projects receive ﬁscal 2018 Good Design Awards for oﬀering technology and space design that realizes the appeal, peace of mind and safety of wood Japan Institute of Design Sumitomo October 2018 Promotion Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Awarded the Japan Wood Design Award 2018 in appreciation of products and systems that present the value and rediscovery of wood's good qualities Wood Design Award Sumitomo October 2018 Operational Secretariat Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Awarded the Gold, Silver, Bronze and Fighting Spirit Sumitomo Japan Vocational Ability Awards in the Carpentry Category at the 56th Forestry School of November 2018 Development Association National Skills Competition Professional (JAVADA) Building News Release (In Japanese) Techniques On the Climate Change A-List for 3 consecutive years, top CDP2018 evaluation CDP Climate Change Sumitomo January 2019 2018 Forestry News Release (In Japanese) ＜332＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 Scope of Date Award/Organiser Recognition Recognition The Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2018 Presented the Excellence Award at the 22nd Environmental Communication Awards Global Environmental Sumitomo February 2019 Forum Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Recognition by RobecoSAM as a company exceling in sustainability. Selected for Gold Class in the housing construction ﬁeld. Simultaneously recognized as an “Industry Mover.” RobecoSAM Sumitomo February 2019 Sustainability Award Forestry 2019 RobecoSAM News Release (In Japanese) Selected as a 2019 Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500) for the third 2019 Certiﬁed Health consecutive year and Productivity Management Sumitomo February 2019 Organization, Ministry of Forestry Economy, Trade and Industry Nippon Kenko Kaigi News Release (In Japanese) The ﬁrst Japanese company to receive a Green Bond Pioneer Award Sumitomo March 2019 Climate Bond Initiative Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Selected for the ﬁrst time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as a company with a positive work environment, among the Ministryʼs “Select 100 New Diversity Management Companies” Ministry of Economy, Sumitomo March 2019 Trade and Industry Forestry News Release (In Japanese) Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜333＞ GRI Standard Content Index This report refers to the GRI Standards. GRI Standard Content Index Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report ＜334＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index (GRI Standards) GRI Content Index (GRI Standards) Sumitomo Foresty's Sustainability Report refers to GRI Standards. Below Content Index includes related information available on Sustainability Report. ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Organizational proﬁle 102-1 a. Name of the organization Corporate Proﬁle a. A description of the organizationʼs activities Corporate Proﬁle b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an 102-2 Our Business explanation of any products or services that are List of Services banned in certain markets 102-3 a. Location of the organizationʼs headquarters Corporate Proﬁle a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has 102-4 Sumitomo Forestry Group signiﬁcant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report 102-5 a. Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Proﬁle Corporate Proﬁle 102-6 a. Markets served Sumitomo Forestry Group Corporate Proﬁle 102-7 a. Scale of the organization Performance Highlights a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender d. Whether a signiﬁcant portion of the organizationʼs activities are performed by workers who are 6.4 102-8 notemployees. If applicable, a description of the Social Data 6.4.3 nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any signiﬁcant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries) f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made a. A description of the organizationʼs supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the Overall Business and Scope of 102-9 organizationʼs activities, primary brands, products, Impact and services a. Signiﬁcant changes to the organizationʼs size, Corporate Proﬁle 102-10 structure, ownership, or supply chain Performance Highlights Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜335＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Risk Management Procurement Initiatives (Housing and Construction Business) Procurement Initiatives (Distribution Business) Procurement Initiatives (Manufacturing Facilities) Procurement Initiatives (Environmental Energy a. Whether and how the organization applies the 102-11 6.2 Business) Precautionary Principle or approach Occupational Health and Safety on Construction Sites Human Rights Initiatives Occupational Health and Safety Management Environmental Risk Management Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances and Appropriate Disposal Corporate Philosophy and Sustainability Management a. List of externally-developed economic, Mid-Term Sustainability Targets environmental and social charters, principles, or of Our 2021 Mid-Term 102-12 6.2 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, Management Plan and Material or which it endorses Issues Promotion of Social Contribution Activities a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other Promotion of Social Contribution 102-13 associations, and national or international advocacy 6.2 Activities organizations Strategy a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent 102-14 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability 6.2 Top Commitment to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability Top Commitment Risk Management 102-15 a. A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6.2 Environmental Risk Management Responding to TCFD IR Library Ethics and Integrity a. A description of the organizationʼs values, principles, Corporate Philosophy and 102-16 4.4 standards, and norms of behavior Sustainability Management a. A description of internal and external mechanisms for: Intellectual Property i. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and 102-17 Management organizational integrity Compliance ii. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity ＜336＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Governance a. Governance structure of the organization, including Corporate Governance committees of the highest governance body Risk Management 102-18 b. Committees responsible for decision-making on Environmental Management economic, environmental, and social topics Structure Corporate Governance a. Process for delegating authority for economic, Risk Management environmental, and social topics from the highest 102-19 Environmental Management governance body to senior executives and other Structure employees Communication with Employees a. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with Corporate Governance responsibility for economic, environmental, and Risk Management 102-20 social topic Environmental Management b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest Structure governance body a. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on Corporate Governance economic,environmental, and social topics Return to Shareholders and IR 102-21 b. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is Activities delegated and how the resulting feedback is Communication with Employees provided to the highest governance body a. Composition of the highest governance body and its 102-22 Corporate Governance committees a. Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer in the organization 102-23 b. If the chair is also an executive oﬃcer, describe his Corporate Governance or her function within the organizationʼs management and the reasons for this arrangement a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees 102-24 Corporate Governance b. Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members a. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed Corporate Governance 102-25 b. Whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to Compliance stakeholders a. The highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ roles in the development, approval, and Corporate Governance 102-26 updating of the organizationsʼ purpose, value or Environmental Management mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Structure related to economic, environmental, and social topics a. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 102-27 governance bodyʼs collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜337＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure a. Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics b. Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency 102-28 c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment Corporate Governance d. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice a. Highest governance bodyʼs role in identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities— including its role in the implementation of due Corporate Governance 102-29 diligence processes 6.2 Risk Management b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance bodyʼs identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social topics, and their impacts, risks, and opportunities a. Highest governance bodyʼs role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of the organizationʼs risk management Corporate Governance 102-30 processes for economic, environmental, and social Risk Management topics a. Frequency of the highest governance bodyʼs review Corporate Governance 102-31 of economic, environmental, and social topics and 6.2 Risk Management their impacts, risks, and opportunities a. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organizationʼs 102-32 Corporate Governance sustainability report and ensures that all material topics are covered Corporate Governance Risk Management a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the 102-33 6.2 Compliance highest governance body Return to Shareholders and IR Activities a. Total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body 102-34 Compliance b. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policy 102-35 6.2 Corporate Governance relate to the highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics a. Process for determining remuneration b. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are 102-36 independent of management c. Any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization ＜338＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure a. How stakeholdersʼ views are sought and taken into Corporate Governance account regarding remuneration 102-37 6.2 Return to Shareholders and IR b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration Activities policies and proposals a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country 102-38 of signiﬁcant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country a. Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations to 102-39 the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Stakeholder Engagement a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the 102-40 6.2 Stakeholder Engagement organization a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective 102-41 Social Data bargaining agreements a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-42 6.2 with whom to engage 6.2 a. The organizationʼs approach to stakeholder 6.7 engagement, including frequency of engagement by 6.7.4 102-43 type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of 6.7.5 Stakeholder Engagement whether any of the engagement was undertaken 6.7.6 speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process 6.7.8 6.7.9 a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised 102-44 6.2 Stakeholder Engagement through stakeholder engagement Reporting practice a. A list of all entities included in the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents 102-45 6.2 IR Library b. Whether any entity included in the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report a. An explanation of the process for deﬁning the report Mid-Term Sustainability Targets content and the topic Boundaries of Our 2021 Mid-Term 102-46 b. An explanation of how the organization has Management Plan and Material implemented the Reporting Principles for deﬁning Issues report content Mid-Term Sustainability Targets a. A list of the material topics identiﬁed in the process of Our 2021 Mid-Term 102-47 for deﬁning report content Management Plan and Material Issues a. The eﬀect of any restatements of information given 102-48 in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜339＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Editorial Policy Mid-Term Sustainability Targets a. Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods 102-49 of Our 2021 Mid-Term in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries Management Plan and Material Issues 102-50 a. Reporting period for the information provided Editorial Policy a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous 102-51 Editorial Policy report 102-52 a. Reporting cycle Editorial Policy a. The contact point for questions regarding the report 102-53 Inquiries or its contents a. The claim made by the organization, if it has 102-54 prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Editorial Policy Standards 102-55 a. The GRI content index GRI Content Index a. A description of the organizationʼs policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 102-56 7.5.3 Independent Assurance Report for the report b. If the report has been externally assured: Management Approach Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues a. An explanation of why the topic is material Material Issue 1 103-1 b. The Boundary for the material topic Material Issue 2 c. Any speciﬁc limitation regarding the topic Boundary Material Issue 3 Material Issue 4 Material Issue 5 Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results a. An explanation of how the organization manages the Top Commitment topic Sustainability-related Policies b. A statement of the purpose of the management Mid-Term Sustainability Targets approach of Our 2021 Mid-Term c. A description of the following, if the management Management Plan and Material approach includes that component: Issues i. Policies 103-2 Material Issue 1 ii. Commitments Material Issue 2 iii. Goals and targets Material Issue 3 iv. Responsibilities Material Issue 4 v. Resources Material Issue 5 vi. Grievance mechanisms Former Mid-Term CSR vii. Speciﬁc actions, such as processes, projects, Management Plan and Results programs and initiatives ＜340＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Mid-Term Sustainability Targets of Our 2021 Mid-Term Management Plan and Material Issues Material Issue 1 a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates 103-3 Material Issue 2 the management approach Material Issue 3 Material Issue 4 Material Issue 5 Former Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and Results ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Economic Performance 6.8.1 Return to Shareholders and IR 6.8.2 Activities 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.3 Corporate Proﬁle 6.8.7 Financial Statements 6.8.9 Environmental Risk Management Responding to TCFD Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 201-2 6.5.5 Saving of Energy and Reduction due to climate change of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other retirement 201-3 6.8.7 IR Library plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Market Presence 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 6.4.3 202-1 compared to local minimum wage 6.4.4 6.8.1 6.8.2 6.4.3 6.8.1 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 6.8.2 Social Data community 6.8.5 6.8.7 Indirect Economic Impacts Sustainable Forest Management 6.3.9 Promotion of Social Contribution 6.8.1 Activities 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 6.8.2 Biodiversity Conservation in 6.8.7 Company-Owned Forests in 6.8.9 Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜341＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 Risk Management 6.8.1 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Environmental Risk Management 6.8.2 Responding to TCFD 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 Procurement Practices 6.4.3 6.6.6 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 6.8.1 6.8.2 6.8.7 Anti-corruption 6.6.1 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 6.6.2 Compliance 6.6.3 6.6.1 Communication and training about anti-corruption 6.6.2 205-2 Compliance policies and procedures 6.6.3 6.6.6 6.6.1 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.2 Compliance 6.6.3 Anti-compretitive Behavior 6.6.1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 6.6.2 206-1 Compliance and monopoly practices 6.6.5 6.6.7 Materials 6.5.1 Environmental Impact of 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.2 Business Activities 6.5.4 6.5.1 Promotion of Waste Reduction 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.5.2 and Recycling 6.5.4 6.5.1 Promotion of Waste Reduction 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 6.5.2 and Recycling 6.5.4 Energy Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.4 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities ＜342＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.4 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 Saving of Energy and Reduction 302-3 Energy intensity 6.5.2 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 6.5.4 from Business Activities Home Building That Contributes 6.5.1 to a Sustainable Society 6.5.2 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.4 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 6.5.5 from Business Activities 6.5.1 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 6.5.2 Home Building That Contributes 302-5 services 6.5.4 to a Sustainable Society 6.5.5 Water Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6.5.2 Eﬃcient Use of Water Resources 6.5.4 Environmental Related Data 6.5.1 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of 303-2 6.5.2 Environmental Related Data water 6.5.4 6.5.1 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.2 6.5.4 Biodiversity Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 6.5.1 Biodiversity Conservation in 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 6.5.2 Company-Owned Forests in biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5.6 Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Contributions to Eco Cities Through Greening Environmental Risk Management 6.5.1 Policies and Targets for Signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services 304-2 6.5.2 Biodiversity Conservation on biodiversity 6.5.6 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Contributions to Eco Cities Through Greening Examples of Social Contribution 6.5.1 Activities in Japan 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.2 Biodiversity Conservation in 6.5.6 Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜343＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Biodiversity Conservation in 6.5.1 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list Company-Owned Forests in 304-4 6.5.2 species with habitats in areas aﬀected by operations Japan and Plantation Forests 6.5.6 Overseas Emissions Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.5 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.5 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Environmental Impact of 6.5.1 Business Activities 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.5 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 Saving of Energy and Reduction 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 6.5.2 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 6.5.5 from Business Activities Home Building That Contributes 6.5.1 to a Sustainable Society 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and Reduction 6.5.5 of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities 6.5.1 6.5.2 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental Risk Management 6.5.3 6.5.5 Management of Hazardous 6.5.1 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other Chemical Substances and 305-7 6.5.2 signiﬁcant air emissions Appropriate Disposal 6.5.3 Environmental Related Data Eﬄuents and Waste 6.5.1 Environmental Impact of 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.2 Business Activities 6.5.3 Environmental Related Data Environmental Impact of 6.5 Business Activities 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 Promotion of Waste Reduction and Recycling 6.5.1 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills 6.5.2 Environmental Risk Management 6.5.3 6.5.1 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.5.2 6.5.3 ＜344＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure 6.5.1 6.5.2 Water bodies aﬀected by water discharges and/or 306-5 6.5.3 runoﬀ 6.5.4 6.5.6 Environmental Compliance 6.5.1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 6.5.2 Environmental Risk Management regulations 4.6 Supplier Environmental Assessment 6.3.5 6.5.1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 6.5.2 criteria 6.6.6 7.3.1 Procurement Initiatives (Housing 6.3.5 and Construction Business) 6.5.1 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Procurement Initiatives 308-2 6.5.2 and actions taken (Distribution Business) 6.6.6 Procurement Initiatives 7.3.1 (Manufacturing Facilities) Employment 6.4.1 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.2 Social Data 6.4.3 6.4.1 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not 6.4.2 401-2 provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.4.4 6.8.7 6.4.1 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.2 Social Data 6.4.4 Labor/Management Relations 6.4.1 6.4.2 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 6.4.3 6.4.5 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety 6.4.1 Workers representation in formal joint managementManagement 403-1 6.4.2 worker health and safety committees Communication with Employees 6.4.6 Social Data 6.4.1 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Occupational Health and Safety 6.4.2 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Management 6.4.6 work-related fatalities Social Data 6.8.8 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜345＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure 6.4.1 6.4.2 6.4.6 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Occupational Health and Safety 403-3 6.8 related to their occupation Management 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 6.4.1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 403-4 6.4.2 Communication with Employees with trade unions 6.4.6 Training and Education 6.4.1 Human Resources Development 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.2 Social Data 6.4.7 6.4.1 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 6.4.2 404-2 Human Resources Development assistance programs 6.4.7 6.8.5 6.4.1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 6.4.2 Human Resources Development and career development reviews 6.4.7 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 6.2.3 6.3.7 Corporate Governance 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.3.10 Social Data 6.4.1 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 6.4.1 405-2 men 6.4.2 6.4.3 6.4.4 Non-discrimination 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.3.1 6.3.2 6.3.3 6.3.4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 407-1 6.3.5 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 6.3.8 6.3.10 6.4.5 6.6.6 ＜346＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure Child Labor 4.8 6.3.1 Procurement Initiatives (Housing 6.3.2 and Construction Business) 6.3.3 Procurement Initiatives Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents 6.3.4 408-1 (Distribution Business) of child labor 6.3.5 Procurement Initiatives 6.3.7 (Manufacturing Facilities) 6.3.10 Human Rights Initiatives 6.6.6 6.8.4 Forced or Compulsory Labor 4.8 Procurement Initiatives (Housing 6.3.1 and Construction Business) 6.3.2 Procurement Initiatives Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents 6.3.3 409-1 (Distribution Business) of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.4 Procurement Initiatives 6.3.5 (Manufacturing Facilities) 6.3.10 Human Rights Initiatives 6.6.6 Security Practices 4.8 6.3.1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 6.3.2 410-1 procedures 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.6.6 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 6.3.4 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 411-1 6.3.6 peoples 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 6.8.3 Human Rights Assessment 4.8 6.3.1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 6.3.2 412-1 Human Rights Initiatives reviews or impact assessments 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 4.8 Employee training on human rights policies or 6.3.1 412-2 Human Rights Initiatives procedures 6.3.2 6.3.5 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜347＞ ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure 4.8 6.3.1 Signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that 6.3.2 412-3 include human rights clauses or that underwent human 6.3.3 rights screening 6.3.5 6.6.6 Local Communities Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Consulting Business 6.3.9 Promotion of Social Contribution 6.5.1 Activities Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 6.5.2 Examples of Social Contribution assessments, and development programs 6.5.3 Activities in Japan 6.8 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities Human Rights Initiatives 6.3.9 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential 413-2 6.5.3 negative impacts on local communities 6.8 Suplier Social Assessment 6.3.5 6.6.1 6.6.2 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 6.6.6 6.8.1 6.8.2 7.3.1 6.3.5 Procurement Initiatives (Housing 6.6.1 and Construction Business) 6.6.2 Procurement Initiatives Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 414-2 6.6.6 (Distribution Business) taken 6.8.1 Procurement Initiatives 6.8.2 (Manufacturing Facilities) 7.3.1 Human Rights Initiatives Public Policy 6.6.1 415-1 Political contributions 6.6.2 6.6.4 Customer Health and Safety Product Safety and Quality 6.7.1 Control (Housing and 6.7.2 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product Construction Business) 416-1 6.7.4 and service categories Product Safety and Quality 6.7.5 Control (Manufacturing 6.8.8 Facilities) ＜348＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ISO26000 Disclosures Location Disclosure 4.6 6.7.1 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 6.7.2 416-2 safety impacts of products and services 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.8.8 Marketing and Labeling 6.7.1 6.7.2 Requirements for product and service information and 6.7.3 Communication with Our 417-1 labeling 6.7.4 Customers 6.7.5 6.7.9 4.6 6.7.1 6.7.2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 6.7.3 service information and labeling 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.9 4.6 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 6.7.1 Responsible 417-3 communications 6.7.2 Advertising/Promotional Eﬀorts 6.7.3 Customer Privacy 6.7.1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Communication with Our 418-1 6.7.2 customer privacy and losses of customer data Customers 6.7.7 Socioeconomic Compliance 4.6 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 6.7.1 419-1 and economic area 6.7.2 6.7.6 Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019 ＜349＞ ＜350＞ Sumitomo Forestry Group Sustainability Report 2019
