DATAMATICS’ CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM 2018-19 CONTENTS 03 DATAMATICS CSR SUMMARY 2018-19 04 FROM THE CEO’S DESK 05 UPSKILLING THE YOUTH TOWARDS INCREASING EMPLOYABILITY 05 TRAINEE & APPRENTICE PROGRAM 05 KNOWLEDGE ASSOCIATE PROGRAM @ DATAMATICS 05 EMPLOYABILITY 06 HOLISTIC CHILD CARE PROGRAM 06 DATAMATICS SUPPORTS ANNAM, A NON-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION 06 JOY OF GIVING 10 EMERGENCY PROGRAM DATAMATICS CSR SUMMARY 2018-19 Datamatics believes that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an extension of its vision “To be a world-class organization admired for consistently delivering superior business value”. In a world of radical socio-technological changes and critical environmental ﬂuctuations, it is now imperative, more than ever, that we work towards addressing these areas of concern and contribute towards building a better tomorrow. Employability and Holistic Child Care are the key areas that Datamatics focuses on. The objective is to have a structured approach, which will positively impact the population at large. Our aim for any CSR activity is to drive long-term sustainable contribution towards the society. CEO’s Message FROM THE CEO’S DESK Datamatics remains committed on corporate social responsibility within our selected areas of impact. We ﬁrmly believe in making the world a better place to live by bringing about positive changes and improving lives. While our business processes empower our customers in their journey towards digital transformation, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives are directed toward bringing about economic transformation in the lives of those less fortunate and the community at large. We are committed towards the development of the community that will help build a better tomorrow. Let me recap the year gone by, with some of the focused areas of development at Datamatics: 1. Upskilling Youth towards Employability – Datamatics provided trainings to more than 2000 youth for skill development and helped them get opportunities for employment. 2. Holistic Child Care – Datamatics helped 7000+ Rahul underprivileged children and women by providing nutrition supplements, groceries, clothes, etc., so that L. Kanodia they can lead a healthy balanced life. Vice Chairman & CEO 3. Emergency program – Kerala Relief Fund – Kerala faced unprecedented ﬂoods havoc in 2018. Datamatics employees contributed 1.18 million towards Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Datamatics’ CSR programs range from providing employment opportunities and ﬁnancial independence to individuals to promoting child nutrition and education. The continued success of these initiatives solely lies with our employees, who are the ﬂag bearers of the programs, and have been instrumental in making a diﬀerence to the lives of many. We sincerely believe that the outstanding initiatives undertaken by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) are a great platform for the Indian businesses to address challenges and concerns at both the domestic and international level. We remain committed towards supporting these initiatives and conducting business in a manner that is sensitive to the societal issues aligned with the principles of UNGC. I take this opportunity to thank you for your support, enthusiasm and commitment towards the cause of community development. UPSKILLING THE YOUTH TOWARDS INCREASING EMPLOYABILITY According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), India will again see its unemployment rate at 3.5 per cent in 2018 and 2019. According to the latest data, there will be 18.9 million jobless people in India next year a little more than 18.6 million for 2018. The main reason for unemployment is, not getting right quality candidate for a speciﬁc job. TRAINEE & KNOWLEDGE APPRENTICE ASSOCIATE PROGRAM PROGRAM @ DATAMATICS Datamatics has been a leading organization in Datamatics has a Knowledge Associate (KA) supporting & encouraging the National program, which works towards improving the Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) and employability of the underprivileged sections Employment Promotion Program (EPP), led by of the society. It is extended to any individual, the Government of India aimed at skill who has the will to work but is unable to do so development and promoting youth due to various socio-economic constraints. employment with local economic From young college students to homemakers opportunities. The program reinforces the to the diﬀerently-abled people and other macro-economic policy framework to economically marginalized segments, this encourage sustainable and equitable program helps them secure employment and employment for the youth, including women. become ﬁnancially independent. This program The program oﬀers vocational training for skill started more than 20 years ago and currently development and helps them get supports close to 150 Knowledge Associates. It opportunities for employment. has assisted more than 5000 individuals in becoming ﬁnancially independent over the NAPS training are given to graduates as well as past two decades. prost graduates from colleges and educational institutes across the country including tier 1 and 2 cities as well as smaller towns, with the duration ranging from 3 months to 1 year depending on the nature of work. EMPLOYABILITY The program imparts skill training to With employability being one of our core areas graduates and diploma holders in Engineering of CSR work, we focus on skill development of and Technology, wherein they are hired as the individuals in line with the market demand apprentices for a period of 1 year, post which for making the youth employable and they are given a conﬁrmation based on their competent enough to make conﬁdent career performance. The focus is mainly on processes choices. We have been doing this for decades in the BFSI sector. Datamatics currently and have trained and employed 1000+ people employs more than 1224 such trainees under under this program. these programs. HOLISTIC CHILD CARE PROGRAM DATAMATICS SUPPORTS ANNAM, A NON-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION Annam aspires to help underprivileged children and women in Mumbai city by providing nutrition supplements so that they can have a healthy chance at life. Datamatics plays a vital role by providing Technology backbone and Financial support to Annam. Datamatics works as a functional and monetary support system for all Annam related activities. Along with Annam, we aim to provide nutritionally concentrated food items that can enrich their existing diets and help them maintain good health. Annam cares for 7000+ children per week. The projects include children from diﬀerent parts of Mumbai city, belonging to diﬀerent communities. We aim to serve diﬀerent sections of the underprivileged, especially children and women requiring nutritional support for not only medical reasons but also for the well-being and positive development of body and mind, so that they can become positive contributors to their environment. It is our endeavour to reach food and food supplies to those in need of nutrition, consistently and sustainably. To accomplish our mission, Annam partners with NGOs and Social Work groups which work with local communities, shelters, hospitals etc. In order to provide a highly concentrated nutrition, we came up with the idea of ‘Shakti Bite’, a nutritive snack developed especially for Annam by renowned nutritionist Suman Agarwal. JOY OF GIVING Datamatics continues its decade old tradition of celebrating the “Joy of Giving” across various locations in India. The objective of this was to celebrate and encourage the spirit of sharing and spreading joy amongst the less fortunate. This initiative has been witnessing an overwhelming response year-on-year. Mr. Baskar – Managing Trustee and members from Udhavum Idhayam Illam CHENNAI Datamatics Chennai extended its support to Udhavum Idhayam Illam (Sakya Sangha) in Chennai. Udhavum is an NGO working for urban development and poverty alleviation of the poor and downtrodden since 2005. The NGO aims at education of under-privileged children, rehabilitation of homeless women, and promotion of self-help groups. They have around 50+ members in their ashram wherein 20 members are less than 10 years of age. College-going students and adult members are also part of the ashram. Donations from Datamatics Chennai by way of stationery, dresses, etc., were handed over to Udhavum Idhayam Illam. MUMBAI The Mumbai team visited Jeevan Anand Sanstha in Khar, an NGO which works towards helping roadside destitutes. It’s a home for those who have been rejected by the society and also oﬀer free medical treatment and rehabilitation of disabled and disadvantaged people. The support is provided through donation of clothes, toys and other household items on a regular basis. Alok Kumar Jha EVP & Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer, Datamatics, Cynthia Rodrigues, Shreya Salian Children from Jaly Home, Nigil AK – Sr. Executive HR, Gayathri M – Lead Manager HR, Moses Gnanashekaran – Sr. Manager Banking Process Management PUDUCHERRY Datamatics Puducherry team visited Jaly home to support the resident children by making contributions through dresses, stationery, toys, etc. Datamatics Puducherry visits this home for the destitute regularly to donate and support the needs of the children by providing groceries, stationery, chocolates, etc. Jaly Home is a charitable trust running since 1991 and houses destitute children. EMERGENCY Mr. Chakradhar Rao Ponugoti, AVP Claims PROGRAM Management and Hon. Pinarayi Vijayan, Chief Minister of Kerala KERALA FLOOD RELIEF CONTRIBUTION Kerala faced unprecedented ﬂoods havoc in 2018. The calamity caused untold misery and devastation. Hundreds of lives were lost. Thousands of homes were totally destroyed and many more were damaged. Kerala had not witnessed this scale of devastation in the recent past. Datamatics’ employees contributed INR 1.18 million towards the Kerala Chief Minister’s distress relief fund. The cheque from Datamatics was handed over to the Chief Minister of Kerala at the Chief Minister’s Oﬃce.
