Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 Reg No SE 556008-3585 Stockholm April 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Ratos signed the UN Global Compact in 2013. As part of our commitment to this initiative, I am pleased to report on our activities and progress in our Communication on Progress for 2018 and to reconfirm our support for the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report covers the fiscal year 2018, and consists of this letter and an extract from our annual report 2018, including an index with page references to the GC principles (and GRI indicators). In the extract, we outline our approach to integrating the principles into our active ownership and give examples or actions and activities taken by us and our portfolio companies during the year to progress our work. With this communication, we want to emphasize our ambition to continue to integrate the Global Compact principles into our business: into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Best regards Jonas Wiström CEO Ratos AB SUSTAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP – EXTRACTS FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT 2018 – Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 a Contents This is Ratos 1 The year in brief 2 Ratos as owner 3 CEO’s comments 4 Sustainable value creation 6 We at Ratos 13 Companies overview 16 GRI Index 18 Ratos share data 20 b Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership This is Ratos Ratos, founded by the Söderberg family in 1866, is an active Nordic owner that invests in and develops companies. Ratos is a listed company that invests capital from its balance sheet and has a flexible ownership horizon in the companies. We act as we feel is best for each individual company. Listed Founded by Flexible Focus on companies investment the Söderberg ownership headquartered in the company family horizon Nordics. Ratos’s portfolio The largest segments in terms of the companies’ comRatos’s portfolio consists of 12 unlisted medium-sized bined sales within each industry are Construction, Nordic companies. The companies operate independently Industrials and Consumer goods/Commerce. A detailed but can be divided into six sectors based on the industries description of each company is presented on pages in which they operate. 28–39 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2018. Sales breakdown by segment CONSTRUCTION 32% HEALTHCARE 2% INDUSTRIALS 28% BUSINESS SERVICE 2% TECHNOLOGY, MEDIA, TELECOM 14% CONSUMER GOODS/COMMERCE 21% Ratos’s business model ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT DIVESTMENT A central acquisitions team at Ratos is responsible Ratos’s target as an owner is to create longWe retain our companies for evaluating and carrying out new acquisitions. It term value in our companies, focusing on as long as we consider is not uncommon for companies and themes to be improved profitability and sales growth, on an ourselves to be the best pursued over an extended period. Direct contact ongoing and transformative basis. Together with owner and as long as it is established with the owners and management each company’s executive management, we generates shareholder of interesting companies, which we sometimes establish the companies’ strategies, and we are value for Ratos. monitor for several years. clear in our demands and serve as facilitators to In addition to the company meeting Ratos’s ensure they are implemented and produce the investment criteria and there being clear potendesired results. tial for growth and profitability, we create the As an active owner, we lend the innovativeoptimum capital structure in the acquired comness, experience, expertise, contacts and capipany to support the company’s operational and tal needed by the companies in which we invest. transformative development. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 1 The year in brief Portfolio companies Gudrun Sjödén Group and Jøtul were divested in 2018, and by the end of 2018, Ratos’s company portfolio LAN consisted of 12 companies. IN 1 F D During the year, Ratos presented new financial targets and new W OR A O C ES 3 N MP NI investment criteria. Changes were made in Ratos’s central Y D A WE E 6 organisation, adding new resources with valuable operational C O ES S N MP NI experience. We also reviewed our corporate governance and the A O C ES composition of the boards of several of our portfolio companies. MP NI A In addition to these initiatives, important activities have been carried MAR out in the portfolio companies. EN 2 D K Read more about this eventful year on pages 4–5 and about the C O ES performance of our company portfolio on pages 6–7 in Ratos’s MP NI A Annual Report 2018. 12 companies SEK 32 in sales billion SEK 1.4 in EBITA billion 12,300employees 2 company divestments SEK 0.50 proposed dividend Earnings trend, SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Profit/loss before tax -69 658 -890 892 1,367 of which, Profit/share of profits from companies 604 679 295 664 392 of which, Capital gains portfolio companies 62 596 1,672 1,101 1,390 of which, Impairment portfolio companies -600 -550 -1,895* -565 -250 Earnings per share after dilution -1.40 0.72 -1.79 1.29 3.22 Equity (attributable to owners of the parent) 8,701 9,660 11,283 12,882 14,027 * Attributable to owners of the parent. 2 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos as owner A committed and active owner Through our ownership, we drive those initiatives we deem will generate the most value for each individual company. Even though each company operates strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other, there are common denominators for our activities. Our development model rests on three cornerstones that define Ratos’s ownership in terms of creating long-term value in our companies. nership an Ow 1. overnance d g c re lon q u isit e s DEVELOPMENT MODEL 3. To g-te ol rm value ox i b B as ng 2. ati re for c 1. Ownership 2. Basic requisites for and governance creating long-term value One of Ratos’s foremost priorities as owner is to appoint Ratos applies a number of basic requirements, which we refer the right CEO and executive management in each portfoto as the Ratos Basics, and ensures compliance with these lio company. Each portfolio company’s management has requirements within the companies. These are built on: clear and complete operational mandate and responsibilClear profitability management of the company and thereby ity. A close collaboration between the executive managea deep understanding of the company’s profitability-based ment and Ratos’s owner executive is established through key figures. an agreed long-term plan, and defined value-creating Competitive benchmarking against their competitors in order initiatives are followed up regularly. to understand the company’s sector-related results and what, The CEO and executive management of the portfolio from a results perspective, can be deemed “best in class”. companies are offered incentives for value creation in the company in order to foster a sense of responsibility and a Customer satisfaction and the ability to understand and situation in which each company’s CEO and management promote the attractiveness of the company’s offering can benefit from the company’s success. from a long-term perspective. A distinct and transparent structure for corporate Personnel development and incentives to attract, retain and governance is introduced in the companies in which we develop personnel and managers. Ratos’s companies are invest. In terms of the composition of the board, we to put a premium on developing talent and working to apply what we feel will generate the most value for each create the best prerequisites for their employees. company, which may mean that Ratos itself assumes the role of board chairman, or that the board chairman is 3. Tool box recruited externally. The size of the board is also deterRatos’s organisation contains experience accumulated in mined from company to company. such areas as strategy processes, business analysis, acquiring In addition to the board work that we perform in and divesting companies, financing, accounting, law, commuour companies, we work with teams made up of the nication and purchasing/sourcing, which contributes to the CEO, board chairman and Ratos’s owner executive that companies’ development. We have a number of industrial effectively prepare central issues and accelerate rapid advisors associated with Ratos. They lend their expertise in decision-making and activities in each company. operational development and transactions. We also provide functional contacts between portfolio companies to enhance the intercompany benefits of being part of a large group. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 3 CEO’s comments Focusing on existing holdings and new targets for the future Having recently taken over as CEO, I wrote in my comprocesses are costly. As a long-term owner, one cannot ments in the 2017 Annual Report, “A concerted effort avoid these costs as this type of measure in a turnaround that leverages our actual positions of strength will prosituation is one prerequisite for long-term value creation. duce results in the long term.” Thinking “long term” is not A number of measures have been taking during the only about the time it takes to reverse a negative earnings year, not least in the fourth quarter. Three companies – trend at Ratos. Adopting a long-term approach is part of Diab, Kvdbil and Speed Group – initiated and carried out the very definition of Ratos’s ownership strategy and thus a change of CEO. Diab and HL Display streamlined their is one of Ratos’s actual positions of strength. We invest production systems. A more results-oriented organisacapital from our own balance sheet and can therefore tion was established in several companies, including TFS, own companies for as long as we consider ourselves to towards the end of the year. New chairmen have been be the best owner. Long-term ownership was also the appointed in three companies. Ratos currently holds starting point for Ratos’s new financial targets presented chairman positions in two of its companies. Several other in June 2018. Under our three new financial targets: prioritised value-creating initiatives were carried out, the – our former IRR target has been replaced by a target for effects of which I expect as early as 2019. annual EBITA growth in the company portfolio. In all, I feel that Aibel, airteam, Bisnode, Diab and – a new indebtedness target was established that will be HL Display have performed well during the year, though achieved through higher earnings in our companies, this is not yet evident in Diab’s figures. LEDiL contintogether with a long-term sustainable capital structure. ues to deliver excellent profitability in its segment. In This will free up distributable funds from the company terms of Plantasjen and Speed Group, we still face major portfolio that are required to provide a favourable share challenges. The trend in Plantasjen resulted in a lower dividend in Ratos without the need to sell portfolio valuation, which meant an impairment of our book value. companies. However, this does not mean that we have lowered our – the aforementioned will enable Ratos’s share to outperambition for profitability though it may take longer than form the index for Nasdaq Stockholm over time. planned to reverse the trend. Plantasjen also operates in a retail market that is currently being overhauled. The comThe basis for our work in 2018 has been: pany has a strong brand in a growing market that focuses – Focus on the development of our company portfolio on customer experience. The fourth quarter’s major – Define criteria for our long-term holdings project impairments in HENT are obviously very worri– Define criteria for future investments some and the result of a thorough review of the project 2018 was characterised by the intensive efforts executed portfolio in a company that has experienced extremely in our company portfolio. There were no new investments rapid growth in recent years. outside our company portfolio. Our holdings in two companies, Jøtul and Gudrun Sjöden Group, were divested as Changes in Ratos AB they did not meet the criteria for our long-term ownership. In early 2018, changes were implemented to Ratos’s investment organisation. We reduced the size of the Performance of the company portfolio organisation, changed the mix of skills and redistributed during the year the roles. We relocated physically to ensure faster comWork in Ratos’s company portfolio has focused on ensurmunication and decision-making. We also changed the ing Stability, Profitability and Growth in each company incentive model in the short and long term to align it with – and in that order. I am well aware that for some types the new financial targets and link these to the perforof companies, in some markets during certain periods, mance of the Ratos share. growth can be prioritised over profitability. However, At the end of 2018, two steps were taken in the develstability must always be our primary concern. opment of Ratos and our corporate governance. The new Achieving stability is something that often has a negative organisation that took effect on 1 March 2019 has been earnings impact in the short term. Activities such as replacfurther trimmed in order to streamline the way we work, ing management, investing in new production equipment, which means that our companies have divided into three and depreciation of machinery, equipment, systems and business areas. 4 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership Consumer & Technology: Compact’s (UNGC) ten principles for responsible busiBisnode, Kvdbil, Oase and Plantasjen ness. It is through the portfolio companies’ operations Construction & Services: that we have the greatest impact through our exercise Aibel, airteam, HENT and Speed Group of ownership. Through our corporate governance, we Industry: endeavour to ensure that the boards of our companies Diab, HL Display, LEDiL and TFS have an integrated sustainability agenda, to increase the share of climate-reporting companies and to ensure that The three business areas are responsible for ensuring that the companies prioritise diversity and equal opportunities. we have the right management in the companies and that prioritised value-creating initiatives are identified, prioritised Commitment and capability and implemented under the portfolio company’s manageI have on numerous occasions emphasised that the ment with help from the company’s resources, which can remaking of Ratos will take time. A corporate director occasionally be bolstered with competences from Ratos. knows that there will always be events that were imposTwo new functions have been added: Investments & sible to foresee. But I believe that we will be able to see, Ownership Excellence and Talent Management. as early as 2019, some results of what has been achieved Nothing is more important for our value creation than by the dedicated and talented employees in our portfomaking sure that we have the right management in our lio companies and in Ratos AB. It all comes down to the companies. Being CEO of a Ratos company entails comcommitment and ability of people. plete responsibility for the income statement and balance Finally, I would like to thank all our loyal and patient sheet within a defined capital structure. To ensure that shareholders who, via the Board of Directors, have we secure the best candidates, the CEO and other key entrusted me to lead Ratos in 2018. This is an important individuals are invited to invest in the company in order to task and I am convinced that we will succeed by working take part of the company’s future value creation. together. Sustainability We are convinced that there is a strong connection between sustainability and long-term value creation. Jonas Wiström Our sustainability agenda is based on the UN Global CEO Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 5 Sustainable value creation Ratos generates value by driving positive development in its companies. We are convinced that there is a strong connection between sustainability and long-term value creation. As a responsible investor and owner, it is Ratos’s ambition to promote sustainable development and awareness related to sustainability issues in the company’s own organisation as well as in the portfolio companies. For Ratos, sustainable value creation means active and Stakeholder dialogues involve discussions between Ratos responsible ownership that includes sustainability issues. and the most important stakeholders during which they Our sustainability work is based on the UN Global are asked to prioritise those aspects that Ratos deems are Compact’s (UNGC) ten principles for responsible highly relevant for the operations and value creation. business as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Ratos’s latest materiality analysis was carried out in Investment (PRI). Since 2015, Ratos has been reporting 2016 and it was discussed among Ratos’s management in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) group in 2018. The materiality analysis was largely found and this year’s report follows the GRI Standards, Core to be relevant, with an elevated prioritisation of the application level (see page 18 for GRI index). As of 2015, aspects “equal opportunities and diversity” and “portfolio Ratos submits its sustainability report to the Global company climate impact”. At Ratos, we are convinced that Compact as its Communication on Progress (COP). an active agenda addressing climate impact, equal opporThroughout the year, Ratos has explored how it can tunities and diversity leads to more innovation, profitability contribute to and develop in line with the UN’s Sustainand stronger competitiveness. able Development Goals (SDGs) by identifying the most Ratos’s significant sustainability aspects that have the relevant SDGs for Ratos’s operations. highest priority can be summarised as follows: Important events in 2018 Top three significant aspects U  pdate of Ratos’s general sustainability goals divided into the E nsure transparent and sound corporate governance and do investment process, corporate governance and the parent business with good business ethics and proactive anti-corruption company initiatives Determination of how Ratos can contribute to the UN’s SDGs  rive corporate responsibility in the portfolio companies, D T  o prevent discrimination and promote equal opportunities, focusing particularly on climate impact, equal opportunities and Ratos’s Code of Conduct has been updated and issues condiversity cerning victimisation have been included in Ratos’s employee  ttract, develop and engage the parent company’s employees A satisfaction survey through a healthy, equal-opportunities workplace with  eview of the portfolio companies’ work on sustainability, R increased diversity compliance and risk initiatives (questionnaire)  uality assurance of the portfolio companies’ sustainability Q Our ambition during the next year is to review the matereports and their concordance with the parent company’s riality analysis as part of ensuring that it and our sustainsustainability report ability strategy are relevant. A  rrangement of Sustainability Day for the portfolio companies’ sustainability managers Ratos’s general targets O  ffering of a framework agreement to the portfolio companies for whistleblowing systems, climate reporting systems and Based on the prioritisation of the most significant susprotection against child sexual abuse material on computers tainability aspects, Ratos defines its general targets as a (NetClean Proactive) responsible investor, owner and parent company. The goals are then made tangible in action plans and follow-up activities. Significant sustainability aspects In 2018, Ratos’s management group updated Ratos’s and our stakeholders general targets, and added equal opportunities and Ratos’s most significant sustainability issues are identified diversity as targets for both its own organisation and the through intelligence gathering, industry analysis, risk mapportfolio companies. Ratos’s general targets for 2018 are ping and stakeholder dialogues. Combined, these analyses presented in the table General targets for Ratos as a responand dialogues form Ratos’s materiality analysis. Based sible owner on page 7. on the most significant aspects, Ratos defines goals and action plans to drive and develop the sustainability agenda and strengthen long-term value creation. 6 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership GENERAL TARGETS FOR RATOS AS A RESPONSIBLE OWNER General targets Status Investment process Investments are adapted in line with Ratos’s exclusion criteria No acquisitions of new portfolio companies made in 2018 Sustainability aspects are a part of a thorough acquisition analysis Sustainability is an important and integrated part of future value creation Corporate governance All company boards have defined sustainability goals and follow up on In all our companies, the board has presented and discussed the the initiatives at least once a year companies’ sustainability agenda during the year Sustainability report in accordance with GRI (Ratos’s majority-owned large Seven companies out of twelve prepare climate reports in line with GRI companies) Standards, Core application level Increase the share of climate-reporting companies 42% of Ratos’s companies prepare climate reports Ratos’s companies must be attractive employers and aim for greater diversity Ratos aims to ensure that all companies follow up and prioritise this and equal opportunities Ratos’s parent company Committed and motivated employees. A healthy workplace Ratos follows up and prioritises this that promotes diversity and equal opportunities Sustainability report in accordance with GRI Sustainability report in accordance with GRI Standards, Core application level since 2015 Climate reporting Climate reporting performed since 2016 Stakeholder dialogues Materiality analysis (2016) * Stakeholders Method of interaction 1) MONITORING SOME DEGREE OF RATOS’S PRIORITISED AND TRANSPARENCY REPORTING SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Employees at I nterviews with representatives in connection Ratos with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 HIGH Sound corporate goverStaff meetings, performance reviews nance and transparency Structured discussion groups focusing on Ratos’s Sound business ethics, values, corporate culture, processes and future anti-corruption SIGNIFICANCE FOR RATOS’S STAKEHOLDERS development Business ethics, anti-corruption, Drive corporate portfolio responsibility in the Employees of I nterviews with representatives in connection with companies portfolio companies, Ratos’s companies stakeholder dialogues in 2016 risks and opportunities Meetings within Ratos’s annual functional forum Attract and develop (CEO, CFO, HR, Sustainability, etc.) the portfolio company employees The companies’ I nterviews with representatives in connection with Criteria for Attract and develop management stakeholder dialogues in 2016 responsible the parent company groups and Group-wide assessment of the work of the boards investments employees board members Human rights, health, Owners and I nterviews with representatives in connection with Tax Sustainable value chain, safety and working conditions, investors stakeholder dialogues in 2016 parent company portfolio companies Participation in surveys from/or dialogues with Environment and Equality and organisations such as CDP, RobecoSAM, Vigeo and climate impact, diversity Emissions and Sustainalytics parent company climate impact, Resource efficiency, General meetings portfolio companies MEDIUM portfolio companies Dialogues and individual meetings (materials, energy) Experts I nterviews in connection with stakeholder MEDIUM SIGNIFICANCE FOR RATOS’S BUSINESS HIGH dialogues in 2016 Discussions as needed * The “Attract and develop the right parent company employees” aspect is relevant within the organisation. The remaining aspects are relevant within and outside the organisation. 1) A total of 17 were interviewed during stakeholder dialogues in 2016. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 7 Ratos’s work related to the UN Sustainable Based on Ratos’s highest prioritised significant aspects, Development Goals we have identified the SDGs and targets where Ratos can Throughout the year, Ratos has examined how it can conmake the greatest contribution and realise the greatest tribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) business opportunities. See the table below. As an aid in as part of promoting sustainable development. The SDGs the identification process, we used An Analysis of the Goals were adopted in 2015 by all United Nations Member and Targets compiled by GRI and the UN Global ComStates and are a call for action to end extreme poverty, pact, among other publications. reduce inequality, tackle climate change, and promote peace and justice in the world by 2030. RATOS’S PRIORITISED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND TARGETS Significant aspects – Top three SDG SDG target Ensure transparent and sound corporate 16.4 Combat organised crime and illicit financial and arms flows governance and do business with good business 16.5 Combat corruption and bribery ethics and proactive anti-corruption initiatives Drive corporate responsibility in the portfolio 5.1 JÄMSTÄLLDHET End all forms of discrimination against women and girls companies, focusing particularly on climate 5.5 Ensure women’s full participation in leadership at all levels of decision-making impact, equal opportunities and diversity 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity for all and eliminate discrimination 12.2 KLIMATHÅLLBARBEKÄMPA Sustainable management and use of natural resources 12.6 OCH Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and sustainability reporting FÖRÄNDRINGARNA KONSUMTION PRODUKTION13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related disasters 13.3 Improve awareness and capacity to manage climate changes Attract, develop and engage the parent 5.1 JÄMSTÄLLDHET End all forms of discrimination against women and girls company’s employees through a healthy, 5.5 Ensure women’s full participation in leadership at all levels of decision-making equal-opportunities workplace with 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity for all and eliminate discrimination increased diversity 8 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos as a responsible investor and owner Ratos’s work as a responsible investor and owner has high are responsible for ensuring that sustainability is included priority since the direct impact in the parent company on the agenda of each portfolio company’s management is slight in relation to the portfolio companies’ impact. and board. The CEO and management of each portfolio Sustainability is an integrated part of Ratos’s investment company have operational responsibility for the compaprocess and of how we exercise our ownership role. ny’s sustainability efforts through direct delegation from Ratos’s work as a responsible investor and owner is Ratos’s management. based on a number of relevant policies and guidelines estabRatos invests in several industries and our portfolio lished by Ratos’s Board of Directors, primarily comprising companies are affected by many different sustainabilitythe Code of Conduct, the Policy for Sustainability and related risks and opportunities. Ratos therefore has Responsible Investments, and the Environmental Policy (see common requirements for the portfolio companies. Ratos’s website). The policy framework is based on the UN Ratos’s expectations in terms of the company’s sustainGlobal Compact’s ten principles for responsible business ability efforts are based on relevant legislation, recognised as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Investment international conventions, Ratos’s Policy for Sustainability (PRI). The Code of Conduct and the Policy for Sustainability and Responsible Investments, the Environmental Policy and and Responsible Investments was updated and adopted by the Code of Conduct. An assessment of risks associated Ratos’s Board of Directors during the year. with violations of human rights and social conditions, labour laws, the environment, corruption and irregularities is Investment process conducted regularly as part of Ratos’s annual risk mapping. Sustainability aspects are a part of Ratos’s thorough All portfolio companies are expected to have a process for pre-acquisition analysis. As is evident in our Policy for mapping and managing each company’s major risks. Sustainability and Responsible Investments, the following exclusion criteria and policies are involved in our assess100% ment of potential acquisitions: Share of our companies Ratos’s exclusion criteria that have a code of conduct in line with Ratos does not invest in companies that Ratos’s Code: Operate in the arms industry Cause serious environmental damage Produce or are actively involved in the supply of pornography Produce tobacco products Each portfolio company’s board is ultimately responsible Ratos’s policies for ensuring the company complies with applicable sustainability laws, guidelines and policies. One of Ratos’s goals As guidance in the assessment of new investments and in its work with through corporate governance is for all companies to have existing companies, Ratos has policies for Breaches of international conventions defined sustainability goals and follow up on the initiatives How Ratos is to exercise climate consideration at least once a year. All companies send a status update on their sustainability efforts to Ratos’s CEO annually. In 2018, Due diligence is performed during the investment process we interacted with 100% of our portfolio companies on to assess Ratos’s potential investment object’s risks, environmental, social and economic issues. potential and maturity within sustainability. The compaTo facilitate the companies’ efforts, Ratos offers ny’s risks and activities in relation to key sustainability framework agreements for whistleblowing systems, areas are investigated, which entails an identification of protection against child sexual abuse material on computrisks and potential in the company’s operations or value ers (NetClean Proactive) and climate reporting systems. chain connected to employees, respect for human rights, Every year, Ratos also organises network meetings for business ethics, and counteracting corruption. The analvarious functions, during which the Sustainability Forum ysis also includes reviewing the company’s current and serves as a platform for sharing knowledge and experipreventive initiatives in terms of identified risks. ence within sustainable business development. A compiled due diligence is part of Ratos’s final As part of the work to further develop the companies’ decision material ahead of the investment decision and sustainability reporting in line with the Swedish Annual constitutes a recommendation for the continued corpoAccounts Act, Ratos introduced a requirement in 2017 rate governance. No portfolio company acquisitions were with respect to sustainability reporting in accordance with made in 2018. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for all large majority-owned companies. In 2018, seven out of 12 companies Corporate governance in Ratos’s portfolio prepared climate reports in line with Ratos’s CEO has the overall responsibility for the GroupGRI Standards, Core application level. wide strategy and sustainability initiatives as well as responsible investments. All company executives at Ratos Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 9 Sustainability in Ratos’s portfolio companies A summary of the companies’ sustainability efforts is A healthy, safe work environment, talent development presented below. See pages 28–39 in Ratos’s Annual as well as equal opportunities and diversity are prioriReport 2018 for comments on each company’s significant tised issues for Ratos. The companies are to implement sustainability issues. a code of conduct in line with Ratos’s Code of Conduct, which stipulates that recognised international conventions, Responsibility for environmental and climate impact human rights and employee rights and conditions must be All of Ratos’s companies are to identify their respective respected. The annual sustainability reports contain, for environmental impact and implement an Environmental example, information on the share of women in senior posiPolicy/Environmental Plan. The companies’ sustainability tions and the implementation of whistleblowing systems. reports contain a compilation of energy consumption (kWh), relative energy consumption, waste management Group employees per geographic area 2018 and water consumption. Measurement and follow-up of Sweden 24% greenhouse gas emissions is a key tool for reducing climate Rest of the world 1% impact. One of Ratos’s general goals is to increase the share Rest of Asia 3% of climate-reporting companies, and framework agreements North America 1% Norway 38% for climate reporting systems are offered to all portfolio Rest of Europe 15% companies to facilitate their work. 42% of the companies owned by Ratos on 31 December 2018 report their CO2 in China 3% Finland 3% accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Poland 4% A number of Ratos’s companies have risks relating to Germany 4% Denmark 4% environmental and climate issues, for example, through adjustments to a climate-neutral economy, having opera39% tions in areas with a rising frequency of extreme weather Share of women in senior (such as flooding) or having operations aimed at custompositions in subsidiaries: ers in the field of fossil fuel extraction. (based on the average number of employees in the Group in 2018) Share of companies that Share of companies that have systematic environhave CO2 reporting: mental processes: * 42% 67% Social responsibility and respect for human rights Social responsibility comprises several areas, including making demands on and monitoring sub-contractors in such areas as respect for human rights, absence of forced labour and reasonable working conditions. Several of * E nvironmental Policy or ISO 14001-certified production units. Ratos’s companies have suppliers and partners in other countries where there is an elevated risk of violations of human rights or employee rights, which is why these issues are prioritised areas in the companies’ supply Assuming responsibility for employees chains. Other risks related to Ratos’s companies include in our companies violation of integrity offences and lack of quality and safety The Ratos Group has 12,300 employees who all contribin products or services that can result in accidents or ute to the implementation of Ratos’s development plans personal injury. in each company. Competent and committed employees Respect for recognised international conventions, in good health are a prerequisite for the implementation human rights and employee rights and conditions must be of Ratos’s ownership agenda and sustainable value crestipulated in the companies’ own codes of conduct, and ation. Most (92%) of the employees work in the Nordic in the work and demands relating to suppliers and other countries and the rest of Europe, while 6% are employed parties in the value chain. in Asia, primarily China. Several of Ratos’s companies have operations that put employees at a greater risk of Sound business ethics and proactive personal injury. Other risks relevant to Ratos’s companies anti-corruption efforts comprise psychosocial health and the risk of discriminaThe code of conduct that Ratos’s companies implement tory behaviour. Certain companies have risks related to contains written business ethics and anti-corruption future talent supply and high employee turnover. Based instructions. Ratos’s instructions governing sustainability, on identified risks, the companies implement relevant compliance and risk contain principles for the companies’ guidelines and processes, and pursue a systematic and work on anti-corruption and the development of antipreventive work environment agenda. corruption programmes. All companies are to perform 10 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership corruption risk analyses as part of their comprehensive exposed industries. As of 2016, Ratos’s general rule is that risk mapping and management, and establish preventive all companies are to have implemented a whistleblowing routines and processes that are risk-specific. Preventive system to guarantee anonymity and full integrity. On 31 work includes guidelines for employees, training proDecember 2018, 100% of the companies that Ratos owns grammes for persons in positions of risk, and imposing had implemented such a system. demands and following up on business partners. During the year, all (100%) of Ratos’s portfolio companies were 100% analysed for corruption risks. Six (50%) of Ratos’s companies are considered to have an elevated risk of corShare of companies ruption, such as bribery, solely based on their presence that have whistleblowing in geographic markets with an elevated risk (according systems: to Transparency International) or through operations in Diab reduces CO2footprint and separates growth from CO2 Diab’s composite material is used for applications in the wind power, To this end, Diab has swapped the Swedish organisation’s transport, marine and aviation industries. The lightweight, strong natural gas for biofuel (wood chips), resulting in cost-savings core composite materials are used to manufacture low-energy vehiand a radical reduction of its CO2 footprint, which correcles, boats, airplanes and, above all, effective wind turbine blades. sponds to around 5 percent for the entire Diab Group. This was possible through an agreement with the power Diab has resolved to reduce the company’s CO2 footprint company Adven AB, thereby making Diab’s Laholm-based and to do so at the pace required by climate science – by production plant 100% fossil free in 2019. Hot water and measuring itself against science-based targets. The organisaheat will be generated by biofuel instead of fossil natural tion sciencebasedtargets.org examines whether a company’s gas, a measure expected to reduce the company’s carbon proposed CO2 emission reduction plan is aligned with how footprint by 6,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide annually. much a certain segment needs to reduce its CO2 emissions “When we evaluated our climate impact, it became clear into the atmosphere in order to limit global warming to that a large part of our carbon footprint could be linked to enerless than 2 degrees Celsius. The company’s plans to realise gy use in our factories. With the new energy solution in Laholm, the targets were approved in September 2018 after Diab’s we are taking a big step forward in our effort to deliver products science-based targets had been reviewed. for a future sustainable society,” says Per Hökfelt, EVP SustainHighly tangible and explicit, the plan builds on three ability & EHSQ at Diab. areas: to improve the utilisation of raw materials, streamline The energy conversion is not only climate friendly but the utilisation of natural gas and electricity and, based on also cost effective since wood chips cost less per kilowatt local conditions, switch to renewable sources if possible, hour than natural gas. without extra costs. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 11 Ratos as a responsible parent company Being a responsible parent company requires, above all, Climate impact that we ensure transparent and sound corporate govRatos’s environmental agenda is based on the precautionernance, that we do business with good business ethics, ary principle and is governed by our Environmental Policy that we work proactively with anti-corruption initiatives and related environmental plan. The CEO is responsible and that we attract, develop and engage our employees. for continuously monitoring these efforts. Ratos’s main Ratos’s policies, including the Code of Conduct, guidelines environmental impact stems from business travel and for share transactions, and processes for ethics and regumainly comprises emissions from air travel. As part of latory compliance are the foundation for this. following up the effect of the policy and initiatives, Ratos When they are hired, Ratos’s General Counsel presannually reports its climate impact in accordance with the ents Ratos’s Code of Conduct, Work Environment Policy, GHG Protocol. Measuring and following up greenhouse Employee Manual, Environmental Policy and other related gas emissions creates awareness about Ratos’s impact policies to the new employees. Through Ratos’s external and an understanding of effective measures, thereby whistleblowing systems, which guarantee anonymity for generating opportunities to further reduce Ratos’s climate the whistleblower, deviations from the policies and other impact. Ratos is actively examining ways to optimise irregularities are followed up. Both Ratos’s employees and business travel through, for example, video conference external stakeholders can use the channel to report any systems and guidelines when choosing means of transincident of corruption or other irregularities in contraport. Climate compensation has been paid for all air travel vention with Ratos’s Code of Conduct. During the year, since 2014. Energy consumption is also an issue that we Ratos also installed a system to protect against child sexare studying in order to minimise our climate impact. As ual abuse material on all of Ratos’s computers (NetClean of 2016, Ratos only uses electricity with the “good enviProactive). Ratos had no reported violations of the Code ronmental choice” label. Ratos has saved 148,704 kWh of Conduct, including no reported cases of discrimination since 2016, which corresponds to a reduction in CO2 in 2018. Nor has Ratos been fined or received any other of around 37% per year. Ratos’s total emissions for the sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. No parent company amounted to 155 tonnes CO2e for 2018, whistleblowing reports were filed during the year. after climate compensation. Ratos’s purchases include services and products for its office operations in Stockholm and consultancy services Total emissions, tonnes of CO2e/yr 2018 2017 2016 in conjunction with acquisition and sales processes as well Business trips (Scope 3) 135 232 254 as development procedures. These suppliers operate of which, air travel 124 216 230 primarily in the Nordic countries. Head office, building (Scope 2) 1) 16 16 20 Two sustainability aspects that rose in priority in Raof which, electricity consumption (Scope 2) 2.7 3 3 Other 2) (incl. annual report calculated tos’s parent company in 2018 are climate impact and equal from a general LCA perspective) 4 6 2 opportunities and diversity. In addition to supporting the portfolio companies in these issues, it is particularly Total before climate compensation 155 255 276 important for Ratos to serve as a good role model. For Total after climate compensation 0 0 46 information about our work on equal opportunities and 1) Electricity and heat consumption. diversity, see page15. 2) District heating, paper and printed materials, electricity consumption. 12 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership We at Ratos People make the difference In all business operations, value is created by people. Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees and talent is imperative to Ratos and to our companies’ ability to realise long-term success. Therefore, a major priority for us is that we and our companies are attractive employers. The Ratos Group has about 12,300 employees worldwide at focusing more on talent development in our portfowho work for one of the 12 companies that make up lio companies, strengthening corporate cohesion and Ratos’s company portfolio or in Ratos’s own organisation. improving the transfer of knowledge between the compaRatos’s parent company has 24 employees. In addition, nies. Each portfolio company will be represented by up to eight Industrial Advisors are associated with the Ratos’s two candidates and the program will run for one year. operations. Ratos’s CEO and management group are responsible for the employees’ work situation and talent Network with Nordic business experience development. Our Industrial Advisors assist Ratos and our portfolio companies in matters concerning operational developFocus on the right skills ment and transactions and may serve as board members The organisation is staffed with people who have extenor the chairman of our companies. Our network is made sive experience in operational development and straup of highly qualified individuals who have long-standing tegic analysis, people who often have a background as business experience from all the Nordic countries. They management consultants or from operative roles. They act as Ratos’s representatives and lend their general are continuously involved in investment processes and expertise, knowledge of the local business community, lead the work in the portfolio companies together with sector-specific insights, experience and contacts. each company’s board and management. Each portfolio company has a team that normally consists of two Ratos The Ratos spirit employees, one of whom is company executive, with one Ratos’s actions are based on our core values – entreor more as a member of the company’s board. preneurial, committed and responsible. Through good Ratos’s organisation also includes people with experbusiness ethics, we ensure that those with whom we do tise in communication, legal matters, financing and business will be able to trust us, want to choose us and accounting who support the company teams and compareturn to us. These values define how we work and internies in matters related to each area. act with each other and our stakeholders. Every year, Ratos conducts a number of initiatives to provide information, boost awareness and share best Employer branding practices between Ratos’s portfolio companies, includAs a part of our efforts to find and attract future employing Network Days, a Chairman Forum, CEO Summit, ees, but also to strengthen Ratos’s brand, we offer stuCFO Summit, CR Forum and HR Forum. In 2019, Ratos dents a six-month internship at Ratos. will launch an Executive Management Program aimed The analysts who are offered internships work in Ratos’s values Entrepreneurial since we encourage Committed and dedicated in our Responsible since we have high demands original approaches, curiosity and harness businesses, companies and the people on business ethics and weigh in the conseopportunities, conduct business and build who lead and work at Ratos and its quences of the decisions we are involved in companies. companies. for people and the environment. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 13 the investment organisation but may also be assigned As stipulated in Ratos’s Work Environment Policy, tasks from other departments. In 2018, we offered a total recently adopted by the management group in 2018, of three internships at Ratos. Ratos’s systematic work environment agenda involves In addition, we actively participate in training proexamining, implementing and following up operations in grams, lectures and seminars held mainly at the Stocksuch a way as to prevent ill health and work-related acciholm School of Economics with which we have a close dents, and to achieve a satisfactory work environment. cooperation. This extends to all physical, psychological and social conditions of significance in the work environment. Ratos’s Involved in community development CEO is ultimately responsible for the work environment. Ratos’s community involvement is founded in our over The day-to-day work environment agenda is carried out 150-year history where long-term responsibility is a by the work environment team comprising, among others, natural part of our operations. Through an established Ratos’s Finance Manager and General Counsel in collabocooperation with Inkludera Invest, which takes social ration with employers and employees. The work enviinnovations to market through strong social entrepreronment is a standing item for discussion during Ratos’s neurs, and the Stockholm School of Economics, we focus monthly management group meetings. Ratos distributes our community involvement on organisations close to our an employee satisfaction survey every year. In 2018, Ratos business and from which we gain a mutual exchange. updated the employee satisfaction survey with questions regarding the employees’ psychosocial work environment, A responsible, committed and discrimination and harassment. The updated version of entrepreneurial workplace the employee satisfaction survey will be distributed during Ratos must be an attractive employer that attracts, 2019. develops and retains talented and innovative thinkers to During periods of high workloads, Ratos’s employbe successful in the long term. To this end, Ratos takes an ees can be exposed to negative stress that may lead active and systematic approach to our employees’ work to stress-related illnesses. A key element for Ratos in environment and talent development. fostering an attractive, sound workplace involves working Distribution, investment organisation 2018 Distribution, the companies’ boards 2018 (excluding Ratos employees and employee representatives) Women 13% Men 87% Women 22% Men 78% 14 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership proactively against stress-related illnesses. Ratos encourthrough formal performance reviews. In 2018, perages health-promoting activities, for example, by offering formance reviews were held with 24 (100%) Ratos fitness subsidies, medical and health insurance, and preemployees. ventive health exams. Ratos also endeavours to provide a good work-life balance. For example, employees have Equal opportunities and diversity the option to structure their working hours to achieve a Ratos is convinced that equal opportunities and diversity work-family life balance along with additional possibilities are – beyond legal and democratic perspectives – key to to work from home. Ratos encourages parental leave for strengthening Ratos’s profitability and competitiveness. both men and women, and actively works to make the A central part of creating an attractive workplace is to return to work after parental leave smooth and straightsafeguard equal opportunities and diversity in all areas forward. In 2018, of those on parental leave, men were of Ratos’s operations, both operationally and within the on leave for an average of 2.2 months and women for 1.4 governing and management body. Efforts addressing equal months. opportunities and diversity are based primarily on the guidelines in Ratos’s Diversity Policy for the Board of Directors (see Ratos’s Corporate Governance Report page 49 0.14% in Ratos’s Annual Report 2018) and our updated Code of Conduct. For example, Ratos endeavours to recruit solely Sick leave is on the grounds of merits and skills, and to ensure equal generally low and in 2018 was: pay for equal work. Ratos also analyses and transparently reports key figures related to equal opportunities and diversity. Another important part of our equal opportunity and diversity efforts involves inclusion and fostering a work Based on individual and collective needs, Ratos offers its environment that allows everyone the chance to realise employees regular talent development and leadership their full potential. This is something we endeavour to programs. The need for these programs is determined achieve through our performance reviews. Employees, type and function at Ratos’s head office as of 31 December 2018 Number and proportion based on the type of employment in relation to gender. The information below has been obtained from Ratos’s salary system. Women % Men % <30 years 30–50 years >50 years Permanent employment 1) 10 42% 14 58% 3 12 9 Management group 1 17% 5 83% 3 3 Investment organisation 2) 1 13% 7 87% 1 7 Business support 3) 8 80% 2 20% 2 4 4 Total 10 14 Ratos’s Board of Directors 2 33% 4 67% 6 Boards in the companies, excluding Ratos’s investment organisation 9 22% 32 78% Employees who have resigned 4 6 10 New employees 3 4 1 3 3 1) All full-time employees but one. During the year, Ratos had three interns with a fixed-term contract of around six months. 2) At the start of 2019, three people resigned. 3) At the start of 2019, one person resigned. Average parental leave 2018 Age distribution 2018 Number of months of parental leave (rolling 12 months, mean), Ratos head office Number of permanently employed per age category, Ratos head office 8 8 7 6 6 6 5 4 4 2.2 months 3 2.6 months 1.4 months 1.8 months 2 1 2 2 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years Women on parental leave Men on parental leave 100% of Ratos’s employees were entitled to parental leave in 2018. Ratos does not hire employees who are not employed for a considerable part of the company’s operations. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 15 Companies overview Ratos’s company portfolio is made up of 12 companies that together employ some 12,300 employees with combined sales of approximately SEK 32 billion and EBITA of approximately SEK 1.4 billion on an annual basis, not adjusted for Ratos’s holding. The companies are active in different sectors, and operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other. Information about the companies’ operations, market position, financial key figures and growth potential can be found on pages 28–39 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2018. Development of the company portfolio Sales breakdown by segment TECHNOLOGY/MEDIA/TELECOM 14% BUSINESS SERVICE 2% For full-year 2018, sales in the company portfolio increased Bisnode, Kvdbil Speed Group 6%, while EBITA declined 23% from SEK 1,038m to SEK 804m, pro forma and adjusted for Ratos’s holdings. INDUSTRIALS 28% CONSTRUCTION 32% Aibel, Diab, HL Display, LEDiL HENT, airteam CONSUMER GOODS/ COMMERCE 21% HEALTHCARE 2% Oase Outdoors, Plantasjen TFS Summary of Ratos’s companies Cash flow Interest-bearing Net sales EBITA in the from operations net debt in Ratos’s SEKm in the portfolio portfolio in the portfolioA) the portfolio holding 2018 2017 2018 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 Aibel 2,695 2,992 183 102 -31 861 32 airteam 638 570 62 54 49 58 70 Bisnode 2,583 2,484 329 277 265 963 70 Diab 1,437 1,382 -149 1 -65 855 96 HENT 6,124 5,300 113 190 78 -519 73 HL Display 1,531 1,424 94 42 95 441 99 Kvdbil 332 346 8 30 16 37 100 LEDiL 290 256 72 70 63 199 66 Oase Outdoors 330 321 28 42 4 214 78 Plantasjen 4,184 3,963 76 217 -75 2,406 99 Speed Group 517 359 -9 17 -36 49 70 TFS 504 529 -4 -4 -12 43 60 Total adjusted for Ratos’s holding 21,165 19,927 804 1,038 349 5,606 Change 6% -23% All figures in the above table are based on Ratos’s holdings. In order to facilitate comparisons between years and provide a comparable structure, where appropriate some holdings are reported pro forma. Cash flow from operations, excluding paid tax and interest, but including investments and divestments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, respectively. A)  Excluding Ratos employees and employee representatives. B)  Systematic environmental processes refers to the Environmental Policy or ISO 14001-certified production units. C)  CO2 indicators for each company can be found on pages 28–39 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2018. D)  16 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership Sales breakdown and employees by geographic market % of the Ratos Group’s sales Nordic countries % of the Ratos Group’s employees Western Europe 81% 68% Eastern Europe 11% 14% 2% 10% North America Rest of the world 1% 1% 5% 8% Sales development EBITA margin % % 50 30 40 25 20 30 15 20 10 10 5 0 0 -5 -10 -10 -20 -15 up T dil am lay jen iab od e or s il db S TF l be l be am e iab T lay db il dil s or jen up S ro EN Le te isp as D do Kv Ai Ai te od D EN isp Le do as ro TF G H air D nt sn air sn H D Kv nt G d L Pla Bi ut Bi ut Pla d ee H O HL O ee Sp as e e as Sp O O 2017 2018 Sustainability indicators Average Share of Systematic Code of WhistleSustainability Report in number of women on environmental CO2 conduct in line blowing accordance with GRI Standards, employees the Board B) processes reporting C) D) with Ratos’s system Core application level Aibel 3,405 0% Yes No Yes Yes Yes airteam 230 25% No No Yes Yes No Bisnode 2,045 0% Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Diab 1,294 0% Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes HENT 940 33% Yes Yes Yes Yes No HL Display 1,023 100% Yes No Yes Yes Yes Kvdbil 193 0% Yes Yes Yes Yes No LEDiL 122 20% Yes No Yes Yes No Oase Outdoors 88 33% No No Yes Yes No Plantasjen 1,178 67% No Yes Yes Yes Yes Speed Group 1,171 0% Yes No Yes Yes Yes TFS 660 33% No No Yes Yes Yes Total adjusted for Ratos’s holding 12,349 Financial performance in accordance with IFRS The companies’ customers and end users The Ratos Group’s net sales for 2018 amounted to SEK 23,125m (23,059) The portfolio companies’ customers include global companies in the and operating profit totalled SEK 320m (1,081). To facilitate a compariindustrial sector operating in the oil and gas, aerospace, wind power son between periods and enable follow-up of the ongoing performance industries as well as LED lighting. The companies’ customers also include of Ratos’s company portfolio, the companies overview includes certain construction contractors operating in the construction and ventilation financial information that is not defined in accordance with IFRS. segments, companies that gather decision-supporting data as well as For a reconciliation of the alternative performance measures used in this companies that offer warehouse and logistics services. In the Healthcare report with the most directly reconcilable IFRS measures, refer to www. sector, assignments are carried out on commission from the pharmaratos.se. ceutical and medical device industries. The end users of the companies’ products also include consumers through the sale of plants, camping and outdoor equipment, and brokerage of second-hand vehicles and products for in-store brand promotion. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 17 GRI Index Ratos’s sustainability reporting refers to the 2018 calendar year. The figIn line with Ratos’s signing of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Ratos ures presented are from 1 January 2018 until 31 December 2018 unless submits a Communication on Progress (COP) every year that presents otherwise specified. This report has been prepared in accordance with its work with UNGC’s ten principles. COP information can be found the GRI Standards: Core option. This is Ratos’s fourth sustainability in Ratos’s 2018 Annual Report. The reporting of Ratos’s significant report according to GRI and Ratos intends to report annually. aspects and topic-specific disclosures are largely limited to Ratos’s Compliance Fully Partial GRI STANDARDS INDEX WITH FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURE Page in Ratos’s UNGC Standard & Title Annual Report 2018 Comments principles Compliance GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 3, 128 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 3, 26-27 102-3 Location of headquarters 128 102-4 Location of operations 1 102-5 Ownership and legal form 42-45 102-6 Markets served 1, 3, 16-17, 26-27 102-7 Scale of the organisation 16, 19, 26-27, 58-66 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 21 Only encompasses Ratos’s headquarters. 102-9 Supply chain 18 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its 1, 6-7, 42-45 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 18 7 102-12 External initiatives 12 102-13 Membership of associations 12 The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Venture Capital Association and Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 10, 12, 14-21 Guidance 102-18 Governance structure 15, 47-55 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 124 Ratos has not entered into any collective agreements. 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12, 13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13 Omissions: Not possible to report results divided into each stakeholder group due to inadequate data collection by third-party provider Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12, 13, 124 102-47 List of material topics 12, 13 102-48 Restatements of information 124 No changes. 102-49 Changes in reporting 12 102-50 Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report 124 28 March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 124 Jonas Wiström, CEO, +46 8 700 17 00, Helene Gustafsson, Head of IR and Press, +46 8 700 17 00 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Level 102-55 GRI content index 124-125 102-56 External assurance Not examined by third party 18 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership parent company. The guidance on the aspects and indicators 205-1 and unless specified otherwise. All calculations regarding the environment FS10 encompass both the parent company and holdings. are based on the GHG Protocol. Calculations that concern employees All calculations of energy and carbon emissions are comparisons are based on GRI’s models and all data is reported using the metric between the financial years 2016 and 2018, with 2016 as base year for system. All HR data is calculated per employee. environmental data. Information is obtained from third-party suppliers, Compliance Fully Partial MATERIAL TOPICS, GUIDANCE AND TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Page in Ratos’s UNGC Standard Title Annual Report 2018 Comments principles Compliance GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 12-18 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 17 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 18 10 GRI 300 ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 12-16, 18 8-9 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 18, 125 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 18, 125 8 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 12-16, 18-21 1-6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave 21 Omissions: Retention 6 rates not reported due to limitations in the current system. GRI 404: Training and 404-2 P  rograms for upgrading employee skills and 19-21 6 Education 2016 transition assistance programs GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 21 6 Education 2016 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 21 6 Opportunity 2016 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 18 6 taken GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 N on-compliance with laws and regulations in the 18 1-6, 10 compliance 2016 social and economic area GRI G4 SECTOR DISCLOSURES GRI Financial Services FS6 P  ercentage of portfolio divided into region, size and 3, 16-17, 26-27 1-9 sector GRI Financial Services FS10 S hare of the portfolio companies that the organisation 15-17, 19 1-9 has interacted with on environmental or social issues Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 19 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting 8 May 2019 The Annual General Meeting of Ratos AB (publ) will be held Calendar at 2:00 p.m. CET on Wednesday, 8 May 2019 at Skandiascenen at Cirkus, Djurgårdsslätten 43-45, Stockholm. 8 May 2019 Annual General Meeting 8 May Interim Report, January–March 2019 Participation 16 Aug Interim Report, January–June 2019 To be entitled to participate in the business of the Meeting, shareholders 5 Nov Interim Report, January–September 2019 must be recorded in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Reports can be accessed on Ratos's website directly after Sweden AB on Thursday, 2 May 2019, publication and are issued in Swedish and English. The Annual notify the company of their intention to attend no later than Thursday, Report is sent by post to shareholders who have so requested. 2 May 2019. Publications can be ordered at www.ratos.se or by post: Ratos AB Notification Box 1661 Out of consideration for the environment and to become more efficient SE-111 96 Stockholm through the use of digital services, Ratos has this year chosen to not issue invitations to the Annual General Meeting by mail. e-mail: info@ratos.se Notification of participation may be made via www.ratos.se via phone +46 8 518 015 50 weekdays between 9.00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. in writing to the following address: Computershare AB, “Ratos årsstämma 2019”, Box 610, SE-182 16 Danderyd. When notifying participation please state name, personal/corporate registration number, postal address, daytime telephone number and the number of assistants, if relevant. Nominee registered shares In order to be entitled to participate in the Meeting and exercise their Shareholder contact voting rights, shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a nominee must temporarily re-register their shares in their own names. Helene Gustafsson Such registration must be effected at Euroclear Sweden AB no later Head of IR and Press than Thursday, 2 May 2019. Shareholders are requested to inform their Tel: +46 8 700 17 00 nominees in good time prior to this date. e-mail: info@ratos.se Dividend and record date The Board proposes an ordinary dividend for the 2018 financial year of SEK 0.50 (2.00) per Class A and Class B share. The record date for the Contact details right to receive dividends is proposed as 10 May 2019 and dividends are Board and Nomination Committee expected to be paid from Euroclear Sweden on 15 May 2019. Ratos AB Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm e-mail: info@ratos.se Production: Ratos in cooperation with Wildeco Ekonomisk Information Ratos AB (publ) corp. reg. no. 556008-3585 20 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2018 21 Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585 22 Ratos 2018 Sustainability and responsible ownership
