Sustainability Report | 2018 This is an interactive PDF designed to make it easy to navigate. The best way to view this report is with Adobe Acrobat Reader. Click on the links on the contents page or use the home button in the footer to navigate the report, and use the underlined text links throughout the report to view related content online. About this report This 2018 Sustainability Report covers the year 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, with the exception of environmental data sets (emissions, energy, waste, water, noise and environmental spills) which are reported for 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, in line with Sydney Airport’s other external environmental reporting. This report is prepared with reference to GRI Standards, selected Disclosures 102 and Disclosures 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 from GRI 103 Management Approach 2016. It covers all of Sydney Airport’s operations and aligns with the reporting scope of our Annual Report. There has been no change in reporting scope from our 2017 Sustainability Report. In addition, we have used the UN Sustainable Development Goals to guide our reporting of relevant global issues. Whilst the report does not provide 100% coverage of our sustainability performance it sets out our current level of knowledge and understanding of our sustainability issues and initiatives for our stakeholders. To provide confidence in our reporting, we have engaged KPMG to provide limited assurance over selected data sets within our 2018 Sustainability Report including, safety, customer satisfaction, energy and carbon, female representation and waste. KPMG’s assurance statement is included at the end of this report. We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and performance. Please email us at sustainability@syd.com.au Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ Contents 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 3 Planning for the future 46 Chairman and CEO message 2 Increasing and supporting Sustainability performance 4 landside efficiency 48 Our approach to sustainability 5 Delivering better outcomes for our customers 50 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments 6 Sustainable development of the airport 54 Sustainability Governance Framework 8 Focusing on 4 the issues that matter 10 Supporting our Engaging with stakeholders 12 community 58 Benchmarking our performance 13 Building relationships and supporting community resilience 60 2 Maintaining an environmentally Responsible responsible airport 66 business 14 Reducing waste to landfill 68 Protecting local natural areas Safety and wellbeing and biodiversity 69 of all airport users 16 Continuing to support a diverse and inclusive workplace 22 Looking after and developing our people Climate change resilience 25 30 5 Other information 70 Building operational resilience 39 Performance data 70 Operating ethically Support for the Sustainable and with integrity 41 Development Goals 73 GRI Index 75 Engaging with stakeholders 80 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited 83 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 1 Chairman and CEO message We recognise that Responsible business the world around • We are committed to the highest levels of safety across our operations and have us is rapidly evolving. introduced executive and people leadership safety KPIs to continue to drive safety culture and best practice Sydney Airport plays a vital role in the transport value chain, bringing together a wide range • Our response to the Taskforce on of parties that jointly facilitate tourism, business Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) travel and logistics. With more than 40 million recommendations, including our TCFD passengers moving through our airport each roadmap to 2020, is contained in this report. year, our efficient and effective operations We have introduced a new commitment create value for the economy as we provide to achieve carbon neutral operations, in line a gateway for other sectors and industries that with the Airport Council International Airport depend on a reliable flow of people and goods. Carbon Accreditation program, by 2025 During 2018, Sydney Airport maintained its • During 2018 we entered into a Power strong focus on financial and operational Purchase Agreement (PPA) to contract performance. We have also continued to up to 75% of our current electricity load build a business that considers and responds from renewable energy to broader socio‑environmental risks and • We developed our first ‘Innovate’ opportunities and are keenly aware that the Reconciliation Action Plan. We recognise support of our community is crucial to our we can and should play a strong role future growth and success. in advancing human rights and improving Our ongoing commitment to sustainability outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait in the transport infrastructure sector continued Islander peoples to gain worldwide recognition in 2018. • The number of female employees across We moved to seventh from tenth in the global our business increased to 38.8% in 2018. transportation and transport infrastructure This continues our trend, with female sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability representation rising by approximately 26% Index (DJSI World). MSCI upgraded our over the past five years. rating ‘AA’ to ‘AAA’. Sustainalytics upgraded us to ‘Outperformer’ level on the basis of our ESG practices and our reporting was awarded Planning for the future the ‘Leading’ rating by the Australian Council of • With passenger numbers growing year Superannuation Investors. on year, increasing and supporting landside This Sustainability Report, Sydney Airport’s efficiency is a key focus area. This year fourth, provides a window into our strategic we completed our precinct road network objectives, initiatives and performance over upgrades which have increased road 2018. Whilst there is still much to do, we are capacity at T1 and improved traffic flows proud of the progress we have made and are at T2 and T3. We also reached agreement pleased to invite you to explore the details with the NSW Government on the proposed of our efforts in the following pages. Sydney Gateway corridor. Once complete this will enhance access to the airport 2 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport • Our overall customer satisfaction Looking forward 2 performance continued to improve, Responsible up to 4.13/5 (international) and 4.14/5 We are focusing our organisational effort (domestic) in 2018 from 4.01/5 and 3.95/5 on three flagship initiatives: climate resilience, business in 2017 respectively. We created a more fleet electrification and the optimisation relaxing environment for our customers by of our airfield and airspace. We have also implementing our quiet terminal initiative outlined commitments under each of our at T1 and we undertook a trial of biometrics sustainability strategy pillars. This approach technology and facial recognition processing is designed to drive a further step change to increase security, convenience and in our performance by 2021. Details can efficiency be found on pages 6‑7 of this report. 3 • Our Draft Master Plan 2039 was awarded Evolution in our business context is taking Planning a 4‑star Green Star Communities Rating, many forms whether it be advancements which embeds sustainability in the in the aviation sector, technology disruption, for the future planning and design for future Sydney climate change risks, changing consumption Airport expansion. trends, passenger travel patterns, changing employee preferences or community expectations. Understanding and embracing Supporting our communities change will shape our future and drive our strategic thinking. 4 • We actively engaged with our community and stakeholders through hundreds We commend this report to you and look of face‑to‑face meetings, community forward to the work we have ahead to continue Supporting events and forums as we developed our to build a sustainable business. Draft Master Plan 2039 our community • Our Community Investment continued to grow this year, valued at $5.7 million, up from $4.9 million in 2017 • We established the Community and Environmental Projects Reserve Fund with Bayside Council, committing more than $11 million in the next 10 years to community Trevor Gerber Geoff Culbert 5 Other and environmental projects in the Bayside Chairman Chief Executive Officer local government area information • Building on our commitment to waste reduction, we have worked with our retailers to introduce a ban on plastic straws and single use plastic bags from 1 February 2019 in T1 and T2. We continued to increase our waste recycling rates in 2018, and this year trialled an organic waste recycling program in T1 targeting a 20% reduction in waste to landfill • We were proud to announce a new major partnership with Bayside Council and Conservation Volunteers Australia to support conservation activities in the Rockdale Wetlands Biodiversity Corridor. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 3 Sustainability performance Community investment Overall female Carbon emissions per representation passenger reduction $5.7m 38.8% 30.9% from $4.9m in 2017 from 37.9% in 2017 from 2010 levels Safety training PPA contracts up to Received the 2,762 75% Gold Recognition hours of current load from by the Airports Council (new metric in 2018) renewable energy International Asia‑Pacific for our PPA Customer satisfaction scores International Domestic 4.13/5 from 4.01/5 in 2017 4.14/5 from 3.95/5 in 2017 Waste recycling rate Waste to landfill 42.9% 2,733t from 42.4% in 2017 from 2,851t in 2017 4 Our approach 1 Sustainability at to sustainability Sydney Airport 2 Responsible Our Sustainability business How are we responding? In 2017, we re‑assessed our sustainability Strategy forms an approach to ensure it better aligns with our overall business strategy. This year integral part of our we continued building on our strategic broader business thinking and defined sustainability commitments across all strategic pillars 3 strategy and supports in order to drive our activities towards those Planning focus areas, which create the most value for the delivery of our vision. stakeholders. To support us in realising our for the future value creation potential, we have defined specific targets to track our progress. The strategy seeks to respond to our changing world, and the emerging challenges and United Nations Global Compact opportunities that are shaping businesses. Sydney Airport became a signatory to the Through the implementation of our strategy, United Nations Global Compact in 2017, we are seeking to deliver long term value for our customers, the surrounding community, and is pleased to reaffirm our commitment to this initiative and its principles. 4 Supporting our people and investors. Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable What key market trends, business challenges Development Goals and opportunities do we see? our community The United Nations Sustainable Development • Shifting consumer preferences Goals (SDGs) seek to address the most • Changing industry market conditions significant challenges our world is facing today. To play our role in addressing these challenges, • Technology changes we have mapped the SDG framework against 5 • Increasing expectations on large corporates our sustainability approach. We identified eleven • Meeting community needs goals, which we have supported throughout the year. Refer to page 73 for further details on what Other • Protecting the environment contributing to the SDGs means in the context of our airport operations. information • Climate change resilience • Regulatory and policy changes • Security risks and other unexpected events impacting business continuity. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 5 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments FLAGSHIP RESPONSIBLE INITIATIVES BUSINESS CLIMATE RESILIENCE Build resilience in our assets and operations to adapt to the impacts associated with climate change, and minimise the carbon footprint of the airport Follow the recommendations from the Being ethically responsible Taskforce on Climate-related Financial and transparent in how Disclosures (TCFD) we do business Achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 Reduce carbon emissions per passenger by 50% from 2010 baseline levels by 2025 SAFETY AND WELLBEING OF ALL ELECTRIFICATION OF VEHICLES AIRPORT USERS AND EQUIPMENT Achieve year on year improvement in injury Investment in electric vehicles and supporting statistics and aviation safety performance infrastructure such as aircraft Ground Power Increase uptake and awareness around Units and vehicle charging stations wellbeing and mental health 100% electric landside bus fleet Install Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations in new landside facilities 5% above EV market CONTINUING TO SUPPORT A DIVERSE penetration AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE Increase aircraft utilisation of both fixed Achieve a 10% uplift in female representation in ground power and pre-conditioned air management and overall on 2018 performance at T1 from 20% to above 50% Achieve 30% female board representation Facilitate and support increase of Sydney Airport airside electric vehicle usage to 50% LOOKING AFTER AND DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE AIRSPACE AND AIRFIELD EFFICIENCY Target an employee engagement score Examining and pursuing opportunities to of at least 75% maximise the use of the airfield and airspace Deliver 1.5 days of training per employee Deliver an Airport Collaborative Decision per annum Making (A-CDM) program together with business partners Improve airfield and aviation support BUILDING OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE infrastructure Deliver employee Incident and Crisis Explore opportunities to further improve Management training efficiencies through initiatives such as co-location of certain domestic and Achieve a cyber security maturity target international activities and runway rebalancing of 4 out of 5 OPERATING ETHICALLY AND WITH INTEGRITY Complete supplier questionnaire to assess and mitigate risks on biannual basis Align procurement policy with ISO 20400 6 1 Sustainability at PLANNING FOR SUPPORTING THE FUTURE Sydney Airport OUR COMMUNITIES 2 Responsible business Delivering operational Working with our communities excellence through innovative, to protect the environment and technology-based solutions and create shared value supporting customer needs now 3 and into the future Planning for the future INCREASING AND SUPPORTING BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS AND LANDSIDE EFFICIENCY SUPPORTING COMMUNITY RESILIENCE Support diversity of public transport modal options Establish a baseline for community investment 4 Develop a community investment strategy Supporting to drive continuous improvement DELIVERING BETTER OUTCOMES FOR Work with business partners to deliver a pilot our community OUR CUSTOMERS program towards prevention of human trafficking and slavery Maintain a passenger satisfaction score above 4 out of 5 MAINTAINING AN ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RESPONSIBLE AIRPORT 5 OF THE AIRPORT Continue to meet regulatory compliance Other requirements for noise and air quality Achieve a minimum 4‑Star Green Star Design information Reduce potable water use per passenger by and As‑Built rating for new developments 10% in terminals and commercial buildings Maintain 30% average annual use of recycled water in the International terminal REDUCING WASTE TO LANDFILL Remove plastic straws and single-use plastic bags from our terminals Recycle landside organic waste in the International terminal PROTECTING LOCAL NATURAL AREAS AND BIODIVERSITY Restore and rehabilitate Environmental Conservation 1 zones, predominantly consisting of the Sydney Airport Wetlands SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 7 Sustainability Governance Framework We have developed a governance framework to guide our sustainability journey. Sydney Airport Limited Board Responsible for corporate governance policies and risk management including those relevant to sustainability Board Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee Assists the Board to address responsibilities relevant to safety, security and sustainability Executive Leadership Team Executive Committee and Safety Steering Committee Develop, update and oversee implementation of Sydney Airport’s safety, sustainability, environmental and diversity and inclusion strategies Sustainability Diversity and Work, Health Working Inclusion Working and Safety Staff Group Group Committee 8 Sustainability at Responsible Planning Supporting Other Sustainability Sydney Airport 1 2 business 3 for the future 4 our community 5 information metrics 9 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report Focusing on the issues that matter Each year we conduct a materiality review with consideration of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Principles. This process makes sure we remain focused and report on those issues that are of most importance to our stakeholders and of greatest relevance to our business. This year we reviewed materiality in the context of global trends, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our business strategy. The process included engagement with key stakeholder groups, review of our risk registers, industry ESG ratings, media analysis and peer reviews. Our key stakeholders • Internal – employees • Directly affected – airport users, airport business partners, investors, community in immediate vicinity of the airport • Active interest – tourism bodies, community and local government, NSW and Australian governments and agencies, industry associations, industry bodies and media. We undertook a comprehensive materiality assessment in 2016, and outcomes from our 2018 review show that material issues have remained largely unchanged. Some issues such as modern slavery, human rights and climate change have increased in priority, and as a result, we have increased our focus on these in this report. 10 MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION Safety We recognise that we operate in a high-risk industrial environment and 1 therefore need to ensure we are managing health and safety risks and Sustainability at maintaining a strong safety culture. Sydney Airport Security We are committed to maintaining a safe and secure airport operating environment and working collaboratively with our airport stakeholders to achieve this. Health and Maintaining a safe work environment for airport workers is a key priority. wellbeing This includes maintaining the health and wellbeing of our people. 2 Responsible Operational To best support our customers, we need to operate the airport efficiency and efficiently and play our role to support On Time Performance. We need business continuous to be evaluating our systems and process to identify ways to improve. improvement RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Business continuity As a critical piece of national infrastructure, we need to ensure and resilience our facilities are resilient and can operate under a range of different circumstances. Fair and ethical We recognise the importance of maintaining an effective system 3 Planning business operations of corporate governance and building a culture to maintain high ethical standards and integrity. Climate change Building resilience to the physical and transition risks associated with for the future climate change. Cyber security Failure to prevent and respond to cyber attacks could materially impact 4 our operations and those of our customers. Supporting Human rights We recognise the importance of respecting human rights across all aspects of our operations including labour rights in our supply chain. our community Diversity and Creating and managing a diverse and inclusive workforce, together inclusion with playing our role to create an inclusive society. Employee attraction The success of our business is built on our people and we need to ensure and retention that we are attracting, retaining and developing the best people. 5 Sustainable We need to work with our suppliers to effectively manage environmental, Other procurement social and governance risks within our supply chain. Access to and We need to play a role in ensuring our passengers have a safe and information from the airport efficient journey to and from the airport, and that a range of transport modes are available to suit their preferences. PLANNING FOR Customer Providing a superior customer experience for airlines and passengers THE FUTURE experience is our key focus. Capacity Sustainable development of the airport through collaborative decision making, efficiency improvements and strategic planning to meet passenger growth. Aircraft noise We acknowledge aircraft noise disturbs local communities and we are SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY committed to working with government and airline partners to manage and mitigate the impact. Community We need to play a meaningful role in our local community and are investment and committed to fostering and maintaining enduring relationships built on trust. engagement Environmental Operating an environmentally responsible airport is critical to our management long-term success. We need to protect the local natural environment and manage impacts on the surrounding community. This includes managing air quality, reducing waste to landfill and using resources more efficiently. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 11 Engaging with stakeholders Fostering positive, strong, lasting relationships with all those who might be affected by the decisions and activities concerning the airport’s development and operation is a priority for us, and we acknowledge that this is vital to our long-term success. We recognise that each of our stakeholders has different interests, expectations and interactions with the airport. Airport users and passengers Tourism bodies, industry Airport business associations and partners and advocates airlines Retail business Border partners Agencies Community Regulators and local government NSW and Australian Employees governments and agencies Media Investors 12 Benchmarking 1 Sustainability at our performance Sydney Airport 2 We benchmark our progress against a number of leading Responsible sustainability indices and frameworks to drive better business performance for environmental, social and governance issues. 3 Ratings Planning Dow Jones Sustainability Index Equileap Sustainalytics for the future Ranked 7th Ranked 173 Outperformer globally and a ‘Sustainability out of 3,000+ sitting in the top 20% of global Leader’ in the transport companies analysed within the infrastructure sector globally listed companies on gender equality transport infrastructure sector 4 Supporting GRESB Green Star Communities Airport Carbon Accredited 5 4 Level 3 our community as ‘Industry Leader’ rating, and for a Master Plan, the first for ‘Optimisation’ sitting in the top 20% for the an airport Airport Carbon Accreditation infrastructure industry 5 Other MSCI ACSI FTSE4Good ‘AAA’ rating ‘Leading’ rating Index Series information sitting in the top 9% for our Sustainability Report Membership of companies globally within by the Australian Council reflecting our strong ESG the infrastructure sector, of Superannuation Investors management practices and a member of the MSCI Australia ESG Leaders Index Frameworks TCFD UN Global Compact LBG Supporter of the Task Force Participant in the United Track and measure community on Climate-related Financial Nations Global Compact and investments in line with the Disclosures and commitment commitment to implementing framework developed by to move towards alignment the ten principles London Benchmarking Group with its recommendations SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 13 Responsible business We strive to be ethically responsible and transparent in how we do business. Safety and Continuing Building wellbeing to support operational of all airport a diverse resilience users and inclusive workforce Carbon emissions Safety training per passenger reduction 2,762 Overall female representation 30.9% hours 38.8% from 2010 levels from 37.9% Aviation safety in 2017 Overall carbon 8,297 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Gender pay hours were spent equity ratio 86,916 on aviation safety from 8,256 93.4 tCO2e from 92.2 in 2017 in 2017 from 87,888 tCO2e in 2017 Lost Time Injuries Looking 10from 6 in 2017 after and developing Operating ethically and our people with integrity Lost Time Injury Training hours % of third party Frequency Rate spend screened 14.1 against Supplier 9.6 from 6 in 2017 per employee from 10.0 in 2017 Code of Conduct 73% 14 Sustainability at Responsible Planning Supporting Other Sydney Airport 1 2 business 3 for the future 4 our community 5 information 15 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report Responsible business Safety and wellbeing of all airport users Our commitment to ensuring the highest levels a cross-section of roles, functions and seniority of safety across our operations is integral to all in the business. The second annual review aviation and non-aviation activities. was conducted in 2018 and the outputs of the review will establish departmental action plans Our safety objectives are to: that will be incorporated in the 2019 safety • Comply with both workplace and civil improvement plans for each department. aviation safety legislation and standards Our Corporate Safety Improvement Plan • Strive for an accident-free workplace and (CSIP) outlines initiatives that we implement apply best practice principles over the year to continuously improve our • Involve Sydney Airport employees and safety approach. Implementation of our CSIP other stakeholders in the decision-making is monitored by the Safety Steering Committee process through effective consultation on a quarterly basis. Key focus areas for 2018 • Ensure that all Sydney Airport managers have been: and team leaders take responsibility for • Enhancing safety responsibilities in senior all aspects of safety as an integral part leader targets with introduction of lead and of their role. lag indicators contributing to performance To achieve our objectives, our Safety • Revising and implementing policies Management System provides us with to manage risk associated with vehicle fleet a risk management framework aligned and fatigue management as well as landside to the AS/NZS 4801 standard and local and traffic management international civil aviation safety guidance, • Upgrading retailer induction programs where we systematically identify, assess through development of videos providing and manage foreseeable aviation-specific safety information to all retail workers safety issues as well as work health and • Increasing the offering of safety training safety risks. We conduct an annual internal programs with particular focus on leaders safety review across the organisation to test and operational teams. implementation of our safety systems with 16 1 Sustainability at Our safety performance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sydney Airport Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 1 3 3 3 6 6 10 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2 Employees 5.5 2.4 3.3 6.0 6 9.6 Service providers 3 7.2 6.8 4.7 6 3.0 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 2 (TRIFR) 4 Employees 16.4 9.6 17.6 16.0 17.3 Responsible business Service providers 3 19.8 19.9 19.4 8.4 Safety Training Hours 2,762 Workplace inspection 94 Passenger Incident Rate 5 1.95 0.96 1.12 0.97 1.03 Aviation safety hours 2,519 6,994 8,780 8,256 8,297 3 Planning 1 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) is a work-related injury or illness that results in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day on which the injury or illness occurred, incurred by employees, internal consultants and contractors. 2 LTIs per one million hours worked. for the future 3 Service providers (including cleaning, security, kerbside management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing) engaged by Sydney Airport. Reporting frameworks were put into place in 2015, and hence data is not available for previous years. 4 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) represents the number of medical treatment injuries (MTIs) and LTIs per million hours worked. An MTI is a work-related injury or illness that requires treatment by a medical practitioner and does not result in lost time but can result in restriction of work duties, incurred by employees and contractors. 5 Passenger Incident Rate is the number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Medical conditions and inflight medicals are excluded from this rate. 6 We have restated the 2017 figure due to an LTI reported in March 2018 for an incident that occurred in December 2017. The incident involved a wrist injury to a SYD employee. We have restated employee LTIFR and TRIFR accordingly. Our performance in 2018 shows an overall increase in lost time injuries from 2017. Our safety 4 reporting process involves investigation into the cause and nature of incidents. We identified Supporting that the incremental number of injuries in 2018 pertained to low-risk, high-frequency events, such as slips, trips and falls by office staff and an incident at a charity cycling event. Average our community time lost on these specific injuries was 1.33 days. Setting of safety KPIs for people leaders Our Safety Steering Committee endorsed executive and people leader safety KPIs to commence from 2019 to drive safety culture and best practice throughout our organisation. The KPIs are focused on lead indicators of completed safety walks and a lag indicator of outcomes of class 1 5 injuries (i.e. fatality, total permanent disability and permanent partial disability), and are linked Other to performance evaluation. Safety Leadership Walk information We have launched a program requiring all people leaders to undertake quarterly safety engagements with their teams to identify and discuss any potential hazards or risks in their work areas. As part of the engagement, our teams recognise safe work practices, identify unsafe conditions and take action necessary to address identified safety issues. 10 Conducting a Safety Leadership Walk 9 START Listen Empower Action 8 Do: • Understand the area • One on one chat 7 2 • Observe the area and the people • Ask open questions • Focus on people • Empower team members 6 • Listen actively • Action and follow-up 3 5 4 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 17 Responsible business Critical Incident Support R U OK? day Critical incident support is a key part of One way we help deliver on being a responsible management of mental health risks, particularly business is by ensuring our employees are to our operations teams who may be first supported throughout the year with their responders to critical incidents. Our Critical mental health. We provide an Employee Incident Support Procedures are enacted in the Assistance Program, have resources available event of critical incidents on the airport and can on the intranet and support individuals and involve proactive psychological and medical teams as they move through change. support for affected staff and stakeholders at Once a year we get everyone together for the time of the event and ongoing, as required. a BBQ on R U OK? Day to further connect to our colleagues and raise awareness of how the ups and downs of life can affect us. We remind people how having a conversation with a colleague, team member, family or friends could change a life. This year for R U OK? Day, we had a guest speaker from Standby National, who provided everyone with an awareness session that talked about response to suicide in the workplace, what people go through and how best to respond to someone who has been affected by suicide. Launch of the ‘Safety Violation of Sydney starts with you’ Airport’s policies, procedures, guidelines, campaign systems standards or processes This year we launched our ‘Safety starts with you’ campaign, which identified Other issues the practical things we can do that might affect in our work area to contribute Work, Health health and safety to a safer airport environment. and Safety of others in the Violation The key focus areas of our campaign workplace are: 1. Speak up on safety Speak up 2. Keep it clean and hazard-free 3. Stop work if it is unsafe Our Speak up on Safety policy supports our commitment to fostering a safety culture that on safety puts safety first and encourages airport workers to speak up about Misconduct or safety issues in good faith and Bullying other activities without fear of reprisal. or harassing that have an behaviours impact on safety Practices or procedures that do not align with Sydney Airport’s expectations 18 1 Sustainability at Adverse Weather Procedure Airport Safety Week We have established procedures to alert Sydney Airport workers of the risks associated with adverse weather and take the appropriate action to minimise the risk of harm to themselves and others. Our procedures include our Thunderstorm Warning System airside, which notifies airport stakeholders of approaching weather and the possible need to take cover. 2 Responsible • White Lights are activated when a storm is within 10 nautical miles business (NM) and all workers must prepare themselves to stop work whilst working in an outdoor environment • Blue Lights are activated when a storm is within 5 NM and all workers must cease work in outdoor environments immediately and seek shelter in an indoor environment. 3 Planning A text system also notifies airport stakeholders when the Thunderstorm Warning System Every year, Airport Safety Week is celebrated is activated advising stakeholders to enact across airports in both Australia and New for the future their own procedures. Zealand. This initiative is a collaboration between the Australian Airports Association (AAA) and the NZ Airports Association (NZ Airports). We are a proud supporter of this initiative. 4 This year we once again joined together with the broader airport community to host “A safe airfield is a vital activities that reinforced our commitment Supporting to providing a safe and secure environment link to the continuous for workers across the precinct and our community our passengers. operation of the airport.” Activities included special walks to highlight the importance of detecting and clearing Foreign Anthony Conte, Manager Airfield Operations Object Debris (FOD) on the airfield, vehicle and Compliance demonstrations, barbecues, lunch-time expos and a series of safety-related presentations. The safety presentations focused on a range 5 of topics including mental health, ergonomics, cyber security awareness and the importance Other information of safety cultures. Over 1,000 people from across the airport community participated in our Airport Safety Week activities. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 19 Responsible business Enhancing the management Delivering a new Airport of FOD Operating License system With the use of statistical analysis and spatial Sydney Airport is currently working with the mapping, we commenced examining and airport community to establish a new Airport reporting the key types and locations of FOD Operating License system. The aim of the new on the airfield. A monthly report is produced system is to drive minimum and consistent and distributed to our relevant airport standards of behaviour and performance stakeholders with the aim of focusing and across he airport with a focus on: prioritising the efforts of the airport community • Airfield and occupational health and safety in reducing the risk of FOD damage to aircraft. • Environmental management • Operational efficiency • Minimising impacts to the surrounding community, such as airfield noise. The new licencing system will set out how we engage with the airport community, particularly in instances of non-compliance. The new system is targeted for implementation in 2019. “Our new Airport Operating License will drive minimum and consistent standards of behaviour across the airport.” Nathan McIntosh, Manager Aviation Safety Systems 20 1 Sustainability at Proactive contractor Critical risk standards program management To further address our risk profile and Sydney Airport We have established a Critical Incident simplify safety systems, we are establishing Review team that comprises members safety standards for critical risk activities of our Construction & Facilities Management on the airport. The standards will apply leadership to review incidents and hazards to all employees, engaged service providers on a monthly basis. A root cause investigation or contractors and stakeholders working is conducted into all critical potential or actual on airport infrastructure. The program of work will continue throughout 2019 for 2 construction safety and environmental incidents Responsible and corrective actions are put in place to improve serious safety risks. safety performance. business Contractor assurance program In parallel with critical risk standards program, tools to help feed information back to our contractors in real time are being developed. These will collate information gathered from our onsite inspections and classify contractors within a performance framework. This 3 Planning performance data will assist in identifying contractors that contribute to safer, more sustainable projects and early identification for the future of issues. 4 Supporting our community Employee spotlight Jade Kinchella, Airfield Operations Supervisor Jade has worked at Sydney Airport for the past sixteen years, starting initially in airport 5 Other security. Now she leads a team of six to ensure the airfield remains serviceable for information aircraft taking off and landing. “We undertake regular inspections of the runways,” says Jade. “Starting at 5am we make sure that the airfield is safe for aircraft to take off and land. We check that all the airfield lighting is working, there are no pot-holes or cracks in the pavement and no wildlife or rubbish on the airfield. We need to meet the Civil Aviation Safety Authority’s requirements at all times.” The airfield team are also responsible for reporting and responding to incidents that occur. “If we come across a section of cracked pavement, for example, we may need to close a section of the runway for a short period of time whilst it gets fixed. The safety of our people and passengers is always our first priority and we work quickly as a team to fix any problems.” Jade and the team also work with the broader airport community to educate and raise awareness of the importance of airfield safety. “I love my job” says Jade, “it is a unique and dynamic job, no day is the same.” SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 21 Responsible business Continuing to support a diverse and inclusive workplace “We are committed to supporting a diverse and inclusive workforce, and one that is reflective of the customers we serve and In 2018, women the community within which we operate.” made up: 38.8% Gayle Philpotts, General Manager, People and Performance of the workforce Supporting gender diversity and pay parity 35.4% We are proud of the strong representation of women across our business, both in corporate and operational roles. We are committed to improving the representation in leadership positions and are taking proactive steps to achieve of all managers this. This year we appointed several women to senior positions including Chief Commercial Officer – Non-Aeronautical, General Manager Safety, Sustainability 45.3% and Environment, Head of Delivery, Strategy and Support, Head of Media and Communications and Delivery PMO Manager. We have offered a number of our high potential female managers the opportunity to attend an off-site “Stepping of new recruits Up” emerging leadership development program. We are also working towards closing the pay gap between male and female employees and we monitor ratings distribution and salary increases to eliminate any gender bias. Our gender pay ratio in 2018 was 93.4 (92.2 in 2017). 22 1 Sustainability at Our vision for reconciliation Our vision for reconciliation is to build respect, understanding, unity and equality between Sydney Airport Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians. We will do this by facilitating and driving positive and tangible connections and exchanges with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and communities through engagement with our airport community of approximately 31,000 employees and our passengers and customers. 2 To visually represent the core of our vision Responsible of reconciliation with regards to ‘establishing connections’, Charmaine Mumbulla of Mumbulla business Creative created this artwork for Sydney Airport’s Reconciliation Action Plan. The large circle at the centre of the artwork represents the busy, vibrant hub of Sydney Airport. Pathways weave and interconnect throughout this space showing connections, communities, travel, trade and social interactions. 3 Planning for the future Development of our inaugural ‘Innovate’ Reconciliation Action Plan We believe we can and should play a strong role to advance human rights and improve outcomes 4 for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. To achieve this, we have identified four focus Supporting areas in the development of our 2019–2020 Reconciliation Action Plan: our community We will celebrate and showcase Australia’s Aboriginal Showcasing Aboriginal and and Torres Strait Islander cultures and heritage to the Torres Strait Islander cultures broader airport community and to the 44 million and place significance passengers who pass through Sydney Airport annually. 5 Other Generating respect and We will work to create a workforce that understands, information values and respects Australia’s Aboriginal and understanding Torres Strait Islander cultures and histories. We are committed to engaging and building stronger Building meaningful local partnerships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait relationships Islander peoples and working together to deliver reconciliation activities. We will support the long-term empowerment of Aboriginal Supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities through our and Torres Strait Islander community investment programs, supply chain and communities by enhancing employment opportunities. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 23 Responsible business National Reconciliation Week BLAK Markets Celebrating cultural diversity We partnered with local charity First Hand This year our Diversity and Inclusion Working Solutions to bring BLAK Markets to Sydney Group organised a Harmony Day employee lunch Airport during National Reconciliation Week. to celebrate our cultural diversity and reinforce With a strong mandate to build empowered, the importance of respecting cultural and resilient Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander religious diversity and foster a sense of belonging communities through cultural reconnection, for everyone. Our people cooked for the day, education, employment and enterprise, First and we enjoyed dishes from over 20 different Hand Solutions delivers real change to the countries. We also welcomed the Kari Indigenous people and families it supports. Youth Choir to our lunch. Operating since 1999, the Kari Foundation supports Aboriginal The BLAK Markets showcased a diverse children in foster care as well as deliver a range range of Indigenous products, including of educational and cultural programs. examples of locally-made art and also helped spread awareness of Aboriginal and Torres We established our baseline ethnicity dataset Strait Islander culture and history to both in 2016 to better understand the cultural diversity domestic and international visitors as well of our workforce, and we continue to add to this. as the airport community. This year, our staff spoke 29 languages and had a collective 31 countries of origin. We again partnered with Career Trackers to host two indigenous interns, one in our Corporate Affairs team and one in our Construction and Facilities Management team. Also, during NAIDOC Week we invited historian and archaeologist Dr Paul Irish to share the indigenous history of our local airport area. 24 1 Looking after and developing Sustainability at our people Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting our community 5 Other information At Sydney Airport, we recognise our people are fundamental to our ongoing success. We are committed to building and maintaining a high performing culture that supports our people to reach their full potential. Workforce Training hours Recruitment 487 14.1 per employee hours 48% of opportunities total employee headcount filled internally SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 25 Responsible business Our values Our values drive our organisational culture, underpin how we interact with each other and our stakeholders, help us to deliver on our vision and provide a framework for how we make decisions at Sydney Airport. Integrity and Safety and Excellence openness security Striving to deliver Acting honestly and an outstanding airport Delivering the highest openly to achieve experience through levels of safety and corporate and social operational efficiency, security objectives superior customer service and innovation Teamwork Creativity and Sustainability Fostering a flexibility Responsible collaborative and Working with our growth through supportive work partners to achieve balancing social environment that superior business and environmental values diversity outcomes needs with corporate objectives Sydney Airport workforce The airport provides employment for approximately 31,000 people across 800 businesses, of which we directly employed 487 people as at 31 December 2018. TOTAL WORKFORCE 2016 2017 2018 Permanent full-time 373 387 435 Permanent part-time 18 26 30 Fixed term full-time 26 24 20 Fixed term part-time 1 4 2 AGE (YEARS) 18–34 96 103 106 35–52 246 261 297 53–69 76 77 84 26 1 Sustainability at Refreshed flexibility program Creating the right culture Results of our 2017 Diversity and Inclusion We acknowledge that workplace culture is Sydney Airport survey revealed that flexibility was an important the basis of the success of any organisation, issue for our people. and critical to attract, retain and engage the talented people we need. To continue building In response we focused on embedding our culture and driving engagement of our a culture of flexibility across the organisation people, we have nominated a group of leaders by building trust, focusing on outputs and balancing individual needs with the priorities as our ‘culture champions’, who are focused on: • Development of an enhanced employee 2 of the business. With the involvement of Responsible our Diversity and Inclusion working group, recognition and reward program, including a series of focus groups, communications service recognition business and a mythbusters afternoon tea supported • Development of a strategic workforce this initiative. Our refreshed program started planning framework that provides clear with our managers having a conversation business priorities and aligned goals and with their teams, to discuss how flexibility objectives-setting processes and new arrangements could work for them. • Enhanced internal communications across We encouraged all employees to make at least the company for major initiatives and one change to their current work arrangements including changing start and finish times, varying transformations 3 • Improved transparency across the company Planning the length of lunch breaks or working remotely. and departments. A pulse check survey revealed that 80% for the future of respondents had engaged in a flexibility conversation. The most common ways Customer service excellence of flexible working included working remotely In 2018 we delivered a training program for our or working different hours. employees to build a culture of outstanding customer service. The program was designed to enhance our capability to deliver a consistent service experience with confidence, and aimed 4 to further develop core communication skills Supporting such as empathic listening and considering multiple perspectives to genuinely connect, our community understand and proactively resolve issues for a variety of stakeholders. All of our direct employees and key contractors were invited to participate in one of 30 planned training sessions held, with around 90% of our workforce completing the training. Following the training 83% of attendees responded they 5 Other were extremely confident or very confident to improve customer service. information We also established four Service Qualities, which will provide us with a framework and mindset to ensure we deliver consistent service. These qualities underpin how we deliver a positive experience in every customer interaction whether that is with our passengers, business partners, stakeholders or internal customers. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 27 Responsible business Developing our people To help build our workforce of the future, we have developed a new talent and development strategy aimed at equipping our people with the skills, capabilities and behaviours needed to support the delivery of our business strategy. This seven pillar framework is directly linked with our business priorities including our third strategic pillar – ‘Build the Culture’, which is focused on investing in our people (see our 2018 Annual Report for more details on our business priorities). Embed safety & security capability and culture Integrate talent Build technical development & compliance framework competency Focus: customer, governance, digital & innovation mindset Grow Embed diversity, leadership inclusion & capability & flexibility skill base Expand individual development and career experiences A number of key development initiatives were delivered in 2018. In an industry first, 20 people from Sydney Airport completed the Certificate 4 in Aviation (Aviation Supervision). We also had 19 people complete the Certificate 3 in Aviation (Aerodrome Operations). Our People Leaders completed Safety Leadership Roadmap, Empowering Teams and Real Conversations training modules. All employees undertook online compliance-based training for Information Security and Security Awareness. This year we also invested in a 360-feedback process for 34 of our leaders to provide feedback on leadership capabilities and create individual development actions to build leadership effectiveness. In total we had 600 participants, including our own contractors, from across all parts of the business attend over 100 training sessions for a total of over 6,400 training hours. 28 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting our community Employee spotlight 5 Other Kristi McLachlan, Head of Delivery Strategy and Support information In February 2018, Kristi McLachlan joined the designed in close consultation with Finance Construction and Facilities Management (C&FM) and Operational teams and will drive a true team as Head of Delivery Strategy and Support step change in the transparent and efficient to develop, lead and embed a disciplined management of capital delivery projects. project management and project delivery As of 2019, all capital projects will be managed support structure for Sydney Airport. Given the through this framework. upcoming body of work required to support Leveraging her role as the C&FM Culture passenger growth and airport capacity, Kristi’s Champion and the design and planning function approach is enterprise-wide and recognises transition into the C&FM structure, Kristi led the multi-functional aspects to successful the development of the business Ground management of a capital program. “Project Rules, defining how the new leadership team delivery excellence is critical to achieving Sydney will achieve service excellence. With a passion Airport’s business objectives, and I am committed for diversity and inclusion, Kristi is keen to ensuring that our delivery teams are developed to leverage the incredible breadth of knowledge and supported to deliver these expectations”. and experience in the Sydney Airport community. Since joining Sydney Airport, Kristi has designed “It is imperative to recognise the significant and recruited a team of leading industry Project expertise our longer-term employees provide Management experts to further enhance the while continuing to incorporate new and quality of product and service outcomes innovative approaches to project development achieved by project delivery. The Program and delivery”, Kristi says. Management Office and associated Project Delivery Management System has been SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 29 Responsible business Climate change resilience Our approach to climate change We are committed to playing our part in the transition to a low carbon future by identifying Sydney Airport is a vital asset for Sydney, NSW and managing climate change risks today and and Australia. It delivers economic and social into the future. benefits, which are crucial to the Australian people as well as the global community. In order to benchmark ourselves and continue Climate change has the potential to affect our to be a leader in sustainability, we participate business through physical, transitional and in climate and environment-related indices regulatory changes. and surveys. Key to this leadership is engaging with our key stakeholders and investors We recognise our need to make a contribution on climate-related matters to ensure we are to addressing climate change and restricting sharing information and responding to changes global temperature increases to less than and new risks. 2°C, in line with the international agreement on climate change (The Paris Agreement). 30 1 Sustainability at Our Response to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Sydney Airport This section has been developed in line with the recommendations of the TCFD. Core Elements of Recommended Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 2 Responsible Governance The organisation’s governance around climate related business VERNANCE risks and opportunities GO Strategy ATEGY STR The actual and potential impacts of climate related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning NAGEM MA K 3 RIS T Risk Management EN The processes used by the organisation to identify, METRICS assess, and manage climate-related risks Planning AND TARGETS Metrics and Targets The metrics and targets used to assess and manage for the future relevant climate-related risks and opportunities Source: www.fsb-tcfd.org Sydney Airport’s TCFD Roadmap 4 Supporting In line with the TCFD recommendations, we have devised a staged approach for enhancing our climate change risk assessment and management. Our roadmap to 2020 will support adoption of a climate change resilience strategy, our community by enabling Sydney Airport to address risks and leverage opportunities associated with climate change. 2018 2019 2020 5 Other Publicly Expansion of Further integrate information supported TCFD scenario analysis scenario analysis into recommendations strategic planning Review and update and risk management Conducted a gap climate change framework analysis against adaptation plan the four areas Consider more Complete detailed of disclosure detailed scenarios risk and opportunity including transitional Identified an internal assessment risks and risks team including Implement further to the industry Legal, Finance, internal engagement more broadly Risk. Environment, and training on Planning and Design, Develop third party climate risk to ensure Investor Relations mitigation strategies it is embedded into and Sustainability to and collaborate the culture and all assess and manage more widely strategic business climate‑related risks decisions Report on metrics and opportunities for assessing Review targets climate‑related risks and opportunities SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 31 Responsible business TCFD RECOMMENDED SYDNEY AIRPORT PRACTICE DISCLOSURES Board oversight A Board sub-committee called the Safety, Security and Sustainability of climate‑related Committee (SSS) is chaired by non-executive director Stephen Ward. opportunities and risks The SSS has full oversight of all environmental and sustainability GOVERNANCE matters. Selected matters are also referred to the full Board for consideration and information. Management’s role in An internal management team has been identified including Legal, assessing and managing Finance, Risk, Environment, Planning and Design, Investor Relations climate‑related opportunities and Sustainability. and risks Risks and opportunities In-depth risk register has been developed including all foreseeable identified in the short, physical risks, their likelihood, the business impact, the responsible medium and long term management personnel and our mitigation strategy. Physical and transition risks in the aviation infrastructure sector could relate to negative or positive effects of climate change including: Economic 1. Tourism 2. Aircraft capacity 3. Insurance 4. Access to airport Airfield 1. Air traffic management 2. Vegetation management 3. Wildlife and pests 4. Riverbeds and waterways Operation 1. Disruption to customer service 2. Safety of employees STRATEGY 3. Safety of passengers and airlines 4. Business continuity Buildings 1. Thermal comfort 2. Sufficient power supply and availability 3. Buildings meeting standards 4. Energy consumption Infrastructure 1. Pavement design, maintenance, capacity and drainage 2. Refuelling and sewerage equipment 3. Access to on-ground equipment 4. Surface access Actual and potential impacts Sydney Airport has begun the journey to embed climate change on the business, strategy and into our business, strategy and financial planning. We will continue financial planning to gather information and analyse the impacts, risks and opportunities of climate change on our business. Scenario analysis of impacts Scenario analysis has been conducted under both RCP 4.5 and including a 2‑degree RCP 8.5. scenario 32 1 Sustainability at TCFD RECOMMENDED SYDNEY AIRPORT PRACTICE DISCLOSURES Sydney Airport Processes for identifying Under our 2013–2018 Airport Environment Strategy, we undertook and assessing a Climate Risk and Adaptation Assessment to identify main climate climate‑related risks change risks to our operations. The assessment consisted of: • Context analysis of Sydney Airport and its network to identify regulatory frameworks, trends and developments in the market and business environment as well as industry best practice 2 • Internal stakeholder engagement to identify climate vulnerabilities Responsible as well as current control and management systems in place • Climate change modelling to forecast potential impacts of climate change on Sydney Airport operations business • Validation of risks and impacts with internal stakeholders to assess likelihood, significance and prioritisation of risks We embedded the results of this assessment into our risk register against our internal risk rating to identify the appropriate risk RISK MANAGEMENT management and mitigation approach. Our risk register will be reviewed through the lens of the TCFD recommendations and will 3 Planning delve deeper into the risks associated with climate change and related to the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Processes for managing 1. Reducing carbon intensity and working towards reducing for the future climate related risks absolute emissions 2. Investing in renewable energy 3. Building physical resilience 4. Building operational resilience 4 Integration of climate‑ Sydney Airport has a well-established Enterprise Risk Management Supporting related risks into overall risk Framework, which includes a Corporate Risk Matrix outlining how management framework risks and opportunities are managed, organised and categorised. our community The Sydney Airport Enterprise Risk Management Framework embodies the principles of ISO 31000:2009, Risk Management. Climate-related risks, which have resulted from Sydney Airport’s scenario analyses have been discussed and agreed internally by Management, the Executive Committee and the Board SSS 5 Committee. The financial, reputational, customer service and employee impacts have been noted in the climate risk register. Metrics used to assess Current metrics and targets focus on energy and carbon. As per Other information climate related risks and the TCFD roadmap, a review of targets will be conducted in 2019. opportunities METRIC AND TARGETS Scope 1 and 2 and GHG Fully disclosed in the Performance Data tables at the back of this report. emissions are publicly disclosed Targets used to manage 1. Follow the recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate-related climate‑related risks Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and opportunities and 2. Achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 performance monitored against those targets 3. Reduce carbon emissions per passenger by 50% from 2010 baseline levels by 2025 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 33 Responsible business Scenario analysis and the Key risks identified: identification of risks and • Pressure on external utilities (electricity grid, water and sewerage) leading to supply opportunities interruptions and/or increased costs Sydney Airport has undertaken scenario • Operational disruptions from airfield analyses to assist in the identification of key flooding, surface failures, subsidence and risks and opportunities for the business. Initially drainage issues in extreme rainfall events we focused on two key climate scenarios, RCP • Inundation of critical systems, buildings 4.5 and RCP 8.5, and the associated physical and infrastructure leading to operational risks with 2030 and 2090 timeframes for disruptions from either extreme rainfall establishing near to mid-term and long-term events or coastal flooding related to storm impacts of climate change. Utilising research surge and/or sea level rise and the Australian Climate Futures Tool, • Inundation of access roads to the airport, a series of climate projections were established which are outside of Sydney Airport’s for Sydney Airport. These include: opertional control. • Average temperatures will continue to increase in all seasons The scenario analyses also helped us identify • Mean sea level will continue to rise actions required to prepare for a climate resilient future ranging from technical studies • Height of extreme sea level events to stakeholder engagement. As we continue our will increase TCFD journey, we will enhance our analyses and • More hot days and warm spells expand the scope to include transition impacts. • Fewer frost periods • Increased intensity of extreme rainfall events Increased intensity of cyclones and East Coast Lows (including storms) 1 • The average winter and spring rainfall is projected to decrease, with changes in summer and autumn unclear • The broader Sydney area will be subjected to a harsher fire-weather climate. 1 It is projected that the cyclone frequency is due to decrease slightly for the eastern coast of Australia. However, the cyclone region is projected to shift south toward Sydney towards the end of the century. As a result, Sydney may experience more cyclone events. 34 1 Sustainability at Overview of certain risks Under the 2013–2018 Airport Environment Strategy, Sydney Airport undertook a risk assessment to further Sydney Airport determine climate risks that could potentially result in disruptions to airport operations from extreme weather events, infrastructure failure or inadequacy. Sydney Airport continually assesses climate risk to better understand the specific risks and includes all the risks and mitigation actions on our company-wide risk register. These risks are assessed and factored into design, planning and infrastructure development decisions. Climate Air Traffic Ground Transport 2 Variable Risks & Impacts Airport Airlines Control & Access Heat damage to airport surfaces Responsible  business (taxiways & runways) TEMPERATURE Insufficient cooling capacity (HVAC systems) leading to thermal discomfort  CHANGE More pressure on support systems (electricity grid, water)  Noise impacts due to change in A/C    3 performance Planning Operational disruptions from flooding, for the future surface failures, subsidence    Inundation of critical systems and infrastructure    Loss of utilities or communications systems   PRECIPITATION Reduction in airport throughput (reduced capacity)   4 Supporting CHANGE Inundation of access routes on and to airport   our community Cumulative impacts of rain events (reductions in drainage capacity)    Increased delays and cost of maintenance and upgrade programs  Drainage failure due to overloaded drainage system     5 Increased risk of damage to aircraft, Other     information staff and passengers WIND EVENTS Change in noise patterns    Increased risk of FOD and erosion    Damage to airport infrastructure (runways & sea walls)     SEA LEVEL RISE Overflow of estuaries into airport precinct   Loss of airport capacity    & COAST     Loss of airport access Loss of current infrastructure provision (OLS restrictions etc.)    Disruption to operations through: Flash flooding     EXTREME Lightning    EVENTS Cyclones and other storms     Interrupted utilities    SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 35 Responsible business Measuring carbon emissions Sydney Airport has a rigorous accounting mechanism for managing carbon emissions and our progress towards targets. This accounting is included in the scope of KPMG’s assurance for this report and also independently verified through the Airports Council International Airport Carbon Accreditation Program. Airport Carbon Accreditation is the only institutionally-endorsed carbon management certification standard for airports. Sydney Airport has maintained the level 3 accreditation achieved in 2016. Level 3 accreditation is the optimisation step of carbon accreditation and involves third party engagement in carbon footprint reduction. For Sydney Airport this relates to our airline partners, tenants, ground handlers, catering companies, air traffic control and others working on the airport site. Carbon neutral by 2025 As part of our own commitment to sustainability, the environment and our customer commitments, Sydney Airport is working towards a cleaner energy supply, and more specifically, carbon neutral operations by 2025. To achieve this, we have implemented or invested in the following: • Implementing a Corporate Power Purchase agreement for sourcing up to 75% of Sydney Airport’s current electricity load from wind energy • Investing in renewable energy and greening the grid for Sydney Airport’s energy consumption • Developing and implementing an Energy Savings and Carbon Reduction Plan • Implementation of a Ground Power Improvement Program with airlines to increase the utilisation rate of Fixed Electrical Ground Power Unit (FEGPU) and Preconditioned Air (PCA) as well as to minimise Auxiliary Power Unit usage and fuel burn on the airfield. This includes the planned provision of FEGPU and PCA at all gates and remote stands. Carbon emissions 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Emissions (tCO₂e) Scope 1 2 5,024 5,349 5,746 5,826 5,569 Scope 2 3 85,425 82,999 79,898 82,062 81,347 Total Scope 1 & 2 90,449 88,348 85,644 87,888 86,916 Emissions intensity 4 3.22 3.05 2.79 2.73 2.59 (kg CO₂e per passenger) 1 Emissions data reported for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. Carbon emissions calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes emissions from tenants and T3. 2 Scope 1 emissions include CO₂, CH₄, and N₂O. Excludes biogenic CO₂ emissions. 3 Scope 2 emissions include CO₂ emissions. 4 Emissions Intensity includes Scope 1 (CO₂, CH₄, and N₂O) and Scope 2 (CO₂) emissions. Passenger numbers exclude T3. 36 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport has undertaken a number of initiatives that showcase our preparedness to transition towards a low‑carbon future. Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future Increasing solar energy generation capacity In February 2018 Sydney Airport’s 550 kw The innovative design not only supports rooftop solar installation was commissioned on the P6 terminal 1 car park. Sydney Airport’s commitment to sustainability but also provides customers with shade while 4 not compromising on the number of car Supporting The fully integrated solar PV array at peak parking spaces available for customers. generation provides more than the P6 car park’s The low reflectivity panels also ensure safety day time electricity requirements with the excess our community for our aircraft. generation fed back into the grid for use across the airport. Sydney Airport has identified a number of further potential onsite solar locations and will continue to work with our stakeholders to increase our onsite solar generation. 5 Other information Storm water drainage improvement works Efficient airfield operations rely on our ability to maintain effective utilisation of our runways and infrastructure. During 2018 we undertook several flood management and prevention initiatives to improve surface drainage in anticipation of climate-related rainfall increases. These improvement works have allowed better control and management of rainfall runoff, which have resulted in: 1. Reduction in flood and ponding potential 2. Reduction in extent of soil erosion and sediment entering the natural water system 3. Protection of a secure airside boundary and reduction of erosion along the Cooks River through embankment stabilisation works. In addition to physical improvements to the storm water system, Sydney Airport recently commissioned an Airport Flood Study which looks at current drainage issues within the Airport’s boundaries, the influence of external developments and catchments, and potential future impact of climate change-related flooding on our operations. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 37 Responsible business Electrification of vehicle fleet We have commenced the electrification of our bus fleet and committed to having a 100% electric landside fleet by end 2021. We were Australia’s first airport to use electric buses as part of our commitment to low emission ground transport technology. The fleet of electric buses will deliver carbon emission reductions of approximately 160 tonnes per year and improve local air quality through zero tailpipe emissions. The fleet will also lower external noise levels, reduce waste fluids to zero and decrease the amount of toxic material generated during servicing. In addition, Sydney Airport is seeking to facilitate and support an increase in Sydney Airport owned airside electric vehicle use to 50% by end 2021. Thunderstorm Warning System We have installed a Thunderstorm Warning The next phase is the activation of the White System (TWS) in collaboration with Qantas. Strobe, designed to warn airport users that the The TWS is part of Sydney Airport’s climate thunderstorm is within 10NM. In the third stage change adaptation initiatives aimed to minimise the White Strobe changes to a Blue Strobe the likelihood and impact of physical risks to our to indicate that the thunderstorm is within 5NM infrastructure and operations. However, it has the of the airport. equally important objective to protect airfield The system relies on audible and visual alert staff from lightning strikes and other safety risks facilities located at numerous prominent locations from thunderstorms. across the airport. Activation of the system is The TWS is designed to operate in multiple performed by the Integrated Operations Centre stages. Thunderstorms are forecast, and and supplemented by a radio call and/or SMS information provided by the Bureau of alert. All companies on the airfield are required Meteorology (BOM) and Qantas Meteorological to design, implement and comply with their Office (QMET). A general thunderstorm warning own Thunderstorm Safe Working/Operating is issued by the BOM/QMET at 30 nautical Procedures to ensure that safe working practices miles (NM) and this will be communicated are followed during and after the TWS activation. to SACL operations staff by the IOC via radio. 38 1 Building operational resilience Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting Full-scale emergency exercise simulating an aircraft crash. As Sydney Airport is a critical piece of SYDEx our community national infrastructure, we need to ensure our facilities are resilient and can continue to operate under a range of different circumstances. Underpinning this commitment is the Airport Emergency Plan (AEP), which details our holistic approach to incident and emergency management in accordance with 5 the International Civil Aviation Organisation and Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority Other regulations and standards. We regularly test the AEP through a variety information of modular activities including audits, desktop exercises, drills, and full-scale emergency training exercises. These activities promote a cross-functional approach to incident and emergency response, whereby Sydney Airport This year we joined together with more than partners with state emergency response 20 government agencies and organisations organisations, our partner airlines and ground to conduct a full-scale emergency exercise. handlers. We also promote an open and Among the participating agencies were the transparent approach to managing the AEP NSW Police Force, Airservices Australia, via Airport Emergency Committee meetings. the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, Fire & Rescue NSW, NSW Ambulance, the Australian As part of our AEP, we have developed an Federal Police and the Australian Border Force. Incident and Crisis Management Protocol, aimed at establishing a consistent approach The test scenario, an aircraft crash at the to managing all events and incidents. We have airport, allowed relevant organisations to test developed a 12-month training program for key the activation, notification and response personnel at all levels within the organisation of emergency teams as well as the six to ensure we are working from a common emergency facilities located at the airport. operating picture in our response to and Over 100 volunteers were on hand to play the recovery from incidents and emergencies. role of affected passengers, relatives, personnel, This program is scheduled to be delivered media and observers during the exercise. throughout 2019. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 39 Responsible business Active Armed Offender Training Managing cyber security In light of recent world events, we developed With the security threat landscape evolving an Active Armed Offender Awareness training rapidly, we have continued to focus on module for our people in the event that they managing current and emerging cyber risks. find themselves involved in the situation of A refreshed Information and Cyber Security an armed attack whilst working at the airport. 2020 strategy has been at the centre of our The module was designed to help our people cyber programs to drive security governance, understand the best action to take for their own improved maturity levels, and stronger user safety, and the safety of others. The training awareness via security culture campaigns. complements the security information that all People airport employees carry with them on their emergency lanyard card. We continue to deliver a range of training and awareness programs such as regular phishing campaigns to better educate our people on common email attacks. The launch of our CyberSafe program arms our employees with “SYDEx provided our team simple techniques to protect themselves and the business. with the opportunity to put Process our emergency management We continue improving our Information Security Management System framework with procedures into practice using recertification to the ISO 27001:2013 standard. We apply our enterprise-wide risk management a real‑time scenario.” framework to identify, assess, control and manage information security risks. We have Amanda Hoye, Resilience Manager embedded information security into contracts and are continuing security compliance reviews of vendors, projects and solutions. Measurable objectives are being monitored and third party assessments are periodically conducted to keep track of our progress towards cyber risk management maturity. Technology This year, as part of our maturity improvements we partnered with a managed security service provider to enhance our cyber defence capabilities with a new 24x7 cyber security operations centre. We use a range of technologies and security controls to minimise the threat, likelihood and impact of unauthorised access to our digital assets. These technologies include enhanced logging, threat monitoring, vulnerability management, behaviour learning and AI, regular penetration testing and proactive incident response desktop exercises. Partnering We partner with a variety of organisations to reduce risk and protect our digital assets. We work closely with the Australian Government via the Joint Cyber Security Centre and are partnering with the Aviation Information Sharing and Analysis Centre on global aviation cyber security intelligence. In collaboration with Qantas, we participated in Australia’s first joint cyber risk workshop. This included security professionals at all major national ports, government and Qantas to assess the security landscape and interdependencies within the aviation sector. 40 1 Operating ethically and with integrity Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting our community Ethical conduct Tax transparency Our Code of Conduct sets out minimum As an ASX-listed company, we strive to be expectations for our employees as well open and transparent in all our dealings with as guidelines for how we report any instances of unethical conduct. Our directors, leadership investors, the public and other stakeholders. As part of this commitment, we voluntarily 5 Other team and employees commit to: adopted the Tax Transparency Code • Promote a safe, healthy, secure and in 2016 and publicly release an annual Tax information environmentally responsible workplace Governance Statement. This statement seeks to provide a greater understanding of our • Behave professionally and lawfully tax structure and tax governance policy. • Avoid real or apparent conflicts of interest You can view our Tax Governance Statement • Ensure a fair and competitive workplace for the period ended 31 December 2018 • Respect others on Sydney Airport’s website. • Maintain and protect private and confidential information Anti‑corruption and anti‑bribery • Uphold securities exchange requirements Our Gifts and Entertainment Policy requires • Protect Sydney Airport assets. all entertainment invitation requests to be Our Whistleblower Policy provides our approved by our General Counsel and Company people, suppliers, service providers and other Secretary. In addition, our Code of Conduct stakeholders an avenue to raise concerns about sets out expectations with regards to accepting actual, suspected or anticipated wrongdoing of gifts, which must all be recorded on our in a way that offers protection from reprisal gift register. or disadvantage. We do not make donations to political parties or candidates for elections. However, like many other large organisations, we do pay to attend events organised by political parties or events at which a political representative may be speaking. Requirements with regards to political donations are set out in our Code of Conduct. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 41 Responsible business Respecting human rights In order to address modern slavery risks we will further our human rights work from previous As members of the United Nations Global years and complement it with targeted actions Compact, we align our practices with the to strengthen our policies and performance: UN Guiding Principles on Business and • Build on our preliminary risk analysis Human Rights, which articulate the duty to conduct a second, more detailed risk of corporations to assess and prevent assessment of specific business operations potentially adverse impacts of business through the lens of modern slavery activity on human rights. Sydney Airport’s • Map the outcomes of our risk assessment commitment towards Responsible Business along our value chain to visualise those means that the upholding of human rights links in the chain that may still present must consistently be an essential part of how vulnerabilities to human rights violations. we do business. In line with our Human Rights This will help us further prioritise, articulate Policy, developed in 2017, we continue to assess and communicate discrete actions with the human rights issues in our operations and relevant parties beyond. Particularly in 2018, and as a response to developments in our regulatory and • Leverage our recently developed Human societal context, we increased our attention Rights Policy as a tool to harmonise on modern slavery. our suite of operational policies and procedures so they align with our human Modern slavery is a specific category rights commitments of human rights infringement which entails • Enhance our due diligence procedures the abuse of labour rights and includes by broadening the scope of supplier business malpractices such as withholding screening and embedding additional of wages, violence and child labour, poor provisions for modern slavery risks and unsafe working conditions, exploitation in contract terms for suppliers and and excessive overtime, forced labour and procurement procedures restricted freedom of movement. Modern Slavery Acts were proclaimed in NSW in 2018 • In 2017, we re-assessed our Supplier Code and the Commonwealth in 2019. Both pieces of Conduct. On the back of our focus of legislation have similar reporting provisions on modern slavery over the past year and for businesses to disclose areas of modern throughout 2019, we will revise this Code slavery risks in their domestic and international of Conduct to ensure it remains relevant supply chains. It also requires organisations and aligned with our standards and policies to describe how they are seeking to mitigate • Update training and awareness programs these risks, how they assess the effectiveness for our employees and partners to enhance of due diligence activities, which initiatives are their understanding of, and response to, being put in place to encourage collaborative incidences of human right violations and action to educate stakeholders on labour modern slavery. rights as well as providing access to remedy for victims of modern slavery. The above initiatives will also help us prepare for compliance with the new legislation We collaborate with a large number of suppliers as we formulate our Modern Slavery and business partners as part of our operations Statement, endorsed by the Board and Senior and appreciate the importance of having Management, due for publication in 2021. an oversight on potential modern slavery risks. In 2018, we conducted a risk workshop Tackling human trafficking and slavery to understand the potential modern slavery Given the nature of our business, we play risks that might be occurring across the airport. an important role with regards to preventing and reducing human trafficking and slavery beyond our supply chain. We have partnered with the Australian Federal Police (AFP) “We will leverage our position to build understanding across the airport community of human trafficking in Australia, as a multi‑stakeholder hub with a focus on forced labour and forced upholding human rights marriage. In collaboration with the AFP we are developing a pilot program to be throughout the airport delivered at Sydney Airport prior to broader roll out to airports nationally. The program community.” will provide an avenue for victims to alert authorities, as well as raising awareness across the broader airport community of the signs Peter McCray, Head of Business Transformation of human trafficking and slavery. and Strategy 42 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future 4 Supporting our community 5 Other Image courtesy of Invictus Games Sydney 2018 information Invictus Games In October we united as an airport team to Our volunteers were also on hand with any facilitate an outstanding passenger experience special needs or to help with complications that for the athletes of the Sydney Invictus Games, arose. We worked with Guide Dogs Australia their families and friends, media and officials to provide assistance dogs to help reduce stress from 18 nations. The Games attracted more than levels for athletes suffering from Post-Traumatic 3,000 athletes with a range of physical and Stress Disorder, thereby facilitating a safe and mental conditions. We worked very closely with secure environment. games organisers and airport business partners The event required a huge coordination effort including airlines and ground handlers to ensure and our team demonstrated their ability, we prepared them for a smooth arrival and creativity and flexibility to swiftly mobilise departure experience. and adapt to unforeseen challenges. It was Around 60 of our people volunteered during a testament to the dedication, hard work and arrivals and departures to support teams passion of our team who strive to ensure every and escort them through the airport journey, passenger arrives and departs with positive including facilitating a streamlined process for memories of Sydney. baggage and equipment to be transported directly to and from hotels by truck. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 43 Responsible business Managing risks in our governance and ethics, workplace conditions and human rights, environmental management supply chain and community. Our Code outlines our Our procurement spend relates mainly governance framework including undertaking to construction projects, security services, site-based reviews of supplier operations cleaning services, facilities management if required, working with suppliers to remediate services and baggage handling operations. if operations have fallen short of expectations, continuing to evaluate performance, reporting Our Procurement Policy sets out core principles annually in our sustainability report, and and the expectations of Sydney Airport’s invoking audit and review powers to address people when conducting market engagements specific concerns. and in general dealings with suppliers. The Policy is underpinned by our Strategic 1. In 2018 we assessed 33 suppliers against Sourcing Framework and Sustainability Supply the expectations in our Supplier Code of Chain Management Framework and includes Conduct, accounting for approximately 73% guidance on: of the airport’s total third-party spend across • Strategic sourcing planning both capital and operational expenditures. A number of minor non-conformances • Value for money were identified and we have been working • Procurement method proactively with these suppliers to close • Fairness, openness, transparency and probity them out. Key areas of non-conformance • Sustainable procurement were: No documentation of key training, • Risk management learning and development policies and initiatives • Delegation and approval 2. No policy or reference to Fair Work • Contract documentation and management 3. No plan or initiatives to support Aboriginal • Supply chain. or Torres Strait Islander employment, Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out how we businesses or communities. manage our relationships with suppliers and the Of the 12 Supplier Improvement Plans that minimum expectations we have set. Key areas were prepared, 10 were finalised in 2018. The of focus include safety and wellbeing, corporate remainder were completed in February 2019. In 2018 we worked with: Our 2018 third party spend: 947 Suppliers 497 active contractors $ 667m 44 1 Sustainability at Delivering value through procurement decisions Sydney Airport Enhanced fleet strategy We conducted a review of our pool car fleet arrangements during the reporting period which has resulted in a reduction in the number of cars in the fleet. In implementing this strategy, we identified alternatives for 2 our people to travel including catching public transport or the free bus that operates between Responsible Supporting small the international and domestic precincts. business suppliers As part of our new arrangements, business we introduced telemetry into our car fleet We have joined the Business to support enhanced driver behaviour and Council of Australia’s Australian encourage safer and more fuel-efficient Supplier Payment Code, a voluntary driving styles. The system delivers program designed to support the long-term viability of small instantaneous warnings if our vehicles are being driven outside of the standards we 3 Planning businesses. We have identified the have set. It also produces regular reports small businesses that we engage on driver behaviour so that we can identify ways to continuously improve performance for the future and developed internal processes to ensure we comply with the Code, so and reduce fuel use. that any small business is paid for Baggage room lighting upgrade services provided within 30 days. During the year we upgraded the lighting systems in one of the baggage handling areas at T1. We replaced 800 incandescent lights with LEDs, including emergency, exit and 4 egress path lighting. Supporting It is estimated that the introduction of the LED lights will yield an approximate 40% our community saving in energy consumption. Potential for a further 30–40% saving is expected through the introduction of lighting controls including use of motion detection and DOF lighting to approximately 20% output when areas are 5 unattended or not in use. Other information SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 45 Planning for the future Delivering operational excellence through innovative, technology‑based solutions and supporting customer needs now and into the future. Increasing and Delivering better supporting landside outcomes for efficiency our customers Estimated increase in T1 road Customer satisfaction scores network capacity during busy International morning period 25% 4.13/5 from 4.01/5 in 2017 Domestic 4.14/5 from 3.95/5 in 2017 Sustainable Passenger movements development of the airport PPA contracts up to 44.4m from 43.3m in 2017 75% Aircraft movements 344,149 of current load from renewable energy from 345,104 in 2017 46 Sustainability at Responsible Planning Supporting Other Sydney Airport 1 2 business 3 for the future 4 our community 5 information 47 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report Planning for the future Increasing and supporting landside efficiency Responsible business Outcomes from the five‑year precinct. This improved operation at T2/T3 was complemented by the introduction of a similar Ground Transport Plan one-way system on O’Riordan Street and Changes to the road network outlined in the Robey Street. Further improvements to the Master Plan 2033 five-year Ground Transport O’Riordan Street/Joyce Drive/Sir Reginald Plan have now been implemented. These road Ansett Drive/Qantas Drive intersection will network enhancements focused on improving be achieved with the completion of the current capacity and traffic flow at both the T1 and Roads and Maritime Services works in the area. T2/T3 precincts. We also provided additional and enhanced pick-up, drop-off and parking facilities close The reconfiguration of the road network and to the terminals for private vehicles, taxis, other improvements at T1 have successfully rideshare, coaches and mini-buses. We continue accommodated significant growth in traffic to implement our landside technology strategy, levels in the past five years and have provided which includes the ongoing installation a relatively free flowing traffic corridor along of Variable Message Signs on key access and Centre Road. The recently opened Cooks River egress roads at the T1 and T2/T3 precincts Road West, and removal of the signalised to improve wayfinding and driver information. intersection, together with supporting enhancements to Cooks River Road, has Summary of key benefits: considerably improved the exit for traffic • The package of measures implemented from Departures Road, Arrivals Court and as part of the five-year Ground Transport Centre Road. Further entry improvements Plan at T1 increased traffic throughput, have been achieved through the introduction improved vehicle circulation and provided of the new Airport Drive flyover to Arrivals additional capacity for pick-up, drop-off Court that eliminates much of the vehicle and parking facilities. Overall, it is estimated weaving movements on the approach to T1. that the improvements have provided a 25% In the past five years there have been increase in road network capacity during considerable changes to the operation of traffic the busy morning peak period. flow at the T2/T3 precinct, responding to the • At T2/T3, the improvements implemented challenge of managing competing non-airport as part of the five-year Ground Transport through traffic and airport generated traffic Plan significantly increased road capacity. at the intersection of O’Riordan Street/Joyce Had the measures not been implemented, Drive/Sir Reginald Ansett Drive/Qantas modelling showed that current traffic delays Drive. Traffic operation has been improved at the access and egress intersections on by the introduction of a one-way entry and Qantas Drive would have been five times exit system through the T2/T3 precinct worse than the levels prior to the five-year by extending Seventh Street, which provided Ground Transport Plan during the busy a new access road link for traffic exiting the AM peak and PM peak periods. 48 1 Sustainability at Sydney Gateway Summary of key benefits: • Enable easier journeys to and from Sydney Planning for the future means we must act Sydney Airport Airport and improved connections between now to accommodate Sydney Gateway, which the terminals will provide a new high capacity alternative • Provide new roads to Sydney Airport to help road connection from the Sydney Motorway reduce congestion and cater for forecast Network at St Peters Interchange to the T1 growth in passenger and air freight precinct and the T2/T3 precinct at Sydney Airport. The project is being delivered by Roads and Maritime Services on behalf of the • Reduce travel times through improved road connections to the International and 2 Responsible NSW Government. The Australian Rail Track Domestic precincts. When used with other Corporation is also undertaking duplication Sydney motorway connections: business of a rail line section to Port Botany to increase – Save up to 40 minutes during morning freight train capacity and reduce the number peak times travelling between Parramatta of trucks on roads around Sydney Airport. and T2/T3 As part of the development of Master Plan – Save up to 41 minutes during morning 2039, Sydney Airport worked collaboratively peak times travelling between Dee Why with the NSW Government to assess the and T2/T3 transport access needs of the airport and the wider network around the airport. – Save up to 22 minutes during morning peak times travelling between 3 Planning Consequently, Sydney Gateway complements Campbelltown and T2/T3. future upgrades taking place within and for the future connecting to the T1 and T2/T3 precincts. 4 TO METROPOLITAN M4 City West Parramatta FREIGHT NETWORK Blacktown Supporting M5 Liverpool Campbelltown ST PETERS St Peters Interchange our community Cooks River Goods Yard Motorway connection MASCOT 5 g rail line Other E xistin TEMPE information l T2-T3 connection na Ca A le xa nd ra SYDNEY DOMESTIC AIRPORT Terminals 2 & 3 SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL Port Botany Rail AIRPORT Duplication Terminal 1 0006M _ v1 TO PORT BOTANY Legend Airside access Landside access Proposed Sydney Gateway Works 0 0.5 1km Indicative route only shown SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 49 Planning for the future Delivering better outcomes for our customers Our goal is to ensure passengers have a seamless, efficient and enjoyable journey through Sydney Airport. We recognise that to deliver on this all airport business partners and stakeholders need to work collaboratively. Our focus on investing in improvements and initiatives that make a real difference to the experience of our customers is delivering results with overall passenger satisfaction reaching an all-time high in 2018. Overall customer satisfaction 1 Ambience 4.2 International Domestic 4.1 4.22/5 4.14/5 3.9 4.17/5 in 2017 4.11/5 in 2017 3.8 Cleanliness 3.7 International Domestic 3.6 4.27/5 4.19/5 3.5 4.24/5 in 2017 4.14/5 in 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wayfinding International Domestic International Domestic 4.13/5 4.14/5 4.12/5 4.21/5 4.01/5 in 2017 3.95/5 in 2017 3.97/5 in 2017 4.09/5 in 2017 1 Customer satisfaction is monitored through monthly passenger satisfaction surveys. Overall ratings based on question: ‘Thinking about your whole experience at Sydney Airport today and taking into account all aspects of your time here, how would you rate your experience at Sydney Airport today?’ 50 1 Sustainability at Quiet terminal Following close collaboration with our airline Sydney Airport partners and other stakeholders, we recently implemented our quiet terminal initiative “We are proud that 82% at the T1 International terminal to create a more relaxing environment. We have limited of passengers were satisfied announcements to the gate areas, although with their airport experience announcements related to emergency procedures remain unchanged and will continue 2 over 2018.” to be made if required. The initiative is part of a broader focus on continually improving Responsible business the airport experience for our passengers. Claire Donnellan, Manager Service Strategy and Customer Experience To replace announcements, up-to-date flight information is provided via Flight Information Display Screens across the terminal, as well as multilingual e-directories. Passengers can also approach airport information desks or check the status of their flight through the Sydney Airport website, as well as the @flySYD 3 Planning Facebook and Twitter pages. for the future 4 Supporting our community 5 Other information Employee spotlight Irena Atic, Customer Care Centre Manager In 2014, we established a dedicated Customer This allows the business to identify opportunities Care Centre (CCC). Irena joined the team in 2016 to reduce the pain points, pursue business growth to lead and support the ongoing growth and initiatives and improve the overall customer improvements in our customer service offering. experience. We want to ensure all interactions customers have with our team are positive,” Today, our CCC fields more than 60,000 Irena says. telephone and email enquiries a year, assisting our customers before, during and after their journey, The Centre’s operating hours are 8am–8pm, seven and acting as a key contact point for customers. days per week. The team’s performance targets In addition, the CCC acts as a support to internal include answering 80% of customer telephone operational departments by diverting direct calls enquiries within 20 seconds and responding from operational teams, allowing them to focus to 80% of email/web enquiries within two days. on their core delivery. “Our team is passionate, skilled and engaged and they put the customer at the heart of everything “A key function of our team is to provide regular we do. A flexible work environment supports reporting and feedback to the business on us to cover any rostering gaps to achieve our patterns in customer contact with the centre. targets.” Irena says. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 51 Planning for the future Biometrics trial Enhancing the ground power and This year we undertook a trial of biometrics pre‑conditioned air product technology and facial recognition processing Aircraft are equipped with jet fuel-driven to increase the efficiency, convenience auxiliary power units (APU) to supply power and security of passenger processing. while taxiing into the gate and whilst stationary. The ‘couch-to-gate’ biometrics system, when To reduce the need to use APUs, we supply fully implemented, will mean passengers can fixed electrical ground power to all our terminal complete most stages of their airport journey gates. The use of fixed ground power rather using their face as their access identification. than APUs has a number of benefits including In partnership with Qantas, we trialled the first reducing air and noise emissions, together with stages of the biometric technology solution reducing carbon emissions and costs to airlines. for passengers. We tested four key steps During the year we engaged with a number in the passenger journey including automated of airlines to understand how we could check-in, bag drop, lounge access and boarding improve the delivery and reliability of ground as well as conducting ‘face-on-the-move’ power and pre-conditioned air to aircraft. testing at outbound security and in arrivals. As a result, we have delivered a number Additional steps proposed for future trials of initiatives including an improved preventative include mobile check-in and automated border maintenance program and replacement of the processing. Consent was actively sought from existing plugs with new hard-wearing ones. all passengers participating in the trial, which adheres to the strictest privacy standards and As our current equipment comes to the complies with all relevant legislation. end of its useful life, we are looking at what equipment we need to replace, in particular Subject to the success of the trials, we will to cater for next generation aircraft. We also consider how the technology can be rolled have a strategy to ensure all bays, including out across the airport as new terminal remote, are equipped with fixed ground power developments are planned. and pre-conditioned air. 52 1 Sustainability at Digital wayfinding kiosks in Hindi emBark program and Arabic This year we championed the new emBark Sydney Airport In response to feedback from our customers, program, a collaboration between Assistance our digital wayfinding kiosks are now available Dogs Australia and American Airlines. The in nine languages, following the addition program allows travellers to spend time with of Hindi and Arabic. The 17 kiosks at T1 qualified assistance dogs at American Airlines’ International are also available in English, ticket counters to reduce stress and make the German, French, Korean, simplified Chinese, journey more relaxing. 2 Japanese and Spanish, and allow passengers Responsible to quickly and easily get directions, flight updates and information about shops, business restaurants and other facilities. The new additions to the list of available languages are part of an ongoing effort to use technology to improve the airport experience for all passengers. 3 Planning for the future Image courtesy of American Airlines 4 Supporting Volunteer spotlight our community Elizabeth Galvin, Airport Ambassador Our Airport Ambassadors operate daily in our terminals, providing information and wayfinding services to the travelling public, working hard to provide a positive experience for all visitors to the airport. Airport 5 Other Ambassadors wear bright blue jackets to ensure they are easily identifiable. information The Ambassador program, which commenced in July 1999, works across both T1 and T2. Our volunteers work four hour shifts, generally a couple of times a week. “I work the 6am–10am shift in T1 on Mondays and Fridays” says Elizabeth. “It is the busiest time of the day, and we help passengers in lots of different ways, including directing them to their check-in desk or departure gate, giving them advice on how to best get into the city or even helping reunite them with lost items. We understand that travelling can be stressful sometimes, and we are here to help.” says Elizabeth. Elizabeth worked as a teacher for almost 30 years. Once she retired she wanted to find something that kept her mind active and where she was working with other people. “I love travel, together with meeting and talking to lots of different people so this was the perfect job for me. I have been volunteering for almost 10 years now and it is so rewarding to help travellers on their way. I also love working with my fellow ambassadors, we have all become such close friends”. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 53 Planning for the future Sustainable development of the airport Passenger movements 2018 PASSENGERS Domestic International Total Total (million) 27.7 16.7 44.4 PASSENGERS BY GEOGRAPHY Total (million) 1 Proportion of total Asia (excluding Greater China) 5.2 31% New Zealand, Pacific and other 3.5 21% Americas 2.5 15% Greater China 3.2 19% Europe and Middle East 2.3 14% Aircraft movements 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2018 Domestic 173,160 178,999 179,436 178,059 177,104 Regional 58,240 58,823 60,813 59,296 57,023 International 65,316 64,303 70,409 73,647 76,896 General aviation 23,176 25,149 27,231 25,529 24,502 Freight 7,298 7,727 8,548 8,573 8,624 Total 327,190 335,001 346,437 345,104 344,149 1 Excludes Domestic On-carriage. 2 Total aircraft movements have been restated from 348,522 published in the 2017 Annual Report to correct a reconciliation discrepancy. 54 1 Sustainability at Communicating with our airport stakeholders We have launched a secure gateway ‘InfoSYD’ for Sydney Airport staff and the broader airport Sydney Airport community. InfoSYD provides operational information, customised Flight Information Displays, online workflows, key performance indicator information and other important airport information via an easy to access online portal. The expansion of InfoSYD to provide additional airport information and increase two-way engagement between Sydney Airport and our on-airport community is currently being planned. The expansion planning will include consultation with key airport community stakeholders. 2 Enhanced program management framework Responsible business We have established an Enterprise Program Management Office that has defined and will maintain standards for project management, with the aim of introducing efficiencies in how we deliver projects and delivering higher value within the capital investment envelope. The framework has: • Set a governance structure ensuring projects are created, managed and authorised within approved limits and with a defined scope • Increased transparency of project performance, with business-wide project metrics and a simple reporting framework 3 Planning • Provided the necessary tools and templates and support for their use, to achieve approval and reporting requirements for the future • Enabled the delivering body to manage projects efficiently and consistently, with early notification of issues and intervention if required. Enhanced program management framework 4 Supporting Pre-planning Phase Strategic Idea Generation Planning our community Gate Phase 0 Ideation (Initial Business Case) Planning and Phase Gate 5 1 Design Other Concept (Preliminary Business Case) information Gate Phase 2 Design Development Design and (Final Business Case) Delivery Gate Phase 3 Detail Design (Build & Test) Delivery Phase Gate 4 Delivery & Implementation Gate Phase 5 Delivery and Defects Liability Period and Facilities Project Close Management Gate SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 55 Planning for the future Airport Collaborative Decision Making We have commenced implementation of Airport Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) to enable our airport operators, airlines, ground handlers and air navigation service providers to share information and maximise utilisation of our resources as demand continues to increase. In collaboration with our business partners, we currently use airport planning tools to assist in optimising the flow of aircraft arriving at and departing from our gates. With the use of a cloud-based solution and multi-party information sharing we are now looking at optimising the flow of aircraft as well as facilitating efficient aircraft turnaround processes. This will result in benefits to our customers and passengers including reduction in fuel costs, reduced carbon emissions, reduced crew costs and passenger time savings. Benefits to Sydney Airport include improved real-time situational awareness, increased real-time communication across airport stakeholders, improved gate and taxiway system utilisation, and enhanced data capture for further process improvement. AMAN SMAN TMAN DMAN Arrivals Surface Turnaround Department Management Management Management Management A‑CDM Information Sharing Platform ISP Baggage handling system improvement program Our Baggage Master Plan outlines a holistic strategy to increase capacity and build resilience in our Baggage Handling System. Our approach has focused on the use of technology and performance data to drive continuous improvement. One of our key focus areas is reducing the number of bag jams which can cause delays. We have tuned our control systems to ensure bags stay adequately spaced, particularly where conveyors merge together. Mechanical changes have also been made to conveyors and chutes where it was found that the bags were jamming due to “catch points”. This has resulted in a secondary benefit to handlers by reducing the need for manual intervention and consequently, the risk of manual handling injuries. We have also been improving reliability by upgrading the system in T1 with new motors that are 30% more energy efficient. We are about 65% into our motor replacement program, having installed 975 high efficiency motors since commencement in 2015. 56 1 Sustainability at Planning for growth Our trends show that aircraft movements and passenger numbers have grown steadily over the Sydney Airport past two decades. In 2018, international passengers grew by 4.7% while domestic passengers grew by 1.2%. This has been driven primarily by airlines adding new routes and services, up-gauging and increased density of aircraft, as well as the commencement of services by new carriers. During the year we have delivered a number of improvement projects to meet future growth. Refer to our 2018 Annual Report for further information. We also plan for our longer-term future growth through our Master Plan, a five yearly process that 2 targets the delivery of a better passenger experience as well as improved safety, capacity and Responsible efficiency. In 2018 we delivered and placed on public exhibition the preliminary Draft Master Plan 2039, and received a 4-star Green Star Communities Rating by embedding sustainability into the business planning and design for future Sydney Airport expansion. 3 Planning Corporate Power Purchase Agreement In December 2018, a Power Purchase for the future Agreement was signed between Sydney Airport, Grassroots Renewable Energy and Origin. This agreement contracts up to 75% of our current electricity load with Grassroots Renewable Energy, a 4 partnership of Partners Group and CWP Supporting Renewables, with baseload firming provided by Origin Energy. our community The long-term agreement will be linked to Grassroots Renewable Energy’s Crudine Ridge Wind Farm in Central West NSW near Mudgee. The wind farm commenced construction mid 5 2018 and is due for delivery late 2019. The farm will have 37 wind turbines and 135 megawatts capacity, capable of generating 400,000 megawatt Other hours annually, reducing Australia’s CO2 emissions by around 360,000 tonnes information every year, the equivalent of almost 80,000 fewer cars on the road. The agreement will provide meaningful cost reduction in addition to fostering the growth of renewable energy in Australia. This project was recognised with a Gold Award by Airports Council International Asia-Pacific in their 2019 Green Airports Recognition, which recognises outstanding achievements by airports in environmental projects. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 57 Supporting our communities Working with our communities to protect the environment and create shared value. Building Reducing waste to landfill relationships and supporting community resilience Waste recycling rate Waste to landfill Investment $5.7m 42.9% 2,733t from 42.4% in 2017 from 2,851t in 2017 from $4.9m in 2017 Maintaining an environmentally Protecting responsible airport local natural Next generation Water recycling rate areas and aircraft biodiversity 28% 24.4% Bayside Council from 20.0% in 2017 Partnership of all international passenger flights Water usage $11m 18.40L invested in delivery of social and environmental per passenger initiatives over next from 23.52L in 2017 10 years 58 Sustainability at Responsible Planning Supporting Other Sydney Airport 1 2 business 3 for the future 4 our community 5 information 59 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report Supporting our community Building relationships and supporting community resilience Sydney Airport is committed to developing and maintaining strong, positive links with the community, not just in the vicinity of the airport, but across Sydney and NSW. We actively engage with local communities and organisations about airport operations, proposed developments and future planning. This included community and stakeholder engagement during the public exhibition of the preliminary draft Master Plan 2039. Community Investment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Community 1.5 2.6 3.3 4.9 5.7 1 Investment ($m) 1 In 2018, Sydney Airport contributed $2.16 million to the community, including management costs, as verified by LBG AUS & NZ. In addition, Sydney Airport provided free advertising space to community partners to the value of $3.2 million, and an additional $200K revenue forgone for community benefit on other fees, products and services. Sydney Airport has also facilitated additional contributions to the community from other sources such as customers and employees to the value of $61K, which we refer to as ‘leverage’ within the LBG framework. 60 1 Sustainability at Master Plan 2039 Community airport tenants, industry and business groups, and community groups Engagement Sydney Airport • An interactive web portal providing access We have undertaken extensive community to relevant information and the opportunity engagement for Master Plan 2039, going to make a submission or comment online beyond statutory and regulatory requirements. • Distribution of around 270,000 community Our approach has included: information brochures to inform, engage and 2 • Face-to-face engagement activities seek feedback from the local community • Digital engagement through social media • Community information sessions held in and an interactive and engaging website Responsible local shopping centres or as part of existing dedicated to Master Plan 2039 community markets and events business • Supporting information targeting key issues, • Copies of the Master Plan 2039 and other including noise management, environment, documents at multiple public locations heritage, ground transport, air traffic in surrounding council areas and within forecasts, safety and security and the Sydney Airport itself. overarching vision for Sydney Airport Feedback from this community engagement • A series of briefings and workshops to has been used to finalise the draft of Master engage with key stakeholders including government departments, airlines and Plan 2039. 3 Planning for the future S17 S8 PARRAMATTA RYDE WILLOUGHBY LANE P12 COVE S7 S15 S22 MOSMAN 4 NORTH Supporting SYDNEY HUNTERS HILL our community CANADA P6 SYDNEY BAY HARBOUR P8 S9 S13 S12 S19 WOOLLAHRA BURWOOD 5 S5 P4 STRATHFIELD P7 S18 S14 P1 INNER WEST Other WAVERLEY P9 S21 information S11 S3 S20 SYDNEY P3 P5 CANTERBURYBANKSTOWN S1 S2 P11 S6 S24 P2 BAYSIDE BAYSIDE S23 S4 RANDWICK GEORGES RIVER BOTANY BAY 0 1 2 km Legend Sydney Airport Boundary Existing Road Sydney Airport Freehold Land Sydney Rail Network S16 Existing Runways S Static Displays S10 P Pop Up Events P10 SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 61 Supporting our community Live Local Leading and Sydney’s Airport Learning We are committed to being We are working to a good neighbour and We support initiatives that strengthen relationships playing a role in keeping our provide opportunities for between the airport and our local communities connected our leaders of tomorrow. communities by supporting healthy, vibrant and thriving. We support those to be tourism-generating initiatives the best in their field, that benefit the city and with a particular focus on local communities, and supporting minority groups by developing a sense and reducing inequalities of place at Sydney Airport in our community. that reflects our city. New Community Aviation Consultation Group In addition to the Sydney Airport Community Forum, we are planning the establishment of a new Community Aviation Consultation Group (CACG). Our engagement through this group will be collaborative in nature, and we will be looking to partner with the community to consider and develop solutions to specific problems or issues. As a first step, the CACG will seek community discussion and feedback on Sydney Airport’s priorities for investment in and support for local community initiatives. Other issues for CACG deliberation will be selected to align with community interests and business challenges. Sydney Airport – Bayside Council: Community and Environmental Projects Reserve Fund We have entered into a new agreement with Bayside Council to establish a Community and Environmental Projects Reserve Fund. The Fund will be used for projects or initiatives that will develop or improve infrastructure for community use or improve environmental outcomes in the Bayside local government area. Examples of projects to be funded through the new agreement include projects that will: Address priority local issues Reduce greenhouse gas Enhance health outcomes as identified by Bayside emissions and/or contribute and community wellbeing Council in its Community to climate resilience (including sporting facilities Strategic Plan and public parks) Restore or better protect Promote outcomes Reduce water pollution important ecosystems and consistent with the or improve water quality natural habitats (including principles of social justice, in Botany Bay, the Cooks beaches and foreshores) including access, equity, River or other waterways wholly or partly within the participation and rights wholly or partly within the Bayside Local Government Bayside LGA Area (LGA) Reduce air pollution Promote waste avoidance Foster inclusion and social or improve air quality or resource recovery connection Reduce water consumption Increase tree cover in the Prevent or minimise future Bayside LGA environmental damage Strengthen the sustainability Facilitate community Enhance Bayside’s heritage, and capacity of the Bayside interactions with the including interpretation community environment of heritage 62 1 Sustainability at Investing in our community We also invested more to support local Aboriginal communities and people. We are committed to making a meaningful This included a new partnership with local Sydney Airport contribution to the communities in which Aboriginal charity First Hand Solutions we live and work and helping them to thrive. bringing their BLAK Markets to Sydney Airport. In 2018, we contributed $5.7 million to these In developing Sydney Airport’s inaugural communities and our partnership approach Reconciliation Action Plan, this year we have is built around three pillars: Live local, Leading engaged with local Aboriginal organisations and Learning and Sydney’s Airport. and communities to develop our understanding of Australia’s First Nations peoples and culture. 2 Locally we support community organisations Responsible across the Bayside, Inner West, Sutherland Supporting our leaders of tomorrow is important Shire, City of Sydney and Randwick Local to our business and the sustainability of our business Government Areas. We are committed to communities. In 2018 we continued to focus playing a role in keeping our local communities much of our partnership support on diversity healthy and connected. This year we completed initiatives including many to support women the three-year Kamay Botany Bay Regeneration and First Nations people. Project with Conservation Volunteers Australia and increased our support for Surf Life Saving Sydney to include patrol lifesavers, alongside Nippers in training. 3 Planning for the future Local community 1 Charity Education 29 organisations $374k+ raised though Sydney 15,541 Students supported 4 Supporting supported Airport fundraising through education and initiatives employment initiatives our community 1 Bayside, Inner West, Sutherland Shire, City of Sydney and Randwick local government areas Investing in Aboriginal communites and people 5 34 15 $248k+ Other Indigenous people Indigenous Amount invested information supported organisations and with Indigenous enterprises supported organisations SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 63 Supporting our community Fundraisers to support charities In 2018, we collaborated with over 10 charities at Sydney Airport to support their fundraising campaigns and also ran our own fundraising activities to support grassroot organisations. Cure Cancer Australia At Christmas time we hold a six-week appeal across the airport to raise funds for charity, with over $1.4 million raised over the past six years. With the support of the airport community and travelling public, this year’s appeal raised $310,000 for Cure Cancer Australia. The 2018 Christmas Appeal was launched with our annual Family Fun Runway Run, where over 350 people participated in the event, making it our largest Runway Run to date. NSW Kids in Need Airside Adventure Giving people a great experience at Sydney Airport and supporting our community is always our top priority and our airfield tour for NSW Kids in Need did just that. 100 members of the public purchased a ticket to tour the airfield, getting up close with taxiing, departing and arriving aircraft. The event raised $15,000 for NSW Kids in Need. ‘Bid for Good’ Lost Property Auction In partnership with the Sydney Community Foundation, our ‘Bid for Good’ Lost Property Auction raised $170,000 through the sale of unclaimed items left in our terminals and the generosity of the airport community. Every effort is made to reunite passengers with their belongings, and where that can’t happen, they’re put up for auction with proceeds going to charity. The money raised helps fund projects to support people in need in our local communities. The major $100,000 grant from the auction was received by Cana Communities, while an additional seven charities received a $10,000 grant eac Cana Communities, a local organisation The International Shift to support their social supporting those suffering from enterprise cafe ‘Parliament on King’ that homelessness and drug addiction provides secure employment, training and development to refugees and asylum seekers Bayside Women’s Shelter in Botany to Project Futures to support 25 women purchase much needed items for their site recovering from sex trafficking experiences supporting women escaping domestic to secure their learner and driver licence violence and abuse Harding Miller Education Foundation to fund scholarships for disadvantaged female Dandelion Support Network Inc to fund students (Years 9–12) who show great ability purchase of prams, cots and other products and potential needed for new families who cannot afford it Gymea Community Aid and Information Full Stop Foundation to support Service to support Planting Positive Seeds, the training of eight counsellors an intergenerational gardening project to in specialised trauma training develop a sustainable community garden within the community precinct 64 1 Sustainability at Insight into working at Supporting art and culture Sydney Airport As Australia’s largest airport and gateway Sydney Airport University of New South Wales into Sydney, a city of artists and cultures, we recognise our role in promoting Australian art. Connecting with passionate future leaders in the aviation industry, this year we gave On 8 August 2018, International Day of the students at the School of Aviation, University World’s Indigenous Peoples we unveiled “United Neytions”, a major public art of New South Wales a behind the scenes tour of Sydney Airport. Twenty-five students project in the T1 International departures 2 were given the opportunity to apply theory in a landmark partnership with the Museum Responsible into practice while touring our baggage of Contemporary Art (MCA). The event handling system before hitting the tarmac included a Welcome to Country by an business for an airfield experience. Aboriginal elder from the La Perouse Aboriginal community and Metropolitan Aboriginal Land GIANTS Care Council alongside traditional entertainment This year was our second year of hosting high and acknowledgements. school students at Sydney Airport as part of the Sydney Airport has a proud history of Giants Care Stand Tall program in partnership 3 supporting some of NSW’s biggest and best with GWS Giants. Thirty students from Al Noori local festivals including Bayside Arts Festival Muslim School were given a behind the scenes and the Sydney Fringe Festival. As a presenting Planning tour of the airport learning about the array partner on the Kids Fringe program, this of jobs needed to run Australia’s busiest airport. year we welcomed Newtown Public School for the future The students were then given the opportunity with an airfield tour to inspire young artists. to ask questions from Sydney Airport CEO The experience enabled students to use Geoff Culbert and other employees about their their creativity to create an artwork inspired career journeys. by flight. Final artworks were displayed at the Kids Teaching Kids Festival Hub for two weeks in September. Entering our third year of supporting Kids Teaching Kids, Sydney Airport gave school 4 Supporting students insights into running a sustainable airport while looking after our natural environment. This included presenting to over our community 100 primary school children on the Sydney Airport Wetlands what we are doing to protect and enhance the wetlands. Students were treated to a behind the scenes airfield and education session onsite to help bring to life 5 their learnings. Image credit: Anna Kucera. Other information Malabar midwives The 2017 Sydney Airport Bid For Good grant was awarded to Malabar Midwifery service and Young Parents Group. Beneficiary impacts throughout 2018: “Without this funding we would not have been “I feel like I’ve got a safe place able to continue our group this year. The program and feel comfortable to talk about supports young Aboriginal families with children anything with no judgements.” from birth to 18 months through a weekly playgroup, Lee, 28 years old allowed us to engage vulnerable families and it Program participant has provided us with more opportunities to deliver relevant universal health services and parenting education. The funding has helped us to cover the cost of providing lunch each week, to take the families on excursions and to purchase culturally appropriate books and toys for the children” “It’s made me feel safer and more Amy Mackenzie, Child & Family Health Nurse independent and more confident Working in partnership with the Malabar Midwifery at home.” Link Service, Royal Hospital for Women & The Andrea, 22 years old Sydney Children’s Hospital Network. Program participant SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 65 Supporting our community Maintaining an environmentally responsible airport New five-year Airport • Ground-based Noise Environment Strategy • Ground Transport • Biodiversity and Conservation Management We have developed our draft five-year • Heritage Airport Environment Strategy which provides a framework for achieving environmental • Waste and Resource Management sustainability, responsible management and • Soil and Land Management compliance. As part of the development • Spills Response and Hazardous Materials of the new strategy we consulted with a range of stakeholders including airport tenants, local, As outlined in our strategy, we take a risk-based state and Federal Government representatives. approach to environmental management and The draft Strategy was submitted to the have an environmental management system Federal Government for approval in February consistent with AS/NZ ISO 14001 Environmental 2019 and has 11 environmental action plans: Management Systems – Requirements with Guidance for Use. We undertook a gap analysis • Sustainability and Environmental Management during the year against the ISO 14001:2015 • Climate Change and Energy Management standard and utilised this work to improve our • Water Management approach. Sydney Airport also updated its Board • Air Quality approved Environment Policy in March 2018. 66 1 Sustainability at Managing noise and air quality The Sydney Airport website (aircraftnoise. sydneyairport.com.au/) provides Sydney For most of the world’s major airports, aircraft Sydney Airport residents with information on future noise noise is a long-standing issue. We acknowledge exposures predicted for their location, as well that aircraft noise disturbs local communities as information on how aircraft noise is managed and are committed to working with government at Sydney Airport. and our airline partners to manage and mitigate this impact, especially in those areas We undertake air quality monitoring within 2 close to the airport and under flight paths. the airport to ensure we better understand Airservices Australia is the government agency local air quality and to inform future planning and strategies. In delivering our Airport Responsible responsible for managing the airspace around Sydney Airport, including the design of flight Environment Strategy, we have installed and commissioned our own air quality monitoring business paths and the management of noise generated from aircraft approaching or departing station on site in 2018. the airport. To date, results of the monitoring have The International Civil Aviation Organisation has indicated that emissions to air associated with set progressively stricter noise standards within airport operations are within acceptable limits; their Standards and Recommended Practices exceedances detected are considered to be due (SARPs) for civil aircraft to reduce the noise impacts airports have on local communities. to other sources in the region such as bushfires and back burning. 3 Planning The large majority of civil aircraft now operating in the global fleet mix falls within World Environment Day for the future Chapters 3 and 4 of the SARPs. All new aircraft manufactured from 2006 onwards must meet the Chapter 4 noise standard. A new Chapter 14 in the SARPs applies to all newly certified larger aircraft on or after 31 December 2017 and for lower weight new aircraft as of 2020. 4 The noise profile of new generation aircraft Supporting is significantly lower than legacy aircraft, with B747 being around twice as loud our community as B787 and A350. 100 Noise level (EPNdb) ~50% 98 reduction in perceived noise 96 94 ~99db 92 ~94db ~90.5db 5 90 For World Environment Day in 2018, we hosted Other B747–400 A380 B787/A350 an event featuring guest speaker Dr Karl Kruszelnicki, best known for his regular science information talkback segment on Triple J and various At Sydney Airport, during 2018: TV series such as the ABC’s Quantum and Sleek Geeks. • 28% of all international passenger flights were on next generation aircraft, up from The presentation was attended by over 25% a year ago 100 Sydney Airport staff and included representatives from Qantas and Department • 92% of all incremental movements have been of Infrastructure, Regional Development and on next generation aircraft. Cities. The event received positive feedback We believe a key component of effective and was promoted through our social airport noise management is communication media channels. and community engagement. We actively In the spirit of World Environment Day, this was participate in a number of community forums also Sydney Airport’s first carbon neutral event, that focus on operations at Sydney Airport certified under the National Carbon Offset and aviation more generally. These include Standard for Events. the Sydney Airport Community Forum which provides advice to Ministers and government authorities on abatement of noise and other related environmental issues. To support the launch of Master Plan 2039, we have established an aircraft noise portal, providing the community with access to aircraft operations into the future and resulting noise impacts. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 67 Supporting our community Reducing waste to landfill During the year we have been working on a range of initiatives to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill, in particular from our retail operations. We have kicked off a trial of recovering organic waste at T1. A number of our tenants have been provided with organics recycling bins, with a 20% reduction of waste to landfill targeted. If the pilot proves successful it will be rolled out to all tenants across all terminals. We will trial the recycling of coffee cups in T2. Customers are able to place their used cups into a dedicated recycling station, with cups then taken to a recycling plant and used to produce wheel stops and speed humps. We have also committed to eradicating plastic straws and single use plastic bags in the terminals by February 2019. Waste generation 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Waste to landfill (tonnes) 2,552 2,369 2,611 2,851 2,733 (excl. quarantine waste) Recycled waste (tonnes) 1,757 1,687 1,799 2,101 2,052 Quarantine landfill waste 1,195 1,268 1,330 1,486 1,704 (tonnes) Total waste (tonnes) 5,504 5,324 5,740 6,438 6,489 Percentage of total waste recycled (excluding 31.9 31.7 31.3 42.4 42.9 quarantine waste) Total waste per passenger 0.194 0.184 0.187 0.2 0.193 (kg) 1 Waste data reported for period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. It includes waste generated at the airport, with the exception of waste generated on aircraft, T3, Qantas premium lounge and car parks. It also excludes construction waste. Recycled waste assumes a post collection recovery rate of 25% from the general waste stream prior to June 2016 and 30% post June 2016. 68 1 Protecting local natural areas Sustainability at and biodiversity Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business 3 Planning for the future Rockdale Wetlands Biodiversity Airport Ecological Assessment Corridor We were very proud to announce a new major During the year we conducted an airport-wide ecological assessment of the terrestrial, 4 Supporting partnership to drive environmental restoration freshwater and marine environments located activities throughout the Rockdale Wetlands within Sydney Airport’s boundaries. The Biodiversity Corridor. The partnership between Airport’s setting provides an important our community Bayside Council, Conservation Volunteers ecological link between Botany Bay and Australia and Sydney Airport will support its contributing catchment areas. The most the restoration of the area which has been biologically diverse areas within the Airport’s identified as a critically important habitat for boundaries are those contained within the the protection of declining flora and fauna Sydney Airport Wetlands and the estuarine 5 species in the local area. and marine habitats within Botany Bay. Over time, this unique wetland has been Other areas of biodiversity value at the airport Other affected by serious environmental degradation include wattle scrub communities on the through littering, green waste dumping and foredunes of Botany Bay, smaller pockets of information weed infestations. Despite this, it has remained native vegetation, estuarine and marine habitat, home to key fish as a breeding habitat, seven grassed verges and seawalls surrounding the Endangered Ecological Communities and runways which also provide habitat for wildlife. 28 fauna species listed as either threatened Less conspicuous areas that provide habitat or migratory in the area. for native fauna include isolated pockets of naturally occurring and planted native The parklands and riparian areas attract vegetation along with man-made areas, which birdwatchers and nature study groups while provide foraging, roosting and nesting habitat also supporting a range of other recreational for a range of resident and migratory species. activities, including extensive cycling tracks, sporting fields, tennis courts and playgrounds used by the community. Protecting our Nationally Significant Wetlands As part of our Wetlands Management Plan, we conducted weed mapping of the Sydney Airport wetlands to establish key weed zones, percentage of weed cover as well as weed species. This mapping exercise will ensure our future conservation efforts remain targeted. We also continued regeneration of vegetation in different environmentally significant areas around the Sydney Airport Wetlands. This program focused on the targeted removal of terrestrial and aquatic weed species. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 69 Other information Performance data 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 HEALTH & SAFETY Lost Time Injuries 1 3 3 3 67 10 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2 Employees 5.5 2.4 3.3 67 9.6 Service providers 3 7.2 6.8 4.7 3.0 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 4 Employees 16.4 9.6 17.6 16.0 7 17.3 Service providers – 19.8 19.9 19.4 8.4 Safety Training Hours – – – – 2,762 Workplace inspection – – – – 94 Passenger Incident Rate 5 1.95 0.96 1.12 0.97 1.03 Aviation safety hours 2,519 6,994 8,780 8,256 8,297 Annual wildlife strikes 6 1.7 1.5 1.8 1.9 1.2 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism rate (%) 2.40 2.00 2.40 2.80 2.13 1 LTI is a work–related injury that results in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day in which the injury or illness occurred. 2 Lost time injuries (LTIs) per one million hours worked, incurred by employees, internal consultants and contractors. 3 Service providers (including cleaning, security, curb side management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing) engaged by Sydney Airport. Reporting frameworks were put into place in 2015, and hence data is not available for previous years. 4 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) represents the number of medical treatment injuries (MTIs) and LTIs per million hours worked. An MTI is a work–related injury or illness that requires treatment by a medical practitioner and does not result in lost time but can result in restriction of work duties, incurred by employees and contractors. 5 Passenger Incident Rate is the number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers. Medical conditions and in–flight medicals are excluded from this rate. 6 Wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements. 7 We have restated 2017 figures due to an LTI reported in March 2018 for an incident that occurred in December 2017. The incident involved a wrist injury to a SYD employee. We have restated employee LTIFR and TRIFR accordingly. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CUSTOMER Customer satisfaction 8 International 3.85/5 3.83/5 3.89/5 4.01/5 4.13/5 Domestic 3.85/5 3.85/5 3.91/5 3.95/5 4.14/5 Ambience International 4.01/5 3.91/5 3.99/5 4.17/5 4.22/5 Domestic 3.99/5 3.98/5 4.06/5 4.11/5 4.14/5 Cleanliness International 4.07/5 4.07/5 4.13/5 4.24/5 4.27/5 Domestic 4.05/5 4.04/5 4.11/5 4.14/5 4.19/5 Wayfinding International 3.81/5 3.85/5 3.82/5 3.97/5 4.12/5 Domestic 3.91/5 3.98/5 4.02/5 4.09/5 4.21/5 8 Passenger ratings provided as part of monthly passenger satisfaction surveys. These ratings are based on the following questions in the survey: “Thinking about your whole experience at Sydney Airport today and taking into account all aspects of your time here, how would you rate your experience at Sydney Airport today?” “How would you rate the following aspects of the terminal today? i) Overall terminal presentation and ambience ii) Cleanliness of the airport terminal iii) Ease of finding your way through the airport”. 2014 and 2015 data represents T2 only. 2016 and 2017 represent a domestic aggregate of T2 and T3 ratings due to the acquisition of T3 in late 2015. 70 1 Sustainability at 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PEOPLE Sydney Airport Employee headcount 348 379 418 441 487 Permanent Full–time 324 348 373 387 435 Part–time Fixed term 14 11 18 26 30 2 Responsible Full–time 8 19 26 24 20 Part–time 2 1 1 4 2 Casual 0 0 0 0 0 business Age 18–34 68 83 96 103 106 35–52 211 224 246 261 297 53–69 69 72 76 77 84 3 Female representation (%) 9 Planning Senior Executive 44.4 40.0 33.3 27.3 30.0 for the future Senior Manager 20.0 35.5 41.4 48.3 44.8 Other Manager – – 35.5 36.5 33.2 Middle Manager 41.4 37.9 – – – Manager 16.7 27.6 – – – Technical 5.1 6.4 8.0 8.1 3.3 Professional 40.4 40.5 42.0 43.2 46.3 4 Administration 88.6 90.6 94.3 92.3 81.9 Supporting Specialist 20.0 25.0 – – – our community Overall 30.8 33.8 36.4 37.9 38.8 Total women in management (%) 26.7 32.8 36.8 38.9 35.4 Gender pay equity ratio 93.6 96.9 94.5 92.2 93.4 New hires (total) 55 86 87 80 106 Internal recruitment (%) – 42.0 39.0 34.4 48.0 New hires by gender (%) 5 Other Female 30.90 48.80 47.10 50.00 45.28 Male 69.10 51.20 52.90 50.00 56.71 New hires by age information 18–34 24 44 38 39 38 35–52 27 41 46 40 50 53–69 4 1 3 1 11 Turnover (%) Voluntary 8.40 11.70 7.70 11.61 9.89 Non–voluntary 4.60 3.20 4.20 1.89 3.96 Training Average hours of training per employee – 9.30 11.87 10.00 14.10 Female training hours – – – – 33.45 Male training hours – – – – 66.55 Parental leave Employees who took parental leave during the year 7 10 10 13 18 Employees returning to work after parental 2 5 3 3 9 leave during the year Parental leave return to work rate (%) 10 100 100 100 96 75 Number of employees taking secondary carer's leave 3 10 16 11 9 9 In 2016 we reassigned categories to align more closely with WGEA reporting. The ‘Middle Manager’ and ‘Manager’ categories have been combined to create an ‘Other Manager’ category. The ‘Specialist’ category has been removed with results divided across a number of other categories. 10 Employees on Parental Leave who were due to return to work during the period, and returned to work. SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 71 Other information 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 COMMUNITY Volunteer hours – – 252.25 162.90 201.65 % of employees participating in payroll giving 0.86 1.85 3.83 3.17 2.66 Community investment ($m) 11 1.484 2.597 3.292 4.948 5.682 11 Calculated and verified in accordance with the LBG AU & NZ framework. For further information breakdown of spend refer to the Supporting Communities section of the report. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ENVIRONMENT (REPORTED FOR PERIOD 1 JULY 2017 TO 30 JUNE 2018) Carbon emissions 12 (tonnes CO2e) 90,449 88,348 85,644 87,888 86,916 Scope 1 13 5,024 5,349 5,746 5,826 5,569 Scope 2 14 85,425 82,999 79,898 82,062 81,347 Emissions intensity (kg CO2 per passenger) 15 3.22 3.05 2.79 2.73 2.59 Total carbon emissions offset through Greenfleet program 430 430 295 295 295 (tonnes CO2e) Energy (GJ) 16 Electricity 353,481 347,439 342,421 351,696 352,831 Stationary natural gas 52,775 64,804 63,422 64,298 68,893 Non–stationary diesel 28,398 24,593 27,316 29,472 20,030 Solar (on site) 943 Other 4,745 4,429 7,944 1,817 5,881 Total energy 439,399 441,265 441,103 447,283 448,578 Waste 17 Waste to landfill (tonnes excluding quarantine) 2,552 2,369 2,611 2,851 2,733 Recycled waste (tonnes) 1,757 1,687 1,799 2,101 2,052 Quarantine landfill waste (tonnes) 1,195 1,268 1,330 1,486 1,704 Total waste (tonnes) 5,504 5,324 5,740 6,438 6,489 Percentage of total waste recycled 31.9 31.7 31.3 42.43 42.88 (excluding quarantine waste from 2017 onwards) Total waste per passenger (kg) 0.194 0.184 0.187 0.2 0.193 Water 18 Potable water consumption (KL) 562,792 671,031 507,211 600,845 465,960 Ground water (KL) 3,822 2,513 2,757 3,964 1,263 Water recycled (KL) 222,330 206,627 209,617 151,272 150,668 Wastewater Treated (KL) 255,770 221,809 230,435 169,192 165,489 Total water use (KL) 788,944 880,171 719,585 756,081 617,891 Percentage of total water recycled 19 28.2 23.5 29.1 20.0 24.4 Water use per passenger (L) 27.87 30.39 23.46 23.52 18.40 Noise Ground running noise complaints 13 11 5 4 10 Breaches of the Aircraft Engine Operating Procedures 0 0 1 0 12 Environmental spills Large spills (greater than 100m2) 5 3 4 1 4 12 Carbon emissions calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes emissions from tenants and T3. 13 Scope 1 emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Excludes biogenic CO2 emissions. 14 Scope 2 emissions include CO2 emissions. 15 Emissions Intensity includes Scope 1 (CO2, CH4, and N2O) and Scope 2 (CO2) emissions. Passenger numbers exclude T3. 16 Energy usage and sources calculated in accordance with the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2013. Excludes energy usage by tenants an T3. 17 Includes waste generated at the airport, with the exception of waste generated on aircraft, T3, Qantas premium lounge and car parks. It also excludes construction waste. Recycled waste assumes a post collection recovery rate of 25% from the general waste stream prior to June 2016 and 30% post June 2016. 18 Water usage excludes T3. 19 Water recycled dropped in FY17 due to recycling water plant being closed for a number of months due to upgrade works, as well as climatic conditions. 72 Support for the SDGs 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport SDG GOAL SYD COMMITMENT SPECIFIC SDG TARGETS We are committed to supporting Target 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality our people and the surrounding from non-communicable diseases through prevention and community to live healthy lives treatment and promote mental health and wellbeing and maintain wellbeing 2 Responsible We are committed to providing Target 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number equal access to training that of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including business supports the development technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent of our people. Through our jobs and entrepreneurship community programs we Target 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in support the development of education and ensure equal access to all levels of education young people, in particular and vocational training for the vulnerable, including disadvantaged and minority persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children groups in vulnerable situations 3 Planning We are playing a role in ensuring Target 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women women across the airport and and girls everywhere for the future surrounding communities are Target 5.2 Eliminate all forms of violence against all women afforded the same opportunities and girls in the public and private spheres, including as men trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation Target 5.4 Recognise and value unpaid and domestic work through the provision of public services, infrastructure and social protection policies and the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family 4 Supporting as nationally appropriate our community We are committed to minimising Target 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use potable water use by using efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable alternative and recycled water withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water sources where appropriate. scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people As we target sustainable suffering from water scarcity growth of our airport, we work towards minimising impact of our growing operations and 5 Other construction on water quality in water bodies adjacent information to the airport We are working towards Target 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share adopting energy efficiency of renewable energy in the global energy mix and low carbon energy supply Target 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement alternatives in our airport in energy efficiency development decision making We are working across our value Target 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity chain to ensure human rights through diversification, technological upgrading and across the airport are respected innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value Target 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training Target 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environment for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 73 Other information SDG GOAL SYD COMMITMENT SPECIFIC SDG TARGETS We are committed to Target 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and operational resilience and resilient infrastructure, including regional and trans-border efficiency. We drive a significant infrastructure, to support economic development and human contribution to the local, well-being with a focus on affordable and equitable access regional and national economy for all We are committed to Target 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, supporting equality for all economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, and promoting a diverse sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic and inclusive workplace or other status Target 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcomes, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and action in this regard We are providing and Target 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, contributing to safe and accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, sustainable transport systems improving road safety, notable by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons We are committed to Target 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management operating the airport and efficient use of natural resources sustainably and reducing Target 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at our environmental footprint the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses Target 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their lifecycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human health and the environment Target 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse We are building resilience in our Target 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to assets and transitioning to a low climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries carbon future Target 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity around climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning 74 GRI Index 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION SYDNEY AIRPORT DISCLOSURE/REFERENCE GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES VERSION: 2016 1. Organisational Profile 102-01 Name of the organisation Sydney Airport Limited (SYD) 2 Responsible 102-02 Activities, brands, products, SYD manages landside and airside operations of the Sydney and services (Kingsford Smith) Airport. SYD’s services and operations are business segmented into four business units: 1. Aeronautical services: responsible for all aspects of the business associated with aviation operations, activity and revenue, security, safety, sustainability and environment. 2. Retail: responsible for the retail, food and dining portfolio across SYD, including leasing, marketing, brand space and advertising. 3. Property, car rental and hotels: responsible for the 3 development, leasing and day to day management of SYD Planning commercial assets located within terminals, the airfield, landside areas and hotels. for the future 4. Landside operations and transport: responsible for all of SYD’s landside ground transport operations including car parking and commercial transport operators including buses, taxis, hire cars and rideshare. 102-03 Location of headquarters 10 Arrivals Court, Mascot, NSW, Australia 102-04 Location of operations Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport, Mascot, NSW, Australia 4 Supporting 102-05 Ownership and legal form Sydney Airport Limited is the ultimate 100% parent company of Sydney Airport Corporation Limited, the operator of Sydney our community (Kingsford Smith) Airport. 102-06 Markets served All of SYD's operations and services take place at Kingsford Smith Airport. Our key customers are the 44 million passengers moving through our terminals. See 2018 Annual Report, Our Network for a breakdown of the regional brekadown of passengers. 102-07 Scale of the organisation Total employees: 487 5 Other Detailed information on number of operations, quantity of services and financial scale of our business can be found in: information • 2018 Annual Report, Our Network and Financial Performance. • 2018 Financial Report. 102-08 Information on employees and All our workforce is employed in Australia. See workforce other workers statistics in Responsible business: Looking after and developing our people. Workforce statistics are compiled from our payroll functions and systems, cover only staff directly employed by SYD, and are reported as at 31 December 2018. Independent assurance is provided over overall female representation. 102-09 Description of the SYD’s major suppliers include those that support the airport’s organisation's supply chain infrastructure development. deliver services to and support maintenance of airport facilities. In 2018, SYD’s main supplier categories by spend related to services as per the below categories: 1. construction services 2. security services 3. facilities and asset maintenance services 4. civil & asphalt works 5. utilities (electricity, gas and water). SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 75 Other information GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION SYDNEY AIRPORT DISCLOSURE/REFERENCE 102-10 Significant changes There have not been any significant changes in the financial to the organisation structure of SYD nor its business units. and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle The precautionary principle is reflected in Sydney Airport's or approach approach to risk management. Refer to the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement for further information 102-12 External initiatives Benchmarking our performance 102-13 Membership of associations Current main memberships across the company: Airport Councils International ANZ Airports ICT Forum ANZLF Forum 2018 (Australia-New Zealand Leadership Forum 2018) Asia Pacific Travel Retail Association Asia Society Australasian Investor Relations Association (AIRA) Australia Arab Chamber of Commerce Australia China Business Council Australia Indonesia Association Australia Indonesia Business Council Ltd Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce Australia Tourism Export Council (ATEC) Australian Airports Association Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) Australian Logistics Council Botany Bay Business Enterprise Centre Business Council of Australia Business Events Sydney CAPA – Centre for Aviation CEDA – Committee for the Economic Development of Australia Committee for Sydney Diversity Council of Australia (DCA) Financial Executives Institute (FEI) Green Building Council of Australia Infrastructure Partnerships Australia LBG Corporate Citizenship (VCCP) NSW Business Chamber (Sydney & Metro Business Forum) NSW Business Chamber (Sydney First) Outdoor Media Association Parking Australia Property Council of Australia (NSW Company membership Regional Aviation Association of Australia (RAAA) Sydney Roundtable strategic partnership Tourism and Transport Forum Australia (TTF) 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Chairman and CEO message decision-maker 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Responsible Business: Looking after and developing our people and norms of behavior Further information on our website Responsible Business: Operating ethically and with integrity 76 1 Sustainability at GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION SYDNEY AIRPORT DISCLOSURE/REFERENCE Sydney Airport 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure See the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement for our overall organisational governance structure. We have also developed a Sustainability Governance Structure, details of which are included in the Sustainability Governance Framework. 2 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engagement with Stakeholders Responsible 102-41 Collective bargaining In 2018 39.6% of our workforce was covered by an enterprise business agreements agreement. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Identifying and selecting our stakeholders was key to our stakeholders development of Master Plan 2039. We assessed throughout our organisation those groups that would be affected by our operations now and under our Master Plan 2039; as well as those 3 stakeholders in the position to influence our decision making Planning process and our ability to deliver on our objectives. The list of identified stakeholders can be found in section Engagement for the future with Stakeholders within our Sustainability Report. For additional information on the inclusion of stakeholder interests in our materiality assessment: Focusing on the issues that matter. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Engagement with Stakeholders engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Engagement with Stakeholders 4 Supporting 6. Reporting practice our community 102-45 Entities included in the 2018 Annual Report, 2018 Financial Report. consolidated financial Reporting scope in the Sustainability Report is in line with the statements Annual Report and financial statements. 102-46 Process for defining the Focusing on the issues that matter. report content and the topic boundaries We have defined the reporting boundary throughout our Sustainability Report as well as in our Sustainability Performance 5 Table to cover only those areas of our business under direct operational control. This approach is in line with SYD’s Other financial reporting. information 102-47 List of material topics Focusing on the issues that matter. 102-48 Restatements of information We have restated the following data from what was reported in the 2017 Sustainability Report: • 2017 Lost Time Injuries due to an LTI reported in March 2018 for an employee incident dated December 2017. As a result we have also restated employee LTIFR and TRIFR accordingly. • 2017 Aircraft movements • Prior years’ customer satisfaction score for Wayfinding in T1. Restatements have been footnoted accordingly where applicable. 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes have occurred with significant effect on our reporting practices. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, with the exception of environmental datasets (energy, emissions, waste, water and noise) which are reported for 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, in line with Sydney Airport’s other external environmental reporting. 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 Sustainability Report, published in February 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 77 Other information GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION SYDNEY AIRPORT DISCLOSURE/REFERENCE 102-53 Contact point for questions We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and regarding the report performance. Please email us at sustainability@syd.com.au. 102-54 Claims of reporting in About this report accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance The assurance statement has been included in this report. TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Safety; Security; Health and Wellbeing 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Safety and wellbeing of all airport users of the management approach 403-9 2018 Work-related injuries Responsible Business: Safety and wellbeing of all aiport users Performance data Operational efficiency and business continuous improvements; Business continuity and resilience; Climate change resilience 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Climate change resilience of the management approach Responsible business: Building operational resilience Planning for the future 305-1/2 2016 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Responsible Business: Climate change resilience emissions, Energy indirect Performance data (Scope 2) GHG emissions Fair and ethical business operations; Cyber security; Human Rights 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Building operational resilience of the management approach Responsible business: Operating ethically and with integrity Planning for the future: Delivering better outcomes for our customers Own Percentage of total third party Responsible Business: Operating ethically and with integrity indicator service providers screened against Sydney Airport's Code of Conduct Diversity and inclusion; Employee attraction and retention 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Continuing to support a diverse workforce of the management approach Responsible business: Looking after and developing our people 404-1 2016 Average hours of training per Performance data employee 405-1 2016 Diversity of governance Performance data bodies and employees 78 1 Sustainability at GRI REFERENCE DESCRIPTION SYDNEY AIRPORT DISCLOSURE/REFERENCE Sydney Airport Sustainable procurement 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and 2 its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Safety and wellbeing of all airport users of the management approach Responsible business: Operating ethically and with integrity Own Percentage of total third party Responsible Business: Operating ethically and with integrity Responsible indicator service providers screened business against Sydney Airport's Code of Conduct Access to and from the airport; Customer experience; Capacity 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The management approach and Focusing on the issues that matter 3 Planning for the future Planning its components. Evaluation of the management approach for the future Own Estimated increase in road Planning for the future: Increasing and supporting indicator network capacity during busy landside efficiency morning period Own Customer satisfaction Planning for the future: Delivering better outcomes for indicator our customers Aircraft noise; Environmental management 4 Supporting 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter our community management approach and its components. Evaluation Supporting our communities: Maintaining an environmentally of the management approach responsible airport Supporting our communities: Reducing waste to landfill Supporting our communities: Protecting local natural areas and biodiversity 5 303-5 2016 Water consumption Performance data Other information Own Waste to landfill, quarantine Supporting our communities: Reducing waste to landfill indicator waste to landfill, recycled Performance data waste Own Ground running noise Performance data indicator complaints Community investment and engagement 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material 2019–2021 Sustainability Commitments topic and its boundary. The Focusing on the issues that matter management approach and its components. Evaluation Responsible business: Continuing to support a diverse workforce of the management approach Supporting our communities: Building relationships and supporting community resilience Own Community investment Supporting our communities: Building relationships and indicator supporting community resilience Performance data SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 79 Other information Engaging with stakeholders METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS AIRPORT USERS – PASSENGERS • Monthly passenger satisfaction surveys • Service quality • Quarterly internationally benchmarked passenger • Terminal ambience and presentation satisfaction surveys • Passenger and staff processing • Ongoing tracking and analysis of customer • Passenger experience feedback through all channels including social • Safety and security media and website • Wayfinding • Competitions requesting ideas for improvement • Services and amenities • Real-time reportable notification system for service requests • Accessibility to airport • Radio and print advertising • Provision of services and facilities for people with special needs • Connections (our quarterly newsletter) AIRPORT BUSINESS PARTNERS AND AIRLINES • Monthly airline operators committee • Airline engagement • Quarterly Industry Consultative Forum • Service quality and value • Ongoing airline satisfaction surveys • Passenger experience • Bi-annual joint passenger facilitation meetings • Safety and security • Quarterly Common Use Terminal Equipment • Efficiency User Board • Allocation of assets • Quarterly Airport Emergency Committee • Team responsiveness and availability • Daily communications as part of operational • Consultation management • Understanding product and brand requirements • Real-time reportable notification system for • Operational effectiveness and responsiveness service requests • Preventative and reactive maintenance • Ramp Safety Committee • Future growth of the airport • Baggage Handling Forum • Regular operations bulletins BORDER AGENCIES • Daily communications as part of operational • Forecast passenger numbers (from daily to five management week look ahead) • Weekly planning and facilitation management • Operational planning and staff rostering review arrangements • Bi-annual border agency operational and customer • Planning and status of project implementations focus area review (e.g. deployment of automated SmartGates) • Ongoing strategic airport management meetings • Anticipated operational challenges, expected impacts and contingency plans in place • Industrial action management plans • Passenger feedback 80 1 Sustainability at Sydney Airport METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS RETAIL BUSINESS PARTNERS • Daily communication as part of retail • Service quality to the passenger operations management • Retailer meetings and reviews on a regular basis • • Service quality business to business Terminal presentation 2 Responsible at store level • Passenger experience • At least quarterly meetings with key retail accounts • Safety and security business • Quarterly food safety testing for all food and • Product offering including product pricing, beverage retailers choice and value • Quarterly price comparison audits against Sydney • Forward product opportunities CBD prices • Services and amenities • Retailer presentations three times a year • Monthly retail customer experience scorecard prepared for each terminal and distributed 3 to retailers • Ongoing tracking and analysis of customer Planning feedback through all channels including social for the future media, Chinese social media via WeChat and website EMPLOYEES • Consultative groups as required • Developing capability • Six-weekly Workplace Health and Safety • Health and wellbeing 4 Committee Supporting • Safety and security • Staff newsletter, bulletins and staff briefings • Employee engagement • Rebranded user-friendly intranet • Reward and recognition our community • Service Star and employee recognition program • Information sharing • Performance reviews • Career opportunities • Diversity and inclusion working group • Improving diversity • Learning and development working group • Leadership and management program • CEO roundtables 5 COMMUNITY AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT Other • Quarterly Sydney Airport Community Forum • Aircraft noise impacts and implementation of the information • Half-yearly Planning Coordination Forum Australian Government’s noise sharing policy • Annual community update in local newspapers • Upgrades to the on and off airport road network • As needed letterbox flyers • Improvements to public transport and active transport access • Ongoing local council briefings • Planning and development in areas around the • Sentiment survey airport that could affect airport operations • Partnerships with local councils, charities and • Protection of Sydney Airport’s prescribed airspace community organisations • New air services to Sydney • Master Plan consultation and Major Development Plan (MDP) consultation • Investing in the community • Connections newsletter (our quarterly newsletter) SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 81 Other information METHOD AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES OF KEY INTEREST AREAS INVESTORS • Annual General Meeting • Corporate strategy • Bi-annual financial results announcements • Financial performance • Investor roadshows, meetings and conferences • Risk management • ASX releases including monthly traffic statistics • Operational performance • Website (with a focused investor section) • Growth opportunities • Investor days • Traffic growth • Stakeholder/investor emails and webcasts • Capacity and investment • Investor presentations and fact sheets • Corporate responsibility and sustainability performance TOURISM BODIES, INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS AND ADVOCATES • Regular meetings • Growth in passenger volumes to and from Sydney • Attendance at relevant overseas delegations • Expansion in air freight to and from Sydney • Ongoing participation in tourism events and and NSW partnerships as part of a collaborative effort • Sustainable growth in aviation to attract airline services and visitors to Sydney NSW AND AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENTS AND AGENCIES • Regular meetings and briefings with relevant • Upgrades to the on and off airport road network agencies and elected representatives • Improvements to public transport and active • Daily communication with airport business partners transport access • National Airports Safeguarding Framework • Removing impediments to tourism, e.g. high visa costs, slow visa processing times, passenger movement changes • Planning and development in areas around the airport that could affect airport operations • Protection of Sydney Airport’s prescribed airspace • Growth in visitation to Sydney • Airfield operations and security MEDIA • Regular briefings • Financial performance • Airport tours • Growth strategy • Media releases • Operational issues • Proactive outreach • Corporate responsibility, in particular community • Responses to specific requests engagement • Airport access and 24-hour on-call media phone • Tourism growth • Media events and press conference • Investment in road, terminal and airfield • Airport regulations REGULATORS • Regular and ongoing meetings with relevant • Adequacy and quality of airport investments organisations, including the Department to meet demand and customer expectations of Infrastructure, Regional Development and • Airport prices, return on capital and service quality Cities, Civil Aviation Safety Authority, Airport • Airport processes regarding passenger and staff Coordination Australia, WorkCover, Aviation safety and security and Maritime Security (AMS), Productivity Commission and the Australian Competition • Airport operational regulations and requirements and Consumer Commission 82 Independent Limited Assurance 1 Report to the Directors of Sydney Sustainability at Airport Limited Sydney Airport 2 Responsible business Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material misstatements in the Selected Sustainability Information, which have been prepared by Sydney Airport Limited in accordance with the criteria as defined and described by management in the 3 Planning Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2018. for the future Information subject to assurance The Selected Sustainability Information, as presented in Sydney Airport Limited’s (‘SYD’) Sustainability Report 2018 and available on SYD’s website, comprised the following: SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the period 1 July 2017 VALUE ASSURED 86,916 4 Supporting to 30 June 2018 (CO2e) 1 Passenger satisfaction score 2018 – International 4.13 our community Passenger satisfaction score 2018 – Domestic T2/T3 (in aggregate) 4.14 Female representation overall (%) 38.8 Waste to landfill (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 1 2,733 Recycled waste (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 1 2,052 Quarantine waste (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 1 1,704 5 Other Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for SYD employees 9.6 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) for SYD employees 17.3 1 Excludes T3, refer to footnotes in Performance Data section. information Criteria used as the basis of reporting The criteria used in relation to the Sustainability Report content are SYD’s policies, procedures and methodologies as disclosed in the 2018 Sustainability Report. Basis for conclusion We conducted our work in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 (Standard). In accordance with the Standard we have: • used our professional judgement to plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance that we are not aware of any material misstatements in the selected sustainability information, whether due to fraud or error; • considered relevant internal controls when designing our assurance procedures, however we do not express a conclusion on their effectiveness; and • ensured that the engagement team possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and professional competencies. Summary of procedures performed Our limited assurance conclusion is based on the evidence obtained from performing the following procedures: • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel, and review of selected documentation; SYDNEY AIRPORT | 2018 Sustainability Report 83 Other information • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel to understand the internal controls, governance structure and reporting process of the Selected Sustainability Information; • reviews of corporate documents concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business; • interviews with relevant staff at corporate level and service organisations engaged by Sydney Airport responsible for providing the information in the Sustainability Report; • analytical procedures over the Selected Sustainability Information; • agreement of a sample of Selected Sustainability Information to source documentation; • evaluating the appropriateness of the criteria with respect to the Selected Sustainability Information; and • reviewed the Sustainability Report in its entirety to ensure it is consistent with our overall knowledge based on the work undertaken during our limited assurance engagement. How the Standard defines limited assurance and material misstatement The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Misstatements, including omissions, are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence relevant decisions of the intended users taken on the basis of the Sustainability Report or the Selected Sustainability Information. Use of this Assurance Report This report has been prepared for the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited for the purpose of providing an assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Report and the Selected Sustainability Information and may not be suitable for another purpose. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report, to any person other than the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited, or for any other purpose than that for which it was prepared. Directors’ responsibility The Directors are responsible for: • determining that the criteria is appropriate to meet their needs; • preparing and presenting the Sustainability Report and the Selected Sustainability Information in accordance with the criteria; and • establishing internal controls that enable the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report and the Selected Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and maintaining integrity of the website. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement in relation to the Sustainability Report and Selected Sustainability Information for the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, and to issue an assurance report that includes our conclusion. Our independence and quality control We have complied with our independence and other relevant ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the Australian Professional and Ethical Standards Board, and complied with the applicable requirements of Australian Standard on Quality Control 1 to maintain a comprehensive system of quality control. KPMG Sydney 20 February 2019 84 sydneyairport.com.au
