CEO STATEMENT For more than 50 years, Nets has contributed to the digitisation in the Nordics. The positive effects of digitisation are manifold, examples of which include increased efficiency of digital processes aiding citizens, businesses and governments in their everyday lives and routines which again reduces societal costs significantly. However, we also recognise the potential challenges digitisation could bring. Digital products and solutions put demands on the end user, and not all groups in society benefit equally from digitisation. It is our responsibility to ensure digital inclusion by involving rights holders and helping to advance digital capabilities and skills. Nets sits at the centre of the digital payment ecosystem. We operate across the entire payment value chain, from payment capture and authorisation through to processing, clearing and settlement. We invest in, operate and maintain a world-class infrastructure for our stakeholders, enabling them able to serve their customer in the best possible way. As a provider of critical infrastructure, especially in the Nordics, we recognise the immense responsibilities this entails. Security, stability and high performance are thus top priorities for our business. At the same time, the digital payments industry is evolving at an unprecedented pace, undergoing heavy consolidation globally. While the need to be agile and innovative plays a pivotal role for Nets, it must never be at the expense of data security or privacy. The handling and protection of customer and consumer data is critical for us, and we are continuously committed to combating fraud, protecting digital identities and pre-empting cyberattacks. We work continuously to earn the trust of our many stakeholders and the public, aiming to make corporate social responsibility an integral part of the daily running of our business. In 2018, we became signatory to the UN Global Compact, and our commitment to acting responsibly in line with these principles is one we take seriously. The 10 principles guide our work and have aided us in focusing on thematic areas within which we are able to add the most value while also being mindful of the need to keep our house in order. Among our 2018 achievements were the implementation of a new CSR governance setup anchored with top management, and the review and update of our CSR Policy Framework and individual policies. It is our ambition to continuously develop our CSR strategy to create shared value and strengthen our positive impact on society. In 2019, I look forward to enhancing our CSR framework, engaging with key stakeholders and embedding sustainability into our core business to ensure we keep fulfilling our customer promise and our commitment to society. Sustainability is an ongoing journey, and our goal is to continuously learn from our experience. Sincerely, Bo Nilsson 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility This statutory statement on corporate social responsibility, cf. sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, forms part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report 2018 for Nets A/S and covers the financial period 1 January – 31 December 2018. Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Table of contents Our business model 3 Key CSR-related risks pertaining to our business model 4 Corporate Social Responsibility at Nets 5 We operate a considerable number of services that are critical to several national payment infrastructures. This makes security, stability and high performance top priorities for our business. 2/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Business model: added services. Nets operates across the entire payment value chain, from payment capture and invoice solutions, are offered in close co-operation with financial institutions, as are solutions Towards an authorisation through to processing, clearing such as card payments and the national and settlement. e-identity schemes NemID and BankID in Denmark and Norway respectively. In Denmark, we easier tomorrow We enable digital payments across all major own some of our key services, such as Dankort channels – in brick-and-mortar stores, e-comand Betalingsservice. In Norway, we operate merce or via a mobile device. We offer merchant similar services on behalf of and in close co-opacquiring solutions, point-of-sale terminals and eration with our customers – these services e-commerce directly to merchants, while servicinclude invoice solutions, direct debit payments We create value for our stakeholders by delivering payments es delivered to enterprises, such as direct debit and BankAxept card payments. and digital services that are used by hundreds of thousands of merchants, financial institutions and enterprises, allowing our customers to service millions of consumers across the Nordic and Baltic regions and, increasingly, in Southern and Eastern Europe. We see easier products and solutions as the foundation Nets provides for growth and progress – both in commerce and in society. a frictionless payment experience Whether it’s for buying groceries, paying bills that are critical to several national payment online or dealing with public authorities, online infrastructures, such as domestic debit card services offer greater convenience and free up schemes, clearing systems, e-identity schemes time in people’s everyday lives. Nets’ products and payment platforms. Security, stability and and services are integrated parts of everyday high performance are thus top priorities for our life for the majority of the Nordic population. business. We provide a frictionless payment experience, among other facilities, to our customers and As a leading provider of digital payment services their end-users. Yet the reality behind this and related technology solutions across the seemingly simple exchange of services is a Nordic and Baltic regions and, increasingly, in complex web of processes, initiated by a digital Southern and Eastern Europe, Nets sits at the transaction such as a payment, an authenticacentre of the digital payment ecosystem. We tion or a digital login. operate a deeply entrenched network which connects merchants, financial institutions, This means that we invest in, maintain and enterprises and consumers, enabling them to operate a considerable number of services make and receive payments and use value3/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Key CSR-related risks pertaining to our business model Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 5) community involvement 6) equal opportuThe following statutory assessment of CSRnities for both genders. Each of these areas is related risks pertaining to our business model, closely followed by Management at Nets. cf. sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, comprises risks that are not conPotential impact sidered to be among our top risks. A description A materialisation of CSR-related risks could reof our business model can be found on page 3. sult in a loss of customers and market share. The corporate brand and reputation could also be Description weakened through bad publicity related to CSR. Nets’ primary corporate social responsibility is to help ensure that modern societies function Selected initiatives in 2018: in a safe, easy and efficient manner within the 1. A review and update of Nets’ CSR Policy broad area of digital payments, for the benefit Framework and individual policies. of citizens and businesses alike. Data security 2. The implementation of a new CSR govern3. Risk-resilient products and services to avoid and privacy are essential for our handling of ance setup at Nets anchored with top mansecurity breaches and protect consumer and customer and consumer data, and it is critical agement. customer data. how this data is protected. To bolster customer 3. Nets becoming a signatory of the United 4. A Supplier Code that specifies Nets’ manconfidence and instil customer trust, Nets must Nations Global Compact. datory requirements towards suppliers and be committed to protecting consumer and cusbusiness partners. tomer privacy. We detail our position on security Mitigants: 5. A whistleblower policy and customer privacy in our security framework 1. A strong commitment from top management (https://nets.whistleblowernetwork.net). and our ethical guidelines. through the CSR policy. A specific whistleblower channel for Nets is 2. A continuous focus on security awareness in place through which serious issues can be In addition, Nets has decided to base its specific training of all employees through continuous reported to the Board of Directors conficorporate responsibility activities on 1) human nano learning lessons covering central secudentially. The investigation of any reported rights 2) climate and environment 3) workplace rity aspects. incident will be undertaken by the Audit Comresponsibility 4) anti-corruption and bribery mittee and the external law firm LIND. 4/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Corporate Social Responsibility at Nets Nets’ products and services are integrated parts CSR at Nets is anchored with the Board of of the daily lives of the majority of the Nordic Directors and our Executive Committee, which population, not least in Denmark and Norway. To have appointed a CSR Steering Committee our customers and their end-users, we provide consisting of the leading employees for the a frictionless payment experience, among other respective CSR areas and policies. The CSR facilities, while the reality behind this seemingly Steering Committee is responsible for overseesimple exchange of services is a complex web ing the implementation of Nets’ CSR strategy of processes initiated by a digital transaction across all our locations, while the Public Affairs such as a payment, an authentication or a digital & CSR department, in close cooperation with HR, login. Due to our presence throughout the Legal, Facility Management, and Procurement, Nordic payments ecosystem and through our is responsible for the daily operation of our CSR services within digital identity and information activities. The CSR framework at Nets is based services, we have a central role in the digitisaon our overarching CSR Policy, which defines tion of the Nordic societies and the appertaining our approach to CSR: need for security and stability that is fundamenhttps://investor.nets.eu/corporate-governance/csr-policy tal for the payments infrastructure. In 2018, we In 2018, we revisited our overall CSR approach established a new We see easier products and solutions as the and, with the above-mentioned CSR committee, foundation for growth and progress – both in established a new governance structure to ensure governance structure to commerce and in society. We recognise and top management’s direct involvement in and ensure top management’s respect the social and environmental impact we ownership of our CSR agenda. The CSR Steering direct involvement in have on each of the communities in which we Committee has commissioned a review of all CSRand ownership of our operate, and we work continuously to earn the related policies at Nets, to be finalised in 2019. trust of our many stakeholders and the public, CSR agenda. aiming to make corporate social responsibilIn October 2018, Nets Holding A/S became a ity an integral part of the daily running of our signatory to the UN Global Compact, reflecting business. our ongoing support of the Ten Principles on 5/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents human rights, labour, environment and anto page 4. Our business model is described on ti-corruption: https://www.unglobalcompact. page 3 and also forms part of the Annual Report Nets’ core values in action: org/what-is-gc/participants/134182-Nets-Hold2018 for Nets A/S, available on nets.eu. ing-A-S Accountable Customer Driven Together We have thus committed ourselves to making 1 • I take ownership of the • W e all proactively engage • W e trust and expect to the Global Compact and its principles part of our Human Rights entire process and outcome with customers be trusted strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and Our approach to human rights is firmly based on • I take responsibility and • We go the extra mile for • We involve and share to engage in collaborative projects that advance our three core values, Accountable, Customer Drivdon’t push problems around great customer experiences across teams the broader development goals of the UN. en and Together (ACT), and our Ethical Guidelines. • I treat everyone with • Be commercial, reliable and • We provide and use respect keep promises feedback to improve Based on the principles of the UN Global ComOur Ethical Guidelines pact, we have defined CSR activities within the In addition to our values, we have a set of ethical following six CSR themes: guidelines that are mandatory for all employees to comply with. The Ethical Guidelines consist 1 Human Rights of five core principles and provide employees the UN’s Declaration on Human Rights and the be an attractive workplace for all current and with details about how our values apply in the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles future employees, and we aim to offer employ2 Climate and Environment workplace. The Ethical Guidelines are available and Rights at Work. The policy can be accessed ment on an equal basis, ensuring that all our on our website: https://www.nets.eu/ on Nets’ website: https://www.nets.eu/ colleagues have equal opportunities for further3 Workplace Responsibility SiteCollectionDocuments/Nets-EthicalSiteCollectionDocuments/Nets-Policy-oning their careers and securing management or Guidelines.pdf Human-and-Labour-Rights.pdf specialist roles in the company, regardless of 4 Anti-Corruption and Bribery their nationality, ethnicity, disability, age, gender, Human and labour rights The policy covers key issues of importance sexual orientation, religion, or belief. 5 Community Involvement As a Nordic employer operating in a highly regto Nets and our employees and applies to all ulated private sector labour market, we comply wholly-owned subsidiaries and all employees in At year-end 2018, we employed people of nine 6  Equal Opportunities for with the rules and regulations of the countries those companies. different nationalities, which was the same as both Genders in which we operate. We respect the rights of all at year-end in 2017. Our ambition is to access workers to form and join a trade union of their The policy covers items such as non-discrimthe global talent pool within areas such as inforchoice without any fear of intimidation or reprisination, forced compulsory labour, freedom of mation technology and software development, We recognise that a key requirement for al, in accordance with national law. In Denmark, association and the right to collective bargaining, and we expect an increase in international hires participation in the UN Global Compact is the Norway, Finland and Sweden, we cooperate as well as harassment, minimum wage and going forward. submission of a Communication on Progress with different employers’ organisations and working hours, many of which are also touched (COP) that describes our efforts to implement trade unions. Employees are covered by collecupon in our Ethical Guidelines. For our Diversity Policy, please refer to the the principles. Going forward, we will submit a tive agreements in the respective countries. section under the heading ‘Equal opportunities COP for Nets Holding A/S on an annual basis. Diversity for both genders, cf. section 99b of the Danish In line with our values, ethical guidelines and We recognise a diverse workforce as a prerequiFinancial Statements Act on the underrepreFor corporate social responsibility-related risks collective agreements, we have defined a Policy site for a sound and sustainable company, able sented gender’ on page 12. pertaining to our business model, please refer on Human and Labour Rights that is based on to tap into the entire talent pool. We aspire to 6/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents to human and labour rights in accordance In terms of supply chain management, we have Nets’ Ethical Guidelines with international standards such as the UN a list of preferred suppliers with whom we have Nets has a set of ethical guidelines consisting of five core principles Global Compact, ensure a work environment close business relationships. The list is divided free from discrimination, uphold safe working into several categories such as human resourcconditions, and much more es, marketing, travel, professional services, Principle Description • Environmental impact: Suppliers to Nets must hardware, network and telecoms and terminals. Trust Trust is the foundation for our business. Our good name and image adhere to environmental legislation, actively are built on trust – a trust which is built on continuous and recognised consider international standards, engage in stability and security. Confidentiality and integrity are always paraminimising the negative environmental impact of 2 mount in our handling of customer data and information. their business, and promote internal awareness Climate and Environment • Documentation: Suppliers to Nets must mainAt Nets, we aim to run our business in an environLegal Compliance We comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to Nets’ tain records to demonstrate compliance with mentally conscious way. We support a preventaand Business business – and we expect the same from our business partners and the Code and allow Nets to conduct audits to tive approach to environmental challenges and Ethics suppliers. Nets is only engaged in business that is in accordance with document compliance we are committed to being an environmentally our own standards of business ethics. • Non-compliance: Nets may terminate the busiconscious service provider and business partner, ness relationship in case of non-compliance working strategically and systematically based on Diversity In accordance with our values, we esteem diversity and appreciate good practice towards minimising our environdifferences. We believe that diversity at our workplace is key to innoOur Supplier Code is included in all agreements mental impact at every level of our organisation. vation and consider it a strength. between suppliers and Nets, and in cases where Respect We treat one another with respect and courtesy in every commercial specific issues arise that require documentation, We have an Environmental Policy for Nets, with and personal interaction. we work closely with our suppliers to handle which all employees are required to comply. these. When initiating discussions with potential The policy is available on our website (https:// Ethics We expect our employees to embody high ethical standards in all their suppliers and subcontractors, we are focused www.nets.eu/SiteCollectionDocuments/ actions. on their past track records, production facilities, Nets-Environmental-Policy.pdf) and is based on working environment, use of materials, etc. the following five principles: Our suppliers and business partners The Supplier Code consists of the following Compliance with our Supplier Code is a pre• C omply with all environmental laws and other Operating in an international context, we are elements: requisite for initiating or continuing a business applicable requirements in the countries in fully committed to complying with legislation relationship with us, and we select suppliers not which we operate and recognised international business stand• L egal requirements for sound business only based on economic criteria and the ability • Prevent pollution and minimise the impact ards that apply to our field of work. Furtherconduct: Suppliers to Nets must adhere to all to deliver the required services in a professionof Nets’ core business and operations on the more, we consider it our responsibility to ensure legal requirements, rules and regulation, real manner, but also on the ability to meet the environment sound business practices throughout our value frain from accepting or making offers that are principles of our Supplier Code. • Incorporate environmental considerations in chain. In the light of this commitment, we have not commercially or morally justifiable, refrain business activities, when appropriate developed a Supplier Code that sets out our refrom participating in corruption, and notify In 2019, we plan to implement a process in • Prioritise environmental efforts to ensure that quirements towards our suppliers and business Nets in cases of conflict with the Code which we will ask suppliers who have signed resources are used in the most effective way partners: https://www.nets.eu/SiteCollection• Employees and workplace: Suppliers to our Supplier Code to document and self-assess • Commit to seeking higher standards through Documents/Nets-Supplier-Code.pdf. Nets must demonstrate their commitment their CSR efforts. continuous improvement 7/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Nets’ Environmental Management System Overall, we continuously work to improve our processes for the Reducing CO2 emissions from travel between locations Assisted by Bureau Veritas, we have established an Environmenregistration of consumption, non-conformities and suggestions Nets is an international company spanning the Nordic and Baltic tal Management System for handling our environmental focus for improvements, both locally and globally. regions, which entails frequent travel activity between locations areas based on the requirements set forth by international standfor many of our employees. To mitigate the negative environmenards. This entails that we have a governance structure in place We work systematically to minimise the negative environmental tal impact from travelling, we have defined a goal of reducing our to ensure local anchoring across countries and locations and impact from all our physical locations, including our office facilCO2 emissions. dedicated processes for handling our environmental focus areas. ities, through initiatives such as targeted awareness campaigns to encourage employees to reduce waste, reduce printing paper To measure the reduction, we monitor our employees’ air travel Through our Environmental Management System, we work consumption, and save electricity. In 2018, we continued to raise between locations, as well the number of meetings and the numstrategically and systematically on minimising our impact on awareness of our environmental policy throughout the organiber of participants at video conferences between our locations. the environment. We do so by focusing on the areas within our sation, and encouraged our employees to recycle waste, reduce We do this to estimate the degree to which video meetings may field which we consider we are most effectively able to influence, paper consumption and save electricity, by putting up signs and be a substitute for air travel, and we subsequently calculate the namely: posters on strategic places in our locations. reduction in CO2 emissions. • Climate emissions • Energy consumption At year-end, we completed the statutory energy audit, and we are In 2018, we decided to increase the number of video-enabled • Paper use currently assessing how to incorporate these findings into our meeting rooms across our locations to incentivise our employees • Waste management environmental activities going forward. to conduct meetings via video instead of travelling between loca• Environmentally effective procurement tions, and we expect to have all our meeting rooms video-enabled by 2019. All employees can participate in a video meeting via their laptops from home or on the go. Nets’ Environmental Management System Continual 2015 2016 2017 2018 At Nets, we have an established improvement management system for handling 2,584 tonnes 2,917 tonnes 3,392 tonnes 3,718 tonnes our environmental focus areas. of CO2 saved of CO2 saved of CO2 saved of CO2 saved Environmental Management policy review In 2018, we saved 3,718 tonnes of CO2 emissions.1 Planning Checking Implementation and operation The figure of 3,302 tonnes stated in the Annual Report 2017 1  has been corrected to 3,392 tonnes 8/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents In 2019, we will continue our work to reduce CO2 emissions, and we set in 2014 was 9,543,353 kWh, and the actual consumption in will update our ambitions, commitments and targets within the area. 2018 was 9,141,336 kWh. Reducing energy consumption for building operations by 15% Reducing quantity of waste and ensuring improved recycling The main part of Nets’ climate emissions is related to our energy At all physical locations of Nets, we conduct source separation of consumption from running and operating our systems and physicardboard, paper, plastic, batteries, toner, metal, light bulbs, and IT cal locations. All our buildings are managed by a Central Managewaste. Everything is disposed of by certified waste management ment System that controls and monitors heating and ventilation, companies to ensure sustainable handling of our waste. minimising the adverse environmental impact by turning off the lights and lowering the heating when the office spaces are empty. We continuously conduct awareness campaigns towards our In addition, we constantly try to minimise our negative environemployees at all locations and on our intranet. mental impact, an example of which is how we are currently in the process of changing all light bulbs to environmentally friendly In addition, we work systematically to reduce and recycle used IT LED light bulbs. equipment, and we partner with an external vendor to resell our used computers and IT equipment instead of throwing them away. In 2018, we experienced a decrease in energy consumption of 13.5% compared to 2017. The reduction can largely be attributed We regard to unsorted waste, we have had an increase of 8.6% to internal relocations and subsequent closing down of office compared to 2017, which is a consequence of increased activity facilities. and additional employees at some of our locations. Furthermore, several of our locations have conducted larger clean-ups from We will be setting new baseline targets in 2019 that take flucstorages this year, which has caused more waste than anticipated. tuation in activity levels into account, for example by measuring consumption according to the average number of employees In 2019, we will continue our work on reducing quantities of waste during the year. and improving our sorting and recycling procedures. In preparation for the relocation of our headquarters in Ballerup, we have This means that in 2018 we reached our 2020 target of reducing conducted an exceptional clean-up of our facilities which we energy consumption from building operations by 15%. The target expect will continue throughout a large part of 2019. Target 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy Energy Energy Energy Reduce enerTotal unsorted Total unsorted Total unsorted Total unsorted consumption consumption consumption consumption gy consumpwaste in 2015 waste in 2016 waste in 2017 waste in 2018 reduced by reduced by increased by reduced by tion by 15% was 166 tonnes was 176 tonnes was 2092 tonnes was 227 tonnes 7% compared 1% compared 3% compared 13.5% comcompared to to 2014 to 2015 to 2016 pared to 2017 2014 2 The figure of 207 tonnes stated in the Annual Report 2017 has been corrected to 209 tonnes. 9/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents Reducing usage of paper for internal printing by 15% specialists, we recognise that the expertise and experience of We have continued with the “follow-me” printing system, set to our employees are the core competencies of our business, and Our Accelerate Personal print on both sides in black and white, that was implemented in we work continuously to offer our colleagues development and Growth programme allows 2016 and, through posters and signs, we have encouraged our career opportunities to improve their employability, motivation employees to reduce their paper consumption. As a result, we and job satisfaction. younger high-potentials to reduced our paper consumption by 13% in 2018 compared to 2017. accelerate their personal We have reached our 2020 target of reducing paper for internal Our values, ACT, guide us as teams and individuals in our daily and professional use by 15%, and in 2019 we will update our ambitions as we have, decision-making and not least when facing a business dilemma. development in fact, decreased our paper consumption by 71% compared to our The values constitute 50% of the individual performance evalua2014 baseline. tion for all employees to underline the importance of our values and associated behaviour. To support this, we on-board new emIn 2019, we will continue to reduce paper usage going forward, ployees to our company values through a dedicated programme. map our paper consumption and work on assessing and converting current processes into paperless processes, promoting New employees at Nets electronic archiving and minimising printing through awareness Internal and external candidates are encouraged to apply for ground checks and additional security screening, if relevant, also campaigns. vacant positions at Nets. When assessing which applicants should applies to temporary workers and any contractors having access fill vacant positions at Nets – irrespective of the level of recruitto Nets’ premises. Target ment – the applicants are reviewed and evaluated carefully. The 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 screening of applicants not only involves a thorough assessment To increase the likelihood of a new employee becoming a success of the applicants’ education and experience, but also an assesswith us, we have an extensive on-boarding programme during Paper Paper Paper Paper Reduce consumption consumption consumption consumption paper for ment of the cultural fit with respect to our company values and the first six months of employment. The on-boarding process in 2015: 5.7m in 2016: 3.3m in 2017: 2.5m in 2018: 2.1m internal how the candidate will fit into the team in which he or she would includes: (i) administrative on-boarding, (ii) cultural on-boardsheets – a sheets – a sheets – a sheets – a use of 15 % work. ing, (iii) on-boarding to own work role and job, (iv) interpersonal reduction reduction reduction reduction of compared to network development within the organisation and (v) on-boarding of 20% of 42% of 24% 13% com(benchmark We conduct a thorough background check on applicants in our to strategy and direction. compared to compared to compared to pared to 2017 2014) 2014 2015 2016 recruitment process and usually hold two rounds of interviews before offering an applicant employment. Applicants invited Leadership and talent retention for the final round of interviews are requested to complete a To maximise the quality and effect of the leadership conducted psychometric assessment and a cognitive ability assessment. To at Nets, and subsequently the engagement and performance ensure that all recruitment processes are conducted in an ethicalof employees, we have introduced a leadership development 3 ly responsible manner, recruitment processes follow our ‘Ethical programme consisting of three modules. During 2018, all our Workplace Responsibility guidelines for recruitment’. approximately 300 leaders completed the programme. The daily We recognise that our performance is driven by the advanced leadership is continuously measured and in the latest survey skills and competencies, dedication and passion of our employGiven the fact that part of Nets is subject to strict financial and conducted, the leadership index rose from 75 points to 78 points. ees. We are committed to providing the best possible conditions payments regulation, all applicants will be subject to background In 2018, we changed our performance management system to for our people to develop, thrive and be empowered to make the checks in accordance with local legislation and we will also perinclude frequent check-ins between leaders and their direct right decisions. As a knowledge-based company with dedicatform additional security screening of some candidates depending reports. The check-ins are initiated by the direct report to ensure ed and highly skilled employees, such as IT and commercial on the position in question. The requirement of adequate backthat alignment of expectations and frequent discussions of 10/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents development and motivation are conducted Relocation of Nets’ headquarters in 2019 to the aim of further encouraging the employees to Nets has an anti-corruption and bribery policy and turned into tangible actions. The approach accommodate new ways of working live healthy lives and increase the focus on their which it is mandatory for all employees to is called ImpACT (Increase growth, Motivation, To provide our employees with the best possible physical and mental well-being. comply with, and we have established internal Performance, ACT). work environment and to support collaboration policies and guidelines that convey this strict and flexible ways of working, it has been decidResults stance on corruption and bribery with the aim of In November 2018, we launched the Nets ed to relocate our headquarters in Denmark in In October 2018, we conducted a company-wide ensuring that employees act with integrity and Accelerate Personal Growth programme, which 2019. To gain valuable insight before moving to engagement survey. It was conducted on a do not engage in any actions involving corrupis an 18 month programme for selected younger the new location, an office decor pilot project new digital platform with a simple and easy-totion and/or bribery. high-potentials to accelerate their personal and was established in 2018. The project was a pilot access user interface, enabling our employees professional development. The objective of the for gaining experience of an activity-based way to participate via any digital device. The new To certify that all employees are aware of the programme is to build a stronger pipeline of of working, and for finding the best possible platform utilises artificial intelligence to provide rules they must comply with, we are continuousspecialists and leaders across the Nordic orfurniture for the new surroundings. insights from all comments. The response rate ly providing focused e-learning lessons, which ganisation who are able to perform in a digitised was 83% and we gathered 3,888 comments. The are mandatory for all employees to complete. workplace with a high rate of change in the exWe have a full-time health and safety officer engagement score for all of Nets was 71, which is ternal environment – business and technology. employed, and in 2018 we implemented a new just below our external benchmark of 72. Whistleblower scheme work environment management setup headNets implemented a whistleblower scheme ed by top management. We are revisiting and In November 2018, we conducted a Leadership in 2014, under which reports on violations or optimising current policies and processes with Effectiveness survey on the same platform misconduct, or suspicion thereof, that may to assess how well our leaders live the Nets impact the Nets Group or the life or health of an Leadership model. individual may be submitted anonymously. The whistleblower scheme of the Nets Group conWe intend to run an annual engagement survey, tinues to be in effect, allowing employees, the two shorter pulse surveys and a leadership Executive Management, the Board of Directors effectiveness survey each year to give employand external stakeholders to report violations or ees the opportunity to provide feedback and misconduct, or suspicions thereof. The whistleto strengthen our company culture and work blower scheme is an independent and autonoenvironment. mous channel, and any reports submitted will be received directly by an external law firm. A reported concern is forwarded to the Audit Com4 mittee, who will investigate the matter promptly Anti-Corruption and Bribery and thoroughly and take appropriate action. Nets is fully committed to complying with https://www.nets.eu/Pages/Whistleblower.aspx regulations and conventions to prevent corruption and bribery. We recognise international Customers, vendors, consultants and other business standards that apply to the industries external parties can report under the whistlein which we operate, and we advocate for sound blower scheme through our website. Any reports business practices throughout our value chain, received are investigated by an external law firm. with a zero-tolerance stance on corruption. 11/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents In 2018, one single report was submitted via our rate headquarters is based in Ballerup, we have This section addresses the reporting requireCurrent status whistleblower channel. However, after assessing been supporting local top-level sport for several ments on the underrepresented gender under By the end of 2018, the Board of Directors of it, the external law firm considered it to be out years through a partnership with Team Ballerup. section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Nets A/S consisted of two female directors and of scope. Act. The reporting requirements under two male directors elected by the general meetNets is one of the founding partners of Cothe Danish Financial Statements Act include ing. The original objective with regard to gender penhagen Fintech, and in 2018, we continued reporting on the status of the target set to diversity on the Board of Directors was initially 5 our strong commitment to and partnership increase gender diversity on the Board of Direcmet in March 2016. Subsequently, the Board of Community Involvement with Copenhagen Fintech with the ambition of tors, cf. section 99b(1), and a description of the Directors adjusted the target for Nets A/S from Nets operates critical infrastructure in the Norcontributing to the creation of a Nordic hotbed development and initiatives to achieve a gender at least one female board member to at least dics and it is thus vital that our employees are at for innovation and start-ups within financial balance amongst other executives, cf. section two female board members, which has already the cutting edge to constantly counter new cyservices. We truly believe that the Nordic region 99b(2). been achieved. berthreats etc. Therefore, we continuously train holds great potential for building world-class and educate all employees, but especially key fintech companies, services and products if givFurther, this section only describes targets set, In Nets Denmark A/S, two out of four members personnel. We have conducted several mandaen the right framework conditions, and we wish status and development in the Nets Group comof the Board of Directors elected at the general tory e-learning lessons to enhance awareness to support this. Accordingly, we have decided to panies which, due to their size and geographical meeting are female, and hence the target of one among employees, the results of which are continue our strong commitment and support of location, are subject to the requirements, i.e. female board member on Nets Denmark A/S’ continuously reported to Nets top management Copenhagen Fintech in 2019. Nets A/S and Nets Denmark A/S. Board of Directors has already been achieved. by our Information Security department. We continued our engagement with the “VelkomAs we report un target figures at the corporate The Nets Group focuses on increasing the quaWith activities spanning across the Nordic region, men Hjem” initiative in Denmark where three level, the companies subject to the requirements lifications of both female and male employees we support causes that are close to our business leaders at Nets assist Danish soldiers in their within the Nets Group need not report compaand has implemented a number of procedures and will have a positive impact on people and transition from a military career to a career in the ny-specific target figures for gender balance at communities in general. During 2018, we supprivate sector following their return from interthe board level, but may refer directly to this ported several organisations and causes. Save national missions. The leaders from Nets act as statement. The Children across our locations have received coaches, supporting the veterans in the process. donations from our customer satisfaction survey, Board of Directors where we donate DKK 100 per respondent, along In 2019, we will revisit the causes that we support Targets It is important for with the proceeds from the sale of second-hand with the aim of streamlining and maximising the The Board of Directors of Nets A/S has set the Nets to attract many hardware through our broker. societal impact of these efforts, e.g. through tarfollowing targets for the boards in question: geted partnership with international partners. skilled candidates In addition, we have continued our partner• a  t least two female members of the Board of of both genders to ship with the Danish Fundraising Association 6 Directors of Nets A/S choose from when (ISOBRO) to support more effective collection • a  t least one female member of the Board of filling management methods as well as contributing to the training Equal Opportunities for both Genders Directors of Nets Denmark A/S of organisational staff. This statutory statement on the underreprepositions sented gender, cf. section 99b of the Danish The above targets will apply until the end of We wish to be an active part of our local commuFinancial Statements Act, forms part of the Man2020. nities throughout our locations, and as our corpoagement’s Review in our 2018 annual report. 12/13 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Contents to accomplish this. These are described in furwhen filling management positions, and we Current status corresponded to 32.9%, which is similar to 2017 ther detail under “Other executives” below. therefore strive to broaden the field of candiThe Executive Committee consists of the regis(32%) and below our target of 40%. dates as much as possible. Further, the employtered Executive Management (consisting of the Other executives ment procedures are designed to give men and CEO and CFO) as well as the top management of The representation of women at management Policy women equal opportunities to apply for and the business units and Group functions of the Nets levels three to six corresponds in overall terms Nets continues to strive for a gender balance obtain management positions. Group, and the Executive Committee therefore to the gender distribution of our entire work(40/60) of capable female and male executives. functions across the Nets Group as a whole. The force. This again reflects the gender distribution In order to achieve this goal, we have set out a Progress in 2018 Executive Committee has seven members of among graduates within areas such as inforrange of initiatives in our Diversity Policy: We continuously seek to ensure gender balance whom one is female, corresponding to 14.3%. mation technology and software development, in the existing team when recruiting new team which are profiles we typically employ. all management vacancies are advertised members. This involves a dialogue with the In other managerial positions (management internally; hiring manager about the composition of his or levels three to six) as of 31 December 2018, the the end of each job advertisement encourages her team for the purpose of ensuring diversity number of women in management positions anyone interested in the job to apply, irrespecin terms of gender, personal profiles and other tive of gender, age, race, religion or ethnicity; competencies. all executives are offered continuous management development; In 2019, we will continue our focus on increasing regular management development appraisals gender balance at board and management level are held with the line manager; through measures including the following: a sensible work/life balance is offered to reconcile the demands of working life and family life; • standard wording included in all job ads enexecutives are given constructive feedback couraging all interested and qualified parties and evaluations with a focus on how they to apply irrespective of gender, age, race, can improve their performance via annual religion or ethnicity; employee satisfaction surveys which also • a tool to weed out gender-biased language include manager evaluation; in job ads, allowing us access to all talent managerial desires and ambitions are covered regardless of gender; in annual employee development interviews; • discussing managerial aspirations and amwhen conducting job interviews, we endeavbitions in regular annual employee developour to ensure that both genders are reprement dialogues; sented on the list of relevant candidates; • a sensible work/life balance being offered as far as possible, at least one manager/ to reconcile the demands of working life and employee of each gender participates in the family life; recruitment committee. • when conducting job interviews, we endeavour to ensure that both genders are repreContinuing efforts to achieve gender balance sented on the list of relevant candidates It is important for Nets to attract many skilled candidates of both genders to choose from 13/13
