Sandbar AP Ltd, The Glasshouse, Highfields Business Park, Kneesworth, Royston Herts SG8 5JT United Kingdom T: +44 (0)1763 244 473 F: +44 (0)1763 246 154 www.urbanbar.com COP April 2019 About Urban Bar Urban Bar work closely with our clients to develop bespoke and customized glasses and other barware products in steel and plastics for international drinks brands. We also provide an extensive range of standard glasses. At Urban Bar we offer a complete glass and barware POS development service from idea to production. We have been supplying the drinks industry since 1980 and have wide experience in all aspects of automatic and hand-made glassware design, production and decoration. In recent years we have focused on developing bespoke shapes to support and strengthen our clients’ unique brand identities. We have also built up our own range of distinctive glass and specialist acrylic and steel products designed to enhance the presentation and enjoyment of all types of drinks. You can find out more information about our products, company news and updates on our website: http://www.urbanbar.com Our website has a Social Responsibility section which displays our own UN Global Compact COP, link to the UN website and our Carbon neutral details Statement Nicholas Andrews (Director) continues to support the Global Compact and Sandbar AP Ltd is committed to the initiative and its principles. Francesca Sutcliffe has now taken responsibility of maintaining and improving these as well as attending any relevant training sessions and workshops held by the Global Compact. Sandbar AP Ltd are signed up to Participant Level on the Global Compact website. Sandbar AP Ltd is a trading entity using a small number of preferred suppliers within the EU and 5 specific suppliers in China. Our principal product is glassware from EU and stainless steel products from China. As such we have little direct impact on actual production except to ensure our suppliers continue to improve all aspects of their obligations relating to Global Compact. Human Rights and Labour Principles We have 16 UK based staff who enjoy higher standards than the minimums required by UK & EU regulations. We have a very low staff turnover rate. We have had no incidences of labour issues, legal or otherwise. Our gender split is 9/7 female/male, 11 UK citizens, 5 non-UK nationals. They all have direct access to senior management and our staff are invited to take any relevant opportunities to improve their skills at the company expense. Reg Office: The Glasshouse, Highfields Business Park, Kneesworth, Royston, Herts SG8 5JT Company Reg: 5215816 VAT Reg: GB 843717808 All of our suppliers (this includes glass factories in Europe, two steel, one glass and two plastic factories in China) have been made aware that we are signatures to the UN Global Compact and what that entails. They have all been asked to confirm in writing that they comply with the principles. In addition, all suppliers used by Sandbar AP Ltd have been independently audited and personally inspected by a director of the company. All of our EU suppliers comply fully with EU health and safety regulations and human rights and to those set down within their own country. We have asked our Chinese suppliers to carry out and supply audits of their human rights obligations and these are reviewed when visits are conducted. We regularly visit all our suppliers so are aware of their working conditions. The most recent visit to our key suppliers in China was in February and April 2019 by Maarten de Kok (Director). We also have our own company standards and do not and would not work with suppliers who do not meet them. Our own customer base is primarily international publicly quoted companies who have their own strict and high standards on all matters covered by the Global Compact. We are obliged as suppliers to commit to their standards. Environmental Principles The glassware industry is a heavy user of power. It is within the interests of all glass manufacturers to be as efficient as possible to reduce power costs. Our suppliers in EU have to comply with both EU and strict local environment laws and regulations. Recently two factories have installed new more efficient ‘scrubbers’ to clean and further reduce emissions into the atmosphere. Glass factories have to refurbish and up-grade furnaces on a regular basis both to reduce power usage and maintain quality. This represents considerable investments to be recouped by savings both in reduced power costs and greater efficiency. 100% of glass waste from production is recycled. Our key steel product suppliers have opened a new plant at which they had made significant improvements in the outlet of emissions and chemical waste both of which are a part of the process. Urban Bar is now a carbon neutral company. We recently employed environmental consultants Carbon Footprint Ltd to help us calculate our CO2 emissions in 2018. Following the outcome, we selected to support financially a project to reduce deforestation, contributing to the Portel-Pará Reduced Deforestation (REDD) Project in Brazil. This project works to prevent deforestation in the Amazon rain forest helping maintain the natural habitats of numerous endangered species. The REDD Project covers an area of rain forest 177,895 Hectares in size, home to an abundance of diverse species important to the maintenance of various tree species throughout the rain forest. Our commitment to the environment now means that every order placed is carbon neutral delivered to the client’s door anywhere in the world. We aim to continue to support similar environmental projects for the years to come. A major client has agreed to stop using plastic film pallet covering in favour of recyclable cardboard on future shipments. For this client alone the saving is 260kgs of plastic film. We intend to switch 70% of shipments to this method by the end of 2019. Various other projects are in the pipeline. We are working with a UK company that produces customized bags using a totally biodegradable material, Naturflex. We are actively pursuing the issue with our clients with the intention of replacing all plastic product bags by end of 2019. Reg Office: The Glasshouse, Highfields Business Park, Kneesworth, Royston, Herts SG8 5JT Company Reg: 5215816 VAT Reg: GB 843717808 Anti-corruption To our knowledge no member of our company has ever been offered a bribe. None of our employees are in a position to offer bribes or for an offered bribe to affect any decision within the business. We factor our invoices, have independent financial auditors and handle no cash transactions, all of which help to negate financial anomalies. Consequently, we believe we are 100% free from any form of bribery. There is also information on anti-bribery information and our policy in the Sandbar AP Ltd Employee Handbook which is read as part of any new employee’s induction to the company and its values. Measurement of Outcome • Our deliveries are now certified Carbon neutral • During 2019 we shall reduce our use of plastic film by approx 60% and to 90% during 2020. • We have reduced our sales of crystal containing lead to nil. • At least 80% of our decorating enamels are heavy metal free. • Our company car is a petrol/ hybrid. • We continue to refuse to quote for business on items using ecologically damaging processes. • All products we sell are tested for food safety. • All lighting in our office and warehouse uses low energy consumption. • We have reduced our product packaging on client shipments. • All card waste and broken glass generated at our warehouse is recycled. • Our brochure production has reduced from 5,000 annually to 500. • Our payments are 95% to and from us are paperless. Nick Andrews CEO Reg Office: The Glasshouse, Highfields Business Park, Kneesworth, Royston, Herts SG8 5JT Company Reg: 5215816 VAT Reg: GB 843717808
