Communication on Progress 2019 Submitted to UN Global Compact EventBank Limited 1 Table of Contents Communication on Progress 2019 Letter from CEO About this Report Report Content Inquiry SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and fo… SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sus… 2 Letter from CEO Dear Stakeholder, In 2013, we started EventBank with the idea of being able to connect businesses globally to increase their economic opportunities through the use of our technology. After six years of working on technology for event organizers, marketing departments, associations and Chambers of Commerce around the world, I am proud of what we have accomplished. But work doesn't stop here and I am very happy you have decided to join us on our mission to transform professional communities through our technology. Technology has changed how businesses and people interact and get their information. Many organizations have been left behind by not keeping up with the times and new ways of doing business and therefore are experiencing challenges to retain their members and drive revenue. EventBank’s engagement management software is able to reverse that trend and ensure organizations stay on top of technology trends that are shaping our world today and tomorrow. We have been supporting the growth of over 400 hundreds clients throughout world with our technology and I am con dent that EventBank is the solution organizations need nowadays. Technologies that help automate manual processes with use of arti cial intelligence (AI) or advanced analytical tools using machine learning are new, but we are already using them to develop new functionalities that will be released in the coming years. Sincerely, Eric L. Schmidt CEO, EventBank eric@eventbank.com US: +1-(703) 338-2771 SG: +65 6904 5618 3 About this Report This Communication on Progress (COP) or the Report is a stand-alone report prepared by EventBank Limited and submitted to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This report covers the progress of EventBank on 3 key aspects of the UN Global Compact's progress points. Report Content The Report is divided into three sections. The three sections address EventBank's position, progress, and impact on: SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Inquiry This document can be found only at the UN Global Compact website or by request to both the UN Global Compact staff or EventBank Limited staff. Stakeholders who want to inquire information about EventBank or the COP may contact: Willis Mattoali Business Development Indonesia +62 822 5893 5812 willis.mattoali@eventbank.com 4 SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls EventBank has, since it’s inception, been a large contributor to the empowerment of women in technology by partnering, providing, or otherwise helping organizations like She Loves Tech and others who focus on bringing opportunities to women in one of the most male-dominated career paths. With EventBank’s support, we have implemented our own software, as well as our own labor to help these organizations run smooth events, and collect donations. Other groups impacted include the Beijing Women’s Network, and the American Women’s Association of Hong Kong SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation EventBank often times holds internal meetings at a departmental level where all innovative ideas can be expressed. It’s often that leadership at EventBank listens to new ideas both internally and externally, and all employees are often given a chance to voice their ideas in hopes that it might be an implementation in the future for the product, a process, or other programs we run. SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Sustainability is a major focus for EventBank, where digital registration and check-in processes are often times given as tools to customers and users of our software platform. With this, we reduce the amount of paper used for check in processes, and eliminate the need for physical, paper or plastic ticketing. Every customer or nearly every event attendee has a smartphone device which can in effect hold an unlimited amount of codes used as ticketing and reduces or eliminates the need for such tickets. The EventBank platform also performs as a print label middle-man so to speak, where our platform nalizes label prints for when printing is not able to be eliminated. This platform-level label manager makes is less likely for mistaken printing, and reduces waste in this effect. 5
