2018 I N T E G R AT E D A N N UA L R E P O R T Impressum Publisher: AD Plastik d.d. Matoševa 8, 21210 Solin For publisher: Finance Department Josip Divić, Finance Director Editor: Lori Vitaljić Photos: Archive of AD Plastik Graphic design: Gingola d.o.o. Nomad IT d.o.o. Edition: 200 Copyright © AD Plastik d.d. 2019 All rights reserved. Texts, parts of texts, photographies, drawings and graphic images are protected by copyrights. Use of this data is possible only with prior consent of the company AD Plastik d.d. Introduction This is the second Integrated Annual Report of AD Plastik Group, consisting of Report by Management of the Company, Sustainability Report and annual financial statements as of December 31, 2018. It presents information about the company’s business in the past year from financial point of view and in regard to business impact on society and environment. Our primary goal is to offer all our stakeholders a transparent, detailed and clear insight into the company’s comprehensive business with this kind of reporting. We want to provide a better understanding of the industry in which we operate, as well as business opportunities, company’s business strategy, corporate culture and increment of its value. Financial results, social, environmental and economic impacts, management, impact of material activities on company results and business risk management are presented in the integrated report in a transparent and thorough way. We believe that through a quality overview of financial and non-financial indicators of the company’s business we improve our transparency and contribute to the trust of our stakeholders. We are the leading company for development and production of interior and exterior automotive components in Croatia and one of the leading companies in Eastern Europe. More than thirty five years of experience, passion and knowledge of our employees incporporated in each product are a guarantee of our quality and reliability. We are a multinational company with eight production sites in five countries and we deliver our products to 24 countries around the world. Our corporate culture is based on sustainability, promotion of cooperation and recognizing excellence. We ensure a unique value in each segment of our business, constantly increasing quality standards of our products, services and modes of operation. 3 2018 AD Plastik Group A brief overview in numbers 12.24% 6.76% EBITDA MARGIN NET PROFIT MARGIN 136 mil. € NEW DEALS SEALED 5 8 2,876 COUNTRIES PRODUCTION SITES EMPLOYEES as of December 31, 2018 HRK 1,321.25 million OPERATING REVENUE 55+45+T +21.20% compared to the previous year HRK 161.73 million EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA) 51+49+T +2.08% compared to the previous year HRK 89.32 million NET PROFIT 56+44+T +27.23% compared to the previous year Contents Introduction 3 A brief overview in numbers 4 Table of contents 7 Letter from the President of the Management Board 8 The automotive industry 11 The most important events in 2018 12 Mission, vision, key values 22 Company history 23 Production sites 24 Overview of markets and customers 25 01 Technologies and products 26 Research and development 33 Production and sales 36 Corporate governance 44 Business ADPL Share 62 Financial results 2018 67 Business risks 77 Business Plan for 2019 85 Profile 88 02 Stakeholders 90 Employees 103 Supplier chain 109 Obligations towards external initiatives 112 Sustainability Economy 114 Environment 118 Report Society 135 Other 158 03 Consolidated financial statements of AD Plastik Group 164 Financial statements of the company AD Plastik d.d. 222 Annual Financial Statement 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 Letter from the President of the Management Board Dear stakeholders, It is our pleasure to present you the second Integrated Ancial results are the most important indicator in the business nual Report of AD Plastik Group for 2018. Over the past year of every company, but the success of the company is also we have realized record operating revenue and net profmanifested through qualitative and structured management it, thus completing another in a series of very successful of social and environmental issues. AD Plastik Group has business years. Operating revenue of AD Plastik Group in been achieving a great progress also in that segment, which 2018 amounted to more than HRK 1.3 billion and net profit is confirmed by numerous awards and acknowledgements increased by 27.23 percent compared to the previous year. by professional community. The dynamics of the industry itself and of the unstoppable We base our business on the principles of sustainable develchanges in the market encourages us to change existing opment, which we confirm as long-standing signatories of patterns on a daily basis, thus improving our business and the United Nations Global Compact initiative. The values of management. New materials and technologies, digitalizaour company and a clear strategy of business development tion, robotization, security and quality are the trends of the and sustainability make us a desirable partner in the comautomotive industry, to which we adapt every day. Finanmunity in which we operate, but also in the global market. 8 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 Employees as our greatest value are the first priority and we During the reporting period we have successfully been prepay special attention to them, that’s why we have invested paring for new projects, most significant part of which will additional funds and made additional efforts in the reporting begin with the serial production this year. We had almost period in order to improve and develop the working environeighty active projects, of which serial production has begun ment. With our responsible behavior and business we ensure regarding twenty five of them. The automotive industry has our customers delivery of the products that meet the highits own specificities in operating business, thus year 2018 est quality standards, which is confirmed by new deals we was a project year for us that has successfully introduced us have been sealing. We conduct the most up-to-date policies into the period of serial production. of responsible management of environmental protection, occupational safety and human potentials at all our producSatisfied with the results achieved, new deals worth EUR 136 tion sites. In addition, part of our strategy is to continuously million sealed during the observed period give us additional collaborate with the community in which we operate by repsecurity and stability. Based on new deals and announceresenting its interests and providing help to projects through ments of our customers, we expect an increase in revenue sponspoships and donations. We pay special attention to our in 2019. We will have significant investments in increasing shareholders and the financial community. Having entered production capacities at the production sites in Croatia and the Prime market, the most demanding market segment of we will also implement new sub-technologies that will add the Zagreb Stock Exchange, we have confirmed success value to our existing product portfolio. of our corporate governance and business transparency, on which we have been working intensively. We have been The year we have successfully entered will be marked by continuously improving our business to the satisfaction of already mentioned beginning of a serial production regardall our stakeholders and that is the mission we have undering big projects agreed as well as by further technological taken. advancements. We contribute to the goals of sustainable development of the automotive industry on a daily basis Last year was greatly marked by the purchase of the Hunthrough constant research and development of materigarian company Tisza Automotive, by means of which we als and technologies. Corporate social responsibility is unhave achieved one of our strategic goals for the further dedoubtedly our choice and the satisfaction of all stakeholders velopment and growth of the company. The process of its is our everyday mission. integration into the AD Plastik Group’s system is still ongoing and will be successfully completed in 2019. Apart from further growth, this acquisition provided us with diversification and expanding our customers portfolio, which were the goals of our long-term strategy. New plant is located in one of the fastest growing markets in the automotive industry, thus we have additionally provided the conditions for organMarinko Došen ic growth of the production site and Group in whole. President of the Management Board 9 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 10 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The automotive industry We live in a challenging period of conceptual changes in mosole will be a central control room or a work desk, if necbility, which directly affects the automotive industry. Eleccessary. Solutions for additional hidden compartments have tric and autonomous vehicles as well as car sharing are the been developed in order to increase the „living“ space in the trends that have been ocuppying their positions in the autovehicle interior. motive world slowly but surely. The plastic components share in the cars of the future will Within a short space of time, the automotive industry will grow without a doubt regardless of a drive unit they use – experience a revolutionary breakthrough regarding design, diesel or petrol engine, electric motor or hybrid, biodiesel or environmental impact, power supply, management, vehihydrogen. First and foremost due to the shaping of matecle connectivity with other systems, usage and ownership. rials, vehicle weight reduction and CO2 emissions, ease of End vehicle users have been eagerly awaiting technologimaintenance, wear resistance, multiple decorating and percal improvements that will enable them to try and configure sonalization options, transport and recycling costs, technipersonalized vehicles according to their wishes and needs, cally and technologically advanced polymer materials will be namely in virtual salons. Therefore, assessments that the authe basis for a major part of interior and exterior components tomotive industry will make a bigger breakthrough in the next of vehicles in the future. ten years than it had made in the past fifty are not surprising. For AD Plastik Group, this is an opportunity for further busiThus, significant reduction in the cycle of duration of new car ness improvement, progress and development. Namely with models from the beginning of their serial production to the our knowledge, experience and existing resources we can redesign phase has been predicted, namely from current five offer developmental-production solutions regarding comto two-three years. That is the only way to make it possible to ponents that will meet the needs of our customers, but also keep up with the technological changes. At the same time, it of the end vehicle users. Following the trends and dynamis predicted that major part of the population, especially milics of market changes, we will readily accept new challenglenials, will not want to own a car, but instead will pay for its es brought by the development of the automotive industry. use by subscription or they will use vehicles when needed. We have been focusing our development activities on the research and development of new materials and products Car manufacturers, and therefore their suppliers will need with the aim of reducing vehicle weight, better safety and a higher level of process automation and significant investenvironmental protection. ments in research, development and new technologies in order to meet the expectations. It is really difficult to say how fast and to what extent these trends will take roots and will they be replaced by some new ones in the meantime. The high level of vehicle personalization is becoming a reality for sure. This applies in particular to vehicle interiors which will be transformed into a multifunctional, digitized space, designed and formed in order to meet the needs and tastes of a large number of users. Thanks to new technologies, materials, automation and digitization, the most sophisticated needs and wishes of end users will be met. Standard vehicle interiors will slowly become history and the seats will change shape, they will be safer and more comfortable, central con11 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The most important events in 2018 New acquisition Ad Plastik Group became 100% owner of manufacturers in that part of Europe, years of experience in the automotive Hungarian company Tisza Automotive, they have experience in the automotive industry. It is a leading supplier of Suzuki thus achieving key goals of its business industry and a good customer portfofactory in Hungary and, apart from Sustrategy and medium-term developlio and they use and develop the same zuki, its most important customers are ment plan. This acquisition will ensure technologies as we do. After a due dilBentley and Volkswagen, for which the further growth of AD Plastik Group and igence, we recognized their further decompany is a first level supplier. Comexpansion of customer portfolio. velopment and growth potential and the pany has more than 400 employees positive effects of taking over. With this and the land of production halls, ware„We have been discussing and anacquisition, we expand our customer houses and offices amounts to 22,400 nouncing potential acquisitions for a portfolio and create good prerequisites square meters. Tisza Automotive, as a long time as a part of our business stratfor achieving planned growth of the second level supplier, produces for othegy. Central and Eastern Europe are the Group,” said President of the Manageer car manufacturers, therefore Rehau, fastest growing markets in the automent Board Marinko Došen. APCB, Reydel, Hanon Systems, Vernimotive industry so Tisza Automotive color, Mitsuba, Heycoustics and others was a logical choice. Their geographical Tisza Automotive is a plastic compoare on their customer list. position is very good compared to car nents manufacturer with more than 15 12 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 New deals worth EUR 35 million AD Plastik Group has sealed new deals AD Plastik Kaluga has sealed new deals er protectors for Tiguan model and the for production of automotive comporegarding injection moulding and therproject should last for six years. nents for several various manufacturmoforming technologies. A deal was ers worth more than EUR 35 million. sealed for the production of deflectors, sensors and camera brackets for the A deal has been sealed on producKaptur vehicles, and the start of the tion of absorber for vehicle Buick for project is planned in 2020 with a proAmerican market which is produced jected duration of three years. A deal by the French PSA Group. The start of on production of wheel arch liners for production is planned in 2021, with a Renault Duster has also been sealed, projected duration of six years. A deal whose start of production is planned in was also sealed with PSA Group on 2021, and the estimated project duraproduction of glass run channels for tion is three years. vehicle models Citroen C4, Picasso and C-Elysee, as well as Peugeot 301.. Several deals have been sealed with The start of production is expected in Volkswagen Group in the Russian 2020 and projected duration of the market, whose start of production is project is twelve years. expected in 2019. The deal has been sealed on production of engine covers, A new deal was sealed with the rear door trims and wheel arch liners for long-standing customer Hella on proVolkswagen vehicle models Polo and duction of light housings whose start Škoda Rapid with an estimated project of production was planned in 2018, duration of seven years. The deal has with expected duration of three years. been sealed on the production of fendFord mini SUV Puma A new deal was sealed on production „This project is of multifaceted importance and that is a step towards nomiof side fender claddings and decoratance. According to the latest predicnation of our production site in Zagreb tive door trims for the new Ford mini tions, with the realization of the sale of as new Ford Q1 site in the upcoming SUV vehicle that will be produced in this vehicle we can expect the current period. This project has significantly Romania.The expected revenue from turnover with Ford to double already strengthened our company’s position the above mentioned deal in the eightin 2020. The life span of this model is as a strategic supplier for Ford. It is a year period amounts to EUR 80 milprojected for eight full years, providing very good starting point for all the fulion and start of production is planned additional safety for a stable planning ture programs for Ford vehicles in this in 2019. New components will be proof turnover and capacities realization part of Europe but also for recognizaduced in AD Plastik Group’s factories in in the following years. Realization of bility in the global network of their supSolin and Zagreb. sales of painted components for Ford pliers,“ said program manager Tonći vehicles is of special strategic imporJakaša. 13 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The most important events in 2018 (continued) New deals worth EUR 20 million New deals worth about EUR 20 miltion is planned in 2019 and the projectwith a projected duration of three years. lion for the PSA Group in the Europeed project duration is four years. A deal on production of grab handles for an market and for the Renault Group the vehicles VW Polo and VW Rapid was and Volkswagen in the Russian market A deal was also sealed on production of sealed and the start of production was have been sealed. grille for Renault at Kaluga plant, whose scheduled in 2019 with a projected sevproject is scheduled to start in 2020 en-years project duration. AD Plastik Group will be producing glass run channels for several PSA Group vehicles and the start of serial production is planned in 2020 with a projected duration of six years. Overall expected revenue for the said project amounts to EUR 12.8 million. Several new deals in the Russian market were sealed wit a total value of EUR 8.3 million. AD Plastik Group’s plants in Kaluga and Vintai will be producing exterior components for Renault vehicles Logan Sandero, Stepway and Duster phase 2, which are partly intended for the Brazilian market. Start of producBuilding public trust award As part of the Zagreb Stock Exchange Marinko Došen said he was extremethem to be timely and accurately acAwards, the Building Public Trust Award ly pleased to receive the award that quainted with key company activities of the auditing company Pricewaterconfirms that the efforts, work and imand results arising from these activihouseCoopers (PwC) was awarded for provements that were made have been ties. We want to ensure a transparent, the first time this year, with the aim of recognized by the expert public. stable and responsible business for all recognizing and rewarding companies our shareholders. This award is a conthat stand out through clarity and trans„Over the last few years we have infirmation for us, but also an additional parency. Through the selection process, vested really great efforts and achieved motive to continue to develop in that AD Plastik Group has been selected as remarkable progress in reporting and direction,” said Marinko Došen. the best according to the criteria of this informing the investment public about well-known auditing company. the business of AD Plastik Group. Our primary objective is to provide transThanking for the award, President of parent communication to shareholdthe Management Board of the Group ers and other stakeholders in order for 14 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 CSR Index Award in the category of large companies AD Plastik Group received the CSR CSR Index is one of the most prestigin Zagreb. CSR Index is a methodology Index award in the category of large ious awards in Croatia in the domain of for evaluating the corporate social recompanies which was presented jointcorporate social responsibility and it is sponsibility practices of Croatian comly by the Croatian Chamber of Economy awarded annually in the categories of panies, based on a ranking system and the Croatian Business Council for small, medium, large and public compathat enables an objective assessment Sustainable Development for the sucnies. The awards were presented within of socially responsible practices of the cessful implementation of corporate the jubilee 10th Conference on Corpocompanies and comparison with the social responsibility. rate Social Responsibility that was held practices of other companies. The award was taken over by the President of the Management Board Marinko Došen on behalf of the company, who on that occasion did not hide his great satisfaction. „Corporate social responsibility is a part of our corporate culture and management, and the standards that we have set are at high levels. Responsible business is not a question of choice, it is the obligation of a modern and successful business,“ Marinko Došen pointed out. The Golden Key Award As part of the Croatian Exporters ConPlastik received the Golden Key Award customers, is located there. With regard vention, which was held this year unonce again as the best exporter to the to the new deals sealed with Revoz, der the title Export as a Generator Slovenian market. Slovenia is an exfurther growth of the Group is expected of Growth and Development of the tremely important market for AD Plastik also in this market. Republic of Croatia, the Golden Key Group considering that Renault’s plant Awards were traditionally awarded. AD Revoz, one of the company’s biggest 15 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The most important events in 2018 (continued) Green Frog Award for human rights reporting With its Sustainability Report, AD Plassources in improvement and perfecPlastik Group Marinko Došen on that tik Group found itself among the top tion of our sustainable business and occasion. five companies at the regional level and this is a prerequisite for success in the received a special acknowledgment modern business world. Our choice is AD Plastik Group has been preparing for human rights reporting, which was to constantly evolve in this direction sustainability reports since 2012, and given to the company in Warsaw within and we are proud that it has been recthis is the second time that it has comCSR Fair. ognized. We are pleased to see our repeted for the Green Frog Award at the porting on human rights recognized at local and for the first time at a regional „This is another one in a series of acthe regional level, but our sustainability level. The Jury singled out sustainable knowledgments for achieved results report is only a sublimated annual redevelopment report of AD Plastik Group and progress in the area of corporate view of everything we do everyday and due to the special focus on human social responsibility. We have been live within our company,” said Presirights, which are a key element of good making great efforts and investing redent of the Management Board of AD practice in the organization. AD Plastik in the Prime market AD Plastik is among the first compaMarket. We have been achieving very tive, but also a responsibility for the funies to be listed on the Prime Market, good business results and in the last ture. By moving to the prestigious, but the most demanding market segment few years we have made great efforts very demanding Prime Market of the of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Comin order to achieve the desired progress Zagreb Stock Exchange, we would like panies with the highest level of transin reporting and informing the investto contribute to enhancing transparenparency and corporate governance are ment public. Our progress has been cy and corporate governance as well as listed in the Prime Market. recognized by experts and the general developing the overall capital market „It is an extraordinary honor to be public, as evidenced by numerous acin Croatia through our example,” said among the first companies listed on knowledgements and awards we have President of the Management Board the Zagreb Stock Exchange’s Prime been receiving. This is a great incenMarinko Došen on that occasion. 16 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The most successful large county company At the solemn session of the Econoten asked whether we will change our The Golden Marten Award is the highmy Council of the Croatian Chamber of company’s headquarters. Our answer est acknowledgment of the Croatian Economy of County Chamber of Split, is always the same AD Plastik was Chamber of Economy awarded to the AD Plastik was awarded a plaque Goldfounded in Solin and its headquarters best companies for the business sucen Marten in the category of large comwill remain there,” said Marinko Došen. cess at the county level. panies. According to strictly prescribed criteria pursuant to which the Croatian Chamber of Economy assesses the success of the business, AD Plastik is the most successful large county company in 2017. Thanking for the given acknowledgement, Marinko Došen, President of the Management Board, said that the growth of the company was achieved primarily thanks to its almost three thousand employees in the entire Group. “By doing business in the demanding world market and considering the industry we belong to, we are ofStop workplace injuries The first national campaign “STOP Among other companies, AD Plastik workplace injuries” was conducted was given an acknowledgement with from October 2016 to October 2018, an explanation in which it was pointed organized by the Institute for Occupaout that many certificates the compational Safety Improvement. As part of ny owns confirm additional investment the European Week for occupational in safety and quality. AD Plastik Group safety, at the conference “Occupationpays special attention to the identificaal Safety Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow” tion of risky situations and to informing held in Zagreb, acknowledgments and the workers about preventive activities, plaques of the Institute for Occupaand a special commission for improvtional Safety Improvement were given ing the safety and health of workers to the companies and institutions for was established. achieving remarkable results. 17 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 The most important events in 2018 (continued) Improving of Ecovadis assessment After a regular annual assessment of EcoVadis stands for creating a reliable corporate social responsibility by the and persistent CSR assessment system agency EcoVadis, AD Plastik Group won and offers comparability of data in order gold recognition level again this year to evaluate suppliers across different and maintained its position among the sectors and countries. When evaluating, top five percent companies rated by policies, programs and performances the agency. regarding environmental management, fair business practice, labor and human Out of a maximum of one hundred rights as well as sustainable purchasing points, 79 points was won with this are taken into account. year’s evaluation, representing a progress of almost ten percent compared „Customers have been increasingly to the previous year. The biggest propromoting their strategies of corporate tant for our supplier rating,“ points out gress of almost twenty percent has social responsibility and, according to Gordana Erceg Sindik, Sales Manager been achieved in the areas of business that, they monitor development of their for Renault Group. ethics, thus confirming constant imsuppliers in that area. Good assessprovements of sustainable business. ment by EcoVadis is extremely imporAcquiring the special taxpayer status AD Plastik is among the first companies complete insight into all the relevant greater transparency of business, and in Croatia to sign Agreement on Acquirfacts and circumstances from which tax they will also ensure timely reduction in ing the Special Taxpayer Status. For the liabilities or tax risks arise. The taxpayer tax risks, making the business operataxpayer, this means timely settlement submits its proposals and views on tax tions easier for the both sides. of tax liabilities, timely submission of issues and their possible consequences. tax declarations and reports, provision of internal control systems and internal By signing the agreement, AD Plastik and external audits. At the same time, it has taken over obligations and responenables the Tax Administration to have sibilities which will contribute to the 18 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 03 19 01 Business Mission, vision, key values 22 Company history 23 Production sites 24 Overview of markets and customers 25 Technologies and products 26 Research and development 33 Production and sales 36 Corporate governance 44 ADPL Share 62 Financial results 2018 67 Business risks 77 Business Plan for 2019 85 Business 01 02 03 Mission, vision, key values ADP Mission By introducing innovative solutions and constantly improving the development and quality of our products, we contribute to the success of our ADP Vision customers. We achieve our goals as an ethical, responsible and preferable employer. We conduct To be the market leader in the develbusiness in harmony with the environment to the opment and production of automotive satisfaction of all our stakeholders and we are components in Eastern Europe and to acknowledged by shareholders as a reliable comexpand business into new markets. pany desirable for investing in for the long term. Key values Reliability in order to keep up with world trends. business. We treat them fairly and with This way we contribute to the improverespect regardless of their job position Relationships with all our stakeholders ment and development of the compaand location of work. We encourage are based on trust, open and honest ny, thus confirming our position in the them to take initiative, make decisions communication. Building long-term global market. and govern with quality. partnerships with all stakeholders is based on mutual respect. Responsibility Togetherness Quality Responsibility is a prerequisite for the We encourage mutual collaboration at company’s development, growth and all levels based on trust, making clear Developing and maintaining the highresults. It is demonstrated every day and swift decisions and taking responest standards of quality and safety in through our approach towards each insibility. Exchange of ideas and knowlevery segment of business are at the dividual, work, partners, stakeholders and edge, multiculturalism, mutual respect heart of our business success and our our actions aimed at the society, nature and solidarity are the key ideas of destakeholders’ satisfaction. and the community in which we operate. veloping togetherness. Innovativeness Respect Our ideas, creativity and technologies Employees are the greatest value and help us to achieve constant progress they hold the key role in the company’s 22 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Company history 2018 acquisition of Tisza Automotive, Tiszaújváros, Hungary 2017 new robotized painting line for interior components in Zagreb 2016 exiting FADP, JV company in Luga, Russia 2014 new robotized painting line in Zagreb 2012 production sites in Mladenovac, Serbia and Kaluga, Russia 2009 production site in Luga, Russia – JV company FADP with Faurecia 2007 Faurecia bought Simoldes Plasticos’s share in Euro APS 2002 production site in Romania – JV company Euro APS with Simoldes 1995 Plasticos production sites in Zagreb and Vintai, Russia 1994 name officially changed to AD Plastik 1992 continued operations under the name Autodijelovi 1952 establishment of Jugoplastika – original predecessor Integrated Annual Report 2018 23 Business 01 02 03 Production sites 5 4 7 2 3 8 1 6 1 AD Plastik d.d. – company’s headquarters 5 ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga AD Plastik, Solin, Croatia Kaluga, Russian Federation 2 AD Plastik, Zagreb I, Croatia 6 ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac, Republic of Serbia 3 AD Plastik, Zagreb II, Croatia 7 Tisza Automotive Kft. Tiszaújváros, Hungary AO AD Plastik Togliatti 4 Vintai, Samara, Russian Federation 8 JV Euro Auto Plastic Systems S.R.L. Mioveni, Romania 24 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Overview of markets and customers Argentina Hungary Slovakia Brazil Morocco Slovenia Czech Rep. Mexico Spain France Germany Turkey India Poland UK Italy Romania Uzbekistan South Korea Russia Venezuela China Serbia Taiwan Integrated Annual Report 2018 25 Business 01 02 03 Technologies and products Our expertness and inovativeness offer component solutions Thanks to our longstanding experience and technical experthat meet the expectations of end vehicle users and the tise, we offer our customers value added through the wide most demanding car manufacturers. We focus continuous range of processes of assembly, integrating various products development of existing and adoption of new technologies, and preparation for direct installation of the components on materials, processes and products on the key objectives the vehicles. Almost all known technologies of assembling of the automotive industry – vehicle weight reduction, plastic products are used for product installation, including greater comfort, better safety and adaptability. automated welding and adhesion. Long-standing experience in the production of automotive High-quality and optimal solutions are the customers’recomponents and knowledge we possess provide us with quirements that we have successfully been mastering by the necessary flexibility and quick response in order to meet using advanced technologies and with continuous process the needs and goals of our customers. We are a quality and improvement and experience. Fast reactions, intelligent reliable partner to our customers from design to delivery of solutions and production flexibility are what makes us differthe products, keeping track of global trends and significant ent on the world suppliers panel. technological advancements. Key technologies that we use in our regular business are: injection moulding, painting, extrusion, blow moulding, non-woven textiles and thermoforming. Painting Blow Moulding Thermoforming Injection Extrusion Non-woven moulding textiles 26 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 27 Business 01 02 03 Technologies and products (continued) Geographic availability of technologies INJECTION MOULDING • CROATIA • RUSSIA • SERBIA • HUNGARY Solin Kaluga Mladenovac Tiszaújváros Zagreb I Vintai Zagreb II PAINTING • CROATIA Zagreb I THERMOFORMING AND NON-WOVEN TEXTILES • RUSSIA • SERBIA Kaluga Mladenovac Vintai EXTRUSION • CROATIA • RUSSIA Solin Vintai BLOW MOULDING • SERBIA • HUNGARY Mladenovac Tiszaújváros 28 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Key products Exterior components Hood Chasis Protector Front Bumper Deflector Rear Bumper Wheel Arch Housing Rear Skirt Front Fender Fender Protector Upper Grille Integrated Annual Report 2018 29 Business 01 02 03 Technologies and products (continued) Key products (continued) Interior components Pillars Floor Carpet Grab Handle Trunk Carpet Headliner Sunvisor Parcel Shelf Trunk Side Trim Door Panels Instrument Panel 30 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Seals Roof moulding Windshield finisher Glass run channel Outer belt Inner belt Bellow belt Door hidden frame Integrated Annual Report 2018 31 Business 01 02 03 32 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Research and development We collaborate with our customers from the early stages of development to the final product, using modern tools and techniques as well as specific expertise, skills and experience. Partner relationship with customers, based on a longterm cooperation, results in a harmonized development for us as suppliers and for our customers. In 2018 we made a step forward by launching Hot stamping process by means of which a layer of decorative foil is applied to plastic parts, thus raising the product added value. In addition, we have introduced 2K rotary injection moulding tool for the first time, which reduces the production cycle of the product. We readily accept new challenges by conducting the necessary activities in accordance with the basic guidelines of the automotive industry and our customers. We are primarily focused on the following: • product weight reduction by using modern engineering tools for product design and validation, by using new production technologies and equipment (MuCell, chemical foaming, gas assisted moulding) and materials (lightweight, multicomponent moulding). • improvement of visual (percieved quality) and tactile product properties with the possibility of personalizing vehicle interior and exterior (painting, decorating with foils hot stamping, IMD, FIM, INS), textile coating, lighting (ambient light) • improvement of technology of assembling different products and materials, taking into account the process of disposal and recycling (adhesion, welding, assembly according to shape) • development of interior components painting technology • automation/robotization and digitization of production processes Integrated Annual Report 2018 33 Business 01 02 03 Research and development (continued) Research and development importance and activities The automotive industry has been developing unstoppably, able to respond quickly to all the market demands placed bestriving every day for more quality products and services it fore us with the highest standards of quality of our services. wants to offer to end vehicle users, while keeping in mind the preservation and protection of the planet Earth. Collaboration with customers from the early stage of development is a guarantee of maintaining high quality and comThose are the premises on which research and development petitiveness of products and services. Contribution to the activities of AD Plastik Group are based. Readiness to respond success of our customers is achieved through ethical and on customers’s requirements, environmental protection and responsible business in accordance with the environment. safety of products and services are the leading principles of our research and development team. Directly collaborating In research and development center of AD Plastik Group the with our partners, we coordinate and realize plenty of recore orientation refers to quality of products and services. search and development projects with an emphasis on two We are recognizable for flexibility, technological solutions of important directions Lightweight and Deco technologies, complex problems and ongoing quality assurance that we aimed at personalizing vehicle exterior and interior. give to our customers as added value. Many years of work experience on various international proConstantly improving processes, we provide better and jects, connectivity with institutions and partners as well as more efficient solutions, sometimes combining more techthe use of a variety of software solutions, place us at the very nologies, while taking into consideration the environment in top of the engineering services offer in the rergion. We are which we conduct business. 34 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Lightweight projects / composite materials The inevitable trend of today’s automotive industry is car Along with the main research and development guidelines, weight reduction, which has been initiated due to strict regwe have continued with the research and implementation ulations on CO2 emissions. In the reporting period, cooperactivities of using natural fibers in interior vehicle compoating with external partners, we have participated and were nents. During 2018 we have focused our research on maresponsible for part of activities related to several projects terials with natural cotton fibers, while complying with the affecting the car weight reduction. strict partners’ requirements regarding use of natural and recyclable materials in their vehicles. The material that con• Cooperating with our partners, raw materials producers, tains recycled cotton fibers becomes more environmentally we have participated in the development of lower densifriendly option from the very beginning, with which we dity materials. The application of such materials results in a rectly affect the production processes, reducing the harmful vehicle weight reduction and consequently lower energy effect on the environment. consumption, that is reduction in CO2 gasses emission. • We have continued research and implementation of MuCell technology that also affects vehicle weight reduction. The basic principle of this technology is gas assisted moulding which creates a honeycomb structure inside the product wall, thus making the product lighter. The advantages of this process are shorter injection moulding cycle, less product weight, product dimensional stability and low tool closing forces, thus lower energy consumption at the production site. • We have been developing expanded materials by creating our own prototyping tools for semi-dynamic seals (anti dust seals, seals under the engine cover) and in that way we have not only increased the range of our products regarding extrusion technology, but we have also reduced the weight of the products. • We have been developing projects regarding thermoformed wheel arch liners and chassis as a substitute for injection moulded products by using composite and environmentally more friendly and lighter materials. Apart from the fact that such products meet all the quality standards, they are up to fifty percent lighter than injection moulded products. Integrated Annual Report 2018 35 Business 01 02 03 Production and sales Global trends in the automotive industry are safe driving and sustainable mobility. Europe is a leader when it comes to clean production, thus along with the reduction of amount of water and energy being used for vehicle production, emissions and amount of waste produced within the process are significantly lower. Therefore European cars are the cleanest, safest and quietest in the world. The automotive industry has a strong impact on the economy as it supports a broad supply chain and generates a full range of business services. Share of electric and hybrid vehicles in the global market has been increasing and they are becoming a serious alternative to the common fuels. AD Plastik Group is fully prepared for new business challenges and it can meet the requirements of the most demanding customers and markets with research and production of its components. 36 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Major Projects in 2018 per Technologies The reporting year is significant for a large number of open, Even three quarters of the projects refer to injection mouldthat is active projects, therefore we have repeatedly emphaing technology and 9 percent to painting technology. Other sized that namely 2018 was a project year for our business. technologies represented in the graph are extrusion, thermAlthough the very number of 79 projects, which were active oforming and blow moulding. in 2018, is by ten percent higher than in the previous year, the difference is that the main activities for major projects, The most significant projects in the reporting period are production of which begins in 2019, were carried out over the those related to Renault factory Revoz in Novo Mesto. Alpast year. Project preparation in the automotive industry is though they started in 2017, due to their size and complexity a long process, thus a large part of aforementioned projects they lasted for the entire reporting year and the start of serial has been opened since 2017 when the preparatory actions production is planned in the first half of 2019. This primarily took place. The main activities in projects include defining applies to exterior components for Twingo and Clio for which products, making tools and devices, transferring tools and we have been developing more than 50 tools. No less imdevices to production locations, defining processes and apportant are interior components for Twingo and Clio with the pearance, defining specific packaging and preparation of same time schedules, for which we are a Tier 2 supplier. It production sites for serial production. is particulary important to point out the external stabilizers (spoilers) for Clio, for production of which are used not only The number of 79 projects in the observed period includes injection moulding and painting technologies, but also ex389 tools in the stage of making, 129 devices, 41 PokaYoka tremely demanding two-component adhesion technology. and 226 control gauges. During the year 25 projects were All the preparatory actions and trainings have been done closed, more precisely their serial production began so the and arrival of the gluing cell is expected in the early 2019. year was concluded with 54 active projects. Adhesion technology is one in a series of new technologies implemented within the AD Plastik Group that add value to 76+9+852E Technologies in projects in 2018 the products. Speaker brackets for the PSA Group are among the most significant projects opened in 2018, for which new technology 76% Injection Moulding of applying PUR foam with a robot is used. Particularly noteworthy is the recently opened project of painting decorative 9% Painting protective components for the exterior for Ford vehicles. Production of almost all projects regarding grab handles for 8% Extrusion various customers such as Renault Group and PSA Group began in 2018. 5% Thermoforming Data on projects from the new production site Tisza Automo2% Blow Moulding tive was not included in the reporting period because the company was acquired in July and it is in process of integration. Integrated Annual Report 2018 37 Business 01 02 03 Production and sales (continued) Overview of revenue by technologies and production sites 64+17+118T 73+27+T By technologies By markets 63% Injection Moulding + Blow Moulding 74.17% EU+Serbia 17% Painting 25.83% Russia 11% Thermoforming + non-woven textiles 9% Extrusion 38 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 European Union The number of newly registered vehicles in the European Unteresting and in 2018 it recorded a sales growth of 13.3 perion amounted to 15.2 million vehicles in the reporting period cent. The PSA Group took second place with a share of 16.2 and it has been growing for the fifth consecutive year. Alpercent and an extremely high growth of 32.8 percent due though the year has started with stonger growth, due to the primarily to Opel takeover that grew by 157.3 percent in 2018. fall in demand in the last four months of 2018, number of newly registered vehicles grew in total by only 0.1 percent. Renault Group has a stable 10.6 percent share in the EU marSuch a result was mostly influenced by the Central European ket and recorded a growth of 0.8 percent compared to the countries, such as Romania, Hungary, Lithuania and Bolgarprevious year. Dacia has the most significant growth within ia which recorded a growth of eight percent. The results in Renault Group, namely by 12 percent. the European Union markets differed considerably, so Spain recorded a significant growth of seven percent, France three FCA Group and Ford have recorded somewhat worse results percent, while a slight decrease of 0.2 percent was recorded compared to the previous year so their sales in the European in Germany, 3.1 percent in Italy and expectedly the biggest deUnion market has fallen by 2.3 percent. Almost all models cline was recorded in Great Britain amounting to 6.8 percent. of the FCA Group have been recording a decline, except for Jeep that has recorded a growth of even 56.2 percent. The best-selling vehicle in 2018 was Voolkswagen Golf, followed by Renault Clio, whose new model the market eagerly In the next few years there certainly will be changes within expects during 2019. This is extremely important data for AD the ranking of the best-selling vehicles in Europe, so we can Plastik Group, considering that deal on production of a large expect Toyota, Hyundai or KIA to enter the top five. They have number of components was sealed namely for this vehicle. recorded significant positive results and they are very well positioned in the production of electric and hybrid vehicles. Volkswagen Group continues to be a sovereign leader in the European Union market with a 23.8 percent share in this 13.3 million people are employed in the automotive industry market and a 0.9 percent growth in sales in the observed within the European Union and it is a key driver of knowledge period. Share growth of Seat in the VW Group portfolio is inand innovations. The turnover achieved by the automotive sector represents 6.8 percent of the European Union’s GDP. Market of new vehicles in EU, shown in million of vehicles 74+7378+ 85+ 91+ 93+ 94+ 96+ 99+ 99+ 99+ CAGR 1.5% 15.5 15.9 15.9 16.1 14.6 15.1 15.2 13.7 12.6 12.0 11.9 Source: ACEA, AD Plastik Group sales department 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Integrated Annual Report 2018 39 Business 01 02 03 Production and sales (continued) European Union (continued) FCA Group MSC – Magyar Suzuki Corporation Currently in production: air ducts, grab handles, vehicle Currently in production: front covers, air ducts, liquid tanks chassis cover, painted interior and exterior components Technologies: injection moulding, blow moulding, chrome Technologies: blow moulding, injection moulding, painting plating of injection moulded components Sales Markets: Serbia, Italy, Poland, Mexico, Brazil, India Sales Markets: Hungary Nominations won in 2018: air ducts, cooling fan trims and liquid tanks for the vehicles Vitara and S-Cross Ford Currently in production: side fender and bumper cladPSA Group dings, front and rear bumpers air diffusers, wheel arch liners, front and rear wheel deflectors, small injection moulded Currently in production: grab handles, glass run channels, exterior components speaker brackets, screens, camera brackets, camera covers, Technologies: injection moulding extractors and toothing belt protecting covers Sales Markets: Germany, Spain, Romania, Russia, Turkey Technologies: injection moulding, extrusion, painting and Nominations won in 2018: side fender claddings and blow moulding decorative door trims for Ford Puma vehicle, chassis air Sales Markets: France, Spain, Czech Republic, Slovakia, deflector for Ford Focus vehicle Germany, Argentina, Brazil, Russia Nominations won in 2018: speaker brackets and glass run channels for different vehicle models, decorative trims for Grupo Antolin C3 and grab handles for Citroen Picasso. Currently in production: door panels Technologies: injection moulding, UV welding Sales Markets: Slovenia Hella Currently in production: headlamp housings Technologies: injection moulding and assembly Sales Markets: Slovenia Nominations won in 2018: light housings for the vehicles Volvo V43X PS14 (electric vehicle Polestar 1), Renault Kadjar Phase 2, Nissan Navarra (assembly) 40 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 SMRC Samvardhana Motherson Reydel Companies VW Group Currently in production: instrument panels, steering Currently in production: weatherstrip seals and grab wheel paddings, gear shifts and handbrake consoles handles Technologies: injection moulding, UV welding, hot stamping Technologies: extrusion, injection moulding and assembly Sales Markets: Slovenia, France Sales Markets: Germany Nominations won in 2018: weatherstrip seals for Audi Q4 Renault Group Webasto Currently in production: painted exterior components, injection moulded components, motor fans, headliners, Currently in production: headliner trims, sunroof components painted and unpainted decorative trims, all exterior spare Technologies: injection moulding and painting parts and grab handles Sales Markets: Germany, Slovakia Technologies: injection moulding, painting, headliner thermoforming, hot stamping Sales Markets: Slovenia, France, Spain, Korea Nominations won in 2018: front bumper radar protective covers for the vehicles Dacia Sandero and Renault Trafic Euro APS, JV Romania Dacia Currently in production: sunvisors and headliners, carpets Technologies: injection moulding, thermoforming Sales Markets: Romania Nominations won in 2018: headliners for Dacia Sandero and Logan Integrated Annual Report 2018 41 Business 01 02 03 Production and sales (continued) Russia The Russian automotive market has been steadily recoverAll key car manufacturers in Russia have been recording ing and it has been growing, which is confirmed by a sucgrowth and it is important to mention that AvtoVAZ, one cessive increase in sales for the second year in a row. Thus, of the most significant customers of AD Plastik Group, has during the reporting period total car sales in the Russian been growing considerably faster than the market average market grew by 12.8 percent and in the next four years averand in 2018 it recorded a 16 percent growth. Volkswagen age car sales growth of 5.6 percent is predicted. Group has become more and more significant in the Russian market. Considerable interest and sales of SUV vehicles are 1.8 million newly registered vehicles were recorded in the a trend followed by the most of manufacturers. Russian market in 2018 and the most important car manufacturer is Group Renault-Nissan-AvtoVAZ which holds 33.5 During 2019 we expect the realization of numerous nomipercent of the market and it realized a 9 percent growth in nations for which preparatory actions have been carried that period. Kia holds 12.6 percent of the market with a 25.1 out over the past year and which will certainly contribute to percent growth, VW Group holds 11.7 percent of the market filling and potential expansion of capacities in the Russian with a 20.4 percent growth and Hyundai holding 10 percent factories. of the market realized a growth amounting to 13.3 percent compared to 2017. Market of new vehicles in Russia, shown in million of vehicles 98+8856+ 49+ 46+ 63+ 70+ 74+ 77+ 77+ CAGR 5.6% 2.8 2.5 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.6 Source: PWC analysis, Autostat, September 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 42 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 AvtoVAZ PCMA (Peugeot Citroen Mitsubishi Automotive) Currently in production: headliners, carpets, injection mouldCurrently in production: injection moulded exterior comed interior and exterior components, static seals, air ducts ponents and parcel shelves Technologies: thermoforming, injection moulding and exTechnologies: injection moulding and thermoforming trusion Sales Markets: Russia Sales Markets: Russia, Brazil Nominations won in 2018: injection moulded exterior components for the vehicles Logan and Sandero (export to Brazil) Renault Currently in production: headliners, carpets, injection FordSollers moulded interior and exterior components, parcel shelves Technologies: thermoforming, injection moulding Currently in production: headliners, injection moulded inSales Markets: Russia terior components Nominations won in 2018: bumper grille, deflectors and Technologies: thermoforming, injection moulding sensor brackets for Renault Captur, bumper brackets for the Sales Markets: Russia existing model Renault Duster, wheel arch liners for the new Renault Duster GM-VAZ Volkswagen Currently in production: headliners, static seals Technologies: thermoforming and extrusion Currently in production: injection moulded exterior comSales Markets: Russia ponents Technologies: injection moulding Sales Markets: Russia Nissan Nominations won in 2018: door grab handles, engine covers, trunk side trims and wheel arch liners for the new VW Currently in production: injection moulded exterior comPolo and Škoda Rapid, fender protectors for VW Tiguan and ponents wheel arch liners for Škoda Octavia Technologies: injection moulding Sales Markets: Russia Integrated Annual Report 2018 43 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance Corporate matrix 99.99% AO AD Plastik Togliatti Vintai, Samara, Russia 100.00% ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga Kaluga, Russia AD PLASTIK d.d. Solin, Hrvatska 100.00% ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac, Serbia 100.00% Tisza Automotive Kft. 50% Tiszaújváros, Hungary Euro Auto Plastic Systems S.R.L. Mioveni, Romania 100.00% AD PLASTIK d.o.o. Novo mesto, Slovenia 44 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Governance in the AD Plastik Group In the AD Plastik Group we strive for the realization of our Members of the Committee are mostly directors of certain strategic goals along with the development and organic areas and in such a manner the most important topics regrowth of the company as well as achievement of successgarding social responsibility have been delegated to the ful financial results. Corporate social responsibility is an inhighest functions within the company. Their task is to develtegral part of our business activities and relations with the op strategy of development and improvement of corporate stakeholders and the company’s long-term strategic direcsocial responsibility within the Group in agreement with the tion. We want to be recognized and acknowledged as a deManagement Board, to implement and promote changes sirable partner and employer and we build our image with a and promotions among employees and to follow the prohigh level of responsibility and care for all our stakeholders gress and results of their implementation. The Committee and the environment in which we conduct business. is once a year obliged to make, submit and present the results, plans and work strategy to the Management Board and We have set high standards of corporate and social responduring the year individual representatives meet regularly in sibility of business operations and for their successful realorder to inform and coordinate necessary changes, impleization complying with the company’s key values – quality, mentation of planned and realization of additional activities reliability, responsibility, innovativeness, respect, commitwith the highest management bodies. ment and togetherness is inevitable. All Group employees must abide by established business standards in order to Ad Plastik Group applies Code of Corporate Governance of respect human rights, avoid conflicts of inerest and any kind the Zagreb Stock Echange and since ADPL share was listed of corruption and to maintain high business and efficency in the Prime Market of Zagreb Stock Exchange at the end of transparency. last year, it means higher requirements for transparency and additional responsibility in conducting business. Therefore a AD Plastik Group’s Management Board founded in 2016 a Dividend Policy was published in 2018 so that our existing Committee for implementing activities related to corporate and future shareholders, as well as all other stakeholders, social responsibility, all with the aim of incorporating corcan have a clear insight into the business strategy regarding porate social responsibility into operational processes. The dividend payment. Committee consists of eight members, whose mandatory members are employees performing executive functions During the 2018 we have not informed our stakeholders or directly subordinate employees from the areas of human about the conflicts of interest of the highest management resources, environmental protection, occupational safety, body because they did not exist. Furthermore, the company quality, purchasing, finances and legal affairs. The main task does not have a controlling shareholder nor mutual shares of the Committee is to improve corporate social responsiwith suppliers and other stakeholders. bility at all Group’s production sites as well as to develop a strategy and activity plan that is proposed to the Management Board. Since 2018 the Committee has been directly responsible to the President of the Management Board, thus showing significance and importance of corporate social responsibility within the company. Integrated Annual Report 2018 45 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure Supervisory Board The company’s corporate governance strcuture is based on a dualist system consisting of the Management Board and During the reporting period four regular meetings of the the Supervisory Board. The four key functions of the comSupervisory Board were held as well as three extraordinary pany are constituted by the Management Board, Supervimeetings in accordance with the rules of procedure for the sory Board, General Assembly and the Audit Committee. Supervisory Board regarding extraordinary meetings. At the end of 2018 members of the Supervisory Board Zoja Crnečki and Hrvoje Jurišić resigned for personal reasons. Membership resignations become effective on the day of the first General Assembly that will be held in 2019 when the new members will be elected. Ivka Bogdan and Bože Plazibat have been proposed for new members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board consists of seven members, four of which are elected by the General Assembly to a four-year mandate with the possibility of reelection. One member is General Assembly appointed by the Workers’ Council to a four-year mandate, while two members are appointed by the shareholder – A regular session of the General Assembly was held on July Open Joint Stock Company Holding Autokomponenti to a 12, 2018 at which, in accordance with the Company Act four-year mandate with the possibility of reelection. and Company Charter, the following decisions were adopted: decision on the acceptance of the Annual Report on Supervisory Board controls the business conduction of the the state of AD Plastik Group for the year 2017, of reports company and reports it to the General Assembly. In written by the Supervisory Board on the conducted supervision of report it specifically notifies whether the company operates the Group’s business operations for 2017, appropriation of in accordance with the law and company acts and whethprofit, decision on dividend payment, decision on granting er the annual financial statements comply with the data in clearance to the members of the Management Board and general ledgers, including the review and examination of the Supervisory Board and on the auditor appointment. general ledgers and company’s documentation. Business governance of the company can not be transferred to the In the affairs of a joint stock company, the shareholders exSupervisory Board, but the Charter can stipulate that cerercise their rights at the General Assembly which is comtain types of business can be performed only with its pripetent to make decisions on the following issues: election or consent. The Supervisory Board gives prior consent to and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board, apdecisions related to certain types of business that can not propriation of profit, granting clearance to the members of be performed without it. Supervisory Board has the right the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, auditor to convene General Assembly when it is necessary for the appointment, amendments to the Charter, increase and debenefit of the company and all members share responsibilicrease in the share capital as well as on other issues for ty for control, supervision and business sustainability. which it is competent in accordance with law provisions. 46 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Members of the Supervisory Board Dmitry Leonidovich Drandin, President Hrvoje Jurišić, member Nadezhda Anatolyevna Nikitina, member • current mandate from October 19, • current mandate from July 20, 2016 to • current mandate from October 19, 2015 to October 19, 2019 July 20, 2020 2015 to October 19, 2019 • appointed by the shareholders of the • appointed by the General Assembly • appointed by the shareholders of the Open Joint Stock Company Holding Open Joint Stock Company Holding Autokomponenti Zoja Crnečki, member Autokomponenti • current mandate from July 20, 2017 to Ivica Tolić, Vice President July 20, 2021 Robert Kuhta, member • current mandate from July 20, 2016 to • appointed by the General Assembly • current mandate from October 30, July 20, 2020 2017 to October 30, 2021 • appointed by the General Assembly Igor Anatolyevich Solomatin, member • appointed by the Workers’ Council • current mandate from July 23, 2015 to July 23, 2019 • appointed by the General Assembly Statement on the remuneration employee in AD Plastik d.d. per each Commisions: policy for members of the SuperviSupervisory Board meeting and other • Audit Committee, four members sory Board members will be given remuneration • Remuneration committee, three in the amount of one average monthmembers Pursuant to the Charter, the members ly gross salary. The amount of remu• Appointment Committee, three of the Supervisory Board may be remuneration is determined on the basis of members nerated for their work; the remunerated average monthly gross salary of comamount shall be determined by a depany’s employee, achieved in the three Audit Committee is responsible for cision of the General Assembly for the months prior to the payment of this remonitoring the financial reporting process business year in which the remuneration muneration. Remuneration is paid after and determining whether all statutory fiwill be paid, depending on the results of each Supervisory Board meeting. nancial statements have been drawn up business and the company’s state. by the company and whether they are in line with the adopted accounting policy In the year 2018, the decision on the Supervisory Board’s Committees of the company and relevant accounting payment of remuneration to members standards and legal acts. of the Supervisory Board was not made. In accordance with the Act and Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board, President: Pursuant to the decision of the Generthree commissions have been estabIvica Tolić al Assembly, a remuneration for work lished, which support the work of the of Supervisory Board members has Supervisory Board with its work in such Members: been determined. The President shall a manner that they prepare decisions Bože Plazibat receive a remuneration in the amount that the Supervisory Board makes and Dmitry Leonidovich Drandin of 1.5 average monthly gross salary of they supervise their implementation. Igor Anatolyevich Solomatin Integrated Annual Report 2018 47 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure (continued) Bože Plazibat and Igor Anatolyevich Solomatin were appointed as Audit Committee members on December 15, 2018 at the Supervisory Board meeting. Four Audit Committee meetings were held in the reporting period, as follows: At the meeting held on April 16, 2018 the Report on realization of the Annual internal audit plan for 2017, Report on the implementation of policies on non-auditory services for 2017 were accepted, Annual internal audit plan for 2018 was adopted and Committee submitted report on the audit of the process of drawing up the Business Plan of AD Plastik Group for 2017. At the meeting held on May 24, consolidated and non-consolidated annual financial statement of the Group for 2017 was reviewed, as well as Auditor’s Report on the audit of aforementioned financial statements and on that basis the Audit Committee issued recommendations to the Supervisory Board for their adoption. Draft decisions on the appropriation of profit for 2017, dividend payment, appointments of auditors for 2018 as well as determining remuneration for their work were discussed. The Internal Audit Report for the first quarter of 2018 was accepted. At the meeting held on September 12, 2018 Internal Audit Report for the second quarter of 2018 was discussed and accepted. At the meeting held on December 13, 2018 Internal Audit Report for the third quarter of 2018 was discussed and accepted, new organizational chart of the Internal Audit Service was introduced and, accordingly, new Rules of Procedure for the Internal Audit Service, which the Audit Committee supported and granted permission to the Management Board for its adoption. The company meets the requirement of Article 99e of the Zagreb Stock Exchange Rules, pursuant to which at least one member of the Audit Committee must be independent, and according to that, we refer to Bože Plazibat. 48 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Remuneration Committee recommends the Management Appointment Committee nominates candidates for memBoard’s remuneration policy to the Supervisory Board and bers of the Management and Supervisory Boards, reviews remuneration for Supervisory Board members, which are the Management Board’s employment policy for senior decided on by the General Assembly, as well as the appromanagers and assesses the quality of the Supervisory and priate form and contents of the contracts with Management Management Boards’ work. When nominating members, the Board members. Committee meets the objectives set out in the Diversity Policy regarding the election of the Supervisory and ManagePresident: ment Boards’ members. Ana Luketin President: Members: Ivica Tolić Dmitry Leonidovich Drandin Ivica Tolić Members: Nenad Škomrlj Two Remuneration Committee meetings were held in the Dmitry Leonidovich Drandin reporting period, namely on May 24 and December 13, 2018. The Appointment Committee held one meeting in the reAt the meetings it was proposed that the Supervisory Board porting period, namely in December 2018. It nominated should make a decision on remunerating the president and candidates for members of the Supervisory Board and Audit the members of the Management Board for realization of set Committee, taking into consideration, inter alia, the criteria goals, all in accordance with the provisions of the managerial of diversity and independence, which is confirmed by the contracts. It was also proposed to make a decision on special candidates’ resumes. In accordance with the Code of Corremuneration payment to the president of the Management porate Governance of the Zagreb Stock Exchange resumes Board for his full engagement in the current mandate during have been published on the company’s web site. which excellent results of the company have been achieved in accordance with the business strategy and goals. Integrated Annual Report 2018 49 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure (continued) Management Board AD Plastik Group’s Management Board is appointed and reThe Management Board’s performance is assessed and pealed by the Supervisory Board and it is in charge of runevaluated by the Supervisory Board at the regular meetings ning the business of the joint stock company on its own and it is based on business performance indicators as well responsibility. By doing that, the Management Board must as on maintaining and building a positive image of the comhave the protection of the Company’s interests in mind, pany in all the relevant public. which includes the interests of the shareholders, employees and general interests. In accordance with the Charter, Management Board may be comprised of three to eight members and the current ManRunning the business includes defining the corporate funcagement Board has three members. The mandate of the tions and their tasks, representing the company individually, Management Board’s members lasts up to five years with drafting decisions (economic, development, social and envithe possibility of reelection without limiting the number of ronmental policy) and general acts and contracts within the mandates. Each member of the Management Board repreGeneral Assembly’s jurisdiction, enforcing decisions issued sents the company independently and individually and the by the General Assembly within its jurisdiction, submitting members are elected in accordance with their expertise and reports to the Supervisory Board, submitting consolidated the necessary experience. annual reports to the General Assembly, activities related to the management of subsidiaries and participating in the In accordance with the Diversity Policy of the Management management of affiliates. The Management Board direcly and Supervisory Boards members that is published on comparticipates in development, so it proposes and approves pany’s website, the candidates choice is based on the critestatements on vision, mission and values of the company, its ria of possessing skills and experience, industry knowledge strategies, policies and goals. It is responsible for the quality as well as personal qualities and integrity. In doing so, dimanagement of potential business risks and at the regular versity criteria are taken into consideration, such as gender, meetings it reviews economic, environmental and social image, length of service, nationality and individual differences pacts of the company. in professional and personal experience. 50 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Marinko Došen was born in Rijeka in 1963, where he graduated from the Faculty of Engineering with a Master’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering. He completed an MBA programme at the Zagreb School of Business, specialization Petroleum, and during his carrer he attended several additional seminars and professional training courses in Croatia and abroad. He started his career as an intern in the Croatian petrochemical industry and held several managerial and executive functions from 1997 to 2004, including the position of the President of the Management Board of DINA. Afterwards, as the director of the investment company CocaCola Bottling Energy, he managed the construction of several energetic projects in the Republic of Hungary. Following this, he was the Executive Director and member of the Management Board of the company Trast, one of the leading logistics companies in the Republic of Croatia. As the President of the Management Board, he managed the project of the operative restructuring of the company Marinko Došen, President of the Mirna Rovinj. Management Board He started working in AD Plastik Group in 2012 as a • born on March 25, 1963 General Director of the company ZAO PHR (today AO • Management Board member since AD Plastik Togliatti) in Russia and he was appointed February 6, 2015 President of the Management Board in 2015. • current mandate from July 20, 2016 to July 20, 2020 He is specialized in change and crisis management. Integrated Annual Report 2018 51 Business 01 02 03 Katija Klepo graduated from the Faculty of Economics, University of Split and started her business career in AD Plastik's Department of Price Calculations in 1994. Afterwards, she worked as the Manager of Economic Affairs and Assistant Executive Director for the development of other programmes, purchasing and finances. She became the Head of the Controlling and Katija Klepo, Internal Audit Service following its formation, and was member of the Management Board in charge of in charge for financial supervision of business of all Sales and Strategic Purchasing companies within the AD Plastik Group. In February 2008, after performing duties as the Director of Con• born on August 9, 1969 trolling and Internal Audit, she became a member of • Management Board member since February 20, 2008 the Management Board of AD Plastik Group, which is • current mandate from July 20, 2016 to July 20, 2020 a position she still holds today. Mladen Peroš graduated from the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture in Zagreb, specialization Engines and Motor Vehicles and he began his business career as a construction engineer at the Research & Development Department of the company Končar EVA in Zagreb. He joined the AD Plastik team as a construction engineer at the Department of Construction in June 1999. His career within the company advanced quickly so he soon became a project manager, director of construction, director of development, assistant to the member of the Management Board for commerce and development, and member of the Management Board for commerce and development. During that period he Mladen Peroš, spent a significant amount of time in Russia, dealing with member of the Management Board in charge of market development and establishment of new compaDevelopment, Research and Tool Purchasing nies. Mladen was President of the Management Board of AD Plastik Group from July 2012 to February 2015, after • born on July 3, 1968 which he has been performing the function of a member • Management Board member since November 9, 2011 of the Management Board. • current mandate from July 20, 2016 to July 20, 2020 52 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 The Management Board has managerial contracts and fixed Pursuant to the Corporations Act, no member of the Managesalary as well as defined goals and bonuses which are usument Board may be appointed member of the Management ally paid out in the form of company’s shares. Based on the or Supervisory Boards of another company that operates in proposal of the Remuneration Committee, in 2018 bonusthe same line of work as the Company, without the prior cones were paid out in the form of shares to the members and sent of the Supervisory Board. They may also not, without the president of the Management Board of the company based consent, take part in the decision-making process or closing on decisons of the Supervisory Board. Total accrued remulegal deals if their legal representative, procurator or proxy of nerations to the members of the Supervisory and Managethe other contracting party is their blood relative or spouse, ment Boards and Executive Directors for 2018 amounted to cohabiting partner or in-law relative up to the second degree. HRK 12,499,123.43. Members of the Management Board may not take part in the decision-making process connected with any legal affair in 38 meetings of the Management Board were held in 2018 which there is a conflict of interest between the member of and president of the Management Board of the company is the Management Board and the Company. The Management also responsible for the approval of the Integrated Annual Board members are obliged to inform the other members of Report of AD Plastik Group. the Management Board, as well as the Supervisory Board of the circumstances, whether or not they take part in the deManagement Board member Sanja Biočić resigned from that cision-making process or closing the legal deal. They are position in 2018 for personal reasons and her mandate terobliged to state all relevant facts regarding the nature of their minated on November 26, 2018. relationship with the other contracting party and their own estimate on the existence of conflict of interest. Integrated Annual Report 2018 53 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure (continued) Statement on the remuneration policy for members of Corporate functions the Management Board The corporate functions of AD Plastik Group are the followManagement Board members have signed managerial coning: Controlling, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Research tracts with AD Plastik, defining their rights and obligations, & Development, Sales, Strategic Purchasing, Central Logisas it follows: tics, Finance, Legal Affairs, Enterprise Architecture, IT, Occu• monthly salary is specified as the gross amount pational Safety and Health, Quality System and Production. • annual bonus (remuneration) based on successful achievement of set objectives, in which case they are The goals and tasks of corporate functions are defined by entitled to a bonus in the amount of at least one and up the Management Board and each corporate function has a to five average monthly salaries. This is decided by the clearly defined executive level or a corresponding manageSupervisory Board, depending on the degree and scope ment level that directly reports to the highest management of achieving the set objectives and the bonus is paid out body. The Management Board is reported about plans, proin the form of company’s shares gress and task execution at regular meetings. • life insurance policy with an annual premium in the amount of EUR 3,000 Regular consultations with individual stakeholders are con• right to use an official vehicle. ducted by the management, which is obliged to provide • severance payment in the event of the termination of the feedback to the Management Board. The Management mandate, unless the member was repealed prior to the Board occasionally, in accordance with the requirements expiry of mandate or resigned himself and needs od stakeholders, organizes consultations with certain Group’s stakeholders. It has continuously been workAccording to the Remuneration Committee proposals, at the ing on improving the collective knowledge of all relevant ismeeting held on May 24, 2018 the Supervisory Board made a sues related to company’s business and its sustainable dedecision on remuneration of the Management Board based on velopment. the successful business in 2017. All Management Board members have been remunerated with four average monthly salaExisting governance methods are regularly analysed and ries, while the president of the Management Board has been remore advanced methods are proposed in which corporate munerated with five average monthly salaries, all in accordance functions propose improvements on individual topics. Busiwith the provisions of the existing managerial contracts. Remuness and governance improvements are an integral part of nerations were paid out in full in the form of company’s shares. company’s adopted strategies and plans. According to the Remuneration Committee proposal, at the Supervisory Board meeting held on December 13, 2018 it was decided that president of the Management Board will be awarded with a special remuneration for the excellent results achieved during the mandate. This primarily relates to the realization of all planned strategic goals and key priorities, growth and development of the company. Special remuneration was paid out in full in the form of company’s shares, for which 10,000 shares were allocated. 54 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Management Ivana Filipović Hrvoje Jurišić Ana Luketin Denis Miletić Mira Pavić Executive Director of Executive Director of Executive Director of Executive Director Executive Director of Quality Research and DevelLegal Affairs of Production and Human Resources and opment Logistics Enterprise Architecture Edo Bacci Jurica Bečić Leo Bočkaj Zlatko Bogadi Marko Cambj Mislav Čelar Technical Director IT director Strategic Purchasing Director of the proProject Director Sales Director for Director for Investments duction site Zagreb Russian market and Services Josip Divić Daniela Džidara Mate Gojsalić Ivan Jurčević Krešimir Jurun Nino Kaćanski Finance Director Production Quality Development Director acting Development Controlling and AcGeneral Director of AD Director for injection moulded Director for thermoforcounting Director Plastik Kaluga and blow moulded med components and components non-woven textiles Andrija Kalajžić Jadranka Konta Daniel Kovač Alexandr Lebed Mira Marković Antica Perković Director of ADP MladDirector of OccuDirector of Tisza General Director of AD Quality System Strategic Purchasing enovac pational Safety and Automotive Plastik Togliatti Director Director for materials General Affairs Slaven Raguž Matko Serdarević Ivan Šobot Toni Štambuk Dragan Vuletin Director for developDirector of the proDevelopment Director Sales Director for EU Development Quality ment affairs regarding duction site Solin for extruded compoand other markets Director tools, machines and nents equipment 55 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure (continued) Management of subsidiaries (data as of December 31, 2018) AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russian Federation ADP d.o.o., Mladenovac, Republic of Serbia Lebed Alexandr Vladimirovich – general director Andrija Kalajžić – director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board • Katija Klepo president • Katija Klepo president • Denis Miletić • Mladen Peroš • Matko Serdarević • Denis Miletić • Sanja Biočić • Hrvoje Jurišić Other representatives • Ana Luketin ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, Russian Federation • Katia Zelić • Sanja Biočić Nino Kaćanski general director Supervisory Board Tisza Automotive kft., Tiszaújváros, Republic of Hungary • Sanja Biočić president Daniel Kovač – general director • Katija Klepo Róbert Gömöri director • Denis Miletić László Holló director • Matko Serdarević • Hrvoje Jurišić Supervisory Board Toni Štambuk president Ivana Filipović Josip Divić AD Plastik d.o.o., Novo mesto, Republic of Slovenia Mladen Sopčić – director 56 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 57 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Governance structure (continued) Corporate Governance Statement • AD Plastik applies the Corporate Governance Code (hereThe scope of work of Internal Audit Service refers to reinafter: the Code) published on the official website of Zasearch, testing and evaluation of the efficiency of the ingreb Stock Exchange, www.zse.hr. ternal control systems, reporting on established results and proposing solutions to the management, as well as to • The Company has not adopted its own corporate governrisk management and company’s assets protection. ance code in its regular business operations, instead it has implemented recommendations and guidelines pre• Ten significant indirect and direct shareholders are listed scribed by the Code of Zagreb Stock Exchange. on page 65 of this report. The Company has no holders of securities with special control rights, nor holders of se• By regularly submitting Annual Questionnaire published curities with limitations on voting rights of a certain peron the website of Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr) centage or number of votes. The Company has no specific and the company (www.adplastik.hr), we thoroughly inrules on appointment and revocation of appointment of form about the commitment to the principles of corporate Management Board members, nor specific rules on augovernance and social responsibility. Corporate Governthority of Management Board members. The Company ance Statement signed by all members of the ManageCharter prescribes that two members of the Supervisory ment Board is an integral part of the Integrated annual Board are appointed by the shareholder Open Joint Stock report of AD Plastik Group that is also available on the Company „Holding Autokomponenti“ from St. Pertersburg, websites of the company and Zagreb Stock Exchange. Russia. • During the reporting period there were no deviations from The provisions of Corporations Act and Company Charter accepted recommendations of Corporate Governance are applied on all aforementioned relations. Code of Zagreb Stock Exchange regarding relevant facts, except for minor deviations from individual recommenOn July 20, 2017, the General Assembly gave authorisation dations. Detailed explanations regarding those deviations to the Management Board to acquire own shares on behalf are presented in the Annual Questionnaire of the Corpoof the company for the period of five years. rate Governance Code. On December 31, 2018, the Company owned 71,002 own • Internal control is performed by controlling and internal aushares. dit services. Controlling Department informs the Management Board on conducted control and Internal Audit Ser• Company bodies are Management Board, Supervisory vice informs the Audit Committee and Management Board. Board and General Assembly. Internal Audit Service is an independent and objective assurance and consulting activity that is governed by value • The General Assembly is competent for making decisions added philosophy with the intent to improve company’s on the following issues: electing and removal from office business operations. It helps the company in meeting its of Supervisory Board members, use of profit, granting goals through a systematic and disciplined approach of clearance to Management Board members, appointing assessing the effectiveness of risk management of the auditors, amending the Charter, increasing or reducing company, control and corporate governance. share capital and on other issues under its responsibility 58 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 as regulated by the law. Shareholders exercise their rights The Company’s Management Board was appointed in via the General Assembly. 2016, for the period of four years, and there was a change regarding Management Board members during the reActivities of the General Assembly are regulated by the porting period. Management Board member in charge of Corporations Act and the Rules of Procedure for the GenFinance, Accounting, Controlling and IT resigned for pereral Assembly published on the Company’s website (www. sonal reasons in November 2018. Balance has been esadplastik.hr). tablished according to the criteria of skills, experience and competencies, as seen from the resumes of the ManageMembers of the Management Board and Supervisory ment Board members. Board of the company are listed on pages 47, 51, 52. The Supervisory Board consists of seven members, three In accordance with the Act and the Rules of Procedure of whom are Russian citizens, while four members are for the Supervisory Board, the Company has established Croatian citizens. With respect to the gender criteria, the three committees whose activities assist the work of the Supervisory Board consists of two women and five men, Supervisory Board by preparing decisions that shall later and the age criteria was fulfilled by having a good age balbe taken by the Supervisory Board, and supervising their ance ranging from 34 to 67 years of age. Members of the implementation. The Committees are as follows: Audit Supervisory Board are listed on page 47. Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Appointment Committee. • The objective of the Diversity Policy of AD Plastik Group Marinko Došen, president of the Management Board applied on the Company managing bodies is to establish necessary standards ensuring the diversity of the Management and Supervisory Boards members. This improves the quality of their work and enables them to make better management decisions. Katija Klepo, member of the Management Board Appointment criteria are as follows: candidates’ skills and experience, industry knowledge, personal qualities and integrity, while diversity criteria such as gender, age, length of service, nationality and individual differences in professional and personal experience are also taken into consideration. The Appointment Committee tasked with electing memMladen Peroš, member of the Management Board bers of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board implements the Diversity Policy objectives by suggesting candidates for members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board according to aforementioned criteria. Integrated Annual Report 2018 59 Business 01 02 03 Corporate governance (continued) Ethics and integrity During the reporting period, the company became 100% ownthe company in an advantageous position in relation to the er of the factory in Hungary Tisza Automotive, which is still in competition and customers. In 2018 no disputes against the the process of integration into the system of AD Plastik Group. company regarding the violation of the free market competition One of the first activities was to introduce employees of the principles and the above mentioned legislation have been initinew production site with the policies and business conduct ated nor finished. In all major negotiations confidentiality agreewithin the Group, thus a brochure Code of Business Conduct ments are concluded with the aim of protection and secrecy of and Policies of AD Plastik Group was made in Hungarian lanthe information presented. Keeping confidential and inside inguage and it was distributed to all employees. All new emformation as well as business secrets, prohibition of violation of ployees of the Group will also receive their own copy of the Code of business conduct of the Group, therefore prohibition of said brochure when getting employed. coordinated actions of entrepreneurs as well as any associations formed in order to disrupt market competition, are integral Code of Business Conduct promotes a culture of ethical beparts of any major business agreement within the company. In havior and clearly indicates the ways of reporting any possible this way we send a clear message about the basic principles of irregularities. All managers and employees within AD Plastik business and conduct of AD Plastik Group. Group are familiar with it and it has also been published on the company’s internet and intranet sites. AD Plastik Group has signed the Diversity Charter and the President of the Management Board is its ambassador, therefore in As part of Code of Business Conduct and policies of AD Plastik 2018 special attention has been paid to promoting diversity and Group, an Anti-Corruption Policy has been defined which preequal opportunities at all levels within the Group. Diversity and scribes zero tolerance regarding all forms of bribery and corEqual Opportunities Policy has been made, with which all emruption. All employees are familiar with the policy and they are ployees have been introduced to and it was published on the obliged to report any form or suspicion of conflict of interest internet and intranet sites of the company. We have also conor corruption practices to their immediate superior, human reducted a campaign on diversity and equal opportunities in order sources department or legal service. It has also been defined to raise the awareness and knowledge of our employees. Once that, when exchanging gifts, it is important to take care of their again a person to whom all potential forms of discrimination legitimacy and their value may not exceed EUR 200. Gifts from within the Group can be reported was pointed out. business partners may not be received at the time of sending a price quotation. During the reporting period, no report of corAD Plastik Group is against any material or financial support of rupt actions or suspicions of corruption at the AD Plastik Group political parties or giving political contributions. We promote level has been reported. By means of internal communication transparent and public advocacy of various public policies channels we regularly encourage reporting of any irregularities through business and interest organisations, public appearin business operations and at the same time we promote the ances, expert discussions or direct suggestions and comprinciples of the company and demand compliance with them ments to a competent authority. by external control of suppliers and customers. We are also the signatories of the Code of Business Ethics isThe Anti-Monopoly Policy of AD Plastik Group respects the basic sued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy, whereby we are principles of free market competition and, accordingly, forbids committed to exhibit responsible and ethical behaviour as a coordinated actions of entrepreneurs, agreements between necessary preconditions for effective functioning of the marthem and decisions of associations of entrepreneurs that aim to ket. By defining ethical criteria, we contribute to transparent or result in a disruption of market competition and which place and efficient business operations. 60 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 61 Business 01 02 03 ADPL Share As from December 2018 ADPL share has been listed on the during the reporting period amounted to HRK 203 and the Prime Market of Zagreb Stock Exchange, which requires the lowest HRK 169. Share turnover is at the level of last year’s highest level of transparency of the issuer’s business operaone, while trading volume is somewhat lower in accordance tions. Until then it was part of the Crobex index system and with the trends on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. in 2019 it will be part of CrobexPrime. The free float is just under 70 percent of the shares, and Interkapital vrijednosni The record profit in 2018 resulted in a 27.4 percent increase papiri d.o.o. carries out the activities of a market maker, proin earnings per share (EPS) compared to the previous year, viding the support to the company’s shares turnover. thus EPS amounted to HRK 21.3 compared to the previously realized 16.7. In the reporting period P/E amounted to HRK 8.3 The share capital of AD Plastik d.d. amounts to HRK and it is lower compared to HRK 10.1 realized in the previous 419,958,400 and it is divided into 4,199,584 shares with the year. This is an indicator that the price does not follow the nominal value of HRK 100.00. The shareholders are legal and profit growth, indicating the space for further growth of the natural persons from the Republic of Croatia and abroad that share price. The company’s profit growth has also reflected pursue their interest through the General Assembly and the on the return on equity (ROE) that amounted to 11.6 percent Supervisory Board in accordance with the legislation of the compared to 9.7 percent realized in the previous year. Republic of Croatia. Over the past years we have been working intensively on imThe trend of dividend payments has continued in accordproving the reporting and informing investment community ance with the dividend policy, thus in the observed year a and we will persist to do so in the future. Timely and accurate dividend amounting to HRK 10 per share was paid out, repinforming about company’s key activities and its results are resenting a dividend yield of 5.7 percent. In total HRK 41.3 the basis for quality and transparent communication with million of dividend was paid out. During the reporting peshareholders and other stakeholders. riod the Company has acquired 63,356 own shares for a total acquisition cost of HRK 11.5 million, which represents 1.5 percent of the share capital. The company has disposed 16,155 shares, representing 0.4 percent of the share capital and as of December 31, 2018 it owned a total of 71,002 own shares, that is 1.7 percent of the share capital of the company. Through the Employee Stock Ownership Programme ESOP employees own a total of 46,756 shares, representing 1.1 percent of the share capital. In 2018 ADPL share price behaviour also surpassed Crobex trend, thus the price increased by 4.1 percent and as of December 31, 2018 it amounted to HRK 176, while Crobex dropped by 5.1 percent in the same period. As the price increased, market capitalization of the company has also increased and as of December 31, 2018 it amounted to HRK 739.13 million. Despite the decline in world and domestic indexes and the negative trends in share price of world-renowned automotive industry suppliers, AD Plastik Group’s share price has continued to grow. The highest share price 62 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Share trend ADPL (in HRK) 2017 2018 Index The highest price 175.9 203 115.4 The lowest price 137.1 169 123.3 Finalprice 169.1 176 104.1 Volume 340,285 290,281 85.3 Turnover 53,905,767 53,921,185 100.0 Market capitalization 710,149,654 739,126,784 104.1 P/E 10.1 8.3 82.2 EPS 16.7 21.3 127.4 ROE 9.7% 11.65% 195 bps ADPL share price and CROBEX index movement in 2018 +4.1% ADPL -5.1% CROBEX 205 200 1900 195 190 1850 185 180 1800 175 170 165 1750 160 155 1700 Integrated Annual Report 2018 63 Business 01 02 03 ADPL Share (continued) Ownership structure 30+21+2015122E 12.25% 1.69% OTHER TREASURY INSTITUIONAL SHARES INVESTORS 30.00% OAO HAK 14.64% MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES 21.12% PENSION FUNDS 20.31% SMALL SHAREHOLDERS 64 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Investor Number of shares Share 1 OAO HAK 1,259,875 30.00% 2 Pension funds 886,820 21.12% Addiko Bank d.d. / Raiffeisen MPF category B 314,704 7.49% Addiko Bank d.d. / Raiffeisen VPF 203,884 4.85% Addiko Bank d.d. / PBZ CO MPF category B 121,980 2.90% HPB d.d. / Capital fund 116,541 2.78% Societe Generale-Splitska banka d.d. / Erste Plavi category B 48,389 1.15% Others 81,322 1.94% 3 Management and employees 614,752 14.64% ADP ESOP 46,756 1.11% Others 567,996 13.53% 4 Other instituional investors 514,305 12.25% Erste bank d.d. / Joint custodial account for a foreign legal entitiy 105,349 2.51% PBZ d.d. / State Street client account 72,388 1.72% Zaba / State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston 54,765 1.30% PBZ d.d. / Joint custodial account of a client 51,970 1.24% Splitska banka d.d./ OTP index fund 33,797 0.80% Others 196,036 4.67% 5 Small shareholders 852,830 20.31% 6 Treasury shares 71,002 1.69% Total 4,199,584 100.00% 10 largest shareholders The company does not have a majority shareholder, and Significant changes in shareholdings among the top ten largthe largest shareholder is the Open Joint Stock Company est shareholders are noticeable in the Erste Plavi fund which Holding Autokomponenti from St. Petersburg, which owns exited the category of ten largest shareholders by reducing its 1,259,875 shares, representing a 30 percent share in the shares from 87,501 to 48,389 shares. Changes are as well visshare capital of the company. The Russian shareholder and ible regarding foreign investors that have custodial accounts Croatian pension funds hold more than 50 percent of AD (Privredna banka Zagreb/State street client and Zagrebačka Plastik Group’s shares. banka / State street bank and trust company, Boston). Integrated Annual Report 2018 65 Business 01 02 03 ADPL Share (continued) Events Calendar on Zagreb Stock Exchange Date 31 Jan 2019 Extraordinary General Assembly 21 Feb 2019 Unaudited annual report for 2018 4 Mar 2019 Supervisory Board meeting 4 Mar 2019 Management Board meeting 21 Mar 2019 Supervisory Board meeting Advance dividend payment (if voted by Management Board with prior consent of the 25 Mar 2019 Supervisory Board) 18 Apr 2019 Integrated (audited) annual report for 2018 29 Apr 2019 Financial statement for the first quarter of 2019 Presentation of the annual report 2018 and results for the first quarter of 2019 to interes30 Apr 2019 ted financial analysts and public representatives 23 May 2019 Supervisory Board meeting 11 Jul 2019 General Assembly 25 Jul 2019 Dividend payment (if voted at General Assembly) Financial statement for the second quarter of 2019 and semi-annual financial statement 31 Jul 2019 for 2019 5 Sep 2019 Supervisory Board meeting Financial statement for the third quarter of 2019 and financial statement for the nine 30 Oct 2019 months of 2019 31 Oct 2019 Presentation of the results for the first nine months of 2019 12 Dec 2019 Supervisory Board meeting there is possibility of change these dates 66 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Financial results 2018 nificant increase despite such trends. AD Plastik Group is comprised of Strong kuna against the euro has negthe following companies in the atively affected the revenue level realreporting period: ized in the parent company, while weak ruble when converting to kuna has AD Plastik d.d., Croatia negatively affected the revenue level AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia achieved in the Russian companies. ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia ADP d.o.o., Serbia Earnings before Interest, Taxes, DeTisza Automotive d.o.o., preciation and Amortization (EBITDA) Hungary of the Group in the reporting period AD Plastik d.o.o., Slovenia amounted to HRK 161.73 million, representing a growth of 2.08 percent com(hereinafter: AD Plastik Group) pared to the previous year. The parent company realized EBITDA amounting to HRK 81.11 million and compared to 2017 it decreased by 11.02 percent. This Audited results for 2018 show continuabove market growth, have had posiis primarily due to one-time costs of ation of very successful business of AD tive impact on business. launching new projects. Plastik Group along with record operating revenue and net profit achieved. In the reporting period AD Plastik Group The achieved growth in operating revrealized operating revenue amounting enue and favorable net financial result It was a project year with almost 80 onto HRK 1,321.25 million, representing a have provided a record amount of HRK going projects, of which serial producgrowth of 21.20 percent compared to 89.32 million of Group’s net profit which tion started for more than 20 of them. the same period of 2017. Revenue in increased by 27.23 percent compared New deals worth more than EUR 136 the parent company increased by 13.22 to the previous year. In the parent commillion were sealed for the well-known percent and amounted to HRK 944.97 pany realized net profit amounted to customers. The year was marked by million. Its growth was largely influHRK 88.96 million and it grew by even acquisition of Hungarian company enced by realization of new projects 66.60 percent compared to 2017. Tisza Automotive, by which the Group for Renault, Fiat, Volkswagen and Ford. The achieved results are a confirmation has realized the announced expansion Apart from recovery of the Russian of the correctness of the set business of the business. With this acquisition market despite the weakening of the strategy as well as an incentive for furAD Plastik Group entered a new, rapidly Russian ruble exchange rate, revenue ther plan realization. growing automotive market, expanding realized in the Hungarian subsidiary of its customers portfolio and ensuring its the Group was also an additional opfurther growth. erating revenue growth generator of the Group. In the observed period, the Recovery of the Russian automotive exchange rate of euro against the kuna market and stable European automoand the exchange rate of euro against tive market, in which AD Plastik Group the ruble have negatively affected the continues to achieve revenue growth revenue level which has recorded sigIntegrated Annual Report 2018 67 Business 01 02 03 Financial results 2018 (continued) Key performance indicators AD Plastik Group AD Plastik d.d. Indicators (in HRK 000) 2017 2018 Index 2017 2018 Index Operating revenue 1,090,140 1,321,254 121.20 834,654 944,974 113.22 Sales revenue 1,069,061 1,298,446 121.46 817,682 927,965 113.49 Operating expenses 1,014,868 1,250,387 123.21 795,273 916,903 115.29 EBITDA 158,434 161,726 102.08 91,155 81,113 88.98 Net profit 70,206 89,320 127.23 53,399 88,961 166.60 NFD 321,347 381,117 118.60 321,580 309,951 96.38 NFD/EBITDA 2.03 2.36 116.19 3.53 3.82 108.32 EBITDA margin 14.53% 12.24% -229 bps 10.92% 8.58% -234 bps Net profit margin 6.44% 6.76% 32 bps 6.40% 9.41% 302 bps ROE 9.70% 11.65% 195 bps 7.80% 12.45% 465 bps CAPEX 86,104 114,938 133.49 74,914 86,698 115.73 68 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Operating revenue of AD Plastik Group per markets HRK 1,321.25 million HRK 1,090.14 million Russia 25.83% • Revenue of AD Plastik Group in the EU and Serbian market Russia 26.22% increased by 21.83% • Revenue of AD Plastik Group EU + Serbia in Russia increased by 19.43% EU + Serbia 74.17% 78.78% 2017 2018 In 2018 AD Plastik Group realized reving period was lower by HRK 6.3 million enue realized in this market makes enue amounting to HRK 980 million in due to aforementioned impact. 25.83 percent of the total revenue of the EU and Serbian market and it was During the reporting year new deals the Group. higher by 21.83 percent compared to were sealed for the customers Ford, the previous year, being significantly PSA Group and Hella with the total valAverage ruble in 2018 was significantabove the market grow of 0.1 percent. ue amounting to EUR 110.7 million. ly weaker compared to the previous Operating revenue realized in this maryear, which has negatively affected ket makes 74.17 percent of the total revIn the Russian market AD Plastik Group the Group’s revenue from this market. enue of the Group and its growth was achieved revenue amounting to HRK We manage the negative impact of the mostly influenced by realization of new 341.34 million in 2018 and it is by 19.43 ruble by regular adjustment of sales projects for Renault, Ford, Volkswagen percent higher compared to the same prices according to the change in the and Fiat. period of the previous year. Revenue exchange rate. growth was above total sales growth Weakening of kuna exchange rate in the amount of 12.8 percent in the In 2018 new deals were sealed with the against the euro has negatively affectRussian market, due to the good sales customers Renault and Volkswagen ed the revenue level from this market, of vehicle models for which the Group with the total value of EUR 25.5 million. thus revenue generated in the reportproduces components. Operating revIntegrated Annual Report 2018 69 Business 01 02 03 Financial results 2018 (continued) Operating expenses Operating expenses AD Plastik Group AD Plastik d.d. (in HRK 000) 2017 2018 Index 2017 2018 Index OPERATING EXPENSES 1,014,868 1,250,387 123.2 795,273 916,903 115.3 Changes in the value of work in -6,399 -4,222 66.0 -3,392 -2,432 71.7 process and finished products Material costs 679,436 859,547 126.5 562,720 657,935 116.9 Staff costs 189,011 230,878 122.2 132,823 156,333 117.7 Amortization 83,162 90,858 109.3 51,774 53,042 102.4 Other costs 53,684 56,806 105.8 40,482 42,508 105.0 Provisions 6,290 5,009 79.6 5,415 4,705 86.9 Other operating expenses 9,684 11,511 118.9 5,451 4,812 88.3 70 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Net financial result During the reporting period significantly more favorable net filiated Romanian company EAPS as well as increment of financial result at the Group level and parent company level value of the financial share of the Russian company AD has been achieved compared to the previous year. Plastik Kaluga. Evaluation of financial share in Kaluga was made which was decreased in 2014 and in 2018 decrement At AD Plastik Group’s level more favorable result has been amounting to HRK 12.3 million was cancelled. Given that the achieved due to lower negative exchange rate differences parent company is no longer exposed to the ruble exchange and lower financing costs, while in the parent company it rate impact, negative exchange rate differences were signifwas more favorable due to dividend received from the aficantly lower compared to the previous year. Net financial result AD Plastik Group AD Plastik d.d. (in HRK 000) 2017 2018 Index 2017 2018 Index FINANCIAL REVENUE 26,870 19,905 74.08 59,741 78,468 131.35 Foreign exchange gains 26,175 19,522 74.58 12,894 7,613 59.04 Interest income 686 377 54.96 4,864 4,051 83.29 Dividends 9 6 66.67 41,983 54,536 129.90 Increase in the value of a financial share of a 12,268 subsidiary FINANCIAL EXPENSES 79,013 53,829 68.13 43,523 17,988 41.33 Foreign exchange losses 63,029 43,605 69.18 28,310 9,095 32.13 Interest expenses 15,984 10,224 63.96 15,213 8,893 58.46 FINANCIAL RESULT -52,142 -33,924 65.06 16,218 60,480 372.92 Integrated Annual Report 2018 71 Business 01 02 03 Financial results 2018 (continued) Financial position The financial position is stable, but compared to the previous is 3.82 in the parent company. In the last quarter of 2018 year it has been changed, mostly due to acquisition of Tisza reduction in indebtedness has continued, thus NFD in the Automotive and somewhat lower EBITDA. Enviable business Group decreased by HRK 21.3 million, that is HRK 39.4 million results and realized revenue provide further stable financial in the parent company compared to September 30, 2018. position. The debt ratio on the last day of the reporting period amounted to 0.50 at the Group level, that is 0.45 at the parent comNet financial debt of AD Plastik Group grew by HRK 59.8 milpany level. lion compared to 2017 due to financing acquisition of Tisza Automotive by means of commerce bank loan and due to Significant increase in net profit in the observed period has consolidation of credit obligations of the Hungarian comalso reflected on increase in return on equity (ROE) which pany. Net financial debt decreased by HRK 11.6 million in in the reporting period amounted to 11.65 percent at the AD the parent company by regular repayment of credit obligaPlastik Group’s level, that is 12.45 percent at the parent comtions. NFD/EBITDA amounted to 2.36 at the Group level, that pany’s level. Abbreviated balance sheet AD Plastik Group AD Plastik d.d. (in HRK 000) 2017 2018 Index 2017 2018 Index ASSETS 1,351,315 1,566,778 115.9 1,225,053 1,331,639 108.7 Non-current assets 918,702 1,001,601 109.0 850,423 911,298 107.2 Current assets 403,850 513,352 127.1 346,702 370,424 106.8 Prepaid expenses 28,763 51,825 180.2 27,928 49,917 178.7 LIABILITIES 601,527 782,628 130.1 529,392 598,486 113.1 Reserves 15,399 19,293 125.3 12,096 16,460 136.1 Non-current liabilities 204,298 277,670 135.9 202,445 206,328 101.9 Current liabilities 367,544 477,268 129.9 304,698 369,975 121.4 Accrued expenses and deferred 14,286 8,397 58.8 10,153 5,723 56.4 income CAPITAL 749,788 784,150 104.6 695,661 733,153 105.4 72 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Since 2017 key accounting judgement regarding accounting In 2018 accounting treatment for given advances for tools treatment of tools has been changed, thus tools are treated has been changed, thus they are now treated on advances as inventory from the moment of purchase to the moment for inventories instead of other receivables, where they were of start of serial production. With start of serial production, treated earlier, while received advances for tools are treated when significant risks and rewards related to ownership of on advances received. tools are transferred to the customer, if other prerequisites have been met, invoice is issued on tools or revenue generated from tools is accounted for, which is the main reason for growth of this item in the reporting period. Investments 2018 During the reporting period AD Plastik Group has invested mens were made regarding new machines and expansion HRK 114.9 million, which was significantly more compared to of capacity for realization of new projects. Permanent inthe previous year when HRK 86.1 million was invested. Over vestments are necessary to monitor technological and other HRK 87 million was invested in tangible assets, while HRK 27 industry trends, and thus they are a precondition for realizamillion was invested in intangible assets. Investments were tion of planned sales growth in the short and medium term. mostly realized at the production sites in Croatia and investIntegrated Annual Report 2018 73 Business 01 02 03 Financial results 2018 (continued) AD Plastik Group with consolidation of the corresponding part of the ownership share in affiliated companies In order to present a clearer picture of business, a compaamounted to HRK 1,723 million, representing a growth of rable, shortened, consolidated profit and loss account of AD 15.18 percent in the observed period. EBITDA amounted to Plastik Group for 2017 and 2018 has been created, with the HRK 227.1 million and it was somewhat lower compared to profit and loss account of the affiliated company Euro Auto the previous year. Plastic Systems s.r.l. Mioveni, Romania (50 percent of ownership of AD Plastik d.d.). Results of the affiliated company have been included in the results of the Group by equity method. Affiliated company Operating revenue of AD Plastik Group with consolidathas no financial liability towards AD Plastik d.d., nor loan obed corresponding part of ownership in affiliated company ligations towards external entities. In HRK 000 Positions 2017 2018 Index OPERATING REVENUE 1,496,292 1,723,474 115.18 OPERATING EXPENSES 1,353,503 1,593,504 117.73 Material costs 904,033 1,099,230 121.59 Staff costs 244,134 283,555 116.15 Amortization 88,213 97,135 110.11 Other costs 117,123 113,585 96.98 FINANCIAL REVENUE 26,871 19,905 74.08 FINANCIAL EXPENSES 79,288 54,222 68.39 TOTAL REVENUE 1,523,163 1,743,380 114.46 TOTAL EXPENSES 1,432,791 1,647,727 115.00 Profit before taxation 90,371 95,653 105.84 Profit tax 20,165 6,333 31.40 PROFIT OF THE PERIOD 70,206 89,320 127.22 EBITDA 231,002 227,104 98.31 74 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Abbreviated P/L and Balance Sheet of the affiliated company EAPS P/L in HRK 000 Positions 2017 2018 Index Operating revenue 836,378 827,197 98.90 Operating expenses 701,350 708,993 101.09 Net financial result -551 -786 142.77 Profit before taxation 134,477 117,418 87.31 Profit tax 22,742 17,701 77.83 Profit of the period 111,735 99,717 89.24 Balance in HRK 000 Positions 2017 2018 Index Non-current assets 62,542 65,441 104.6 Current assets 366,108 309,883 84.6 TOTAL ASSETS 428,650 375,325 87.6 Capital+reserves 182,924 171,146 93.6 Provisions 10,405 14,449 138.9 Current liabilities 235,321 189,730 80.6 TOTAL LIABILITIES 428,650 375,325 87.6 The company primarily generates revenue in the Romanian market and, apart from that, Euro APS supplies its products to the markets of Algeria, Morocco, Iran, Brazil, Colombia, South Africa, Russia etc. The dividend policy of the company EAPS remains unchanged – 100 percent of profit is paid out. Integrated Annual Report 2018 75 Business 01 02 03 Business risks In our business we are exposed to risks typical for economic Financial risks entities operating in the global market, especially to those in the automotive industry. We are also exposed to various The overall financial risk management is handled by the Fieconomic, political risks as well as to legislation of individual nance Department which provides services to other Group countries in the markets in which we operate. members as well. It coordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, monitors financial risks related Risk management is considered to be one of the key manto business and manages such risks through internal reports agement tools in order to protect the company from compeon risks that analyse exposures by the degree and magnitition, recognize opportunities and timely react to changes. tude of certain risk and undertakes activities in order to efAll risks have been regularly predicted and reviewed, taking ficiently manage risks and reduce them to the lowest level into consideration the impact each of them may have on popossible. Financial risks are connected to financial variables tential opportunities. We pay special attention to shortand which can cause difficulties in settling financial obligations, midterm business risks when defining the business stratliquidity, debt management, etc. egy and we observe them on micro and macro level in order to ensure sustainability of business over time. Financial risks we are exposed to: • Currency risk Various risk types we encounter are the following ones: • Interest rate risk • Financial risks • Price risk • Business risks • Credit risk • Operative risks • Liquidity risk • Legislation risks • Risk related to the share 76 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Financial risk management Currency risk AD Plastik Group operates in an international environemnt and it is mostly exposed to the currency changes of euro and Russian ruble and to a lesser extent to the currency changes of Serbian dinar, Hungarian forint and Romanian leu. We generate revenue in the European Union market mostly in euro and in the Russian market in ruble, thus Group’s revenue is exposed to currency changes of euro and Russian ruble. We are exposed to currency risk related to the presentation of business operations of foreign subsidiaries that generate revenue in foreign currencies, which is presented in kuna in consolidated reports. At the same time, currency risk exposure is a result of purchasing of raw materials that are mostly purchased in euro and most of the long term and short term loans are stipulated by contracts that contain a currency clause, that is they are related to euro. Since 2017 the currency exposure of the parent company to The currency risk includes the transaction risk and balance the Russian ruble has been eliminated, which is evident from risk. The transaction risk represents the risk of negative imthe significantly lower impact of negative exchange rate difpact of currency rate changes on cash flow from commercial ferences on the financial result of 2018. In AD Plastik Togliatti activities. The balance risk represents the risk of the value of currency risk has been reduced by refinancing payables in net monetary funds in foreign currencies being lower when euro towards the parent company, namely with commerce converting to HRK as a result of changes in currency rates. bank loan in rubles. With slightly higher financing cost compared to the one in the domestic market, a loan worth about The parent company is mostly exposed to balance risk and EUR 5 million was contracted with the aim of risk reduction. transaction risk when coverting euro to kunas. Strong kuna Members of the Group in Russia manage currency risk by usnegatively affects the revenue and this risk can be managed ing natural hedging, that is selling prices are being adjusted limitedly and we partially manage it by concluding forward with the customers according to currency fluctuation of the transactions of euro to kuna. ruble against the euro. Integrated Annual Report 2018 77 Business 01 02 03 Business risks (continued) Financial risk management (continued) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is related to the changes in value of a finanfixed, thus Group’s exposure to the interest rate risk from cial instrument due to changes in market interest rates. Interloan indebtedness is minimum. The average financing cost est rate risk is related to changes in assets and liabilities reamounts to 2.4 percent. turn, as well as to changes in value due to interest rate trends. The Group’s interest rate risk results from credit indebtedness The interest rate risk on assets generating revenue from inand partly from assets generating revenue from interest rates terest rates is related to decisions of the Croatian Nationof approved loans of the parent company to affiliates. al Bank on the interest rate level among affiliates. We have continuously been monitoring the changes and forecasts In the reporting period we have continued with the activities regarding interest rates, we have been simulating various related to reduction in financing costs and related to fixing situations, taking into consideration refinancing, recovering interest rates on loans. Financing costs have decreased by the current status and alternative financing. HRK 5.8 million, while interest rates on most loans have been 78 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Price risk Our business operations are exposed to price risk as well, which is associated with changes in prices of key raw materials and materials, transport, other production costs as well as with strong pressure from competitors and customers. In the automotive industry, product price calculation is open and thus the changes in price of raw materials, materials and other costs are adjusted with customers on a monthly, quarterly or semi-annual level, depending on the contract concluded with customer. The largest markets in which we provide our services and sell goods are European Union and Russian Federation. Based on market prices, the company’s Management Board determines the prices of its services for each foreign market separately. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a party to a financial instrument will not meet its obligations and hence incur financial losses to the other party. The Company assets exposed to credit risk consist mainly of loans and trade receivables. Loans are granted to subsidiaries and credit risk is under the control of the company. Trade receivables are made with minimal credit risk because we cooperate with customers that are financially stable companies with minimal charge risk, which is also part of the business policy of the Group. Five largest customers of AD Plastik Group are: • Revoz, Slovenia • AvtoVAZ, Russia • SMRC Samvardhana Motherson Reydel Companies, France • Renault, Russia • Hella, Slovenia Integrated Annual Report 2018 79 Business 01 02 03 Business risks (continued) Financial risk management (continued) Liquidity risk The liquidity risk represents the risk that the Company will ering the risks from business operations. Based on operatnot be able to meet its obligations towards its creditors. The ing business plans and planned investments, cash flows of responsibility for liquidity risk management is borne by the individual Group members for the following year per months Management Board which sets an appropriate framework, are created, as well as a long-term cash flow plan which are with the objective of managing short-term, medium-term then aggregated at the Group level. We monitor the level of and long-term financing and liquidity requirements. available financial assets and liabilities on a daily basis, and compare the planned and realised cash flow. The surplus of The liquidity risk is controlled through strong positive operfinancial assets is invested into deposits or is used for coverating cash flows which are generated, ensuring credit lines ing short-term sources of funding which are not necessary for capital investments and contracting affordable credit at a given moment. Thanks to successful business, the comlines which enable fast drawing of short-term funds for covpany has a stable monetary position. 80 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Poslovanje Business 01 02 03 Risks related to the Share The share market price is under influence of various facTo the extent to which this is possible, we undertake all nectors, starting from the volatility of the entire capital maressary activities for managing risks related to the share. We ket, macroeconomic trends in markets in which the Group publish all important information which could impact the operates, business results, dividend policy, potential new share price in a timely manner and we promote an open, acquisitions, investments, etc. All of them can affect the regular and transparent communication with all our stakedecline in share market price and consequently there is a holders. Prime Market of Zagreb Stock Exchange is aimed risk of the investor not being able to sell its shares at fair at launching domestic capital market and, consequently, market price at any given moment. affecting the share price trend in accordance with the results and business transparency. We are strongly focused The share price can also be affected by geopolitical situaon achieving set business plans and on further developing tion as we have witnessed in the reporting period. Despite the quality of business reporting and improving the high the company’s excellent results, price trend of our share level of transparency. and its lower valuation were affected by the turmoil in Italy, the weakening of the economy in Germany, trade conflicts between the US and China as well as Brexit. Integrated Annual Report 2018 81 Business 01 02 03 Business risks (continued) Business risks Business risks are present in everyday business activities of Having acquired the Hungarian company Tisza Automotive, the company and they directly affect its stability and mainwe have additionally diversified the business environment risk. taining competitive advantage. They are determined by the business environment in which the Company operates, level of specific industry’s cyclicality and regular business policies Risk of non-fulfillment of contractual obligations and decisions. Automotive industry demands strict adherence to the deBusiness environment risk fined terms of delivery of products in addition to providing set high level of quality of ordered products. We are exposed to The business environment risk includes political, macroethe risk of individual suppliers not fulfilling their contractual conomic and social risks present in the markets where the obligations in a timely manner, which can result in non-fulcompany operates. As a rule, the aforementioned risks canfillment of our contractual obligations towards the customer not be influenced individually, however, they can be diverin a timely manner. Such situations can lead to jeopardizing sified by operating in several countries. The diversification business relationships with the customers and negatively degree depends mainly on the risks present in the countries affect the business results. By constantly monitoring and where the company operates. evaluating our suppliers and primarily by their choice, we minimize this type of risk. At the same time, significant operAD Plastik Group is exposed to various macroeconomic enational attention and responsibility is given to the accuracy vironment risks, economic situations and trends in economof the fulfillment of contractual obligations towards customic activities in the countries it operates in. Political stability ers, what is regularly audited by them. at both global and regional level, especially in the countries in which we operate is an important factor in our business stability and it directly affects company’s results. Risk of competition The Group operates in a relatively diversified business environAn important factor in competitiveness in the automotive ment. Our production takes place in Croatia, Serbia, Hungary, industry is the distance between suppliers’ and customers’ Russian Federation and Romania, while the product export to production sites, especially when it comes to larger products. customers takes place globally. Due to dominant presence of Long-term and good partnerships, tracking technological inour products placement on foreign markets, major changes dustry trends, competitive prices and proven reliability and in macroeconomics of countries in which we have producquality are a prerequisite, but almost guarantee of sealing tion sites could negatively reflect on business performance, new deals. Good business decisions over the last several the ability to regularly meet obligations and on our competyears have ensured an increase in competitiveness and poitiveness in the global market. The sales of our products are sitioning of the Group as a supplier of high reliability, cost and affected by such macroeconomic variables as private contechnical competitiveness and flexibility in the demanding sumption, levels of disposable personal income and trends in automotive market. Almost all our production sites are locatthe vehicles market so we have been continuously monitoring ed close to their major customers and we have been conthe aforementioned macroeconomic factors. stantly working to raise cost efficiency as a very important competitiveness factor. With the acquisition of Tisza AutoThe European and global economic turmoils have affected motive, we have come close to a large number of customers the domestic capital market and thus the price of our share. in one of the fastest growing automotive industry markets. 82 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Risk of depending on one customer Despite the fact that Renault Group is still our largest customer and makes a large share in Group’s revenue, with acquisition of Tisza Automotive a clear strategy of expanding customer portfolio and its share in business has been realized. Over the past few years, Renault Group’s share in the total revenue has been reduced from 69 to 57 percent, while at the same time shares of FCA Group, PSA Group, Ford and Daimler have been growing. In the next two years shares will further be changed by increasing the number of deals for other customers and by introducing Suzuki into the Group’s customer portfolio. In such a manner we reduce the risk of depending on one customer. Technological risk In order to meet the growing market requirements, the automotive industry is unavoidably focused on investing in the development of new products and new technologies in order to preserve and enhance the competitiveness of its products. Technology plays a big role in added value, price and product quality. Falling behind on technological development can reduce competitiveness and weaken the acquired market positions, as well as reduce the chances of acquiring future business opportunities and consequently adversely affect business results of the company. The competition between car manufacturers in the market is stiff, so we continually monitor technological changes and invest into new technologies in order to maintain and increase our competitiveness. Integrated Annual Report 2018 83 Business 01 02 03 Business risks (continued) Operative risks Operative risk is related to losses arising from inadequate tems of early detection of operative risks and prevention of procedures and failed internal processes, human factor, syserrors and weaknesses in processes, procedures, potential tem or external events. By efficient management of operahuman errors or system errors as well as in unpredictable tive risks, better security (of employees, assets) is achieved, external events. Aware of the risks of reliability of IT business awareness is raised on the importance of existing procesolutions and business cyber safety, we have been continudures and creating new procedures, control of key indicators ally working on improvement, further development and imwhich need to be introduced and systematically monitored, plementation of new technologies into everyday business which in the end significantly improves the operational qualoperations. ity, efficiency and transparency. During the reporting period numerous activities have been We manage the operative risks through a developed process undertaken in order to improve IT safety and special attenquality system whereby we develop efficient preventive systion was paid to that issue in this report. Legislation risks We are exposed to the risk of changes in fiscal and other assets instead only on immovable property, as it was earlier, regulations which can directly positively or negatively affect has had a lower negative impact on business operations in our competitiveness. During the last year, there were no sigRussia. In Russia an increase in value added tax from 18 to nificant changes in fiscal and other regulations that would 20 percent has been voted, with effect from January 1, 2019, affect our business. Introducing non-taxable base of HRK which can affect the business in a manner of reduction in 5,000 in Croatia as well as introducing of tax-recognized desales of new cars. The parent company continues to use the preciation rate on intangible assets amounting to 20 percent tax shield achieved in 2012 on the basis of investing into a in Serbia have had lower positive impacts on business opernew painting line and it is not expected to pay profit tax up ations, while introducing obligation of tax calculation on all to and including reports for 2021. 84 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Business 01 02 03 Business Plan for 2019 Business Plan for 2019 has set the key goals of AD Plastik Group that ensure further growth and development of the company. Further increase in revenue, successful introduction of new projects into the production, integration of Tisza Automotive, further diversification of the customer portfolio, > 10% maintaining and improving the Group’s position as a supplier of high reliability, cost and technical competitiveness and REVENUE GROWTH flexibility, serial production using hot stamping technology and preparation for the implementation of MuCell technology are some of the goals we have set before us. Organic revenue growth with the existing customers has been ensured through new contracts, thus in 2019 serial production for capital projects for the key customer Renault Group begins. It is primarily about the projects Renault Clio 5 and Edison phase 2 (Twingo, Smart) that will be realized in Renault factory in Slovenia. Ford’s mini SUV Puma is also a very significant project, serial production of which will begin at the end of 2019 and which should double turnover with this customer already in 2020. 13% A further revenue growth of the Group amounting to more EBITDA MARGIN than 10 percent is planned in 2019, while planned EBITDA margin amounts to 13 percent. Net profit margin is expected to be above 6.5 percent and planned return on equity (ROE) amounts to more than 12.5 percent. New investments worth more than HRK 120 million are predicted and they are mostly related to capital investments in production sites in Croatia and Russian site in Kaluga. New investments are necessary for achieving planned sales growth in 2019 and mid-term. Business plan for 2019 provides stable cash flows of the Group and optimization of financial stability. Through the realization of plan, transparent and regular reporting, additional communication, reporting and technical activities we 6.5% want to ensure the company’s rise in value and further share price growth. NET PROFIT MARGIN 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2018 85 02 Sustainability Report Profile 88 Stakeholders 90 Employees 103 Supplier chain 109 Obligations towards external initiatives 112 Economy 114 Environment 118 Society 135 Other 158 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Profile AD Plastik Group announced its first report on sustainable Identification of material topics and business in 2012 and this is our sixth report in a row covering the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. We have boundaries published the Integrated Annual Report of the Group for the second consecutive year, and it includes the nonfinancial and The choice of material topics for reporting and setting their financial aspects of the company’s operations. Our previous boundaries has been made according to the influence of our report referred to 2017, and we published it in April 2018. business on economic, environmental and social aspects. The final selection of the topics was based on an analysis The Sustainability Report, which is an integral part of the Inand a combination of important themes related to business, tegrated Annual Report, has been prepared in accordance strategy, mission and policy topics and feedback from the with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) most important company stakeholders. Standard. The selected option was, once again, the core option, the same as in the previous report. AD Plastik Group The most important stakeholders of the company are cuscollects data for the Sustainability Report in all countries and tomers, employees, shareholders, financial public, suppliat all locations where it operates. ers, local and state administration and the community as a whole. Our goal is to involve our stakeholders in making reIn July 2018, AD Plastik Group became the owner of Tisza port to get as complete and detailed information as possible Automotive company headquartered in Hungary, and acon topics they consider important. cordingly, most of the report contains data for that site as well. Since the mentioned company has not previously unBy continuous consultations with individual stakeholder dertaken sustainability reporting, certain data are not availagroups we regularly review and improve our reporting and ble which is clearly outlined in the report. redefine the importance of specific topics accordingly. In addition, we conduct an annual survey among our stakeholdThe Integrated Annual Report of AD Plastik Group will be ers on the importance of individual topics. published on the website of the company www.adplastik.hr and on the website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange www.zse. During the reporting period, special attention was paid to hr. It is available to any interested stakeholder upon request. customers, employees and shareholders. Consultations were held with customers on the basis of their auditing and The business and the calendar year are concordant and AD evaluation by independent agencies, our corporate social Plastik Group reports in one-year cycles. In terms of verifiresponsibility and thus the topics they consider important cation of the Report, AD Plastik Group selected the Croatian were confirmed. Further improvements were agreed for inBusiness Council for Sustainable Development (HR BCSD), dividual notifications. Based on the agreement and changes an independent and the most competent institution for vermade within the company with regard to product traceabilification of this type of reports in the Republic of Croatia to ity through the successful implementation of the barcode give its independent opinion. tracking system, the importance of Marketing and Labeling topic has been changed. Contact person: In the observed period, special attention was paid to social Zoja Crnečki dialogue and improvements in working conditions, and in Head of the Committee for the implementation of CSR activities consultation with employees, the importance of the topMatoševa 8, 21 210 Solin ic Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining was informacije@adplastik.hr changed. 88 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Also, in consultation with employees, and based on the reer groups at the highest levels of management and it was sults of the survey conducted last year, the importance of established that selected topics and boundaries meet the the topics occupational safety and health, compliance with needs of the shareholders. environmental protection legislation, training and education, The chosen material topics and their importance and impact water and waste water and waste. make it possible to see the long-term efficiency of our comConsultations were conducted with different shareholdpany’s sustainable business. Economic Standards High Relations between Occupational employees and the safety and •• •• management health • Economic impact • • Diversity and equal opportunities Non-discrimination • Presence on the market • Employment Economic • Indirect economic impact impact ••• Marketing and labelling • Purchasing practice • • Compliance with environmental Freedom of association and of collective bargaining protection legislation • Purchasing practice Environmental standards Presence on Customer Indirect economic impact the market health and •• • • Water safety • Materials Training and education • Energy The impacts on stakeholders Local Waste water • Water communities and waste • Emissions • Waste water and waste • Compliance with environmental protection legislation • Assessment of the suppliers in terms of environmental impact Social standards • Employment Energy • • Relations between employees and the management • Occupational safety and health • • Training and education Emissions • Diversity and equal opportunities • Non-discrimination •• Materials • Freedom of association and of Low collective bargaining Assessment of the suppliers in terms • Local communities of environmental impact • Customer health and safety • Marketing and labelling Low The impacts on business High Integrated Annual Report 2018 89 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders In order to understand each other and achieve even greater cial Responsibility Activities and other employees with exprogress and development of the company, our long-term pert knowledge, depending on the area, are also included goal is to have transparent, clear and regular communicaas needed. The Company’s Management Board is regularly tion with all stakeholders. We adapt communication to their informed about the results and the area of improvement. needs since they come from different interest groups. By involving stakeholders, we want to improve understanding of The latest survey was conducted among various stakeholdtheir needs. Individual stakeholder opinions can affect our ers of the Group in 2018 and the next one will be carried out business, so we consider stakeholders’ involvement to be in 2019, following the publication of the Integrated Annual very important. Report. The survey involved suppliers, employees, educational and financial institutions, associations, communities The stakeholders of AD Plastik Group are all individuals, and institutions interested in corporate social responsibility groups, organisations and companies that have, or can have, of the company. a significant interest in the success or failure of the company. They are customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, Our customers as one of the most important stakeholders partners, financial community, local and state administration have been mostly involved in reporting on sustainability from and the community as a whole. the very beginning. Between us and most of the customers there is a signed agreement or guidelines on compliance Apart from the survey conducted annually, occasional conwith the rules of corporate social responsibility in the autosultations and meetings are the most common form of inmotive industry. Customers regularly evaluate our sustainavolvement of most stakeholders. There is still much room ble business through EcoVadis agency and recently Achilles ahead of us for improvement and development of their inAutomotive, and they also conduct the audits of corporate volvement, and by launching a new website we will make social responsibility at our production sites. Through audits an online questionnaire for assessing the sustainability reof corporate social responsibility by our customers, we export. We believe that we will facilitate the process in that change information on all key issues and accordingly we way and thus further motivate our stakeholders to engage work on improvements. in the development and progress of our reporting and busiThe opinion of our stakeholders is important to us and we ness. Consultations with stakeholders are the responsibility want to be even better by involving them. of the Committee for the Implementation of Corporate So90 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Results of the survey The results of the survey we conducted among our stakeoperations, but still slightly more attention is paid to social holders show that our stakeholders are satisfied with the and environmental topics. choice of material topics and the comprehensiveness of reporting on a particular topic. The survey was conducted with The first five places in the table relate to topics concernthe aim of identifying topics and perception of their imporing society and functional efficiency in social settings, with tance among stakeholders as well as adjusting the content special emphasis on the relationship that the company has that will justify their expectations and needs. towards its employees and customers. Four out of five selected groups of stakeholders hold that the topic of occupaOur stakeholders are almost equally interested in the ecotional safety and health is the most important topic. nomic, environmental and social impacts of the business Relations between the employees and the management 3,5 Water 3,6 Non-discrimination 3,6 Fight against corruption 3,6 Waste water and waste 3,6 Equality of salaries for women and men 3,6 Training and education 3,7 Following regulations 3,7 Customer health and safety 3,7 Occupational health and safety 3,8 Social topics Environmental topics Integrated Annual Report 2018 91 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) Customers Types of counselling and frequency As one of the most important groups of stakeholders in the company’s business operations, customers have • Visits/meetings (regularly) the ability to influence the decisions and policies of so• Audits (whenever necessary) ciety. They analyze, process and verify large amounts of • Written communication (regularly) information on which they base their business choices. • Satisfaction appraisal (regularly via specialised portals) They are involved in business processes, and their sup• Official website (regularly) pliers are not just service providers but partners and • Sustainability report (annually) associates. We build partner relationships with our customers at all stages of cooperation in order to contribDuring the reporting period in AD Plastik Group 44 audits by ute to the quality of the final product. This is reflected customers were held, viz. 13 in Croatia, 28 in Russia, and 3 on the success of our business, but also on our cusin Serbia. tomers’ satisfaction and the security of end users. Russian plants almost doubled the number of audits compared to the previous year, due to the launch of two big projects with a lot of different Ford EcoSport tools and the facelift of existing Logan and Sandero vehicles. Almost 50 percent of the total audits were conducted by Renault Group, while other audits were conducted by the customers VW Group, Fiat Group, VAZ, Ford, Nissan, Hella, PCMA and Webasto. 92 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Employees Types of counselling and frequency Satisfied and motivated employees who are the most valuable business resource are the most important for • Research of organisational climate and satisfaction (anthe successful development of the company. The exnually) ceptional expertise of our employees and their dedi• Notifications via e-mail (regularly) cation to work enable us to achieve the company’s • Notifications via bulletin boards (whenever necessary) business goals. By investing in the professional and • Internal newsletter (bimonthly) personal development of every employee, we achieve • Intranet (regularly) a competitive advantage in the labor market. • Sustainability report (annually) • Informal gatherings (regularly) • Individual counselling (whenever necessary) In the reporting period, regular activities aimed at better informing and high-quality communication with employees have continued. By direct, clear and frequent communication with employees, we encourage the motivation and success of each individual. Aware of the importance of communication as one of the key development premises, we apply the practice of employee engagement at all levels, areas and states of operations. In 2018, the company organised numerous internal and external workshops and education courses. The company organised the quarterly award ceremonies for employees on a regular basis, as well as festive gatherings at all sites, and also landscaping of factories area at all sites on the occasion of ADP Day which is celebrated on Earth Day. A common team building was organized for the managers of all the production sites, and Chat Rooms with the Management Board for all the employees. Humanitarian activities were carried out at all sites of the Group. We also supported informal sports gatherings of employees at all sites, and company representatives have already traditionally participated in the B2B Run business race in Croatia. The internal newsletter ADP News is published once every two months at all the sites of the Group, and since this year, it has also been translated into the Hungarian language and published in Hungarian language for employees of the new factory. Integrated Annual Report 2018 93 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) Trade unions and the workers’ council Types of counselling and frequency Trade Unions and the Workers’ Council are important target group of stakeholders and direct communication • Meetings/negotiation (whenever necessary) channel of the Management Board to employees. They • Internal newsletter (bimonthly) are regularly informed about all important changes with• Intranet (regularly) in the company, and through a social dialogue we have • Sustainability report (annually) been working on improving the working conditions and • Operating report to the Workers’ Council (quarterly, in creating a comfortable working environment. They parconformity with the Labour Act) ticipate in making important decisions about the position of company employees, and the representative of the In the reporting period, trade unions met with the employer Workers’ Council is a member of the Supervisory Board on several occasions during the collective bargaining proand is thus involved in supervising the company’s busicess with the aim of concluding the new Collective agreeness. The Workers’ Council represents the workers’ interment in Croatia. Maintaining a good social dialogue this year ests and regularly informs them about the issues related also took place during the collective negotiations involving to the position of the employees. Trade unions participate trade unions. The Collective Agreement signed in 2017 for a in collective bargaining decisions, and in the end they one-year term was in force in Croatia during 2018 and at the conclude the Collective Agreement with the company. end of the year collective bargaining for concluding the new Collective Agreement for 2019 began. The new Collective Agreement in Croatia was signed for a two-year term. In the Russian company AD Plastik Togliatti a Collective Agreement whose amendments were signed in the reporting period has been in force. The new associated company Tisza Automotive also has a long tradition of social dialogue and in the reporting period a Collective Agreement concluded for one year has been in force. 94 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Owners and shareholders Owners or shareholders of the company represent an extremely important public, so our goal is to build and maintain quality relations with shareholders based on regular, transparent and timely informing. By publishing notification on our website and on the Zagreb Stock Exchange website we want to acquaint our shareholders with all the important information regarding the company’s business. We regularly announcе new business deals of material significance for the company, based on which we can see the direction of development of AD Plastik Group and its future. Through detailed quarterly and annual financial statements, we want to inform shareholders about all relevant information that has affected and/or can affect the Group’s performance. The long-term strategy is always aimed at increasing the satisfaction of shareholders through increasing the company’s value and regular payment of attractive dividends. Types of counselling and frequency • Notifications (whenever necessary) • Financial statements (quarterly) • Shareholders’ General Assembly (annually) • Official website (regularly) • Communication via e-mail (whenever necessary) • Annual financial statement (annually) • Sustainability report (annually) Improving communication with shareholders, increasing transparency and timely informing on the all relevant facts have been our working priorities also in this reporting period. Integrated Annual Report 2018 95 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) Suppliers and partners Types of counselling and frequency Highly-established standards of automotive industry business are systematically transferred to the entire • Appraisal of suppliers (monthly) supply chain. By the prescribed procedures, in line with • Appraisal of quality criteria (monthly) the automotive industry standards and the UNGC guide• Surveys and questionnaires (annually) lines, we select our suppliers that we regularly assess • Visits (whenever necessary) and based on the results of the assessment we make • Audits (according to plan and need) decisions on continuing the business relationship. Part• Communication via e-mail (whenever necessary) ner relationships with suppliers, apart from continuous • Sustainability report (annually) improvement of their performance through monitoring the parameters of quality, pricing, delivery stability Particular attention in the reporting period has been devotand other criteria, are also aimed at raising level of their ed to development suppliers with whom a step forward can awareness of the impact of their business on the sociebe made in innovative solutions that impact on sustainable ty as a whole. We encourage them to act in accordance business (reduction of material consumption, lower weight of with the guidelines of the corporate social responsibility. products, use of recycled materials, etc.). In the reporting period approximately 150 meetings with suppliers were carried out, eight audits at the suppliers’ production sites were made, and 276 suppliers were evaluated through questionnaires. 96 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Financial public Types of counselling and frequency Our financial public consists of investors and creditors as extremely important stakeholders of AD Plastik • Official website (regularly) Group. We have earned their trust by our ongoing work • Notifications (whenever necessary) on improvements and we strive to keep it by timely shar• Communication via e-mail (whenever necessary) ing all the relevant information based on which they will • Financial statements (quarterly) be able to make the right business decisions. • Annual financial statement and report (annually) • Sustainability report (annually) • Roadshow (annually) By ongoing work on improving the way of financial reporting we want to increase transparency and to inform stakeholders regularly and timely about all relevant information that will be useful to them in creating a comprehensive picture about the company and about the adoption of decisions related to it. In order to further improve communication, last year the investor relations manager was appointed. Integrated Annual Report 2018 97 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) State and local administration bodies We want to make our contribution to the society as a whole through advocating improvements in business conditions and business environment. Through cooperation with the local and state administration bodies, we contribute to the development and social communities of all the locations where we operate, all in accordance with the policies and capabilities of the company. Types of counselling and frequency • Participation at public gatherings and conferences (whenever necessary) • Participation at meetings and consultations in institutions (whenever necessary) • Memberships in associations and organisations (regularly) • Visits (whenever necessary) • Sustainability report (regularly, annually) During the reporting period, the company’s highest managing body has responded promptly and in the best business manner to all inquiries and initiatives related to launching new projects and generally improving the business climate in Croatia. The leaders of the company were presenting their opinions at international economic forums, advocating exporters’ interests, removing business barriers, encouraging further development of production and commenting on laws and new financing programs and assistance to entrepreneurs. We provide our contribution to the development of the economy and the improvement of the business environment through our expertise and acquired experience. „Croatian French Economic Forum“ was held in Paris and President of the AD Plastik’s Management Board Marinko Došen participated as one of the representatives of the Croatian entrepreneurs. 98 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 99 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) Community Our business has a significant economic impact on the community, and we build our positive and significant reputation with our corporate culture and relationship with the community. We regularly participate in projects, initiatives, and activities that have a positive impact on the community we work in. By participating in conferences, forums and round tables, we want to contribute to community development, and we also develop regular cooperation with the university community. We also provide support to the community and its projects through donations and sponsorships, support of professional associations and citizens’ associations, and we make the most contribution by encouraging the employment of the local population. Also, Open Doors Days are organized at all our sites for different groups of community in which we operate. Types of counselling and frequency on the topic „Economic diplomacy and internationalization of business“ attended by the President of the Manage• Participation at conferences (whenever necessary) ment Board of the company Marinko Došen was held. • Memberships (regularly) • The conference entitled „M&A mergers and acqusitions • Open Doors Days (whenever necessary) in function of growth and development“, organized by the • Visits (whenever necessary) Caper and Lider, within which a round table attended by • Sustainability report (annually) executive director for research and development of AD Plastik Group Hrvoje Jurišić was held. In the reporting period, representatives of AD Plastik Group • The conference entitled „Capital Market Awakening“ orattended and actively participated in a series of economganized by HANFA and Hanza media within which a panel ic events concerning the topic of competitiveness, export, discussion attended by the President of the Management monetary policy, corporate social responsibility, financial Board Marinko Došen was held. business and corporate governance. • „The challenges of introducing the euro in Croatia“ a panel discussion attended by the Member of the Man• The conference entitled „Romanian Day“, organized by agement Board for finance, accounting, controlling and IT InterCapital within which a panel discussion attended by Sanja Biočić. the President of the Management Board Marinko Došen • „The kind of Croatia we need 5 years of EU membership“ was held. the conference of Večernji List, within which a panel dis• The conference entitled „International Economic Concussion entitled “Positive experiences in the EU” attended necting“, organized by the Croatian Chamber of Economy by Marinko Došen, President of the Management Board, Rijeka County Chamber within which a panel discussion was held. 100 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 We presented AD Plastik Group at business fairs in Split, Zagreb, and Mladenovac, but also at the international scientific conference Mechanical Technologies and Structural Materials – MTSM 2018 in Split and Rotaraction – rotate the industry in Zagreb. We presented our experiences with recruitment in the company at Open Doors Days for engineering colleges. We participated in the Fair “Virtual Career and Knowledge Days” organized by the website Moj Posao. For several years we have been involved in the project entitled “Experience is Worth More than Gold” that provides students with disability and students with a lower socio-economic status with an opportunity to undertake internship, thus providing a possible further job. Accordingly, also this year we enabled one of the students to gain her first business experience. In the past year, 35 students’ internships and seven scholastic practices were realized and seven master’s thesis were Like every year, in the reporting period, we have participatmentored. ed in a number of activities relating to the cooperation of the economic and academic community with the company, At the ceremony of Teaching Base Day of the University of hosted a large number of college and high school students Split, thanks to mentors who devote their acquired knowlfrom all over the world, visited various fairs and provided proedge and experience to their students, AD Plastik Group refessional practices. Our factories were visited by the mayors ceived the award for excellent cooperation, and a student of the two largest cities in Croatia, we hosted the British and who undertook internship in our company was also awarded. Slovak ambassadors, a Japanese delegation visiting Croatia and American scientists from San Diego and Penn State University. The President of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce with his closest associates visited the plant in Mladenovac and got acquainted with the production processes. Student visits to our sites have been intensified, thus besides the regular visits of students from the Faculty of Chemistry and Technology, FESB and FSB, US students and students of the Faculty of Technology from Tuzla visited us. There were also high school students among them, and regular cooperation was achieved with Sustainable Development High School from Split. Integrated Annual Report 2018 101 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Stakeholders (continued) Media Types of counselling and frequency We regularly transmit information about business operations and relevant changes in the company to the wid• Press releases (regularly) er public and all interested stakeholders via media. Also, • Media conferences (whenever necessary) on a regular basis and without delay, we respond to all • Visits (whenever necessary) inquiries received from the media, all in order to main• Statements (regularly) tain a successful cooperation, as well as clear, accurate • Panels (occasionally) and timely communication. We maintain regular cooperation with the media so that they and all our stakeholdIn the reporting period, we have continued our regular and ers could be timely and accurately informed. structured communication with the media, above all by sending regular announcements, by regularly responding to inquiries and by giving statements releted to relevant topics. 102 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Employees We operate in times of the frequent market volatility that We build a corporate culture that promotes proactivity, perdemands fast and efficient adjustments, and this is greatly formance reward, recognition of excellence, development of manifested in human resource management. Our task is to collegiality and respect for personal integrity at all levels. In constantly adjust to trends and improve our work in order all our activities and programs we encourage the diversity to motivate and retain excellent employees. One of the key and principles of equal opportunities. levers of successful realization of business goals is the strategy of development and management of human resources. In order to improve working conditions and ensure a more comfortable and quality business environment, significant In order to keep pace with the dynamic labor market, profunds have been invested in modernizing and restructuring cesses and tools of human resources management are fothe infrastructure at almost all of the Group’s sites in 2018. cused on the development of engaging and efficient behavAmong the major projects, the most important are the renoior of all employees in order to achieve strategic goals as a vation and extension of the parking space and the complete guarantee of long-term success of the company. renovation of the restaurant for employees in Zagreb, while the administrative building in Solin has been renovated, in By conducting regular analyses and research among the which, besides the Management Board Offices, there are employees, we have been constantly working on developing sales, research and development offices. The meeting rooms and improving employee motivation tools in order to raise in the company’s headquarters have been completely renothe level of satisfaction and improve working conditions. vated and equipped with latest technologies. Regular individual and group conversations with employees, along with results of satisfaction surveys, give us the highIn the reporting period, AD Plastik Group expanded to anest quality insight into employee perception, their satisfacother member in Hungary where the integration process tion and opportunities for improvement and progress. These has been carried out. This company has more than 300 are also guidelines for further creation of action plans in oremployees to whom the Group and the basic elements and der to create a stimulating atmosphere among employees. guidelines of business operation have been presented during the takeover. The programs and activities that the Group By recognizing the potential, competence and expertise of conducts, and which will be implemented at the new site, employees, the human resources service creates guidelines have also been presented to them. Integration has also been and plans for their professional and personal development. carried out in the area of corporate social responsibility, so Committed and competent employees are key to success, in the Tisza Automotive the Code of Business Conduct and and their recognition and evaluation is the basis for human Policies have been prepared in Hungarian language and disresource development. Despite the size of the company ittributed to all employees. self, through the realization of our activities, we want to retain individual approach to employees in order to respect the As of 31 December 2018, AD Plastik Group employed the personal integrity of each individual. total of 2,876 persons, out of which 1,477 in Croatia, 833 in Russia, 331 u Hungary, 229 in Serbia and 6 in Slovenia. CroIn AD Plastik Group we recognize different motivations and atian employees make the largest share in the Group, while drivers of individuals or groups of employees, and we enemployees aged between 30 and 35 prevail. Trends show courage the recognition and evaluation of individual affinia stable number of employees for several years now, and a ties and potentials for the purpose of better targeting further significant increase in the reporting period is the result of the professional development. acquisition of Tisza Automotive in Hungary. Integrated Annual Report 2018 103 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Employees (continued) Share of employees of AD Plastik Group by region and type of employment contract Number of employees of the AD Plastik Group by region and type of employment contract for 2018 As on 31/12/2018 Subject to contract Temporary Employed Indefinite Fixed Share 2018 State Location and occasional in total term term employment* Croatia Solin and Zagreb 1008 469 14 1477 51.36% Togliatti 613 0 0 613 21.31% Russia Kaluga 220 0 0 220 7.65% Serbia Mladenovac 168 61 0 229 7.96% Hungary Tiszaujvaros 331 0 118 331 11.51% Slovenia Novo Mesto 6 0 0 6 0.21% TOTAL 2346 530 132 2876 * Temporary employment agencies, student services, vouchers and services contracts Share of employees of AD Plastik Group by type of contract 78+18+4E The share of various types of contracts of the employees of AD Plastik Group in 2018 During the observed period the vast ma77.99% Employed at jority of employees still have an indefinite indefinite term term contract, namely 77.99 percent of them, while 17.62 percent of employees 17.62% Employed at fixed have definite term contracts. Due to the term impact of the structure of employees at the new site in Hungary, in 2018 the per4.39% Temporary and centage of contracts for an indefinite peoccasional employment riod decreased by four percent and at the same time the share of temporary employees increased. 104 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 The share of employees of AD Plastik Group by country of operation 54+27+1171E The share of employees of AD Plastik Group by state of operation in 2018 51.36% Croatia Although the share of employees per country 28.98% Russia changed in the reporting period due to a new factory in Hungary, the highest number of employees dur11.51% Hungary ing this reporting period still refers to Croatia, namely 51.36 percent. It is followed by Russia with 28.96 7.96% Serbia percent, and a significant share of 11.51 percent of the Group’s employees now refers to Hungary. 0.21% Slovenia Employees of AD Plastik Group by type of performed work 53+45+2E The share of employees of AD Plastik Group by type of work in 2018 On the basis of the type of work they perform, employees of the Group are divided into management (the Management Board and top management consisting of executive directors, directors, assis53% Direct employees tants and deputy directors), indirect employees (administration employees and production admin45% Indirect employees istration employees), and direct workers (workers in production). 2% Management In the observed period, direct workers make the largest part of the total number of employees. Compared to the previous reporting period, the share of management has been reduced due to higher employment of direct and indirect employees at all sites, and partly also due to the acquisition of Tisza Automotive. Integrated Annual Report 2018 105 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Employees (continued) 0+4+40+70+80+77+73+54+54+35+13 Share of employees of AD Plastik Group by age and gender Age structure of AD Plastik Group’s employees in 2018 There are no significant changes in the age structure of employees of AD 15.99% Plastik Group, so the largest number of 15.37% 14.60% employees is still in the age group 30– 14.08% 35, and more than 60 percent of employees are between 25 and 45 years 10.74% 10.85% old. The average age of the Group’s female employees is 41 years and the 8.00% male employees – 39 years. The small7.02% est number of employees is in the age group 18–20, and a small percentage is older than 60 years. 2.50% 0.80% No one under the age of 15 or under 18 0.00% years worked in the AD Plastik Group in <18 18-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 >60 the reporting period, nor in any previous period, confirming that the company supports the ban on child labor. 0+3150+ 3016+460+4734810+ 5240+920+4147880+ 3747+840+2536620+ 2439+620+20400+ 114+14 Gender structure of employees of AD Plastik Group by age 500 400 300 200 100 0 <18 18-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 >60 Men Women Total 106 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Gender structure of employees of AD Plastik Group in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 100% 90% 80% 47.90% 47.66% 47.38% 47.44% 49.72% 70% 60% Men 50% Women 40% 30% 52.10% 52.34% 52.62% 52.56% 50.28% 20% 10% 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Women make 49.72 percent of employees in the overall structure by gender for 2018, and thus the share of women increased by more than two percent compared to the previous period. Percentage of the total number of employees covered by collective agreements Along with the constant stimulation and promotion of progress and improvement of social dialogue within the Group, collective negotiations with trade unions in the Croatia were carried out in the reporting period. The negotiations resulted in the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement, to the employees’ satisfaction, which was signed for a two-year term thus providing employees with better working conditions. In AD Plastik Togliatti amendments to the collective agreement were signed, while a new site in Hungary has also signed a Collective Agreement. At the level of the AD Plastik Group, 84.2 percent of employees are covered by collective agreements, while the regulations in accordance with the legal provisions in individual countries of operation apply to the other employees. Integrated Annual Report 2018 107 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 108 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Supplier chain When choosing suppliers, we are guided by the principles of sponsibility and control of its implementation, the survey is policy of sustainable suppliers management. Before enterconducted once a year through a self-assessment quesing the AD Plastik Group’s internal supplier base, each suptionnaire among all suppliers. According to the annual plan plier is required to fill out a self-assessment questionnaire audits are carried out at supplier sites. on compliance with corporate social responsibility guidelines. Suppliers are selected based on the obtained data and Within the company, suppliers are divided into three groups: the prescribed internal procedures, and at the early stage suppliers of basic material, components and packaging, of purchasing, the potential risks of negative impacts in the equipment suppliers (molds, tools, machines and spare supply chain are reduced. parts) and suppliers of services. The company’s policy is to build long-term partnerships with customers as well as with Local suppliers have a priority in the purchasing process besuppliers. Formalization of mutual contractual obligations cause in this way we encourage their development and we partly results in the stability of the supply chain, but cooperachieve greater market competitiveness. The basic requireation is primarly based on quality, reliability and mutual trust. ment for selecting local suppliers is to satisfy the required specifications and quality requirements first. In the autoIn the reporting period, no comprehensive assessment of motive industry it is not uncommon that some suppliers are the suppliers’ impact on the society was conducted, alimposed by the customer, but they are still subject to high though some of the questions within the Self-Assessment standards and procedures of checking and control of corpoQuestionnaire regarding corporate social responsibility conrate social responsibility. cern the area of impact on society. In 2018, we were not able to timely evaluate all the sites in accordance with the new GRI standards. Referential documents Eight audits were made at the suppliers’ production sites • Sustainable supplier management policy in the reporting period, and 276 suppliers were evaluated • CII-6 purchasing procedure through questionnaires. At the Group level, 89 new suppli• Supplier selection procedure ADP-KOM-PR-1013 ers were introduced, out of which 15 percent were assessed • Supplier appraisal ADP-KOM-PR-1007 through a self-assessment questionnaire that includes • Questionnaire for self-assessment concerning questions regarding impact on society. No negative impacts conformity with the guidelines for corporate social on society and the environment were identified regarding responsibility any of the suppliers during the reporting period. One of the mandatory tools for better suppliers management are the inspection and supervision that are performed once a month in accordance with the prescribed quality procedures of the Group. After the supervisions have been carried out according to the evaluation procedure of suppliers, an agreed action plan is followed. Regardless of completing the self-assessment questionnaire when entering the panel of the Group’s suppliers, in order to encourage improvements in corporate social reIntegrated Annual Report 2018 109 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Supplier chain (continued) The share of local suppliers in the total value of purchasing Serial production of some vehicle models in the reporting Local suppliers are considered to be all suppliers registered period was completed and a large number of new projects in the countries where our production sites are located. By were opened, resulting in a change in the number and strucsignificant locations of operation in the supply chain, we ture of suppliers at almost all sites ot the Group. By taking mean production sites in Solin and Zagreb in Croatia, Vintai over Tisza Automotive, a new factory in Hungary, we have and Kaluga in Russia, Mladenovac in Serbia and Tiszaújváros also taken over a large number of new suppliers whose intein Hungary. gration into the Group system is still ongoing. AD Plastik, Croatia AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia Financial share of local suppliers increased slightly in the In the Russian market, a number of new projects that require reporting period, primarily due to increased orders and turnthe production of a greater number of injection moulding tools over. The share of import suppliers is higher than the share that can not be obtained in the local market has increased. of local suppliers due to the fact that there are no local supAs a result, the share of import suppliers increased, while the pliers that have the necessary materials and the quality relocalization of raw material purchases in accordance with cusquired by the automotive industry. tomer requirements takes place according to plan. The longterm goal is to increase the share of local suppliers of raw materials with their quality assurance and adequate deliveries. 40% 60% 52.61% 33.51% 31.39% 30.67% 50% 27.03% 42.01% 30% 32.88% 40% 27.06% 20% 30% 20% 10% 10% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 110 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia ADP Mladenovac, Serbia Situation at the plant in Kaluga is similar as in Vintai. By Unlike Russia, the share of local suppliers in Serbia grew in increasing the number of new projects and therefore the the reporting period due to increased services in this market. greater needs for making injection moulding tools abroad, This market for now has low opportunities for localization of the share of local suppliers decreased. However, activities higher purchasing values due to undeveloped raw material aimed at localization of raw material purchasing have still production required by the automotive industry. been implemented. The development of Russian suppliers of granules and other types of materials greatly contributes to this, as well as clear purchasing strategy of our customers in the Russian market, which promotes localization. 60% 50% 45.92% 49.82% 49.78% 40.37% 40.40% 50% 45.21% 36.85% 42.83% 40% 40% 30% 30% 20% 20% 10% 10% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tisza Automotive, Hungary This is a new site of the AD Plastik Group, and in the context 70% 65.21% of the availability of materials in the automotive industry, this 60% market is quite well developed. The factory is located in an 50% industrial zone with several significant Hungarian granule producers. This allows us to cooperate closely in order to 40% develop new materials, but also reduce logistics and other 30% costs. For this site we do not have the required parameters for the previous years so we can not follow the trends, but in 20% the reporting period the share of local suppliers is consider10% ably higher than the import suppliers. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018 111 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Obligations towards external initiatives The activity of the company’s management in the wider soresentative of the company in the said council is Zoja Crnečki, cial community, operation and management of national and Advisor for Relations with State Institutions and Funds. regional economic initiatives contributes to the promotion of the strategic interests of the Croatian economy. Thus, with President of the Management Board knowledge and experience we contribute to the developMarinko Došen is a diversity ambassador, ment of the community in which we operate. thereby contributing to raising awareness within the community about diversity and equal opporPresident of the Managetunities. He is also a Vice President of the HR BCSD Assembly. ment Board Marinko Došen is a member of the AssemWe promote the importance of probly of the Croatian Chamduction and export and the raising of ber of Economy, and memawareness on the positive impact of ber of the Management exporters on the Croatian economy in Board Mladen Peroš is the deputy president of the Economic whole via membership in the Club of Council of the County Chamber Split. We have a leading Exporters. role in the work of the national Plastics and Rubber Industry Association of the Croatian We participate in the work of the Croatian Business CounChamber of Economy and the regional Vocacil for Sustainable Development, the Community for tional Plastics and Rubber Manufacturing Corporate Social Responsibility, the Community for EnGroup of the County Chamber Split. vironmental Protection in the Economy and Community for the Human Resources Development of the Croatian We are the founders of the cluster of automotive parts manChamber of Economy. This way we want to advance and proufacturers, AD Klaster, which brings together leading automote corporate social responsibility within the economic and motive parts manufacturers in Croatia, and the President of wider community. the Management Board Marinko Došen is also the President of the Assembly of AD Klaster. The director of AD Klaster is We are the signatories of the Code of Zoja Crnečki, Advisor for Relations with State Institutions and Business Ethics of the Croatian ChamFunds in AD Plastik, who is also the President of the Manageber of Economy and the United Nations ment Committee of the Croatian Competitiveness Cluster Global Compact Initiative, thus we have commited to profor Automotive Sector and the President of Community of mote and support the ten principles of the UNGC and we also manufacturers of parts and accessories for the automopromote the seventeen sustainable development global goals. tive industry of the Croatian Chamber of Economy. AD Plastik Group is a member of the Croatian–Russian We represent the interests of exportBusiness Club, through which we work on the promotion of ers and raise awareness of their influeconomic relations and elimination of administrative barriers ence on the Croatian economy within between the Croatian and Russian economies. the Croatian Exporters Association, whose Vice President is Marinko Došen. Membership of the Moscow-based Association of European Businesses is We are members of the Thematic Innovation Council for a contribution to social engagement in Traffic and Mobility aimed at strategic management and associations outside Croatia. development guidelines for thematic priority areas. The rep112 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 113 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Economy Direct, generated and distributed economic value The reporting period for AD Plastik Group was another exPayments to the state in the form of property tax and profit tremely dynamic and successful business period. Directly tax in 2018, were positive due to the recognition of deferred generated economic value of the Group in 2018 amounted tax assets in Russian companies. A total of HRK 408 thouto HRK 1,321.25 million, which is by 21.2% higher than in the sands has been invested in the community through donaprevious year. Its growth, to somewhat more than 21.7 pertions, gifts and sponsorships. cent, is also followed by distributed economic value, which resulted in the growth of the retained economic value of 15.9 The aforementioned results in a higher retained econompercent. ic value of HRK 110.2 million, mostly used for investments aimed at further development of the Group. Distribution of economic value in 2018 by structure is quite similar to 2017. Growth in sales revenue follows growth in business expenses as well as increased payments for salaries and employee benefits. Payments to capital providers is almost at the same level as a year ago, but the structure is fundamentally different. The dividend paid was by HRK 1.5 per share higher, representing a growth of 17.65 percent, while interest expenses fell by 36 percent. Direct, generated and distributed economic value in HRK 000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Directly generated economic value 897,477 1,025,395 935,750 1,090,140 1,321,254 Sales revenue 869,553 1,002,363 913,383 1,069,061 1,298,446 Other revenue 27,924 23,032 22,367 21,079 22,808 Economic value distributed 896,847 934,820 869,253 995,077 1,211,022 Operating costs 653,826 716,810 613,353 722,522 906,981 Salaries and benefits to employees 182,196 187,560 181,044 210,790 253,485 Payments to capital providers 59,106 29,653 74,018 51,473 51,566 Payments to the state 1,484 647 652 9,719 -1,419 Communal investments 235 150 186 572 408 Economic value retained 630 90,575 66,497 95,063 110,232 114 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Pensions accordance with job positions as well as other additions to the salary, compensations and stimulations. Other additional The rate of pension contributions in Croatia is 20 percent of rewards to employees are set out in internal rules, rulebook the base for contributions, and the employer makes pension on rewarding improvement ideas and excellence rewarding. contributions payments in the name and at the expense of the worker. In accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, all employees are registered with and included Gross salaries in the state pension fund. In 2018 there was no change in pension regulations in Croatia. At all sites of AD Plastik Group, a minimum initial salary is higher than or equal to the minimum wage requirements of In the Russian Federation, all employees are registered with the country where it operates. In the year 2018, the minimum and included in the state pension fund. The rate of payments gross wage in Croatia amounted to HRK 3,439.00 gross, while is 22 percent up to the limit of RUB 1,021,000.00 which has the minimum gross wage in the company was by 6.7 percent been changed for 2018, and as soon as the limit is reached, higher. In Russia, the prescribed minimum gross wage differs the rate of payments is 10 percent. by districts. In the Kaluga Oblast, the minimum gross wage in the reporting period amounted to RUB 11,163, while the miniIn Serbia, all employees are registered with the state PIO mum gross wage in our factory was higher by 79 percent. In fund. Fourteen percent from the gross salary is paid to the the Samara Oblast, the minimum gross wage also amounted fund at the expense of the employee and 12 percent at the to RUB 11,163, and in our factory in Vintai, the minimum gross expense of the employer. Employees receive a 0.4 percent wage was higher by 26 percent. The minimum gross wage in supplement for past work per full year of service, counting Hungary amounted to HUF 138,000.00 as well as the minithe existing employer. At the time of retirement, two average mum wage in Tisza Automotive. gross salaries are paid in conformity with legislation. In 2018 the minimum prescribed gross wage increased at all All employees in Hungary are also registered with the state sites of operation of AD Plastik Group. The Company’s longpension fund, with their rate of payment of 10 percent. term goal is to preserve and improve the competitiveness of the labor market. In AD Plastik Group, we have no organised pension funds within the company. Basic salaries In AD Plastik Group, the basic salary of employees is set depending on the job position, which means that it is the same for all employees who work at a particular job position per locations, regardless of their gender or any other characteristic of the employee. The salary for a particular job position is set according to legislation and internal documents of each individual member of the Group that define salaries in Integrated Annual Report 2018 115 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Economy (continued) Financial assistance In the reporting year, financial assistance from the GovernCompany ADP Mladenovac realized a modest tax relief (HRK ment was received in AD Plastik d.d. in the total amount of 16 thousand) in 2018 due to investments in earlier years. The HRK 10.1 million. HRK 5.7 million of that amount was received amount and intensity of financial assistance that Governin the form of tax incentives for the investment and capiment provides depends on the policies and programmes of tal investments in the Edison project in the previous years, individual Governments and the capital investments of the while grants in the amount of HRK 4.3 million were received company. In AD Plastik Group we actively follow contests for for projects funded from European structural and investthe award of aid and, accordingly, we plan and adjust our ment funds for the project „Pilot Painting Line for Experiinvestment plans, whenever possible. mental Researches, Development and Innovations”. Financial assistance received from the government in HRK 000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tax reliefs 3,328 5,190 0 3,834 5,757 Aid 4,661 5,851 0 8,176 4,345 Total 7,989 11,041 0 12,009 10,102 Significant indirect economic impacts Indirect economic impact of AD Plastik Group’s members on Significant indirect economic impact in the sense of improvits environment is not the same for all production sites in ing skills and knowledge within the framework of the proview of the specific nature of the environment in which they fessional community is particularly visible in Croatia, where operate and the activities they perform. The common feathe Research and Development Department of the Group is ture of all members of the Group is their impact on the numsituated and where the most complex and advanced techber of job positions in the supplier chain. Considering that nologies are used. This results in close cooperation and in the past several years we have recorded ongoing growth partnership with the university community. We have been in the volume of production and operation, this affects the cooperating with faculties of electrical engineering and meincrease and expansion of the supplier chain and growth in chanical engineering on research, development and innovathe number of job positions accordingly. tions to improve the existing production and get new deals. Through this cooperation, a channel for the employment of Indirect impact that the company has on improving social young people with potential is being created. conditions is not negligible, especially in areas with a lower rate of employability in which industry almost does not exist. This is most visible at the sites in Mladenovac and Solin. 116 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 The share of senior management recruited from the local community in significant places of operation In the highest structure of AD Plastik Group management, in the reporting period 93 percent of share consisted of the local population. The company’s senior management employs a total of 55 employees, of whom 51 come from local community. Local recruitment is defined as the recruitment of persons who live in the county or district or region in which members of the Group operate. Senior management of the company consists of Management Board and top management, i.e. the functions of executive directors and directors. Significant place of operation means the seat of operation of each member of the Group. The largest share of our employees, and of our senior management, in all significant places of operation of the Group consists of the local population. We encourage and support the recruitment of the local population through the human resource management strategy, while as an international company, we provide our employees with the opportunity for international career development, mobility and growth throughout the Group. We encourage the development and transfer of knowledge of our expert personnel among Group members, so we have examples of career development and advancement by taking key functions at other sites of operation within the Group also in senior management. Integrated Annual Report 2018 117 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment The automotive industry’s development affects the high Materials concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, so car makers as well as all of their suppliers pay special attention Our products are made of thermoplastic organic polymers to reducing emissions and protecting the environment in obtained by injection moulding, extrusion and thermoformgeneral. In the automotive industry, it is not possible to be ing technologies. Also, using product painting technology, on a panel of acknowledged suppliers without having a clear we use paints, solvents and varnishes based on volatile strategy for developing and improving environmental proorganic compounds. Input materials play a significant role tection. Despite the development of alternative fuel vehicles, in our business, not only in terms of cost, but also in terms analysts predict that gas and diesel fuel will still be the most of our customers, suppliers and the environmental impact. widespread energy source for a while. Therefore, the goal of Therefore, they are a material topic of sustainability reportthe European Union is to reduce CO2 emissions and we coning, and its management is defined by policies of quality, entinue to contribute to that with our activities. vironmental protection and sustainable suppliers management. The procedures and activities we conduct in relation to input materials are prescribed by the internal procedures and instructions of sales departments, market research, purchasing, development of products and processes, production, quality and environmental protection. Aware of the fact that thermoplastic organic polymers are obtained from oil, which is a non-renewable natural resource, the product development department of the company, in collaboration with customers, explores the possibilities of using bioplastics as renewable plant material. Input materials are regularly controlled according to the test plans for input materials. The results obtained, along with other requirements, affect the annual rating of the suppliers regularly conducted by the purchasing department. At the same time, we take care of the use of recycled input raw materials obtained by milling the used products made from thermoplastic organic polymers in the production process. Our final products are manufactured according to the customer’s technical specifications and before the transition from the development phase to serial production, they pass a full range of automotive-specific testing and control systems in accordance with customer requirements and IATF 16949 standard. We apply the precautionary principle at Group level to avoid any potential risk of applying new technology until there is complete knowledge or understanding of its impact on the environment and human health. 118 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 The tables show the quantity of materiMaterial used by weight or quantity al used in tons, the quantity of recycled material used in tons and the percentMaterial Location 2016 2017 2018 age of recycled consumed material. In Solin, Zagreb 8,188 11,372 12,560 2018, due to the increase in production Vintai 1,925 2,641 2,467 and the inclusion of new production Kaluga 1,403 1,671 1,965 site in reporting, there was an increase PP/PE/PES (t) Mladenovac 1,246 780 594 in consumption of input materials. The share of consumption of recycled maTiszaújváros 1,757 terials from thermoplastic organic polTOTAL 12,762 16,464 19,943 ymers decreased in the reporting periSolin, Zagreb 242 321 435 od due to the end of the production of Vintai 6.8 8.5 11.63 components for which such material Paint, varnish, Kaluga 0.2 15.3 0.18 was used. solvents (t) Mladenovac 231 290 286 In the reporting period, at the site of Tiszaújváros 0 Zagreb, the business model of chemiTOTAL 480 634.8 732.81 cal leasing was started and the existing model of chemical use was replaced by Recycled incoming material (t) a model that takes care of the entire life cycle of the chemical. Waste solvents Material Location 2016 2017 2018 from our painting production process is Solin, Zagreb 1,669 2705 1,737 submitted to an authorized repository Vintai 219 260 198 that regenerates the waste solvent and Kaluga 97 110 131 restores it to the process for use. Thus, PP/PE/PES (t) in 2018, 84 tons of regenerated solMladenovac 110 25 0 vents were used at the site of Zagreb. Tiszaújváros 0 TOTAL 2,095 3,100 2,066 Due to the consumption of volatile organic compounds in an amount of Percentage of material used that is recycled incoming material (%) more than 200 tons per year, we have sent a request to the competent minisMaterial Location 2016 2017 2018 try for obtaining an environmental perSolin, Zagreb 20.38 23.80 13.37 mit at the site in Zagreb. Vintai 11.38 9.84 8.03 Kaluga 6.92 6.58 6.66 PP/PE/PES (t) Mladenovac 8.83 3.20 0 Tiszaújváros 0 TOTAL 16.42 18.83 10.14 Integrated Annual Report 2018 119 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Energy Since energy is a significant and indisThe main energy source we use in our pensable resource for business of AD operations is the electrical energy, necPlastik Group, monitoring and care of essary for the operation of machines in its consumption and energy sources the process of production and of the consumption is our daily task. We pay equipment for heating and cooling the special attention to energy efficiency working spaces. Share of the electrical and besides the cost optimization, we energy in total energy consumption are aware of the positive environmenwithin the Group in 2018 amounted to tal impacts. At the sites in Solin, Zagreb 79.27 percent. Energy consumption has and Mladenovac we have successfulincreased by about 20 percent in relaly certified the energy management tion to the previous year, and this is due system in accordance with ISO 50001 to the purchase and commissioning of standard. new machines, the start of production on the renewed painting line in Zagreb and the inclusion of new location indiThe general goals concerning cators in overall reporting. In order to energy efficiency that we have encourage sustainable growth in the set for the period until 2021: environment, care and environmental protection, 20% of electricity (18,898 • To raise awareness about enGJ) at sites in Solin and Zagreb in 2018 ergy efficiency of all employees was obtained from renewable sources of the Group; (purchased from various suppliers). • To achieve technical preconThe Technical Services at all sites of ditions to measure energy the Group take care of installed techefficiency by setting electrical nical facilities for energy distribution energy measuring instruments and production. Preventive inspections for all processes at sites in Soof energy facilities are regularly carried lin, Zagreb, and Mladenovac; out along with keeping corresponding records and proposing measures to im• To replace old energy non-efprove energy efficiency, in accordance ficient equipment with new with the operating instructions. energy efficient equipment. In order to obtain heat energy for the operation of the boiler room, we use fuel oil and natural gas. In the paint shops in Zagreb, we also use natural gas for the purpose of flaming or activating the plastic surface by flame to ensure better paint adhesion in the 120 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 painting process and for the purpose Zagreb and Solin we have replaced 27 of burning volatile organic compounds technologically outdated forklifts with in the incinerators. In terms of other the new and modern electric forklifts, we energy sources, we use liquefied pehave purchased a new energy-efficient troleum gas for the operation of forklift cooling plant, reconstructed the heattrucks and gasoline and diesel fuel for ing system and replaced the calorifier. official vehicles. At the site in Vintai we have modernized the ventilation system in the production During the reporting period, we have area for thermoforming of headliners continued to replace old lighting units and the production area for carpets. (450W) with the new LED bulbs (60W). We have started the installation of highThe total energy consumption within speed roll up doors in the storage arethe company shows the consumption as to reduce the negative impact of air of electricity, natural gas, liquefied peleakage and energy loss. At the sites in troleum gas and fuel oil. Consumption of energy inside the organisation (GJ) Location 2016 2017 2018 Solin 34,382 38,024 43,011 Zagreb 70,077 75,016 76,707 Vintai 24,151 26,408 26,012 Kaluga 12,536 16,360 16,071 Mladenovac 15,388 16,829 17,341 Tiszaújváros 0 0 19,008 TOTAL 156,534 172,637 198,150 2016 2017 2018 Electric energy (GJ) 123,712 131,524 157,067 Natural gas (GJ) 26,916 34,786 38,116 Liquefied petroleum gas (GJ) 5,805 6,005 2,742 Heating oil (GJ) 101 322 225 TOTAL 156,534 172,637 198,150 Integrated Annual Report 2018 121 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Energy (continued) Planned Energy Efficiency targets for 2019: • Worn-out installation restoration • Purchase of diagnostic ultrasound equipment for examining condition of technological air installation • Unifying the work of compressor stations by connecting the air compressors • Continuation of the process of replacing lighting units with more energy-efficient ones • Continuation of the process of replacing old light fixtures on buildings’ roofs • Continuation of the process of motion sensor installation for automated turning-off the lights • Continuation of the process of installing Energy saving software to improve the operation of injection moulding machines Consumption of energy outside the Location 2016 2017 2018 organisation (GJ) Solin 2,159 2,242 3,262 Energy consumption outside the orZagreb 600 410 392 ganisation shows fuel consumption (diesel and petrol) for business trips in Vintai 4,291 4,409 4246 vehicles owned by the Group. Kaluga 126 216 205 Mladenovac 259 132 65 Tiszaújváros 0 0 0 TOTAL 7,435 7,409 8,170 Energy intensity Location 2016 2017 2018 (kWh/kg of the product) Solin, Zagreb 3.13 2.97 2.56 We measure energy intensity by the raVintai 2.27 2.16 2.30 tio of total energy consumption inside the organisation (kWh) and the total Kaluga 1.64 1.45 2.15 weight of delivered product (kg). Mladenovac 2.01 2.21 3.27 TOTAL 2.86 2.56 2.53 122 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Water Water is the necessary resource needed for the operation of ate. The amount of water we use does not endanger the caour technological plants and managing its consumption is pacities of local water wells. The Solin site receives its supply an inevitable part of our business. Internal acts, procedures of water from the source of the Jadro River, with 9.0 m3/s of and instructions include management, and the technical capacity, and the Zagreb site from the Zagreb internal water service daily takes care of the water consumption and status supply system, with 4.5 m3/s of capacity. The Mladenovac of the water delivery system. Water supply is provided from site receives its supply of water from city Mladenovac inthe local water supply systems, and at Zagreb site partially ternal water supply system that pumps water from artesian also from their own well. wells (55 wells), the capacity of which is 2.5 l/s per well, the Vintai site from the well in settlement Vintai, with 1.5 m3/s of Process water is used for: capacity and the Kaluga site from city Kaluga internal water supply system, with 180 m3/h of capacity. • machine cooling (cooling water is not drained into the sewerage system since it circulates in a closed system In 2018 at site in Vintai we installed a water purification and and gets refilled as needed); cooling system for the technological process of profiles extru• water curtain in the process of applying paints and lacsion. The installation of this system has enabled continuous quers at the painting line (in a closed recirculating system maintenance of the production process temperature, resultin which water is refilled as needed); ing in an increase in its stability, i.e. the quality of the manu• humidification of air supplied to the paint shop factured product and the reduction of the internal scrap. Water consumption is monitored by direct measurement The table shows the amount of water consumed per source, on the water meter, and we do not recycle waste water at and in the reporting period, water consumption was in line our production plants. The water consumption of AD Plaswith the plan and there was no significant deviation comtik Group does not have an adverse effect on water and the pared to the previous period. aquatic ecosystem of the area in which its members operWater consumption per source ( m3) Consumption of water from public water supply ( m3) Consumption of water from private well (m3) Location 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Solin 33,705 41,305 45,779 0 0 0 Zagreb 9,547 10,915 12,405 5,445 8,176 7,405 Vintai 8,035 5,949 8,148 0 0 0 Kaluga 3,074 3,194 2,686 0 0 0 Mladenovac 11,584 4,691 3,074 0 0 0 Tiszaújváros 1,628 0 TOTAL 65,945 66,054 73,720 5,713 5,445 8,176 Integrated Annual Report 2018 123 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Emissions Managing the gas emissions into the atmosphere is an imsions into the atmosphere, with the growth of our economic portant aspect of our work, keeping continuously in mind the activity. possible environmental and economic effects. Improvements and progress in reducing the amount of Emissions include CO2, NO2, SO2 and CO arising from the greenhouse gas emissions in 2018, partly relate to the recombustion of energy sources we use for the operation of duction of CO2 emissions due to the use of electric energy boiler rooms, also the emissions caused by the consumption generated from renewable sources at the sites in Solin and of liquefied petroleum gas for the operation of the forklifts, Zagreb. Other improvements have resulted from the activithe emissions of volatile organic compounds from the exties undertaken in order to reduce electric energy consumphaust vent of the painting line as well as emissions genertion and consequently reduce emissions. The activities and ated by the production of electric energy necessary for the the measures undertaken have resulted almost entirely in operation of the plants. the reduction of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions by 0.05 kg CO2/kg of product in 2018. The greenhouse gas Energy management is our daily task, and through its good emission intensity in 2018 amounted to 0.0452 kg CO2/kg of quality management we reduce the emissions of harmful product. gases. Through regular monitoring and certification of the ISO 50001 energy management system at the sites in Solin, The table shows the total direct and indirect emissions of Zagreb and Mladenovac, we carry out an annual evaluation greenhouse gases. Direct greenhouse gas emissions were of our efficiency confirmed by the Management Board. By generated by combustion of fuel oil, natural gas and liquecontinuous improvement of the management system, we fied petroleum gas, while indirect emissions were generated increase energy efficiency and reduce the amount of emisby the production of electricity purchased from distributers. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions according to mass ( t CO2* ) 2016 2017 2018 Direct greenIndirect greenDirect greenIndirect greenDirect greenIndirect greenhouse gas emishouse gas emishouse gas emishouse gas emishouse gas emishouse gas emisLocation sions according sions according sions according sions according sions according sions according to mass to mass to mass to mass to mass to mass Solin 243 2,542 283 2,226 24 2,623 Zagreb 1,445 3,505 1,526 3,003 1,405 3,187 Vintai 512 1,584 546 1,724 73 1,899 Kaluga 10 964 251 934 248 894 Mladenovac 219 916 290 916 368 837 Tiszaújváros 0 0 0 0 0 1,179 TOTAL 2,429 9,511 2,896 8,803 2,118 10,619 * t CO2 Emission data calculated according to national standard 124 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emission intensity according to mass (t CO2*) (kg CO2 / kg product) 2016 2017 2018 Location 2016 2017 2018 Direct greenhouse gas Solin, Zagreb 0.77 0.68 0.56 emissions according to 2,429 2,896 2,118 mass Vintai 0.60 0.57 0.54 Indirect greenhouse gas Kaluga 0.45 0.37 0.52 emissions according to 9,511 8,803 10,619 mass Mladenovac 0.52 0.57 0.57 TOTAL 11,940 11,699 12,737 TOTAL 0.67 0.60 0.55 * t CO2 Emission data calculated according to national standard Diagram of greenhouse gas emission intensity represents 1.0000 the ratio of total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emis0.9000 sions per kilogram of delivered product (kg CO2/kg of delivered product). 0.8000 0.6714 0.7000 Refrigerants whose chemical composition deplete the ozone 0.5953 0.6000 0.5501 layer can be found in air conditioning equipment, cooling equipment and fire extinguishers. With regular service of the 0.5000 equipment, we monitor the control of the correctness and 0.4000 content of the refrigerant in it. Correctness control, con17 19 26 sidering the amount of refrigerant, is carried out quarterly, 0.3000 2016 2017 2018 semi-annually and annually, and we keep the records on the service cards. Leakage and correctness inspections are performed by authorized service technicians. For the business needs, in the reporting period new cooling equipment was purchased for the Mladenovac and Solin sites. By purchasing new equipment, the quantity of R410A active substance increased by 63 kg. At the Solin site a cooling equipment with 14 kg R407 has been disposed of in accordance with the positive legal regulations. In 2018 there was no uncontrolled releasing of active substances in the environment, and there were no fires, i.e. releasing of 227e active substance due to fire suppressing activities. Integrated Annual Report 2018 125 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Emissions (continued) Active substance quantity in the equipment (kg) 2017 2018 R22 R407C R404C R410A R505 R134A 227ea R22 R407C R404C R410A R505 R134A 227ea Solin 128 23 4 0 4 127 40 128 9 4 60 4 127 40 Zagreb 120 1392 0 18 0 120 0 120 1392 0 18 0 120 0 Vintai 0 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 40 0 0 0 0 0 Kaluga 0 180 0 0 0 0 0 0 180 0 0 0 0 0 Mladenovac 8 77 0 0 0 0 164 8 77 0 3 0 0 164 Tiszaújváros 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 256 1712 4 18 4 247 204 256 1714 4 81 4 247 204 Active substance quantity in the equipment (kg) In addition to the CO2 emissions reported under direct emissions, our plants also monitor the NO2, SO2 and CO emissions 2016 2017 2018 caused by heat energy generation in boiler rooms. We measure air emissions in accordance with the legal regulations R22 256 256 256 that depend on the strength of the device we use. Besides R407C 1173 1712 1714 the NO2, SO2 and CO emissions on the painting line exhaust R404C 0 4 4 vents in Zagreb, we also measure emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC). R410A 0 18 81 R505 0 4 4 In 2018, the measured values of emissions from stationary sources were in compliance with the statutory provisions. R134A 127 247 247 The reports on quantity of annual emissions are regularly 227ea 204 204 204 submitted to national competent authorities responsible for environmental protection. Due to the start of production on the new painting line in the reporting period, volatile organic compounds emissions from its exhaust vents have contributed to an increase in the emissions of compounds by 1 t. In order to reduce the negative impact on the environment caused by volatile organic compounds, on the exhaust vents of regenerative incinerators of both painting lines in Zagreb 237.746 t of volatile organic compounds were combusted in 2018. 126 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 NOx,SOx and other relevant air emissions according to type and mass (t) 2016 2017 2018 NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC Solin 0.005 0.015 0.000 0.000 0.025 0.060 0.150 0.000 0.011 0.033 0.000 0.000 Zagreb 1.004 0.000 0.000 5.200 1.340 0.000 0.092 5.812 0.874 0.000 0.576 9.651 Vintai 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 Kaluga 0.001 0.000 0.266 0.000 0.001 0.000 0.266 0.000 0.001 0.000 0.266 0.000 Mladenovac 0.825 0.000 0.614 0.000 0.906 0.000 0.720 0.000 0.915 0.000 0.600 0.000 Tiszaújváros 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 TOTAL 6.358 0.039 1.307 5.200 6.795 0.084 1.655 5.812 6.324 0.057 1.869 9.651 Emission data calculated according to national standard The planned targets of reduction in emissions in the atmosphere are directly linked to the energy efficiency targets for 2019 as outlined in this report. Integrated Annual Report 2018 127 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Waste water and waste Waste and waste water management is defined by internal to evaporation). From the process waste water generated on procedures at all Group sites. It is a daily concern and task of the painting lines in Zagreb, we separate the solid residue expert environmental protection services, but also of all the that is produced as a color coagulation product and in acemployees. The company’s sustainability awareness is also cordance with the law on sustainable waste management, it evident in the chosen commitment to establish an environis disposed of as a special hazardous waste. Purified water is mental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 then returned to the production process. standard, implemented at all Group’s sites. Environmental protection policy and setting goals are based on the apAll members of the Group have a valid water permit accordplication of this international standard, taking into account ing to which the parameters of waste water quality and the legal and other binding requirements. By regular annual insampling frequency have been defined. Control of the qualispection, we carry out assessments of the efficiency of the ty of waste water discharged into public drainage systems is implemented system confirmed by the Management Board. regularly checked by authorized companies. Waste waters generated in the areas of the Group’s operThe analyses have shown that in 2018 the quality was in acation are divided into process waste water, rain water and cordance with legally prescribed parameters at all sites of the sanitary waste water. Rain water and sanitary waste water Group. The reports on the quality of discharged waste water are discharged by separate drainage systems into the pubare submitted to national competent authorities responsible lic drainage system. Settlers and oil and grease separators for environmental protection. In the reporting period, there installed in rain waste water systems are regulary cleaned were no significant outpours of hazardous substances that in accordance with maintenance plans. Hazardous wastes could have significant negative impacts on the environment resulting from cleaning of settlers and separators are diswith potential adverse effects on the soil, water, air, biodiverposed of in accordance with waste management regulasity and human health. tions. We do not drop the process waste water into the public drainage system, it is contained in a closed circulating The table shows data on the quantities of waste water discontrol system that is supplemented with clean water (due charged and its destination. Amount of discharged water ( m3) and its destination 2016 2017 2018 Destination of discharged waste water Solin 33,705 41,305 38,779 Adriatic Sea/Mediterranean Sea Zagreb 4,346 5,015 8,305 Sava River/Danube River/Black Sea Vintai 8,035 5,949 8,148 Volga River/Caspian Sea Kaluga 3,074 3,194 2,686 Oka River/Volga River/Caspian Sea Mladenovac 11,584 4,691 3,074 Veliki Lug River/Danube River/Black Sea Tiszaúváros 1,772 Tisza River/ Danube River/Black sea TOTAL 60,744 60,154 62,764 128 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Objectives met in 2018: • Waste water quality testing was performed at all sites in accordance with water permit requirements; • A reconstruction of sanitary and rain waste water systems was performed in Solin • The procedure for obtaining a water permit for the plant in Solin has been initiated Our production processes generate non-hazardous and appropriate waste name and catalog number. Licensed hazardous waste which we treat in accordance with the lewaste disposal companies regularly collect and dispose gal regulations. Non-hazardous waste refers to packaging of waste for further disposal. The records on the produced waste (cardboard, plastic foil, wood), plastic waste, scrap waste and the waste delivered for further disposal are kept metal and waste from processed textile fibres. Hazardous in legally prescribed documentation. waste refers to waste paints and lacquers, waste solvents, waste sludge from paints and lacquers, packaging tainted In 2018, we signed the agreements with a company licensed with hazardous substances, electronic and electrical waste, for the disposal and recycling hazardous waste that collects hydraulic oils, water sludge, separator sludge, waste printing the waste organic solvents produced during our processes cartridges, fluorescent tubes, absorbents, filtering materials, and recycles and returns them in production process as pugreasy rags and gloves. rified solvents. The amount of waste organic solvents delivered in the reporting period was 109.925 tons. Waste is disposed in the prepared containers at the place where it generated. Waste containers are labeled with the Total waste mass according to type (t) 2016 2017 2018 Waste mass refers to the nonnonnonamount recorded in the hazardous hazardous hazardous hazardous hazardous hazardous waste production and manSolin 172.89 29.38 193.758 15.025 207.92 21.45 agement logbook, obtained by direct weighing Zagreb 300.90 268.80 543.26 398.87 543.00 416.20 Vintai 337.50 2.20 470.00 4.16 542.03 5.16 Kaluga 249.60 6.40 294.00 2.00 307.20 4.50 Mladenovac 188.49 13.04 214.8 15.3 239.14 11.59 Tiszaújváros 88.62 0.70 TOTAL 1,249.38 319.82 1,715.82 435.36 1,927.91 459.60 Integrated Annual Report 2018 129 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Waste water and waste (continued) Waste mass (t) Waste disposal methods 2016 2017 2018 Recycling 565.33 692.28 892.63 Waste storage before applying any disposal method 271.73 458.75 355.03 Using waste mostly as fuel or other method for generating energy 0.00 36.03 21.14 Physical and Chemical Waste Processing 12.59 32.07 19.06 Waste incineration on land 130.25 84.12 28.20 Waste disposal at specially prepared landfills 589.30 847.94 1,071.45 TOTAL 1,569.20 2,151.18 2,387.51 Waste mass refers to the amount recorded in the waste production and management logbook, obtained by direct weighing Compared with the previous reporting period, waste amount production volume, and to a lesser extent due to the incluhas been increased in 2018, primarily due to the increase in sion of new Hungarian site indicators in the overall reporting. 130 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Environmental protection expenditures and investments in total (€) 2016 2017 2018 Environmental EnvironmenEnvironmental EnvironmenEnvironmental EnvironmenLocation protection extal protection protection extal protection protection extal protection penditures investments penditures investments penditures investments Solin 38,567 113,000 27,163 80,934 45,415 31,147 Zagreb 120,000 275,580 114,650 19,330 149,493 58,644 Vintai 53,691 2,726 47,635 4,857 45,063 4,108 Kaluga 14,416 0 1,174 0 1,512 0 Mladenovac 25,580 1,250 30,217 2,716 40,498 700 Tiszaújváros 26,953 0 TOTAL 252,254 392,556 220,839 107,837 308,934 94,599 Environmental protection expenditures in 2018 • removal and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste • measurement of air emissions from immovable sources • waste water and hazardous waste analyses • external noise measurement • testing impermeability of the waste water system • water protection fees • water regulation fees • fees towards Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund Environmental protection investments in 2018 • replacing old lighting units with the new LED bulbs • installation of high-speed roll up doors in the produciton and storage areas • installation of the new cooling unit • reconstruction of ventilation and heating system • installation of fire alarms Integrated Annual Report 2018 131 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Environmental impact assessment of suppliers In the reporting period, we have continued to regularly connaire that contains questions from the environmental product annual environmental impact assessments of supplitection system. In this case, as a condition of long-term coers. This applies to existing suppliers, and the assessment operation, the suppliers are required to provide a term plan is mandatory before the final selection of the new supplier. for the introduction of an environmental protection system. When selecting new suppliers, one of the basic criteria is obIn the reporting period, all new suppliers that influence the taining the ISO 14001 environmental protection certificate. quality of our products have been tested by the environIf the supplier does not possess the said certificate and for mental impact criterion. No negative effects of the supply some reason it is not possible to find another supplier, the chain on the environment were identified, so no corrective assessment is done through a self-assessment questionmeasures were taken. AD Plastik Croatia ADP Mladenovac, Serbia In Croatia, we evalute 154 suppliers in terms of environmenIn Serbia we evalute 20 suppliers in terms of environmental tal impact that are evaluated once a year and the results impact, and 15 of them have the ISO 14001 certificate. Due to obtained are kept at the company’s internal portal. Out of termination of contractual relationship, two certified supplithe 154 suppliers listed, 112 have the ISO14001 environmeners are no longer on the supplier assessment list. tal protection system certificate, while the others have been estimated by self-assessment questionnaires. Number and share of suppliers with ISO 14001 Number and share of suppliers with ISO 14001 120 85.00% 36.85% 40.40% 90% 18 77.27% 90% 45.92% 76.47% 75.00% 100 80% 16 80% 80 40.37% 70% 14 70% 60% 12 60% 60 50% 10 50% 40 40% 8 40% 30% 6 30% 20 20% 4 20% 0 71 90 109 112 10% 2 13 17 17 15 10% 0% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 132 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia At the site AD Plastik Togliatti we evaluate 75 suppliers, and In the reporting period AD Plastik Kaluga evaluted 27 supplionly 15 of them have ISO 14001 certificate which shows a ers in terms of environmental impact, and 11 of them have decrease in the number of suppliers with the required certifISO 14001 certificate. Other suppliers were evaluated using icate. The reason for this is the aforementioned said compleself-assessment questionnaires, and a fall in the number of tion of individual projects, which has stopped the business certified suppliers was the result of a change in the supplier relationship with certain suppliers. We evaluate suppliers structure because of completion of some of the projects in without certificates using a questionnaire for self-assessthe Russian market. ment, and in the reporting period, there were no suppliers with whom business relations were stopped due to the negative impact on the environment. At the same time, no supplier has been identified that has real or potential negative environmental impacts. Number and share of suppliers with ISO 14001 Number and share of suppliers with ISO 14001 30 70% 25 60% 57.78% 48.78% 25 60% 42.11% 50% 20 40.74% 45.24% 50% 37.84% 20 25.00% 40% 20.00% 15 40% 15 30% 30% 10 10 20% 20% 5 5 10% 10% 17 19 26 15 14 16 20 11 0 0% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tisza Automotive, Hungary Number and share of suppliers with ISO 14001 44.23% At the new site in Hungary we have evaluated 104 suppli50 50% ers in total in the reporting period, out of which 46 have ISO 40 40% 14001 certificate. Given that AD Plastik Group became the 30 30% owner of Tisza Automotive in July last year, we did not eval20 20% uate other suppliers via self-assessment questionnaires, but 10 46 10% this will certainly be made in the next year. 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018 133 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Environment (continued) Compliance with environmental protection regulations By respecting and implementing the legal regulations and als, changes in organizational structures, projects that crethe Environmental Protection Policy of AD Plastik Group, we ate new or changed working conditions and changes in legal have been improving and confirming our corporate social regulations. responsibility for many years. Responsibility for the environment and ecology is an integral part of our business strategy „Register of legal regulations and other binding requirein this area. ments“ is a document in which we keep records of the assessment procedure and it is subject to audit according to At least once a year, we carry out a process of assessing ISO 14001 standard and the basis for creation of environcompliance with existing legal regulations and other manmental protection objectives. We also monitor and measdatory requirements in the field of environmental protection. ure our compliance with the legal regulations through the We revise it as needed due to new production processes or results of reports on conducted inspection controls and modification of existing ones, new technologies, equipment, external audits, taking into account possible customers’ or facilities and objects, substitute raw materials and matericitizens’ complaints. Activities carried out in 2018 by sites Solin Vintai • inspection control of water protection and fire protection • external audit by Bureau Veritas company according to • external audit by Intertek company on behalf of custhe standard ISO 14001 tomer VW • external audit by Bureau Veritas company according to Kaluga the standard ISO 14001 • external audit by Bureau Veritas company according to Zagreb the standard ISO 14001 • external audit by Bureau Veritas company according to Tiszaújváros the standard ISO 14001 • external audit by DNV-GL company according to the Mladenovac standard ISO 14001 • inspection control of water protection and pressure vessels • external audit by Bureau Veritas company according to the standard ISO 14001 Inspection controls did not establish any form of non-comsanctions. Non-compliance in this area was not indentified pliance with the laws and regulations in the reporting perieither by external audits, and there were no complaints from od, so there were no financial penalties nor non-monetary customers or citizens. 134 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society Recruitment The labor market has visibly been changing, and with the the Group. Efficient career development planning, especialaim of developing and better positioning, we adapt to the ly of those with results above expectations, strengthen our changes quickly and efficiently. We analyze and seek the competitive advantage in the labor market in the long-term. best tools to motivate and keep our workforce, taking care of Planning of new employments is based on the short-term increasing efficiency and productivity. and medium-term business plan of the Group and for their realization we provide a base of professional employees from We are a multinational and technologically highly advanced external and internal sources both in advance and planned. company that operates in an equally interesting and dynamic industry. The automotive industry itself is challenging for Good quality personnel management is conducted through potential young employees, and an additional advantage in regular monitoring and anticipation of changes that can afrecruiting is the improvement of knowledge at the plants of fect fluctuation and optimal use of available workforce and world’s most famous manufacturers of vehicles that we oftalent in individual regions of our business. fer. Increased fluctuations in the overall labor market and retention of professional staff, are the challenges faced by the Strategic employment management guidelines within AD entire economy. This motivates us to continuously improve Plastik Group are primarly aimed at positioning the company and develop the human resources managment process. as a desirable employer in the labor market of all our members. The Human Resources Department proposes and carRecognizing and recruiting talents at an early stage through ries out internal and external activities that position and ensuccessful cooperation with educational institutions, imsure a greater recognition in the labor market to the Group. plementing professional practices and mentoring seminars All members of the Group make an annual plan of employees and master thesis within the company, are one of the tools and their realization and fluctuation are monitored monthly. we use every day in our work. In the long-term planning of In the AD Plastik Group, all employees who work based on employee recruitment and retention, special emphasis is fixed-term contract or part-time have equal privileges and placed on career development and employee mobility within rights as employees working full-time. Integrated Annual Report 2018 135 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Recruitment (continued) AD Plastik Group’s number of employees trends between The trend of the number of employees of AD Plastik Group is 2014 2018 positive and has been growing for the last two years. Significant increase in 2018 was the result of the acquisition of the Hungarian company. The number of employees during the re3500 porting period has also increased considerably in Croatia as a 2876 result of the realization of new projects and capacity expansion. 3000 2383 2386 Apart from permanent selections of personnel for engi2500 2123 2121 neering positions, in 2018, the “Starter” project has been 2000 launched, which is a one-year internship program for master engineers of technical and technological orientation without 1500 working experience. In order to empower the organization through strengthening competencies, the production be1000 comes the basis for further development of newly employed engineers careers. In this way they are introduced to work 500 that affects their satisfaction, but above all this program should enable setting competent people to the desired posi0 tions. In the reporting period, we have strategically accessed 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 recruitment and employment of various qualified employees, optimally using available workforce and talents in different regions, which is also visible from the structure of newly employed personnel. Number of employees who joined or left AD Plastik Group in 2018, shown per month 100 50 Arrived 0 Left 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 -50 -100 136 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Total rate of employees fluctuation in AD Plastik Group for In the reporting period, the highest rate of monthly fluctu2018, shown per month ation at the Group level was 2.06 percent, namely in September, which is considerably lower than the year before. 3.00% This points both to a stable workforce and to a somewhat 2.50% increased mobility on the labour market of individual regions. 2.00% The fluctuation rate was lower for women, than for men, 1.50% while the highest fluctuation was recorded in Russia also in 1.00% this period. 0.50% 0.00% The fluctuation rate of employees with an employment contract 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 for an indefinite period was higher also in this reporting period. Employees leaving the Group in 2018, by gender Employees leaving the Group in 2018, by region 70 12.00% 60 10.00% 50 8.00% 40 6.00% 30 4.00% 20 10 2.00% 0 0.00% 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Men Women Total fluctuation Russia Serbia Slovenia Croatia Employees leaving the Group in 2018, by type of contract 110 90 Total employees who left 70 50 Contract for an indefinite period 30 Contract for a definite period 10 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Integrated Annual Report 2018 137 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Recruitment (continued) 58+42+E 46+43+740E Total employees joining AD Plastik Group in 2018, by gender Total employees joining AD Plastik Group in 2018, by region 58% Men 45.3% Croatia 42% Women 43.4% Russia 7.3% Hungary In the reporting period, the largest share of new employment was in Croatia (45.3 percent), in the Russian Federation (43.4 4.1% Serbia percent) and Hungary (7.3 percent). The number of newly employed women compared to the previous year has not 0.0% Slovenia changed so in 2018, 42 percent of women and 58 percent of men were employed. In the reporting period, we have continued to promote gender equality, family-aware policies and equal development In the reporting period we started a wide range of activities opportunities, regardless of the parental status of employthat promote the balance between private and business life ees. All employees of the Group are entitled to maternity of employees. Aside from pointing out healthy workplace and parental leave in accordance with the regulations of the conditions as a priority through the special engagement of country of operation. management and encouraging fathers to use parental leave, we have been more actively promoting and encouraging This right was generally exercised by 118 female employees employees to physical activities and a healthy way of living and five male employees of the Group, and in 2018, 39 fethrough different programs. Aware of the importance of harmale employees and two male employees returned from the monizing the private and professional life of employees to maternity or parental leave. The total number of employees their satisfaction and thus to productivity, we promote genwho remained employed 12 months after returning from der equality and family-aware policies. In line with our commaternity or parental leave to work is 51 female employees mitment to corporate social responsibility, the satisfaction of and four male employees. our employees is high on our list of priorities. 138 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Total number of emTotal number of ployees returning to Total number of ememployees exerwork after the end Total number ployees returning to Maternity and parental leave cising their right of maternity leave of employees work after the end in 2018 to maternity and and remaining emby gender of maternity leave in parental leave in ployed 12 months 2018, by gender 2018, by gender after returning to work, by gender men 821 1 2 1 AD Plastik d.d. women 656 19 15 9 AO AD Plastik, men 243 0 0 0 Togliatti women 370 45 16 14 ZAO AD Plastik, men 83 0 0 0 Kaluga women 137 20 3 3 ADP d.o.o., men 152 0 0 0 Mladenovac women 77 2 1 2 Tisza Automotive, men 143 4 0 3 Tiszaújváros women 188 32 4 23 ADP d.o.o., men 4 0 0 0 Novo Mesto women 2 0 0 0 men 1446 5 2 4 AD Plastik Group women 1430 118 39 51 total 2876 123 41 55 The period in which employees are notified in advance on Regular performance of assessment of the efficiency of inimportant business changes that affect them, vary dependforming and evaluation of the topics according to the eming on the country’s business laws. Thus, it varies from the ployees’ interest speak enough in favor of significance of shortest period of eight days to the longest one of three employees involvement and satisfaction within the compamonths. Collective agreements do not specifically indiny. An employee representative is also a member of the Sucate deadlines for providing information, but the company pervisory Board of the company that represents their interconducts a good practice of timely informing its employests and at the same time informs them about all significant ees much more frequently and in more detail than the law changes in business operations. prescribes. Continuous improvement and development of internal communication are an integral part of the strategy and action plans of the company and different channels and tools aimed at its effectiveness have been used. Integrated Annual Report 2018 139 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Occupational safety and health Creating safe and healthy workplaces is our core commitof expert representatives for occupational safety, occupament and in accordance with the positive legal regulations, tional medicine specialist, trustees and employee coordinawe have carried out occupational safety at all production tors. The Committee continuously reviews the state of ocsites of the Group. Regular supervision of the implementacupational safety and undertakes measures to provide more tion of Health and Safety Policy is conducted by professional effective implementation and organization of occupational occupational safety services. safety and health with the aim of preventive action. At Solin, Zagreb and Mladenovac production sites a health and safety Assessment of the risks and workplace dangers has been management system has been implemented in accordance conducted in all the processes and parts of enterprise archiwith the requirements of the OHSAS 18001 standard. Coltecture. By applying the best available techniques, dangers lective agreements bring occupational safety issues in line have been reduced to the lowest possible risk. Improvement with trade union representatives, covering 84.20 percent of of occupational safety is checked at regular meetings of OcGroup’s employees. At the same time Workers’ Council procupational Safety and Health Committee that are held four tects and promotes occupational safety and health interests times a year. The Committee is an advisory body composed of the employees with its work. 140 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Obligations of implementing occupational safety and health of AD Plastik Group: • means of work and personal protective equipment in • to inform employees of any changes in the work prouse must in any time be safe, maintained, in proper cess that affect their safety and health condition and used in such a way that they don’t jeop• to send employees assigned to jobs under special ardize employees nor other persons during work work conditions to medical examinations to a special• to perform regular examinations of means of work and ist in occupational medicine prior to the employment personal protective equipment in order to determine and after the expiry of the deadline established by the application of the rules of occupational safety and regulation or if differently assessed by specialist in health of employees occupational medicine • to perform testing of the working environment in places • to educate employees for work in a safe manner for where the working process affects the temperature, huparticular job position, given the specific dangers and midity and air flow rate, occurrence of noise and vibration hazards and regarding use of hazardous substances, occurrence • to educate employees using computer for a safe manof dangerous radiation and provision of adequate lighting ner of use and work • to provide special handling of hazardous working sub• to conduct fire protection education stances • to organize and provide evacuation and rescue in the • to provide the use of personal protective equipment case of a sudden event which can endanger occupawhen other measures have failed to achieve a satisfactional work and safety of employees tory level of protection • to organize and provide first aid in case of work injury or • to inform and teach employees about the dangers and sudden ilness harms to safety and health related to the activities they • to protect non-smokers, to prohibit the use of alcohol perform and other addictive substances There were 60 workplace injuries during the reporting period, production site in Hungary in the reporting process. Workfour of which were serious injuries and four occurred during place injuries have not been recorded at Vintai and Kaluga the employees arrival to work/departure from work. These production sites and due to increment in workplace injuries injuries do not have permanent consequences on the health at Solin and Zagreb sites, the Commission for improving of employees, and there were no injuries resulting in death occupational safety and health of employees was estabnor occupational diseases. A total of 1122 working days was lished in July. Commission’s work resulted in reducing the lost in 2018 due to injuries. Depending on the cause and way number of workplace injuries in the second half of the year, the injuries occurred, they were caused by collision of worker which is regularly reported to the Management Board of the with an object, fall in the same plane, getting stuck between company. Improvement of occupational safety and health of a moving and an immovable object and cuts with a scalpel. employees is primarily taken into account by planning and Compared to the previous period, the total number of injuries implementation of activities related to energy-saving, emisand lost working days has significantly increased, especially sion reduction and arrangement of infrastructure which are at Zagreb and Solin production sites. The total number of indicated in this report. injuries is also affected by the inclusion of indicators of new Integrated Annual Report 2018 141 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Occupational safety and health (continued) Rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absences and number of deaths connected with accidents at work 2016 2017 2018 Number Number Number of of of Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number profesprofesprofesLocation of sional of lost of of sional of lost of of sional of lost of injuries days deaths injuries days deaths injuries days deaths diseasdiseasdiseases es es Solin 6 0 329 0 10 0 277 0 17 0 422 0 Zagreb 7 0 29 0 6 0 85 0 15 0 207 0 Vintai 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kaluga 1 0 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mladenovac 9 0 210 0 7 0 240 0 6 0 266 0 Tiszaújváros 22 0 227 0 TOTAL 23 0 603 0 23 0 602 0 60 0 1122 0 Injury rate by gender (%) 100 Parameter 2016 2017 2018 90 80 IR (injury rate) 1.09 0.96 2.09 70 65 67 60 53 ODR (occupational 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 disease rate) 40 47 30 35 33 LDR (lost days rate) 0.11 0.09 0.18 20 10 17 19 26 0 AR (absentee rate due 2016 2017 2018 0.00 0.00 0.00 to death case) Men Women 142 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Information security In 2018, the process of redefining and upgrading the inforwith risk analysis, introduced the protection measures mation security management system at the Group level was best suited to our industry, environment and culture. completed. In line with the best European and world prac• We have considered all regulatory aspects of information tices, by upgrading the information security management security and applied them in our business, which includes system, we have made a positive step towards achieving managing the protection of personal data of employees corporate security policy goals and thus we have greatly and visitors. contributed to the protection of employees and information • Certification company Bureau Veritas has certified our assets of the company. Aware of the fact that knowledge of business with the ISO / IEC 27001: 2013 certificate for the our employees and our production processes are the basis scope of all our processes in Solin, Zagreb and Mladenofor continuous improvement, innovation and customer satvac (design, development and production of plastic parts isfaction, a systematic approach to the information security for the automotive industry). This is a confirmation that we management allowed us the following: carry out our business with high standards of quality and in a safe manner. • A clear attitude towards information security has enabled us to clearly identify risks, determine their management The information security management system complies strategy and focus on the facts important for customers with ISO 27001 standard, as well our customers’ requireand business. ments and best practices in the market. The ultimate goal • We increased visibility and understanding of business inis to ensure the continuity of production and the protection formation security, included all employees in tracking poof confidential information, both in business and in terms tential security incidents and thereby improved organizaof personal data of all employees. That is why different ortional culture. ganizational units are involved in the development of all • We have implemented protection measures in accordance measures. Integrated Annual Report 2018 143 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Training and education By acquiring new knowledge and adopting the required Internal training skills, we have been improving the quality of our services and increasing the competitiveness in the market. We have Internal training programs are published annually on the been intensively working on further training of our employcompany’s intranet site and in the Internal Training Cataees also in the observed period, so we have organized trainlogue. In 2018, 66 percent of the total trainings was held by ing courses from 103 different areas. The average number of internal trainers engaged depending on competences and training hours is 38 per employee, which is a slight increase specific knowledge. compared to the previous year. Key topics in 2018, besides the constant internal and external education programs related to the improvement of standards and quality improvement within the automotive industry, relate to the areas of automotive industry methods and tools as well as the installed technologies and means of work. Constantly tracking trends in the industry, as well as the needs of our employees, we regularly make an annual training and education plan tailored as needed. Significant professional educational activities during 2018: • Advanced capacity planning • APQP/PPAP requirements and working notes • Basic automotive industry tools for internal auditors • FMEA & Reverse FMEA • Logistics FMEA • Quality assurance with suppliers • Solidworks advanced modeling of parts • VDA 6.3 competence training • FANUC robot training course • Programming ABB robots By analyzing the evaluation of the trainings completed by the participants, we have found that organized trainings are useful to employees in further work and they positively affect their motivation and organizational climate. According to the results of analysis of educations and trainings by the company’s management, the goals of the completed educations were fully achieved for 2018. 144 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Mentorship Structured annual interviews with employees Mentoring programs are part of the company’s knowledge Feedback on their engagement and career development in management program and take place in areas recognized the company is important to employees. It affects employee as key ones for the company’s business. They are aimed at motivation and helps them gain insights into their own busikeeping perspective employees and creating competent and ness behavior and progress. Management and employees exmotivated professionals for future business development. change information during structured annual conversations that are the basis for planning individual development plans. During 2018 six mentoring processes were followed in the field Percentage of total number of employees who received a regular of industrialization management and development projects. performance and individual development assessment in 2018: Retired employees through mentoring programs continue to share their knowledge and experience with young employees. • Management men 2.26%, women 1.50% • Engineers and highly educated staff men 9.49%, women 7.59% • Other operators and staff men 10.55%, women 12.55% • Production workers men 12.7%, women 22.3% Integration – introducing new employees to the workplace During 2018, 698 new employee integration programs were launched, and 431 were completed successfully. In order to give the new employees a wider image of the company, a total of 52 presentation workshops were organized where new employees had the opportunity to meet other organizational units and business processes. For the sake of better and more efficient introduction of new employees into the workplace or transfer of employees to another position, we create structured integration programs with customized themes and goals. With the help, support and leadership of experienced colleagues, new employees are gradually involved in the work process and they take over independent tasks. Project management We encourage additional self-actualization, motivation to learn and broaden one’s knowledge with the help of a model where employees are given the opportunity to take on the role of a project manager. Taking on a new role, employees have the opportunity to take advantage of their other competences and knowledge and to further develop themselves personally. 11 projects run by six honorary project managers have been monitored. Integrated Annual Report 2018 145 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Training and education (continued) A survey of motivation and satisfaction A survey of motivation and satisfaction at the sites in Croatia involving 56 percent of employees was conducted. According to the survey results, over 85 percent of respondents said they knew what was expected from them, understood the goals, strategy, policy and company rules. Almost 90 percent of respondents think they are doing something useful in their workplace, they mostly like what they are doing and consider their work interesting, which shows satisfaction with the nature of the job they are doing. Employees are satisfied with the interpersonal relationships in the company and really respect each other. Commitment to the company and dedication to work are best evaluated and most of the respondents identify themselves with the company and represent its interests outside business hours also. Personal growth and development, despite significant investments and improvements, have not yet improved their ratings for now, but these are the areas where intensive work is planned already in the next year. The survey results were the guidelines for developing a plan for improvement activities. With constant engagement and activities by which we want to increase motivation and employee satisfaction, we show awareness of the importance of employees who are the leaders of successful and sustainable business. Health management Faced with a prolonged lifespan, at a more stressful and accelerated pace of business and private life, there is a growing need for adopting more productive and more useful ways of dealing with everyday challenges. We have launched activities focused on health, safety and security of our employees to help them prevent the negative impacts of everyday life. In 2018, we conducted several Female Health Workshops focused on prevention and protection of women’s health. 146 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Integrated Annual Report 2018 147 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Awards AD5 modelrewarding excellence Recognizing and rewarding employees who stood out with their work and engagement within the work environment are associated with maintaining motivation level. Through the AD5 model of excellence rewarding, in 2018 at Zagreb, Solin and Mladenovac sites 363 employees were awarded, which represented an increase of 18 percent compared to the previous year. In the reporting period, this rewarding model was applied for the first time at the Mladenovac site. Monitoring performance – management by objectives At the AD Plastik’s sites in Kaluga and Vintai we have set continuous processes of management by objectives. Organizational goals are transformed into the goals of each employee, and their achievement brings the award in the form of bonuses. Ideas for improvement We use the „Ideas for improvement“ project to encourage and recognize the initiative and creativity of employees with the aim of continuous improvement of products, processes and the organisation as a whole at all sites of the Group. An idea can be proposed by an individual or a team, and it doesn’t matter whether it’s a big or smaller idea because their implementation adds value to the company. In 2018, we rewarded 84 employees who contributed to the company’s advancements by their ideas. 148 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Employee development in numbers Average number of training hours per employee 50 women men 45 40 Management (top and middle) 47 38 35 30 Engineers and staff with higher 34 34 25 education 20 15 Other operators and staff 23 15 10 5 Employees in production 38 41 0 Engineers and Management Other operators Employees in staff with higher (top and middle) and staff production education Women Men Share of different programmes in 2018 Average number of training hours per employee category 46+20+16963E 46% Training of emloyees in produ50 ction 43 45 40 40 20% Installed techno34 35 logies and processes 30 16% Occupational 25 19 health and safety 20 15 9% Professional 10 knowledge and skills 5 0 6% Specific customer Engineers and Management Other operators Employees in staff with higher request (top and middle) and staff production education 3% Managerial knowledge Integrated Annual Report 2018 149 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Diversity and equal opportunities During 2018, AD Plastik Group intensified its activities of The possibility of employment and advancement within the promoting diversity and equal opportunities, all with the aim Group is based on the principles of equal opportunities, which of developing a working climate based on open communiis reflected also through the uniform gender structure of emcation, trust and respect for diversity. We have upgraded ployees. Equal pay for the same positions and job descriptions already existing management, employment and promotion is the standard of AD Plastik Group’s business. Thus, we crepractices based on these principles. ate the preconditions for full equality regardless of the specific family needs of different groups at different stages of life. We have created a Policy of Diversity and Equal Opportunities that is integrated into the Code of Business Conduct In the management structure of AD Plastik Group, the largand Policies of the AD Plastik Group and acquainted our est percentage of women is employed in the line manageemployees with its content. Within the campaign “Diverment (46.85%), then in the middle management (44.94%), sity makes us better” implemented in all members of the and the smallest percentage is employed in the top manGroup, including a new site in Hungary, all employees reagement (29.09%). In comparison to the previous reporting ceived printed materials that contain the Diversity Policy. period, the percentage of women in line and middle manIn this way, all employees were introduced to the new Polagement somewhat increased, and decreased in the top icy, and it was also published on the internet and intranet management. In the management-leading structure of AD sites of the company. The campaign we conducted was Plastik Group, the share of women in the management posiaimed at promoting and raising the awareness within the tions amounted to 38.89 percent in 2018 which was a posGroup about the different segments of diversity that has itive shift of one percent compared to the previous period. come to the great support of our employees. Gender structure of employees in 2017 and 2018, depending on the line of management Gender structure of AD Plastik Group’s Management in 2017 Gender structure of AD Plastik Group’s Management in 2018 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Top 65% Top 71% Management 35% Management 29% Middle 59% Middle 55% Management 41% Management 45% Line 61% Line 53% Management 39% Management 47% Men Women Men Women 150 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 02117+10+5901+ 203214+10+231510+ 93135+01 +6038221 61+39+E 61+39+E Gender structure of top and middle management of AD Gender structure of top and middle management of AD Plastik Group 2017 Plastik Group 2018 62.02% Men 61.11% Men 37.98% Women 38.89% Women Age structure of management-leading positions of AD Plastik Group in 2018 40 35 30 18-30 25 20 30-45 15 45-60 10 5 >60 0 Men Women Men Women Men Women Top Management Middle Management Line Management The whole structure of management-leading positions by increase in the share of employees in the category of 30 to age for 2018 was dominated by employees in the category 45 years in line management, and the share of those over of 30 to 50 years of age. Their share was somewhat reduced 50 years in the managerial positions at the Group level also compared to the previous period and amounted to 69.48 increased amounting to 22.65 percent. percent at the Group level. In 2018 there was a significant Integrated Annual Report 2018 151 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Diversity and equal opportunities (continued) 67+33+E 63+21+16E Management Board structure of AD Plastik Group for 2018 Educational structure of AD Plastik Group employees in 2018 63% Secondary education, Qualified workers, Highly qualified workers 67% Men 21% Higher education, 33% Women University degree, Master´s degree 16% Unqualified worker, Semi-qualified worker The structure of the Management Board and the Audit Committee has changed in the reporting period, so the share of women in the Management Board amounted to 33 percent, while all members are men in the structure of the Audit Committee. 2 1,5 1 0,5 0 Men Women 18-30 30-50 >50 Audit Committee structure of AD Plastik Group for 2018 4 3 2 1 0 Men Women 18-30 30-50 >50 152 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Human rights In the reporting period, one case of disthe same right to respect and dignity Through regular annual inspections, crimination was reported in Croatia but regardless of race, religion, gender, age, we ensure that all of our interior vehiafter the procedure it was established national origin, political beliefs, sexual cle products are in compliance with the that there was no discrimination. A toorientation, marital status, disability or burn rate regulations (<80 mm / min). tal of 162 hours was devoted to training any other personal feature. In case of Still in the development phase, our on policies and procedures to protect receiving a complaint for violation of thermoformed products go through human rights, which included one perthe said Code, a procedure in which the scent tests to ensure that there are no cent of Group employees. circumstances of the reported event scents unpleasant for the end user in are investigated is initiated, the justifithe car interior and similar. In 2018, as in previous reporting pecation of the complaint is established riods, no employment contract was and appropriate measures are taken. Labelling of products and services signed with persons under the age of 15 or under 18 years of age. By internal Customer health and safety All AD Plastik Group products on their regulations and standardized selection back have data on supplier, number processes of employment, we proacFrom the planning phase of the product of product drawings, number of prodtively reduce the risk of recruiting perdesign, through their validation in the uct changes, date of production and, sons under the age of 18 in all coundevelopment phase and regular annuwherever possible, basic material from tries of the Group’s operations. al controls during serial produciton, all which the product was made (injection of our products comply with legislative moulded products). In this way, we enIn accordance with the Code and safety regulations. For example, sure that at any moment we can trace of Business Conduct of we regularly monitor that none of our the materials used, the production the AD Plastik Group, products contain substances hazardparameters, and the size of the batch every employee enjoys ous to health while respecting the folproduced so that in case of any devilowing regulations: ation we can quickly withdraw suspicious products and analyze the cause • REACH Registration, Evaluaof the problem. tion, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals as last amended. In 2018, we have made a step forward (1907/2006/CE) in terms of product traceability through • European Union ELV directive the successful implementation of Apex (2000/53/EC) Barcode System, a highly customized • European Union directive for the software solution associated with the classification, packaging and Group’s business information system. labeling of hazardous substances Apex Barcode is implemented at the (1272/2008/CE) Zagreb site, and will soon be imple• European Union directive for the mented at all other sites. marketing and use of certain hazardous substances and preparations (76/769/EC) • Conflict Minerals Integrated Annual Report 2018 153 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) Certificates External audits and certification are carried out by the certiIn 2018, external audits were successfully carried out at the fication company Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC) regardfollowing production sites: ing all production sites except the production site in Tiszaújváros, Hungary where certification has been carried out by • Solin, Zagreb, Croatia – IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS the Det Norske Veritas (DNV) certification company: 18001, ISO 50001, ISO 27001 • Mladenovac, Serbia –IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS • IATF 16949 Quality Management System 18001, ISO 50001, ISO 27001 • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • Kaluga, Russia IATF 16949, ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Manage• Vintai, Russia – IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 ment System • Tiszaújváros, Hungary IATF 16949, ISO 14001 • ISO 50001 Energy Management System • ISO 27001 Information Security Management System In 2018 audits regarding transition from ISO TS standard to IATF standard were carried out at the production sites in Solin, Zagreb, Mladenovac, Vintai and Tiszaújváros. Also, the new standard ISO 27001 Information Security Management System has been implemented at production sites in Solin, Zagreb, Mladenovac. IATF 16949 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 ISO 27001 valid until valid until valid until valid until valid until Solin 27 May 1 July 21 September 27 November 3 January Croatia 2021 2019 2020 2019 2022 Zagreb 27 May 1 July 21 September 27 November 3 January Croatia 2021 2019 2020 2019 2022 Vintai 3 April 18 October Russia 2021 2020 Kaluga 15 February 4 July 15 September Russia 2021 2019 2019 Mladenovac 7 September 15 June 20 December 14 February 3 January Serbia 2021 2021 2018 2020 2022 Tiszaújváros 11 March 31 August Hungary 2021 2020 154 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 ADP Activities Realizing the shared values and sense of belonging to the Chat Room company is driven by the creation of a unique organizational culture. On the occasion of the ADP Day we have already traditionally been organizing employees chat rooms with members of the ADP Day Management Board in order to exchange experiences and develop a two-way and transparent communication. On that On the occasion of the ADP Day marked on April 22, also the day, all members of the Management Board are available just Earth Day, a joint action of landscaping entitled „Make our to talk to the employees. environment green“ was organized at all sites of the Group. On the green areas of the factory, new seedlings were plantTeam building ed and resting benches installed. The Team Building for the Management of the Group in 2018 B2B RUN was organized in Šibenik. The presentation of the Management Board entitled „ADP Direct“ led by Zoran Šprajc was Our teams achieved remarkable results at B2B races in Split held, along with motivational lecture by famous water polo and Zagreb, and preparatory trainings were organized at coach Ratko Rudić and a fun educational program „Silence, Marjan in Split and Jarun in Zagreb. By encouraging team camera rolling“. A futsal tournament between members of activities, we raise the motivation and connection of our AD Plastik Group was also organized. This way of socializing employees, resulting in better efficiency and communication greatly contributes to the development of co-operation and between departments. mutual trust between colleagues from different sites and countries of operation. Holiday spirit We organize holiday gatherings at all our sites. On the occasion of the Christmas holidays we organized corporate receptions and activities within the factories. Football matches Employees of different sites organize sports meetings and trainings, and the company helps in the organization of matches and competitions. College and high school students We organize regular visits of college students and high school students to our sites. Integrated Annual Report 2018 155 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Society (continued) ADP Activities (continued) Global Sustainable Development Community Goals Green spring We fully support seventeen global goals of sustainable development defined by the Global Development Program of Spring cleaning that is regularly carried out at our site in Vintai. United Nations by 2030 and we coordinate our business goals with the activities that contribute to them. Forest Gratitude Certificate Conducting our business, we contribute to the global goals Every year, AD Plastik Togliatti organizes “Our forests” action, in accordance with our possibilities and economic activities within which the employees collect used paper, and funds that we conduct. collected are used to buy seedlings for the renewal of forests in the Samara Oblast, devastated in fires in 2011. With positive examples and by promoting sustainable development, we direct out business partners, business entities, instiLada karting Cup tutions and other individuals to align business with global goals. Employees of AD Plastik Togliatti financially support a children’s sports karting club whose young brave drivers of racing cars are only 6 to 12 years old. Young six-year-old Yegor Bahmutov defended the colors of the company at this year’s “Lada Karting Cup” in Togliatti. Kind lids By recycling plastic lids employees of AD Plastik Togliatti collected the money for the fund „Volunteers to help orphans“. The company took the boy Andrej Kuzmin, who suffers from hearing organ disorder, under its wing. The purpose of „Kind lids“ action is preserving nature and helping children with special needs. My parents at work On the occasion of the Women’s Day, AD Plastik Kaluga has launched a competition for making children’s drawings on the topic “My Parents at Work” for children of its employees. All participants were awarded with recognitions and gifts for creative and active participation. 156 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Sponsorships and Donations In 2018, a decision was made by the Management Board on Sponsorships the need to regulate donation and sponsorship areas in order to establish a clear and transparent system and to make • Conference “Challenges of change 2018” the best decisions for the company and the community as • Conference „Romanian Day in Zagreb“ a whole. The Rulebook on Donations and Sponsorships was • Conference „5 years of membership in EU“ made and published on the Company’s website and it clear• Joint Conference of the Forums of Adriatic and Ionian ly illustrates mentioned procedure. A committee has also Chambers of Commerce, Cities and Universities been established which will review the submitted requests • HUB 385 for promoting regional development Festival at regular meetings and, in accordance with the company’s “Brave New World” strategy and by defining topics for a specific period, will se• Conference „Rotaraction“ – Rotate the Industry lect and propose them to the Management Board with ap• Documentary film “There’s only place for one on the top”, propriate clarifications. Hereby we have established a clear, directed by Dejan Aćimović transparent and comprehensive approach to management • Ice Hockey Club “Medveščak” of sponsorships and donations. • Associations of Materials Engineering Students at the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture Donations • Cultural Art Club „Putalj“ organizing a traditional Easter Concert • Children’s Association “Happiness Project” helping children with learning problems, health and social problems • City of Solin donation of desktop computers in order to foster general prosperity and progress of educational institutions and associations in that area • Exhibition “Russian Emigration in the Development of Croatian Science and Culture” • County Association of persons with cerebral palsy and polio Rijeka • Rehabilitation Center „Mir“ monthly donations • KBC Split restoration of the stationary part of the Eye Clinic • Wrestling club Split • Independent trade union ADP Donation to a Solidarity Fund • Cultural club „Sv. Nedjelja“ • Handball Club Solin Croatian Championship Integrated Annual Report 2018 157 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Other Comparative Table of GRI and Global Compact Indicators UNGC principle Page General publication Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement by the President of the Manage8 ment Board 102-15 50-54 Organisational profile, governance, ethics and integrity 102-1 do 102-13, 102-15 do 102-39 All Principles 2-6, 22-35, 44-60, 64-72, 76-84, 103-112, 118 Stakeholder involvement 102-40 do 102-44 Principle 3 88-102, 107 Reporting Practice 102-45 do 102-56 67, 88-89, 158-159 Specific material topics Economy 201-1 114 201-3 115 201-4 116 202-1 115 202-2 Principle 6 117 203-1 116 203-2 116 204-1 110, 111 205-1 60 205-2 60 205-3 60 206-1 60 Environment 301-1 Principles 7, 8 119 301-2 Principles 7, 8, 9 119 302-1 Principles 7 and 8 121 302-2 Principle 8 122 302-3 Principle 8 122 158 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 UNGC principle Page Specific material topics (continued) Environment (continued) 303-1 Principles 7 and 8 123 305-1 Principles 7 and 8 124, 125 305-2 Principle 8 124, 125 305-4 Principles 8 and 9 124, 125 305-5 Principle 8 124, 125 305-6 Principle 8 124, 125 305-7 Principle 8 126, 127 306-1 Principle 8 128, 129 306-2 Principles 7 and 8 130 307-1 Principles 7 and 8 134 308-1 Principles 7, 8 and 9 132 308-2 Principles 7, 8 and 9 132 Specific material topics (continued) Society 401-1 Principle 6 136-138 401-2 Principle 6 135 401-3 Principle 6 138-139 402-1 Principle 6 139 403-1 Principle 7 140-141 403-2 Principle 7 142 403-4 Principle 7 140 404-1 149 404-2 145 404-3 145 405-1 Principles 2 and 6 150-153 405-2 Principles 1 and 6 115 406-1 Principles 1 and 6 153 407-1 94 408-1 153 412-2 153 413-1 100, 156 414-1 109 414-2 109 415-1 60 416-1 Principle 1 153 416-2 Principle 1 153 417-1 153 Integrated Annual Report 2018 159 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Other (continued) Tasks Achieved in 2018 • Creating a Diversity Policy • Internal Diversity Campaign • New showroom in Zagreb • New restaurant for employees in Zagreb • Publishing the Integrated Annual Report of the Group • Implementation of the ISO 27001 standard (Information Security System) at the Solin, Zagreb and Mladenovac sites • Starter program for hiring interns • Reducing the intensity of greenhouse gases by 0.05 kg CO2 / kg of product Unrealized explanations • A new company website the project has been launched and the site is under construction but due to the integration of the new member of the Group the term of implementation has been moved to the next year • A new, more modern and more accessible Intranet platformdue to the improvement of the IT structure and system, the term of realization has been moved Tasks for 2019 • Training the Management on the application of the Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy – the term has been • Creating a new website of the Group transferred to the next year due to inaccessible term of • Self-assessment questionnaire on the company website competent lecturers • Training the Management on the application of the Diver• E-corner for employees – for ensuring the technical presity and Non-Discrimination Policy conditions at the plants, the project has been transferred • E-corner for employees to the next period • Implementation of new measures in the area of identifica• Self-assessment questionnaire on the company website– tion of employee and visitor movements has not been achieved due to the moved terms of making • Upgrading video surveillance systems web pages • Obtaining water permit for Solin site • Conduct an evaluation of new suppliers in terms of their • Conducting waste water quality testing in accordance impact on the society has not been fully implemented with the water permit, at all sites due to the impossibility of realization at all sites • Supplementation of supplier self-assessment question• Increase the share of ISO14001-certified suppliers by five naires in order to cover all important criteria of sustainable percent activities have been launched but the default development goal is long-term • Obtaining the environmental permit for the site in Zagreb • Obtain the environmental permit for the sites in Zagreb – • Reporting on types of waste according to methods of we submitted requests for issuing a license in April, but by disposal the end of the year the license was not issued • Internal communication campaign 160 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 Sustainability Report 02 03 Opinion by the Commission of the Management Council of HR BCSD This is the fourth time that the AD Plastik Group has requested an The report, apart from GRI standards, also includes an overview opinion from the Management Council of HR BCSD on the compliof compliance with the Global Sustainability Development goals ance of the Sustainability Report with the GRI Reporting Guidelines. and Global Compact principles. Strong focus of AD Plastik Group This data shows consistency in reporting and perseverance in alignon sustainable development and thorough understanding of the ment of stakeholders informing with a globally accepted and one of company’s comprehensive material impacts which are quality and the most thorough reporting methodologies. In addition to providresponsibly managed is evident, with clearly stated goals. Below is ing readers with the GRI reporting compliance statement, which we an overview of very impressive business results for the last year, do on this occasion, the persistence in studying the quality of AD marked by many new projects, acquisitions and new customers, Plastik Group’s reporting gives us an opportunity to gain insight into which has confirmed the company’s status as one of the leading the reporting development process and steady progress resulting industries in Croatia. A clear review of the potential risks that the from the company’s learning process, including its management company recognizes and manages would need to be supplemented and all employees. This year there is also a visible progress that is with sustainability risks that are a consequence of the company’s reflected in the many improvements in understanding and applicaoperations in line with the requirements of the GRI, which is then tion of GRI requirements, which proves that this process achieves connected with the management of these impacts with the aim of the desired effect, which is to understand better and to manage the reducing these risks. company’s non-financial impact. The report continues to meet the level of core reporting option, but its content is more comprehenThe employee-related area is also completely covered, which is sive and richer, and contributes to a clearer understanding of the particularly important in the example of AD Plastik Group in relation company’s impact, but also, more importantly, the efforts made to to the international point of view given that the company employs improve the existing processes and to introduce new ones with the workers in Croatia, Russia, Hungary, Serbia and Slovenia, with a aim of improving the performance. steady employees growth trend over the past years. Already from the statement of the President of the Management Along with the quality of the content, we also need to commend a Board a better understanding of the importance of the sustainagreat and clear representation with a lot of infographics that are bility theme to the company’s competitiveness and success is evilegible, clear and precise, which helps to read easily and underdent. The connection between the company’s efforts to manage its stand the information and influence that the company publishes. It impact on sustainability and business goals is clearly established. is a very well-integrated report that has reached a balance of repBelow is a clear overview of the industry to which the company resentation of business and social impacts of the company. More belongs, thus setting a framework for understanding the priorimportantly, we note continuous progress regarding overwiev of ities, risks, standards and expectations of the customers and the influence and influence management approach. We think that the stakeholders which are formed in this way. The orientation of the AD report before us shows that AD Plastik Group is an excellent examPlastik Group on topics such as environmental protection and imple of continuous improvement not only in the reporting process pact on the development of the society becomes understandable, but also in the management of nonfinancial influences. We encoursince very high nonfinancial management standards have been set age the AD Plastik Group to continue this way and we propose to at the level of the entire automotive industry. consider in the forthcoming period the possibility of connecting the UN Sustainable Development Goals with the existing indicators and The Sustainability Report, set out as a separate part, deals thordescriptions of the management approach that the company preoughly with the area of involvement of company’s stakeholders sents in line with the requirements of GRI. We believe that in this through various systematic consultations and surveys. The comway the connection between the Goals of sustainable development pany has shown progress in the way it engages stakeholders in the and the relevant activities carried out by AD Plastik Group would be process of identifying and selecting material themes. clearer. Integrated Annual Report 2018 161 03 Annual Financial Statement 2018 Consolidated financial statements of AD Plastik Group 164 Financial statements of the company AD Plastik d.d. 222 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 AD Plastik d.d., Solin and Its Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2018 Responsibility of The Management Board for the consolidated financial statements 165 Independent Auditor´s Report 166 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 171 Consolidated statement of financial position 173 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 175 Consolidated statement of changes in cash flows 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 179 164 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Responsibility of The Management Board for the consolidated financial statements Pursuant to the Accounting Act of the Republic of CroaSigned on behalf of the Management Board tia, the Management Board is responsible for ensuring that consolidated financial statements are prepared for each fiFor AD Plastik d.d. Solin by: nancial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“the IFRSs”), as adopted in the European Union, which give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of operations of AD Plastik d.d., Solin and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) for that period. Marinko Došen, President of the Management Board After making enquiries, the Management Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Management Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Katija Klepo, Member of Management Board statements. In preparing those financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for: • selecting and then consistently applying suitable accounting policies; Mladen Peroš, Member of Management Board • making reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates; • following applicable accounting standards and disclosing and explaining any material departure in the financial statements; • preparing the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business. The Management Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and its’ compliance with the Croatian Accounting Act. The above stated AD Plastik d.d. responsibility includes the responsibility for accuracy of the Matoševa 8 Management Report, which is an integral part of separate 21210 Solin financial statements. The Management Board is also responRepublic of Croatia sible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 18 April 2018 embezzlement and other irregularities. Integrated Annual Report 2018 165 Deloitte d.o.o. ZagrebTower Radnička cesta 80 10 000 Zagreb Croatia TAX ID: 11686457780 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Tel: +385 (0) 1 2351 900 Fax: +385 (0) 1 2351 999 www.deloitte.com/hr To the owners of AD Plastik d.d., Solin and its subsidiaries Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of of AD Plastik d.d. (the Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with the Audit Act and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matter Key audit matter is that matter that, in our professional judgment, is of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. This matter was addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on that matter. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. The company was registered at Zagreb Commercial Court: MBS 030022053; paid-in initial capital: Kn 44,900.00; Board Members: Branislav Vrtačnik, Marina Tonžetić, Juraj Moravek and Dražen Nimčević; Bank: Zagrebačka banka d.d., Trg bana Josipa Jelačića 10, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2360000-1101896313; SWIFT Code: ZABAHR2X IBAN: HR2723600001101896313; Privredna banka Zagreb d.d., Radnička cesta 50, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2340009–1110098294; SWIFT Code: PBZGHR2X IBAN: HR3823400091110098294; Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d., Petrinjska 59, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2484008–1100240905; SWIFT Code: RZBHHR2X IBAN: HR1024840081100240905. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/hr/about to learn more about our global network of member firms. © 2019. For information, contact Deloitte Croatia. 166 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) Report on the Audit of the Consolidated financial statements (continued) Key Audit Matters (continued) Accuracy of the foreign and domestic sales balances According to the disclosures made in Note 5, the total sales of the Group for the financial year amount to HRK 1,298,446 thousand (2017: HRK 1,069,061 thousand). Sales are important for assessing the Group’s performance. There is a risk that the reported sales may be higher than the actual amount earned by the Group. Operating income is accounted for when a sales transaction is completed, the goods are delivered to the customer and when all economic risks are transferred by the Group. The Group generates revenue from foreign and domestic sales. The transfer of the risks and rewards takes place when goods or services are transferred to the customer, when the goods are paid and available at the location of a third or related party. The sales process is supported by internal controls implemented in the Group’s IT systems. Given a high degree of reliance on the IT systems and the potential impact of incorrect revenue accounting, we have concluded that the accuracy of the revenue is a key audit issue to be focused on during the audit. Description of audit procedures performed and their results Our substantive audit procedures included tests of the design and the operating effectiveness of automatic and manual internal controls at the Group level as well as tests of details so as to satisfy ourselves that the revenue and the transactions are correctly accounted for. The key internal automatic control the Group relies on to be satisfied that revenue is correctly accounted for is automatic matching of order numbers with contract numbers in the Group’s IT environment. We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the key internal controls surrounding the sales process. Based on the internal control test results, we defined the scope and nature of tests to be performed to consider whether the revenue is properly accounted for, which included test of details of internal documents, by matching them with the recognized sales and the related payment transactions. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 167 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) Report on the Audit of the Consolidated financial statements (continued) Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the Management Report and the Corporate Governance Statement, which are included in the Annual Report, we have also performed the procedures prescribed by the Accounting Act. These procedures include examination of whether the Management Report and Corporate Governance Statement includes required disclosures as set out in the Articles 21, 22 and 24 of the Accounting Act and whether the Corporate Governance Statement includes the information specified in the Article 22 and 24 of the Accounting Act. Based on the procedures performed during our audit, to the extent we are able to assess it, we report that: 1) Information included in the other information is, in all material respects, consistent with the attached consolidated financial statements. 2) Management Report has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Article 21 and 24 of the Accounting Act. 3) Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Article 22, paragraph 1, items 3 and 4 of the Accounting Act, and includes also the information from the Article 22, paragraph 1, point 2, 5, 6 and 7 and the Article 24, paragraph 2 Based on the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment, which we gained during our audit of the consolidated financial statements, we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and for such internal control as Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing Group’s financial reporting process. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 168 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (continued) Report on the Audit of the Consolidated financial statements (continued) Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine the matter that is of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and is therefore the key audit matter. We describe this matter in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 169 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (continued) Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Other reporting obligations as required by Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council and the Audit Act We were appointed as the statutory auditor of the Group by the General Assembly of the Company on 12 July 2018 to perform audit of accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our total uninterrupted engagement has lasted 9 years and covers period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2018. We confirm that: • our audit opinion on the accompanying consolidated financial statements is consistent with the additional report issued to the Audit Committee of the Group on 18 April 2019 in accordance with the Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council; • no prohibited non-audit services referred to in the Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council were provided. There are no services, in addition to the statutory audit, which we provided to the Company and its controlled undertakings, expect for those mentioned within the annual report. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Marina Tonžetić. Marina Tonžetić Member of the Management Board and Certified auditor Deloitte d.o.o. Zagreb, 18 April 2019 Radnička cesta 80, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Notes 2018 2017 Sales 5 1,298,446 1,069,061 Other income 6 22,808 21,079 Total income 1,321,254 1,090,140 Increase/(decrease) in the value of work in progress and finished products 25 4,222 6,399 Cost of raw material and supplies 7 (663,263) (546,355) Cost of goods sold 8 (103,433) (61,327) Service costs 11 (92,851) (71,754) Staff costs 9 (253,485) (210,790) Depreciation and amortisation 10 (90,858) (83,162) Other operating expenses 12 (45,710) (41,589) Provisions for risks and charges 13 (5,009) (6,290) Total operating expenses (1,250,387) (1,014,868) Profit from operations 70,867 75,272 Financial income 14 19,905 26,870 Financial expenses 15 (53,829) (79,013) (Loss) from financing activities (33,924) (52,143) Share in the profit of associates 16 49,859 55,871 Profit before taxation 86,802 79,000 Income tax expense 17 2,518 (8,794) Profit for the year 89,320 70,206 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 171 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (All amounts are expressed For the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) in thousands of kunas) Notes 2018 2017 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of a foreign operation, net 18 15,049 (11,237) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Change in the revaluation reserve of non-current assets, net (4,895) Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of income tax 15,049 (16,132) Total comprehensive income for the year 74,271 54,074 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 89,320 70,206 Non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 74,271 54,074 Non-controlling interests Basic and diluted earnings per share (in kunas and lipas) 19 21.51 16.82 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 172 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement of financial position At 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Assets Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current assets Intangible assets 20 110,790 105,011 Goodwill 39 25,432 8,670 Property, plant and equipment 21 708,583 649,551 Investment property 22 57,269 54,765 Investments in associates 23 92,150 96,860 Other financial assets 24 62 3,071 Long-term receivables 31 63 Deferred tax assets 17 7,284 711 Total non-current assets 1,001,601 918,702 Current assets Inventories 25 230,892 155,235 Trade receivables 26 219,322 198,575 Other receivables 27 26,690 38,712 Current financial assets 28 110 1,105 Cash and cash equivalents 29 36,338 10,222 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 51,825 28,764 Total current assets 565,177 432,613 TOTAL ASSETS 1,566,778 1,351,315 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 173 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement of financial position At 31 December 2018 (continued) (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Equity and liabilities Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Capital and reserves Share capital 31 419,958 419,958 Reserves 157,284 179,403 Retained earnings 117,588 80,221 Profit for the year 89,320 70,206 Non-controlling interests Total equity 784,150 749,788 Long-term provisions 32 3,708 3,711 Long-term borrowings and other non-current liabilities 33 277,670 204,298 Total non-current liabilities 281,378 208,009 Advances received 34 72,522 30,154 Trade payables 35 223,953 173,026 Short-term borrowings 36 147,820 141,962 Other current liabilities 37 32,973 22,402 Short-term provisions 32 15,585 11,688 Accrued expenses and deferred income 38 8,397 14,286 Total current liabilities 501,250 393,518 Total liabilities 782,628 601,527 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,566,778 1,351,315 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 174 Integrated Annual Report 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity For the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) 01 ExTotal Reserve Reserves change equity from from acLegal differattribrevalucruals of Non-conand Reserves ences on utable Share Capital General ation of foreign Own Retained trolling statfor own translato the Total 02 capital reserves reserves longexshares earnings inteIntegrated Annual Report 2018 utory shares tion of a equity term change rests reserves foreign holders fixed differoperaof the assets ences tion parent Balance at 31 December 419,958 192,108 6,260 21,610 16,974 (17,974) 3,319 (3,319) 150,427 (39,575) 749,788 749,788 2017 Retained earnings adjust(160) (160) (160) ment (IFRS 9 impact) Balance at 1 January 2018 (after adjustment for 419,958 192,108 6,260 21,610 16,974 (17,974) 3,319 (3,319) 150,267 (39,575) 749,628 749,628 IFRS 9) Profit for the year 89,320 89,320 89,320 Annual Financial Statement 2018 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of (12,742) (2,306) (15,049) (15,049) income tax Total comprehensive (12,742) 89,320 (2,306) 74,271 74,271 income for the year Realization of recognised 10,197 10,197 10,197 exchange differences Realization of revaluation (9,568) 9,568 effect Dividends paid (41,342) (41,342) (41,342) Purchase of own shares (11,554) 11,554 (11,554) (11,554) (11,554) Release of own shares 201 2,749 (2,749) 2,749 2,951 2,951 Creation of statutory 905 (905) reserves Creation of reserves for (10,000) 10,000 puchase of own shares Balance at 31 December 419,958 192,309 7,165 2,806 7,406 (20,520) 22,123 (12,123) 206,908 (41,881) 784,151 784,151 2018 175 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 03 176 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity For the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) 01 02 ExTotal Reserve Reserves change equity from from acLegal differattribrevalucruals of Non-conand Reserves ences on utable Share Capital General ation of foreign Own Retained trolling statfor own translato the Total capital reserves reserves longexshares earnings inteutory shares tion of a equity term change rests reserves foreign holders fixed differoperaof the assets ences tion parent Balance at 31 December 419,958 191,971 6,139 21,055 21,869 (36,198) 3,875 (3,875) 110,964 (38,372) 697,386 697,386 2016 Profit for the year 70,206 70,206 70,206 Other comprehensive Annual Financial Statement 2018 income for the year, net of (4,895) (10,034) 4,867 (1,203) (11,265) (11,265) income tax Total comprehensive (4,895) (10,034) 75,073 (1,203) 58,941 58,941 income for the year Realization of recognised 28,258 28,258 28,258 exchange differences Dividends paid (35,489) (35,489) (35,489) Acquisition of a part of a (119) 119 (119) (119) (119) non-controlling interest Release of own shares 137 674 (675) 675 811 811 Valuation of own shares 121 (121) Balance at 31 December 419,958 192,108 6,260 21,610 16,974 (17,974) 3,319 (3,319) 150,427 (39,575) 749,788 749,788 2017 Integrated Annual Report 2018 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 03 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement of changes in cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Cash flows from operating activities Note 2018 2017 Profit for the year 89,320 70,206 Adjusted for: Income tax (credit) / expense 17 (2,518) 8,794 Depreciation and amortisation 10 90,858 83,162 Write off of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 20,21 1,235 1,937 Interest expense and net exchange rates recognised in profit or loss 14,15 34,306 52,837 Dividends and share in profit of associates 14,16 (49,864) (55,871) Gain from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6 (936) (713) Interest income 14 (377) (686) Increase in long-term and short-term provisions (net) 32 2,992 2,304 (Increase)/decrease in accrued income and prepaid expenses 30 (21,962) 29,715 (Decrese) in accrued expenses and deferred income 38 (7,006) (11,197) Income from collected previously written-off trade receivables 6 (852) (21) Profit from operations before working capital changes 135,196 180,467 (Increase) in inventories 25 (46,912) (47,670) (Increase) / decrease in current and non-current receivables 22,351 (60,802) Increase / (decrease) in current payables 57,661 20,182 Interest paid 36 (10,817) (16,964) Net cash generated from operating activities 157,479 75,213 Cash flows from investing activities: Acquisition of company Tisza Automotive Kft. 40 (70,758) Interest received 536 10,045 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 21 (87,834) (66,190) Purchases of intangible assets 20 (27,104) (19,914) Proceeds from the sale of plant and equipment, and intangible assets 4,805 1,560 Proceeds from given long-term and short-term loans 33,36 3,900 47,930 Proceeds from government grants 4,345 5,147 Proceeds from received deposits and decrease in deposits 33 600 2,802 Dividends received 54,452 41,829 Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (117,058) 23,209 Integrated Annual Report 2018 177 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Consolidated statement (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) of changes in cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) Cash flows from financing activities Note 2018 2017 Purchase of treasury shares (11,554) (119) Dividends paid (41,342) (35,489) Proceeds from received short-term and long-term borrowings 33,36 224,500 239,770 Repayment of short-term and long-term borrowings 33,36 (185,306) (300,137) Repayment of finance leases (603) (2,647) Net cash used in financing activities (14,305) (98,622) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 26,116 (200) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 10,222 10,422 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 29 36,338 10,222 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 178 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Initial application of new amendments to the existing standards effective for the current reporting period The following new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretation issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are effective for the current reporting period: • IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” and further amendments (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment” Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” with IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 or when IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” is applied first time), • Amendments to IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” – enhancement of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, adopted by the EU on 31 October 2017 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IAS 40 “Investment Property” Transfers of Investment Property (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 due to “Improvements to IFRSs (cycle 2014-2016)” resulting from the annual improvement project of IFRS (IFRS 1, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording (amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • IFRIC 22 “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The adoption of these new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretation has not led to any material changes in the Group’s financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 179 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (continued) Standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB and adopted by the EU but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretation were in issue, but not yet effective: • IFRS 16 “Leases” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). The Group has elected not to adopt these new standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretation in advance of their effective dates. The Group anticipates that the adoption of these standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretations will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group in the period of initial application. New standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB but not yet adopted by the EU At present, IFRS as adopted by the EU do not significantly differ from regulations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) except for the following new standards and amendments to the existing standards, which were not endorsed for use in EU as at 18 April 2019 (the effective dates stated below is for IFRS as issued by IASB): • IFRS 14 “Regulatory Deferral Accounts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016) the European Commission has decided not to launch the endorsement process of this interim standard and to wait for the final standard, • IFRS 17 “Insurance Contracts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021), • Amendments to IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” Definition of a Business (effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and to asset acquisitions that occur on or after the beginning of that period). • Amendments to IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture and further amendments (effective date deferred indefinitely until the research project on the equity method has been concluded), 180 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (continued) New standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB but not yet adopted by the EU (continued) • Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” and IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” Definition of Material (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020), • Amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to various standards due to “Improvements to IFRSs (cycle 2015 -2017)” resulting from the annual improvement project of IFRS (IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12 and IAS 23) primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020). The Group anticipates that the adoption of these new standards and amendments to the existing standards will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group in the period of initial application. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Set out below are the principal accounting policies consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements for the current and prior year. 2.1. Statement of compliance The separate financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Accounting Act of the Republic of Croatia and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by the European Union. Integrated Annual Report 2018 181 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.2. Basis of preparation Consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, with the exception of certain land, buildings, which are stated in revalued amounts as explained in the accounting policies that follow. The Group maintains its accounting records in the Croatian language, in Croatian kuna and in accordance with Croatian laws and the accounting principles and practices observed by enterprises in Croatia. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the Accounting Act of the Republic of Croatia and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) requires from management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are based on the information available as at the date of preparation of the financial statements, and actual results could differ from those estimates. The consolidated financial statements of the Group represent aggregate amounts of assets, liabilities, capital and reserves of the Group as of 31 December 2018, and the results of its operations for the year then ended. The accounting policies are consistently applied by all the Group entities. 2.3. Basis of consolidation Accompanying consolidated financial statements comprise of Company`s financial statements and entities under its control, including entities of special purpose, and its i.e. theirs subsidiaries. The control principle sets out the following three elements of control: • power over the investee; • exposure, or rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee; and • the ability to use power over the investee to affect the amount of those returns. The Company re-evaluates the existence of its control when the facts and circumstances indicate that one or more of the above-mentioned control elements have occurred. Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the business less accumulated impairment losses, if any. 2.4. Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for products, goods or services sold in the regular course of operations. Revenue is stated net of value added tax, estimated returns, rebates and discounts. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of the revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow into the Group. 182 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.4. Revenue recognition (continued) Income from sale of products Product sales are recognized when the products are delivered to, and accepted by the customer and when the significant risks and rewards associated with the ownership of a product are transferred to the customer. Sales to customers with whom selfinvoicing has been arranged are recognised upon receiving from such a customer the confirmation of delivery, i.e. when significant risks are transferred to the customer. Income from the manufacture of tools for a known customer Accrued revenues from tools are matched with contracts that are specifically concluded for developing an asset, or a group of assets, closely linked and interdependent on the design, technology and function or their final use or application. The Group estimates that the transfer of significant risks and benefits from the ownership of tools, gauges and other devices is met at the time of „SOP“ (Start Of Production), i.e. start of the mass production on them. At that point Group recognizes revenue from the sale of tools. Costs of modification, completion and similartool costs Group recognizes as an increase in inventory value as part of inventory process. Interest income Interest income is recognised on a pro rata basis, using the effective interest method. Interest earned on balances with commercial banks (demand and term deposits) is credited to income for the period as it accrues. Interest on trade receivables is recognised as income when accrued. 2.5. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 2.6. Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Croatian kunas at the rates of exchange in effect at the dates of the transactions. Cash, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange in effect at the date of the statement of financial position. Gains and losses arising on translation are included in profit and loss for the year. At 31 December 2018, the official exchange rate of the Croatian kuna against 1 euro (EUR) was HRK 7.417575 (31 December 2017: HRK 7.513648 for 1 EUR). Integrated Annual Report 2018 183 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.6. Foreign currency transactions (continued) Translation reserves The Group may have a monetary item as an amount receivable from, or payable to a foreign entity. An item neither planned to be settled nor likely to arise in the foreseeable future is essentially part of the entity’s net investment in a foreign operation and accounted for in accordance with IAS 21. The Group recognizes foreign exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of the net foreign investment initially in other comprehensive income and accumulates them under a separate component of equity – Reserves from accruals of foreign exchange differences. On disposal of a net investment in a foreign operation, the entire balance of exchange differences is transferred from equity to profit or loss. 2.7. Income tax expense Current tax Income tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year and represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity. Current tax represents tax expected to be paid on the basis of taxable profit for the year, using the tax rates enacted at the date of the statement of financial position, adjusted by appropriate prior-period tax liabilities. Under Croatian tax regulations, group entities are not subject to taxation on a consolidated bases, and tax losses cannot be transferred within group entities. Subsidiaries are subject to taxation in their respective jurisdictions. Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rate expected to apply to taxable profit in the period in which the liability is expected to be settled or the asset realised, based on the tax rates in effect at the date of the statement of financial position. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the amount that the Group expects, at the date of the statement of financial position, to recover or settle the carrying amounts of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and are classified in the statement of financial position as non-current assets and/or non-current liabilities. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. At each date of the statement of financial position, the Group reviews the unrecognised potential deferred tax assets and the carrying amount of the recognised deferred tax assets. 184 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.8. Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets are recognised at purchase cost and subsequently reduced by accumulated depreciation/amortisation. The purchase cost comprises the purchase price, import duties and non-refundable sales taxes (on property, plant and equipment) and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to its working condition and location for its intended use, such as employee remuneration, professional fees directly arising from putting an asset into its working condition, test costs (for intangible assets), as well as all other costs directly attributable to brining an asset to a condition for its intended use. Maintenance and repairs, replacements and improvements of minor importance are expensed as incurred. Where it is obvious that expenses incurred resulted in an increase of expected future economic benefits to be derived from the use of an item of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets in excess of the originally assessed standard performance of the asset, they are added to the carrying amount of the asset. Gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets are included in profit or loss in the period in which they occur. Depreciation commences on putting an asset into use. Depreciation is provided so as to write town the cost or revalued amount of an asset other than land, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets under development over the estimated useful life of the asset using the straight-line method as follows: Tangible and intangible assets Depreciation rates in 2018 Depreciation rates in 2017 Buildings 1.50 1.50 Machinery 7.00 7.00 Tools, furniture, office and laboratory equipment and 10.00 10.00 accessories, measuring and control instruments Vehicles 20.00 20.00 IT equipment 20.00 20.00 Other 10.00 10.00 Projects 20.00 20.00 Software 20.00 20.00 2.9. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of a business at the acquisition date. Goodwill generated by acquisition of a subsidiary is presented as an intangible asset. Goodwill is tested for impairment anually or more often if the events and circumstances that indicate potential impairment occur. Goodwill is measured as cost of acquisition less accumulated losses due to impairment. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses from the sale of a business include the net book value of goodwill, which relates to the sold business. Integrated Annual Report 2018 185 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.9. Goodwill (continued) For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 2.10. Investment property Investment property is property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both. Investment properties are measured at cost, which includes transaction costs. After initial measurement, investment properties are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. All of the Group’s property interests held under operating leases are accounted for as investment properties. An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use as well as when no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the property is derecognised. 2.11. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment as well as of its intangible assets to determine whether there is an indication that the assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. 2.12. Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, but no control over the entity. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but it is not control or joint control over those policies. The results of operations of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Under this method, the Group’s share in the profit or loss of associates is recognised in profit and loss from the date of acquisition of significant influence until the date on which significant influence is lost. Investments are recognised initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted by the changes in the acquirer’s share of the net profit of the investee. Where the Group’s share of losses in an associate is equal to or higher than the equity investment in the associate, no further losses are recognised, except where the Group has assumed an obligation or committed to make a payment on behalf of the associate. 186 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.13. Inventories Inventories of raw material and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all variable selling costs. Small inventory is written off when put in use. The cost of product inventories i.e. the production costs is based on direct material used, the cost of which is determined using the weighted average cost method, then direct labour costs, and fixed overheads at the actual level of production which approximates the normal capacities, as well as variable overheads that are based on the actual use of the production capacities. Merchandise on stock is recognised at purchase cost. 2.14. Trade receivables and prepayments Trade debtors and prepayments are carried at nominal amounts less an appropriate allowance for impairment for uncollectible amounts. Impairment is made whenever there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, the probability of bankruptcy proceedings at the debtor, or default or delinquency in payment are considered objective evidence of impairment. The amount of the impairment loss is determined as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. Management determines the level of impairment allowance for doubtful receivables based on a specific review of the recoverability of amounts owed by strategic customers of the ADP Group and of the overall ageing of other current receivables. The allowance for amounts doubtful of collection is charged to the statement of profit and loss for the year. 2.15. Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises account balances with banks, cash in hand, deposits and securities at call or with maturities of less than three months. Integrated Annual Report 2018 187 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.16. Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event and it is probable (i.e. more likely than not) that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are reviewed at each date of the statement of financial position and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where the effect of discounting is material, the amount of the provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation, determined using the estimated risk free interest rate as the discount rate. Where discounting is used, the reversal of such discounting in each year is recognised as a financial expense and the carrying amount of the provision increases in each year to reflect the passage of time. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the date of the statement of financial position, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows. 2.1. Termination, long-service and other employee benefits (a) Pension-related obligations and post-employment benefits In the normal course of business, the Group makes payments, through salary deductions, to mandatory pension funds on behalf of its employees, as required by law. All contributions made to the mandatory pension funds are recognised as salary expense when accrued. The Group does not have any other retirement benefit plan and, consequently, has no other obligations in respect of the retirement benefits for its employees. In addition, the Group is not obliged to provide any other post-employment benefits. (b) Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date. The Group recognises its termination benefit obligations in accordance with the applicable Union Agreement. (c) Regular retirement benefits Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to their present value. (d) Long-term employee benefits For defined benefit retirement benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they arise. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested. Otherwise, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over certain period until the benefits become vested. 188 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.18. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities included in the accompanying financial statements consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, long-term receivables, loans, borrowings and investments. The details of the recognition and measurement of those items are presented in the corresponding policies. Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Impact of initial application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In the current year, the Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (as revised in July 2014) and the related consequential amendments to other IFRS Standards that are effective for an annual period that begins on or after 1 January 2018. Group elected not to restate comparatives and recognize any adjustments to the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in opening retained earnings as of the date of initial application of IFRS 9 standard. Key indicatiors included in model for calculation of financial instruments impairment are: • Probability of Default 2.33% and • Loss Given Default 46.10%. Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial. Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability, and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial asset or liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. Integrated Annual Report 2018 189 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.18. Financial instruments (continued) Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indications of impairment at each date of the statement of financial position. A financial asset is impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Impairment loss on a financial asset is recognised by reducing the carrying amount of the asset through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are recoded as income for the period. Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset have expired, when the asset is transferred and when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the underlying contractual arrangement. 2.19. Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in financial statements. They are disclosed only when the possibility of outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is certain. A contingent asset is not recognised in the financial statements but it is disclosed when the inflow of economic benefits becomes probable. 2.20. Events after the reporting date Events after the date of the statement of financial position that provide additional information about the Group’s position at that date (adjusting events) are reflected in the financial statements. Post-year-end events that are not adjusting events are disclosed in the notes when material. 190 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.21. Segment reporting The Group monitors and presents the results of its principal operating segments separately. The segment reporting is based on identified geographical areas. Certain financial information about the geographical segments are presented in Note 4. The Group presents the revenue by geographical location, but does not monitor information about the long-term assets and the revenue generated in those areas from external customers. 2.22. Leasing IFRS 16 „Leases“ was issued by the IASB in January 2016. The standard replaces IAS 17 „Leases“ for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model. Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is basically unchanged compared to the IAS 17. Lessors will continue to distinguish between operating and finance type of leases. IFRS 16 sets the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. Leases are recognised by the present value of the lease payments and showed either as lease assets (right-of-use assets) or together with property, plant and equipment. Lessees also recognise a financial liability representing its obligation to make future lease payments. Lessees are required to recognise separately interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset. Lessees are also required to re-measure lease liability due to certain events (e.g. a change in lease term, a change in future lease payments, resulting from a change in an index or discounting rate). The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees: „low-value“ leases (e.g. tablets and personal computers) and „short-term“ leases (leases which ends within 12 months). Low-value leases are considers assets with value lower than 5.000 USD. The Group has chosen to apply the standard using a cumulative catch-up approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption. At the date of transition lease liability are calculated as outstanding liability for existing leases using incremental borrowing rate. The right-of-use assets are measured at the amount of the lease liability, adjusted by amount of the prepaid or accrued lease payments. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities will be reported separately in the statement of financial position. The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of IFRS 16 for low-value leases (e.g. printers) and short-term leases (e.g. apartments). The Group has performed impact assessment of IFRS 16 for first time adoption in 2019. Opening balances of right of use assets and lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 will be as follows (in thousands kunas): Right of use assets 24,144 Lease liabilities 24,144 Integrated Annual Report 2018 191 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.23. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities are classified as at fair value through profit or loss when the financial liability is (i) contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination (IFRS 3), (ii) held for trading, or (iii) it is designated as at fair value through profit or loss. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: • it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or • it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition if: • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or • the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” permits the entire combined contract to be designated as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item. 192 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.23. Financial liabilities (continued) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade and other payables) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on past experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from those estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are continually reviewed. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. Areas of estimation include, but are not limited to, depreciation periods and residual values of property, plant and equipment, and of intangible assets, value adjustment of inventories, impairment of receivables, and litigation provisions. The key areas of management estimation in applying the Group’s accounting policies that had a most significant impact on the amounts recognized in the financial statements were as follows: Useful life of property, plant and equipment As described in Note 2.8, the Group reviews the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment at the end of each annual reporting period. Property, plant and equipment are recognised initially at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Availability of taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets could be recognised A deferred tax asset is recognized for unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. In determining the amount of deferred taxes that can be recognised significant judgements are required, which are based on the probable quantification of time and level of future taxable profits, together with the future tax planning strategy. In 2018 and 2017, deferred tax assets on temporary tax differences were recognised. Integrated Annual Report 2018 193 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (continued) Impairment allowance on trade receivables Management provides for doubtful receivables based on a review of the overall ageing of all receivables and a specific review of significant individual amounts receivable. The allowance for amounts doubtful of collection is charged to the profit and loss for the year. Group applies the simplified approach according to IFRS 9 and recognises lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables. Actuarial estimates used in determining the retirement benefits The cost of defined benefits is determined using actuarial estimates. Actuarial estimates involve assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases and the mortality or fluctuation rates. Because of the long-term nature of those plans, there is uncertainty surrounding those estimates. Accounting treatment of tools According to the information available to the Group, tools are treated as inventory and are recognized in Group`s Statement of financial position from the date of purchase to the date of start of production of mass deliveries to customers (SOP – Start Of Production). Date of start of production of mass deliveries shall be the date when significant risks and rewards of ownership of tools are transferred to the buyer. Goodwill impairment A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. Provision for legal claims There are a number of legal actions which have arisen from the regular course of operations. Management makes estimates of probable outcomes of the legal actions and recognises provisions for the liabilities that may arise to the Group in respect of claims. The Group recognises a provision in the total expected amount of outflows of economic benefits as a result of the court case, which is generally the claim amount plus the estimated related legal costs and penalty interest (if applicable), if it is more likely than not, based on the opinion of management after consultation with legal advisers, that the outcome of the court case will be unfavourable for the Group. The Group does not recognise provisions for court cases or the expected related legal costs and penalty interest (if applicable) in cases where management estimates that an unfavourable outcome of the court case is less likely than a favourable outcome for the Group. 194 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (continued) Provision for legal claims (continued) Where indications exist of a possible settlement in relation to a particular court case, a provision is recognised, based on the best estimate of management made in consultation with its legal advisers, in the amount of the expected settlement less any existing amounts already provided for in relation to that particular court case. Useful life of Projects The Management of the Company considers it appropriate to amortize the development part of the Projects for an average duration of five years. The Management believes that the described period represents the average duration of the production cycle to which the described Projects are concerned. 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION (in thousands of kunas) The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from 1 January 2009. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. Segment revenue and results Segment revenue analysis by country: 2018 2017 Slovenia 447,171 401,168 Russia 338,894 290,725 France 189,915 170,985 Germany 82,633 49,910 Italy 51,417 45,957 Hungary 43,464 238 Serbia 38,059 40,385 United Kingdom 26,730 16 Romania 21,089 21,026 Spain 20,991 17,693 Other countries 38,083 30,958 1,298,446 1,069,061 Integrated Annual Report 2018 195 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 5. SALES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Foreign sales 1,284,586 1,056,809 Domestic sales 13,860 12,252 1,298,446 1,069,061 6. OTHER INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Service sales – cardboard packaging 5,892 3,984 Rental income 3,171 2,589 Income from the sale of services to tenants 1,555 1,426 Income from invoicing recharged costs 1,209 Income from consumption of own products and services 1,123 2,183 Income from reversed provisions 942 64 Gain from sale of assets 936 713 Income from maintaining safety stock 883 556 Income from support in development 880 Income from collected bad debts 813 21 Income from validation and laboratory testing 684 Income from waste management services 442 628 Income from damages and insurance 393 1,944 Income from inventory surpluses 351 141 Income from servicing 298 27 Income from assembly services for third parties 290 Income from the quality control 199 687 Income from additional processing 174 8 Income from practical tryouts 110 Income from transport services 89 156 Other operating income 2,374 5,952 22,808 21,079 196 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 7. COST OF RAW MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Direct materials 603,202 494,794 Other raw material and supplies 34,480 30,879 Electricity 25,581 20,682 663,263 546,355 8. COST OF GOODS SOLD (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Cost of tools sold 90,599 43,041 Cost of trade goods and spare parts sold 12,834 18,286 103,433 61,327 9. STAFF COSTS (in thousands of kunas) Other staff costs comprise per diems, overnight accommodation costs and business travel costs, costs of commutation and reimbursement of other business related costs. 2018 2017 Net wages and salaries 144,506 120,350 Taxes and contributions out of salaries 49,286 39,156 Contributions on salaries 37,086 29,505 Other staff costs 22,607 21,779 253,485 210,790 Integrated Annual Report 2018 197 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 10. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 21) 57,803 51,398 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 20) 32,111 30,870 Depreciation of investment property (Note 22) 944 894 90,858 83,162 11. SERVICE COST (in thousands of kunas) 2018. 2017. Transport 47,015 40,273 Current and preventive maintenance of machinery 13,783 9,061 Rental costs 12,428 10,195 Royalty fees 3,811 1,767 Intermediation costs 2,524 157 Telecommunication and information system costs 1,618 1,684 Water supply 1,510 1,123 Municipal utility fees 1,485 1,343 Forwarding and shipping costs 456 364 Other service costs 8,221 5,787 92,851 71,754 198 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 12. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Customer complaints 9,403 3,629 Professional service cost 8,993 12,174 Other non-material expenses 3,460 1,874 Other taxes, duties and fees 3,378 2,173 Entertainment 2,411 1,791 Insurance premiums 2,186 2,670 Communal fees for the use of construction plots 1,564 1,506 Professional training costs 1,484 1,195 Bank and transaction charges 1,292 1,207 Material and non-material assets write-off 1,235 1,937 Property tax 1,099 925 Workplace health and safety 774 838 Measuring equipment and laboratory tests 602 650 Cost of goods provided free of charge 443 446 Gifts, donations and sponsorships 408 572 Withholding tax 391 1,859 Support to employees and their families 358 347 Forest reproduction levies 253 226 Other expenses 5,976 5,570 45,710 41,589 In Professional training costs in 2018 is included cost in amount of 13 thousands kunas from Company Deloitte d.o.o. 13. PROVISIONS FOR RISKS AND CHARGES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Employee bonus provisions (Note 32) 2,429 3,756 Provisions for jubilee awards and retirement benefits (Note 32) 2,159 416 Vacation provisions (Note 32) 421 2,118 5,009 6,290 Integrated Annual Report 2018 199 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 14. FINANCIAL REVENUE (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Foreign exchange gains 19,523 26,175 Interest income 377 686 Other financial income 5 9 19,905 26,870 15. FINANCIAL EXPENSES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Foreign exchange losses 43,605 63,029 Interest expense 10,224 15,984 53,829 79,013 16. SHARE IN THE PROFIT FROM INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Share in the profit of associates recognised as income 49,859 55,871 49,859 55,871 17. INCOME TAX (in thousands of kunas) Income tax comprises the following: 2018 2017 Deferred tax (5,045) 5,986 Current tax 2,527 2,808 (2,518) 8,794 200 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 17. INCOME TAX (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Deferred tax, as presented in the statement of financial position, is as follows: 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 711 5,764 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. (1,091) Recognition/(Reversal) of deferred tax assets 7,664 (5,053) Balance at 31 December 7,284 711 Deferred tax assets arise from the following: Acquisition Credited/(Charged) to the Opening Closing 2018 of Tisza Austatement of comprehenbalance tomotive sive income balance Temporary differences: Provisions for jubilee awards and termination benefits 563 440 1,003 Reserves from translation of foreign currencies, net 6,060 (257) 5,803 Movements in reserves on revaluation of property, (5,074) 2,960 (2,114) plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets Deferred tax liablities from allocation of purchase price (1,091) 80 (1,011) on fair value of Tisza Automotive Kft. Deferred tax assets from carried-over tax losses 213 4,488 4,701 Differences between tax depreciation rates (1,051) (47) (1,098) and accounting depreciation rates Balance at 31 December 711 (1,091) 7,664 7,284 (Charged) to the stateOpening Closing 2017 ment of comprehensive balance balance income Temporary differences: Provisions for jubilee awards and termination benefits 574 (11) 563 Reserves from translation of foreign currencies, net 10,987 (4,927) 6,060 Movements in reserves on revaluation of property, (6,781) 1,707 (5,074) plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets Deferred tax assets from carried-over tax losses 1,960 (1,747) 213 Differences between tax depreciation rates (976) (75) (1,051) and accounting depreciation rates Balance at 31 December 5,764 (5,053) 711 Integrated Annual Report 2018 201 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 17. INCOME TAX (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Reconciliation between the accounting and tax results is shown as follows: 2018 2017 Accounting profit before tax and deferred taxation 86,802 79,000 Effect of tax base increasing items 42,525 22,784 Effect of tax base decreasing items (112,230) (65,328) Tax base 17,097 36,456 Tax at the weighted average rate 8,284 6,642 Tax reliefs (5,757) (3,834) Income tax expenses before effects of deferred taxation 2,527 2,808 Deferred tax recognised in profit or loss (5,045) 5,986 Income tax expense (2,518) 8,794 18. EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES FROM TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RESERVES FROM ACCRUALS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES – TRANSACTIONS WITH SUBSIDIARIES (in thousands of kunas) Reserves from accruals of Exchange differences from foreign exchange differences – translation a foreign operations transactions with subsidiaries – transactions with subsidiaries 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year (17,974) (36,198) (39,575) (38,372) Exchange differences from translation of foreign opera(2,306) (1,203) tions Accruals of foreign exchange differences from the cur(15,928) (12,543) rent year Income tax 3,186 2,509 Exchange differences from translation of foreign (12,742) (10,034) (2,306) (1,203) operations, net Realization of exchange differences 10,197 28,258 Balance at end of year (20,520) (17,974) (41,881) (39,575) 202 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 19. EARNINGS PER SHARE (in thousands of kunas) Basic earnings per share are determined, by dividing the Group’s net profit by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares redeemed and held by the Group as treasury shares. The basic earnings per share equal the diluted earnings per share, as there are currently no share options that would potentially increase the number of issued shares. 2018 2017 Net profit attributable to the shareholders of the Group in thousands of kunas 89,320 70,206 Weighted average number of shares 4,152,183 4,173,705 Basic and diluted earnings per share (in kunas and lipas) 21.51 16.82 Integrated Annual Report 2018 203 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 20. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) Intangible Other intanCustomer assets Licences Software Projects Total gible assets contracts under development Cost Balance at 31 December 2016 631 6,077 210,021 1,775 24,550 243,054 Additions 19,914 19,914 Assets put into use 1,315 22,964 (24,279) Disposals (810) (810) Write off (3,356) (3,356) Effect of exchange differences 23 (24) (2,435) 54 (32) (2,414) Balance at 31 December 2017 654 7,368 226,384 1,829 20,153 256,388 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 1,551 8,666 91 10,226 1,681 22,214 Additions 27,104 27,104 Assets put into use 3,070 10,472 279 (13,821) Disposals (2,035) (2,035) Write off (77) (69) (1,137) (1,283) Effect of exchange differences (7) (34) (3,623) (29) (219) (3,912) Balance at 31 December 2018 647 11,878 239,795 2,170 10,226 33,761 298,477 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 31 December 2016 537 4,729 118,536 119 123,921 Charge for the year (Note 10) 95 916 29,835 24 30,870 Disposals (362) (362) Write off (1,436) (1,436) Effect of exchange differences 23 (21) (1,611) (2) (1,611) Balance at 31 December 2017 654 5,623 144,962 141 151,380 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 1,384 5,509 81 6,974 Charge for the year (Note 10) 1,537 29,795 31 748 32,111 Disposals (10) (10) Write off (70) (70) Effect of exchange differences (7) (30) (2,650) (8) (2,696) Balance at 31 December 2018 647 8,444 177,605 245 748 187,689 Net book value At 31 December 2017 1,746 81,423 1,689 20,153 105,011 At 31 December 2018 3,434 62,190 1,925 9,478 33,761 110,788 Projects comprise investments in the development of new products that are expected to generate revenue in future periods. Consequently, the costs are amortized over the period in which the related economic benefits flow into the Group. 204 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 21. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (in thousands of kunas) PrepayAssets Plant and Other tangiments for Land Buildings under deTotal equipment ble assets tangible velopment assets Cost Balance at 31 December 2016 150,852 351,453 779,773 4,565 810 719 1,288,173 Additions 64,387 1,803 66,190 Assets put into use 4,537 24,085 (28,622) Disposals (6,724) (6,724) Write off and retirements (23,354) (23,354) Decrease based on government grants (7,407) (7,407) Transferred to investment property (Note 22) (15,881) (37,635) (53,516) Effect of exchange differences (281) (5,819) (22,507) (46) (47) 84 (28,616) Balance at 31 December 2017 134,690 312,536 751,273 32,877 763 2,606 1,234,746 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 2,754 32,318 69,939 869 1,581 526 107,987 Additions 78,658 9,176 87,834 Assets put into use 17,940 57,503 (72,890) 296 (2,848) Disposals (568) (5,023) (5,591) Write off and retirements (10) (2,092) (110) (2,212) Decrease based on government grants (534) (534) Transferred to investment property (Note 22) (904) (4,847) (5,750) Effect of exchange differences (472) (10,954) (48.686) (54) (86) (663) (60,915) Balance at 31 December 2018 135,501 346,983 822,913 38,926 2,444 8,797 1,355,564 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 31 December 2016 80,948 506,980 298 588,226 Charge for the year (Note 10) 6,130 45,149 119 51,398 Disposals (6,324) (6,324) Write off and retirements (23,337) (23,337) Transferred to investment property (Note 22) (5,687) (5,687) Effect of exchange differences (969) (18,088) (24) (19,081) Balance at 31 December 2017 80,421 504,380 393 585,194 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 1,487 50,684 1,581 53,753 Charge for the year (Note 10) 9,597 48,069 137 57,803 Disposals (3,423) (3,423) Write off and retirements (10) (2,069) (110) (2,190) Transferred to investment property (Note 22) (1,850) (1,850) Effect of exchange differences (1,966) (40,287) (53) (42,306) Balance at 31 December 2018 87,678 557,353 1,949 646,980 Net book value At 31 December 2017 134,690 232,113 246,893 32,878 371 2,605 649,551 At 31 December 2018 135,501 259,305 265,559 38,926 495 8,797 708,583 Total value of liabilities under financial leases at December 31 2018 amounts to HRK 2,106 thousand (31 December 2017: HRK 2,050 thousand). Integrated Annual Report 2018 205 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 22. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (in thousands of kunas) Land Buildings Total Cost At 31 December 2016 14,303 14,303 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment (Note 21) 15,881 37,635 53,516 Effect of exchange differences (167) (167) At 31 December 2017 15,881 51,771 67,652 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment (Note 21) 904 4,846 5,750 Effect of exchange differences At 31 December 2018 16,785 56,617 73,402 Accumulated depreciation At 31 December 2016 6,239 6,239 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment (Note 21) 5,688 5,688 Charge for the year (Note 10) 894 894 Effect of exchange differences 66 66 At 31 December 2017 12,887 12,887 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment (Note 21) 1,850 1,850 Charge for the year (Note 10) 944 944 Effect of exchange differences 452 452 At 31 December 2018 16,133 16,133 Net book value At 31 December 2017 15,881 38,884 54,765 At 31 December 2018 16,785 40,484 57,269 In 2018, the part of the building used to rent office space was reclassified. Income from the rental of the building in 2018 amounts to HRK 2,274 thousand (in 2017 HRK 2,278 thousand), and the depreciation charge for the year amounts to HRK 944 thousand (in 2017 HRK 894 thousand). Book value of asset classified as investment properties represents approximately the market value. 206 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 23. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (in thousands of kunas) Amount of equity Country of Ownership interest in % investment, HRK'000 Name of associate Principal activity incorporation and business 2018 2017 2018 2017 EURO AUTO PLASTIC Manufacture of other motor Mioveni, vehicle spare parts and accesRomania 50,00% 50.00% 92,150 96,822 SYSTEMS sories CENTAR ZA ISTRAŽIVANJE I RAZVOJ Automotive industry research Zagreb, and development Croatia 24.00 % 38 AUTOMOBILSKE INDUSTRIJE 92,150 96,860 Country of inShare in the reAmount of equiLiquidation of Amount of equiName of associate corporation and sult for the year Dividends paid ty investment the company ty investment business 2017 (Note 17) 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 EURO AUTO PLASTIC Mioveni, Romania 82,929 55,867 (41,974) 96,822 SYSTEMS CENTAR ZA ISTRAŽIVANJE I RAZVOJ Zagreb, Croatia 35 3 38 AUTOMOBILSKE INDUSTRIJE Total 82,964 55,870 (41,974) 96,860 Country of inShare in the reAmount of equiLiquidation of Amount of equiName of associate corporation and sult for the year Dividends paid ty investment the company ty investment business 2018 (Note 17) 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 EURO AUTO PLASTIC Mioveni, Romania 96,822 49,859 (54,531) 92,150 SYSTEMS CENTAR ZA ISTRAŽIVANJE I RAZVOJ Zagreb, Croatia 38 (38) AUTOMOBILSKE INDUSTRIJE Total 96,860 49,859 (38) (54,531) 92,150 Euro Auto Plastic Systems s.r.l. is considered to be associate since the management of its operations is under the control of Faurecia Automotive Holdings s.a.s. The Company “Centar za istraživanje i razvoj automobilske industrije” was liquidated in 2018. Integrated Annual Report 2018 207 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 24. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Long-term loans to unrelated companies 68 4,012 Other financial assets 62 62 Current portion of long-term loan receivables (Note 28) (68) (1,003) 62 3,071 Long-term loans to third parties have been provided at an interest rate of 6.00% percent (2017: 6.00 %), with the ultimate maturity in 2021. 25. INVENTORIES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Raw material and supplies on stock 90,735 78,780 Tools 47,250 35,700 Advances for inventory 40,505 7,145 Finished products 28,127 23,943 Work in progress 15,597 6,275 Merchandise on stock 8,678 3,392 230,892 155,235 26. TRADE RECEIVABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign trade receivables 217,475 195,462 Domestic trade receivables 5,579 5,718 Impairment allowance on receivables (3,732) (2,605) 219,322 198,575 The average credit period on sales is 64 days (2017: 70 days). The Group has provided impairment for all sued debtors, regardless of the past due period, as well as for all receivables that are past due and assessed as doubtful of collection. 208 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 26. TRADE RECEIVABLES (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Movements in the impairment allowance on doubtful trade receivables are presented as follows: 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year 1,295 1,367 Written-off during the year (166) (60) Collected during the year (12) Total impairment allowance on domestic trade receivables 1,129 1,295 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year 1,310 859 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 1,546 New impairments and write-offs during the year 560 460 Collected during the year (813) (9) Total impairment allowance on foreign trade receivables 2,603 1,310 Total impairment allowance 3,732 2,605 All receivables provided against are under litigation or included in bankruptcy estate. Ageing analysis of impaired receivables: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 0 365 days 137 448 Over 365 days 3,595 2,157 3.732 2.605 Ageing analysis of receivables past due but not impaired: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 0 365 days 55,188 44,163 Over 365 days 291 316 55,479 44,479 Integrated Annual Report 2018 209 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 26. TRADE RECEIVABLES (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Receivables from associated companies: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Trade receivables 4,730 5,369 4,730 5,369 27. OTHER RECEIVABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Receivables from the State and State institutions 16,804 18,997 Prepayments made 9,498 19,616 Due from employees 305 99 Other receivables 83 26,690 38,712 28. CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Current portion of given long-term loans (Note 24) 68 1,003 Interest receivable 41 102 Deposits 1 110 1,105 29. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Current account balance 36,299 10,195 Cash in hand 39 27 36,338 10,222 210 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 30. PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other accrued income on tools 39,786 17,847 Prepaid expenses 3,624 3,875 Other accrued income 8,415 7,042 51,825 28,764 31. SHARE CAPITAL (in thousands of kunas) Subscribed capital amounts to HRK 419,958 thousand and consists of 4,199,584 shares, with a nominal value of HRK 100,00 per share (2017: HRK 419,958 thousand; 4,199,584 shares, with a nominal value of HRK 100,00 each). 32. PROVISIONS (in thousands of kunas) Short-term Long-term 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Employee bonuses 6,304 4,212 Vacation accrual 6,242 6,429 Retirement benefits 2,013 2,326 2,205 Jubilee awards (long-service benefits) 458 279 1,382 1,506 Legal actions 568 768 15,585 11,688 3,708 3,711 Movement in provisions is presented as follows: Jubilee Terminaawards tion and Legal acVacation Employee (long-serTotal retirement tions accrual bonuses vice benebenefits fits) At 1 December 2017 1,474 2,269 4,474 4,477 401 13,095 Increase/(decrease) of provisions 311 (64) (3,706) 1,952 3,811 2,304 At 31 December 2017 1,785 2,205 768 6,429 4,212 15,399 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 51 41 810 902 Increase/(decrease) of provisions 4 2,093 (200) (997) 2,092 2,992 At 31 December 2018 1,840 4,339 568 6,242 6,304 19,293 Integrated Annual Report 2018 211 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 32. PROVISIONS (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Long-service and termination benefits Defined benefit plan According to the Union (Collective) Agreement, the Group has the obligation to pay long-service (jubilee awards), retirement-related and other benefits to employees. The Group operates a defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. Benefits payable upon retirement and long-service benefits are defined in the Collective Agreement and employment agreements. No other post-retirement benefits are provided. Long-service benefits are paid for full years of service in the month of the current year in which the service is determined as completed. The present value of defined benefit obligations arising from long-service benefits and benefits payable upon retirement is determined using the Projected Credit Unit method and serves as the basis for arriving at the past and current service costs, the interest expense and the actuarial gain or loss. Key assumptions used in calculating the required provisions are the discount rate of 3.27 % and the fluctuation rate of 13.03 %. 33. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Long-term borrowings 348,721 255,444 Deposits received 600 Long-term commodity credits provided by suppliers 2,357 14,691 351,678 270,135 Current portion of long-term borrowings (Note 36) (74,008) (65,837) 277,670 204,298 Long-term borrowings are used to finance capital investments and development projects. Instruments of collateral provided for the for long-term loans include mortgage on real estate and equipment and payment instruments. The majority of existing long-term loans are paid quarterly. In 2018, the weighted average interest rate on the long-term loans was 2.48 percent (2017: 3.00 %). The Group regularly meets all its obligations arising from the loans and observes all the conditions specified in the underlying contracts. 212 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 33. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Movements in long-term borrowings during the year: 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 204,298 185,759 New loans raised 131,501 153,775 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 31,719 Deposits received 600 Exchange differences, net (3,220) 1,322 Repayments of received loans (7.217) Reclassification to short-term (Note 36) (80,011) (136,558) Balance at 31 December 277,670 204,298 34. ADVANCES RECEIVED (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign customers 72,522 30,154 72,522 30,154 Advances received from foreign customers represent cash advanced from known customers for ordered tools. 35. TRADE PAYABLES (in thousands of kunas) Average payment period for trade payables during 2018 equalled to 75 days (2017: 83 days). 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign trade payables 175,415 132,157 Domestic trade payables 48,538 40,869 223,953 173,026 Integrated Annual Report 2018 213 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 36. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Short-term loans principal payable 73,152 75,334 Current portion of long-term borrowings (Note 33) 74,008 65,837 Short-term borrowings interest payable 660 791 147,820 141,962 The short-term borrowings were used to finance development projects and for working capital purposes. Instruments of collateral provided for the short-term borrowings are payment instruments. Most of the total balance of the shortterm borrowings represent approved overdrafts on current accounts, with the limits renewable on an annual basis. The short-term borrowings represent loans provided by commercial banks, with an average interest rate of 2.05% (2017: 3.09 %). 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 141,962 223,058 New loans raised 92,999 85,995 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. 14,418 Reclasification on current portion of long-term borrowings (Note 33) 80,011 136,558 Invoiced interest 10,224 15,984 Exchange differences (2,888) (2,532) Interest paid (10,817) (16,964) Repayments of received loans (178,089) (300,137) Balance at 31 December 147,820 141,962 37. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Due to the State and State institutions 19,102 12,177 Amounts due to employees 12,678 10,162 Other current liabilities 1,193 63 32,973 22,402 214 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 38. ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Due to the State and State institutions 764 462 Accrued tool expenses 518 3,286 Other current liabilities 7,115 10,538 8,397 14,286 39. GOODWILL (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Goodwill 25,432 8,670 25,432 8,670 Recognized goodwill relates to: • the difference between fair value of net assets of KZA and the value paid for the purchase of KZA by ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, and • the difference between fair value of the net assets of Tisza Automotive Kft. and the value paid for the purchase of Tisza Automotive Kft. by AD Plastik d.d. Solin. Movement of goodwill: 2018 2017 At 1 January 8.670 9,411 Acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft. (Note 40) 18.014 Effect of exchange differences (1.252) (741) At 31 December 25.432 8,670 Integrated Annual Report 2018 215 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 40. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS – ACQUISITION OF TISZA AUTOMOTIVE KFT. (in thousands of kunas) On 26 July 2018. AD Plastik Group acquired 100% of ownership in Tisza Automotive Kft., Tiszaújváros, Hungary, and obtained management control of the company. Cost of acquisition is determined as the reimbursement amount transferred to previous owners at 70,959 thousand kunas. Cash acquired by this combination is 201 thousand kunas. Book value on Fair value on Increases / (Dedate of acquidate of acquicreases) sition sition Intangible assets 5.013 10.226 15.239 Property, plant and equipment 52.450 1.785 54.235 Deferred tax assets Stocks 28.640 104 28.744 Trade receivables 38.427 38.427 Cash and cash equivalents 202 202 Accrued assets 1.100 1.100 Total acquired assets 125.832 12.115 137.947 Long-term liabilities (31.719) (31.719) Deferred tax liabilities (1.090) (1.090) Provisions (902) (902) Short-term liabilities (50.172) (50.172) Accrued liabilities (1.119) (1.119) Total acquired liabilities (83.912) (1.090) (85.002) Total acquired net assets 41.920 11.025 52.945 Estimated fair value of assets on date of acquisition was above the book value on positions Property, plant and equipment by 1.785 thousand kunas and on position Stocks by 104 thousand kunas. Value of Customer relationships, i.e. signed contracts with buyers was estimated by MPEE (Multi-period Excess Earnings) method at 10.226 thousand kunas and allocated on position Intangible assets (note 20). Deferred tax liabilities generated by the acquisition are 1.090 thousand kunas (note 17). Goodwill generated by the acquisition is calculated as the difference between the Cost of acquisition and the Fair value of Total acquired net assets and amounts to 18.014 thousand kunas (Note 39). 216 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 41. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (in thousands of kunas) The total remuneration provided to the members of the Supervisory Board, the Management Board and executive directors in 2018 amounts to HRK 15,814 thousand (2017: HRK 10,727 thousand). Receivables Payables Receivables and payables for goods and services 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EURO APS, Romania 4,729 5,369 Centar za istraživanje i razvoj, Croatia 1 5 4,729 5,370 5 Purchase transactions Income Expenses Operating income and expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 EURO APS, Romania 11,379 12,030 Centar za istraživanje i razvoj, Croatia 2 7 16 11,381 12,037 16 Receivables Payables Receivables and payables for loans 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Sankt-Peterburgskaya investicionnaya kompaniya 37.088 37.088 Sankt-Peterburgskaya investicionnaya kompaniya is member of Group in which is also company OAO Holding Autokomponenti. Company OAO Holding Autokomponenti holds 30% of shares in Company AD Plastik d.d. Integrated Annual Report 2018 217 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 42. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (in thousands of kunas) 42.1. Gearing ratio The Group’s gearing ratio, expressed as the ratio of net debt to equity, is as follows: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Short-term borrowings (Note 36) 147,820 141,962 Long-term borrowings (Note 33) 277,070 204,298 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 29) (36,338) (10,222) Deposits (Note 28) (1) Net debt 388,551 336,038 Equity 784,271 749,788 Net debt-to-equity ratio 49.54% 44.82% Net debt includes commodity credits provided by suppliers in the amount of HRK 7,434 thousand (31 December 2017: HRK 14,691 thousand) (note 33). Equity consists of share capital, reserves, own shares, retained earnings and profit for the year. 42.2. Categories of financial instruments At the reporting date there are no significant concentrations of credit risk for loans and receivables designated at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income. Excluded from the balance are amounts receivable from and payable to the State. 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial assets 306,225 232,751 Loans and receivables (note 25,26,27) 269,916 222,529 Cash and cash equivalents and deposits (Notes 28 and 29) 36,339 10,222 Financial liabilities 735,836 559,665 Trade and other payables (note 34,35,37) 310,346 213,405 Borrowings (Notes 33 and 36) 425,490 346,260 218 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 42. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) (in thousands of kunas) 42.3. Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign-currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are provided in the table below using the middle exchange rates of the Croatian National Bank: Assets Liabilities Net FX position As at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 RUB 1,383 1,617 1,383 1,617 CZK 604 273 604 273 USD 575 86 117 89 458 (3) GBP 95 122 462 26 (367) 96 EUR 445,774 456,286 766,066 671,230 (320,292) (214,944) 448,431 458,384 766,645 671,345 (318,214) (212,961) Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Foreign currency risk note includes exchange rate exposure of all monetary positions in all companies of the Group, which generate foreign exchange differences in separate reports of those companies. On 31 December 2018, if EUR were to depreciate/appreciate by 1% compared to HRK, assuming all other variables remain unchanged, net profit of the Group for 2018 would be 1,967 thousand kunas (2017.: 613 thousand kunas) higher/ (lower), because of positive/(negative) foreign exchange differences generated by conversion of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and loans received denominated in EUR. On 31 December 2018, if RUB were to depreciate/appreciate by 1% compared to EUR, assuming all other variables remain unchanged, net profit of the Group for 2018 would be 486 thousand kunas (2017.: 940 thousand kunas) (lower)/ higher, because of (negative)/positive foreign exchange differences generated by conversion of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and loans received denominated in EUR. Integrated Annual Report 2018 219 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 42. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) (in thousands of kunas) 42.4. Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Management Board. The Group manages its liquidity using banking facilities (overdrafts) and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets and liabilities. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial assets and liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can require payment i.e. can be required to pay. Weighted Up to 1 3 months to 2018 average interest month 1 to 3 months 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total rate Assets Non-interest bearing 135,815 131,718 38,518 32 62 306,145 Interest bearing 6.00% 1 70 42 112 135,816 131,718 38,588 73 62 306,257 Liabilities Non-interest bearing 125,127 99,369 85,738 112 310,346 Interest bearing 2.40% 6,212 19,204 126,533 266,417 29,976 448,343 131,339 118,574 212,271 266,529 29,976 758,688 Weighted Up to 1 3 months to 2017 average interest month 1 to 3 months 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total rate Assets Non-interest bearing 122,791 91,195 14,629 63 62 228,740 Interest bearing 6.00% 1,305 3,370 4,675 122,791 91,195 15,934 3,433 62 233,415 Liabilities Non-interest bearing 101,710 78,189 33,506 213,405 Interest bearing 3.05% 1,051 16,083 131,901 199,350 15,438 363,823 102,761 94,272 165,407 199,350 15,438 577,227 220 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 42. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 42.5. Fair value of financial instruments Fair value is the price that would be generated from the sales of some item of an asset or paid for transferring some liability in a fair transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether it would be directly visible or evaluated by applying some other valuation technique. At 31 December 2018 the carrying amounts of cash, receivables, short-term liabilities, accrued expenses, short-term borrowings and other financial instruments approximate their fair values due to the short-term maturity of these assets and liabilities. 43. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD After 31 December 2018, there were no events that would have a significant impact on the financial statements for the year 2018, respectively they are not of such significance to the Group to require disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Based on the Management’s estimate, the Group had no material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2018 which would require to be disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Company had no capital expenditure commitments contracted at 31 December 2018 which would require to be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. As at 31 December 2018 there were no material legal actions with a potential negative outcome for the Group other than those reflected in these consolidated financial statements. 45. APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements were approved by the Management Board of AD Plastik d.d. and authorised for issue on 18 April 2019. For AD Plastik d.d., Solin: Marinko Došen, Katija Klepo, Mladen Peroš, President of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Integrated Annual Report 2018 221 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 AD Plastik d.d., Solin Separate Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2018 Responsibility of the Management Board for the separate financial statements 223 Independent Auditor’s Report 224 Separate statement of comprehensive income 229 Separate statement of financial position 230 Separate statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 232 Separate statement of cash flows 234 Notes to the separate financial statements 236 222 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Responsibility of the Management Board for the separate financial statements Pursuant to the Accounting Act of the Republic of Croatia, Signed on behalf of the Management Board the Management Board is responsible for ensuring that separate financial statements are prepared for each financial For AD Plastik d.d. Solin by: year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted in the European Union, which give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of operations of AD Plastik d.d. Solin (the “Company”) for that period. Marinko Došen, President of the Management Board After making enquiries, the Management Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Management Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Katija Klepo, Member of Management Board separate financial statements. In preparing those separate financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for: • selecting suitable accounting policies and then applying them consistently; Mladen Peroš, Member of Management Board • making reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates; • following applicable accounting standards and disclosing and explaining any material departure in the separate financial statements; and • preparing the separate financial statements under the going concern principle unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. The Management Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and their compliance with the Croatian Accounting Act. The AD Plastik d.d. above stated responsibility includes the responsibility for acMatoševa 8 curacy of the Management Report, which is an integral part 21210 Solin of separate financial statements. The Management Board is Republic of Croatia also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company, and hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 18 April 2018 and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Integrated Annual Report 2018 223 Deloitte d.o.o. ZagrebTower Radnička cesta 80 10 000 Zagreb Croatia TAX ID: 11686457780 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Tel: +385 (0) 1 2351 900 Fax: +385 (0) 1 2351 999 www.deloitte.com/hr To the Shareholders of AD Plastik d.d., Solin Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of AD Plastik d.d., Solin (the Company), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2018, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with the Audit Act and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matter Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. The company was registered at Zagreb Commercial Court: MBS 030022053; paid-in initial capital: Kn 44,900.00; Board Members: Branislav Vrtačnik, Marina Tonžetić, Juraj Moravek and Dražen Nimčević; Bank: Zagrebačka banka d.d., Trg bana Josipa Jelačića 10, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2360000-1101896313; SWIFT Code: ZABAHR2X IBAN: HR2723600001101896313; Privredna banka Zagreb d.d., Radnička cesta 50, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2340009–1110098294; SWIFT Code: PBZGHR2X IBAN: HR3823400091110098294; Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d., Petrinjska 59, 10 000 Zagreb, bank account no. 2484008–1100240905; SWIFT Code: RZBHHR2X IBAN: HR1024840081100240905. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/hr/about to learn more about our global network of member firms. © 2019. For information, contact Deloitte Croatia. 224 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued) Key Audit Matters (continued) Accuracy of the foreign and domestic sales balances According to the disclosures made in Note 4, the total sales of the Company for the financial year amount to HRK 927,965 thousand (2017: HRK 817,682 thousand). Sales are important for assessing the Company’s performance. There is a risk that the reported sales may be higher than the actual amount earned by the Company. Operating income is accounted for when a sales transaction is completed, the goods are delivered to the customer and when all economic risks are transferred by the Company. The Company generates revenue from foreign and domestic sales. The transfer of the risks and rewards takes place when goods or services are transferred to the customer, when the goods are paid and available at the location of a third or related party. The sales process is supported by internal controls implemented in the Company’s IT systems. Given a high degree of reliance on the IT systems and the potential impact of incorrect revenue accounting, we have concluded that the accuracy of the revenue is a key audit issue to be focused on during the audit. Description of audit procedures performed and their results Our substantive audit procedures included tests of the design and the operating effectiveness of automatic and manual internal controls at the Company level as well as tests of details so as to satisfy ourselves that the revenue and the transactions are correctly accounted for. The key internal automatic control the Company relies on to be satisfied that revenue is correctly accounted for is automatic matching of order numbers with contract numbers in the Company’s IT environment. We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the key internal controls surrounding the sales process. Based on the internal control test results, we defined the scope and nature of tests to be performed to consider whether the revenue is properly accounted for, which included test of details of internal documents, by matching them with the recognized sales and the related payment transactions. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 225 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued) Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the Management Report and the Corporate Governance Statement, which are included in the Annual Report, we have also performed the procedures prescribed by the Accounting Act. These procedures include examination of whether the Management Report and Corporate Governance Statement includes required disclosures as set out in the Articles 21 and 22 of the Accounting Act and whether the Corporate Governance Statement includes the information specified in the Article 22 of the Accounting Act. Based on the procedures performed during our audit, to the extent we are able to assess it, we report that: 1) Information included in the other information is, in all material respects, consistent with the attached financial statements. 2) Management Report has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Article 21 of the Accounting Act. 3) Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Article 22, paragraph 1, items 3 and 4 of the Accounting Act, and includes also the information from the Article 22, paragraph 1, point 2, 5, 6 and 7 Based on the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment, which we gained during our audit of the financial statements, we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and for such internal control as Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 226 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (continued) Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued) Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 227 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (continued) Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Other reporting obligations as required by Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council and the Audit Act We were appointed as the statutory auditor of the Company by the General Assembly on 12 July 2018 to perform audit of accompanying financial statements. Our total uninterrupted engagement has lasted 9 years and covers period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2018. We confirm that: • our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements is consistent with the additional report issued to the Audit Committee of the Company on 18 April 2019 in accordance with the Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council; • no prohibited non-audit services referred to in the Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and the Council were provided. There are no services, in addition to the statutory audit, which we provided to the Company and its controlled undertakings. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Marina Tonžetić. Marina Tonžetić Member of the Management Board and Certified auditor Deloitte d.o.o. 18 April 2019 Radnička cesta 80, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia This version of the auditor’s report is a translation from the original, which was prepared in the Croatian language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions, the original language version of the auditor’s report takes precedence over translation. 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Notes 2018 2017 Sales 4 927,965 817,682 Other income 5 17,009 16,971 Total income 944,974 834,653 Increase in the value of work in progress and finished products 2,432 3,392 Cost of raw material and supplies 6 (445,141) (373,577) Cost of goods sold 7 (143,103) (133,641) Service costs 8 (69,691) (55,501) Staff costs 9 (174,870) (151,035) Depreciation and amortisation 10 (53,042) (51,775) Other operating expenses 11 (28,783) (27,721) Provisions for risks and charges (net) 12 (4,705) (5,415) Total operating expenses (916,903) (795,273) Profit from operations 28,071 39,380 Financial income 13 78,468 59,742 Financial expenses 14 (17,988) (43,523) Profit from financing activities 60,480 16,219 Profit before taxation 88,551 55,599 Income tax expense 15 410 (2,200) Profit for the year 88,961 53,399 Items that may be included subsequently in profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of a foreign operation, net 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 88,961 53,399 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share (in kunas and lipas) 17 21.43 12.79 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 229 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of financial position At 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Assets Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current assets Intangible assets 18 84,219 86,472 Property, plant and equipment 19 495,472 467,092 Investment property 20 54,676 51,557 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 21 149,366 66,163 Other financial assets 22 81,856 101,596 Long-term receivables 23 44,680 76,925 Deferred tax assets 15 1,029 618 Total non-current assets 911,298 850,423 Current assets Inventories 24 140,476 75,785 Trade receivables 25 187,432 231,156 Other receivables 26 19,970 29,056 Current financial assets 27 6,410 7,561 Cash and cash equivalents 28 16,136 3,144 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 29 49,917 27,928 Total current assets 420,341 374,630 TOTAL ASSETS 1,331,639 1,225,053 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 230 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of financial position At 31 December 2018 (continued) (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Share capital 30 419,958 419,958 Reserves 224,234 222,304 Profit for the year 88,961 53,399 Total shareholders’ equity 733,153 695,661 Long-term provisions 31 3,438 3,440 Long-term borrowings and deposits 32 206,328 202,445 Total non-current liabilities 209,766 205,885 Advances received 33 59,309 5,767 Trade payables 34 168,163 153,225 Short-term borrowings 35 126,031 133,455 Other current liabilities 36 16,472 12,251 Short-term provisions 31 13,022 8,656 Accrued expenses 37 5,723 10,153 Total current liabilities 388,720 323,507 Total liabilities 598,486 529,392 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,331,639 1,225,053 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 231 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of changes in shareholders’ equity For the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Reserves for Share Capital Legal reGeneral Own (treasRetained own (treasTotal capital reserves serve reserves ury) shares earnings ury) shares Balance at 1 January 2018 419,958 191,702 6,129 21,611 3,319 (3,319) 56,261 695,661 Impact of IFRS 9 application (1,524) (1,524) Balance at 1 January 2018 (after 419,958 191,702 6,129 21,611 3,319 (3,319) 54,737 694,137 the adoption of IFRS 9) Profit for the year 88,961 88,961 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income taxes Total comprehensive income for 88,961 88,961 the year Dividends paid (41,342) (41,342) Purchase of own (treasury) shares (11,554) 11,554 (11,554) (11,554) Disposal of own (treasury) shares 201 2,749 (2,749) 2,749 2,951 Creation of reserves for purchase of (10,000) 10,000 own (treasury) shares Balance at 31 December 2018 419,958 191,903 6,129 2,807 22,124 (12,124) 102,356 733,153 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 232 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) of changes in shareholders’ equity For the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) Reserves from accruals of foreign exchange Reserves Share Capital Legal General Treasury Retained differences for own Total capital reserves reserve reserves shares earnings – transactions shares with subsidiaries Balance at 31 December 2016 419,958 191,565 6,129 21,056 (11,337) 3,875 (3,875) 38,347 665,718 Profit for the year 53,399 53,399 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income taxes Total comprehensive income for 53,399 53,399 the year Dividends paid (35,485) (35,485) Disposal of own (treasury) shares 137 674 (675) 675 811 Purchase of own (treasury) shares (119) 119 (119) (119) Realization of the recognised ex11,337 11,337 change differences (Note 16) Balance at 31 December 2017 419,958 191,702 6,129 21,611 3,319 (3,319) 56,261 695,661 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 233 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2018 (All amounts are expressed in thousands of kunas) Cash flows from operating activities Notes 2018 2017 Profit for the year 88,961 53,399 Adjusted for: Income tax paid 15 (410) 2,200 Depreciation and amortisation 10 53,042 51,775 Write-off of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 18,19 1,137 1,920 Interest expense and exchange rates recognised in profit or loss 13,14 10,375 30,629 Dividend income 13 (54,536) (41,983) Gain from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 5 (765) (676) Interest income 13 (4,051) (4,864) Increase of value of financial share in a subsidiary 13 (12,268) Increase in long-term and short-term provisions (net) 31 4,364 1,540 Income from collected previously written-off trade receivables 5 (358) (12) (Decrease) of accrued expenses and deferred income 37 (4,430) (3,966) (Increase)/decrease of accrued income and prepaid expenses 29 (21,989) 20,706 Profit from operations before working capital changes 59,072 110,668 (Increase) in inventories 24 (64,691) (21,141) Decrease/(increase) in current and non-current trade receivables 75,463 (44,995) Decrease/(increase) in other receivables 26 8,289 (1,755) Increase in trade payables 34 20,609 28,024 (Increase)/decrease of advances received 33 53,542 (6,482) Decrease/(increase) in other current liabilities 36 (14) 1,457 Interest paid 35 (9,611) (16,166) Cash flows from operating activities 142,659 49,610 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of company Tisza Automotive Kft. 21 (70,959) Interest received 305 13,821 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 19 (60,592) (56,597) Purchase of intangible assets 18 (26,106) (18,317) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3,504 2,068 Proceeds from repaid principal of loans given 18,652 47,930 Proceeds from received deposits 32 600 10 Proceeds from government grants 4,345 5,147 Dividends received 54,452 41,829 Cash (used)/generated from investing activities (75,799) 35,891 234 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Separate statement of cash flows (All amounts are expressed For the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) in thousands of kunas) Cash flows from financing activities Notes 2018 2017 Purchase of own (treasury) shares (11,554) (119) Dividends paid (41,342) (35,485) Proceeds from borrowings 32,35 154,870 239,013 Repayment of borrowings 35 (155,371) (287,152) Repayment of financial lease (471) (2,647) Cash used in financing activities (53,868) (86,390) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, net 28 12,992 (889) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,144 4,033 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 28 16,136 3,144 The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2018 235 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 Notes to the separate financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Initial application of new amendments to the existing standards effective for the current reporting period The following new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretation issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are effective for the current reporting period: • IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” and further amendments (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment” Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” with IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 or when IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” is applied first time), • Amendments to IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” – enhancement of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, adopted by the EU on 31 October 2017 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IAS 40 “Investment Property” Transfers of Investment Property (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 due to “Improvements to IFRSs (cycle 2014-2016)” resulting from the annual improvement project of IFRS (IFRS 1, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording (amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018), • IFRIC 22 “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The adoption of these new standards, amendments to the existing standards and interpretation has not led to any material changes in the Company’s financial statements. 236 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (continued) Standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB and adopted by the EU but not yet effective. At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretation were in issue, but not yet effective: • IFRS 16 “Leases” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). The Company has elected not to adopt these new standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretation in advance of their effective dates. The Company anticipates that the adoption of these standards, amendments to existing standards and new interpretations will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Company in the period of initial application. New standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB but not yet adopted by the EU At present, IFRS as adopted by the EU do not significantly differ from regulations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) except for the following new standards and amendments to the existing standards, which were not endorsed for use in EU as at 18 April 2019 (the effective dates stated below is for IFRS as issued by IASB): • IFRS 14 “Regulatory Deferral Accounts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016) the European Commission has decided not to launch the endorsement process of this interim standard and to wait for the final standard, • IFRS 17 “Insurance Contracts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021), • Amendments to IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” Definition of a Business (effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and to asset acquisitions that occur on or after the beginning of that period). • Amendments to IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture and further amendments (effective date deferred indefinitely until the research project on the equity method has been concluded), Integrated Annual Report 2018 237 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 1. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (continued) New standards and amendments to the existing standards issued by IASB but not yet adopted by the EU (continued) • Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” and IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” Definition of Material (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020), • Amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective for annual periods beginning on or after • 1 January 2019), • Amendments to various standards due to “Improvements to IFRSs (cycle 2015 -2017)” resulting from the annual improvement project of IFRS (IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12 and IAS 23) primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019), • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020). 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Set out below are the principal accounting policies consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements for the current and prior year. 2.1. Statement of compliance The separate financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Accounting Act of the Republic of Croatia and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by the European Union. 238 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.2. Basis of preparation The Company maintains its accounting records in the Croatian language, in Croatian kunas and in accordance with Croatian laws and the accounting principles and practices observed by enterprises in Croatia. The preparation of the separate financial statements in accordance with the Accounting Act of the Republic of Croatia and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) effective in European Union requires from the Management Board to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are based on the information available as at the date of preparation of the financial statements, and actual results could differ from those estimates. The separate financial statements of the Company represent aggregate amounts of assets, liabilities, capital and reserves of the Company as of 31 December 2018, and the results of operations for the year then ended. The Company also prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which include the financial statements of the Company, as the parent, and the financial statements of the subsidiaries controlled by the Company. In these financial statements, investments in entities controlled by the Company or in which the Company has significant influence are carried at cost less impairment, if any. For a full understanding of the financial positions of the Company and its subsidiaries, as a group, and of the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year, users are advised to read the consolidated financial statements of the Group AD Plastik d.d. Details of the investments in subsidiaries and associates are presented in Note 21. 2.3. Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for products, goods or services sold in the regular course of operations. Revenue is stated net of value added tax, estimated returns, rebates and discounts. The Company recognises revenue when the amount of the revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow into the Company. Income from sale of products Product sales are recognized when the products are delivered to, and accepted by the customer and when the significant risks and rewards associated with the ownership of a product are transferred to the customer. Sales to customers with whom selfinvoicing has been arranged are recognised upon receiving from such a customer the confirmation of delivery, i.e. when significant risks are transferred to the customer. Integrated Annual Report 2018 239 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3. Revenue recognition (continued) Income from the manufacture of tools for a known customer Accrued revenues from tools are matched with contracts that are specifically concluded for developing an asset, or a group of assets, closely linked and interdependent on the design, technology and function or their final use or application. The company estimates that the transfer of significant risks and benefits from the ownership of tools, gauges and other devices is met at the time of „SOP“ (Start Of Production), i.e. start of the mass production on them. At that point Company recognizes revenue from the sale of tools. Costs of modification, completion and similar tool costs Company recognizes as an increase in inventory value as part of inventory process. Interest income Interest income is recognised on a pro rata temporis basis, using the effective interest method. Interest earned on balances with commercial banks (demand and term deposits) is credited to income for the period as it accrues. Interest on trade receivables is recognised as income when accrued. 2.4. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 2.5. Foreign-currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Croatian kunas at the rates of exchange in effect at the dates of the transactions. Cash, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange in effect at the date of the statement of financial position. Gains and losses arising on translation are included in the statement of comprehensive income for the year. At 31 December 2018, the official exchange rate of the Croatian kuna against 1 Euro (EUR) was HRK 7.417575 (31 December 2017: HRK 7.513648 for EUR 1). 2.6. Income tax Current tax Income tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year and represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity. 240 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.6. Income tax (continued) Current tax (continued) Current tax represents tax expected to be paid on the basis of taxable profit for the year, using the tax rates enacted at the date of the statement of financial position, adjusted by appropriate prior-period tax liabilities. The income tax rate for year 2017. and 2018 amounts to 18 %.. Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rate expected to apply to taxable profit in the period in which the liability is expected to be settled or the asset realised, based on the tax rates in effect at the date of the statement of financial position. The income tax rate applicable to deferred tax assets is 18 %. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the amount that the Company expects, at the date of the statement of financial position, to recover or settle the carrying amounts of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and are classified in the statement of financial position as non-current assets and/or non-current liabilities. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. At each date of the statement of financial position, the Company reviews the unrecognised potential tax assets and the carrying amount of the recognised tax assets. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities. In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost. 2.7. Plant, equipment and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets are recognised at purchase cost and subsequently reduced by accumulated depreciation/amortisation. The purchase cost comprises the purchase price, import duties and non-refundable sales taxes (for property, plant and equipment) and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to its working condition and location for its intended use, such as employee remuneration, professional fees directly arising from putting an asset into its working condition, test costs (for intangible assets), as well as all other costs directly attributable to bringing an asset to a condition for its intended use. Maintenance and repairs, replacements and improvements of minor importance are expensed as incurred. Where it is obvious that expenses incurred resulted in an increase of expected future economic benefits to be derived from the use of an item of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets in excess of the originally assessed standard performance of the asset, they are added to the carrying amount of the asset. Integrated Annual Report 2018 241 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.7. Plant, equipment and intangible assets (continued) Gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets are included in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Depreciation commences on putting an asset into use. Depreciation is provided so as to write down the cost or revalued amount of an asset other than land, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets under development over the estimated useful life of the asset using the straight-line method as follows: Property, plant and equipment, Depreciation rates in 2018 Depreciation rates in 2017 and intangible assets Buildings 1.50 1.50 Machinery 7.00 7.00 Tools, furniture, office and laboratory equipment, 10.00 10.00 measuring and control instruments Vehicles 20.00 20.00 IT equipment 20.00 20.00 Others 10.00 10.00 Projects 20.00 20.00 Software 20.00 20.00 2.8. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets At each reporting date the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is an indication that the assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, The Company’s assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units or, it this is not possible, they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. 2.9. Investments in subsidiaries and associates A subsidiary is an entity over which the Company has effective control over financial and operating policy decisions of the Company. The results, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are incorporated in these separate financial statements using the cost method of accounting. An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence and usually an ownership interest from 20 to 50 percent, but no control over the entity. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but it is not control or joint control over those policies. The results of operations of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the cost method of accounting. 242 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.10. Inventories Inventories of raw material and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, whichever is lower. Cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all variable selling costs. Small inventory is written off when put in use. The cost of product inventories i.e. the production price is based on direct material used, the cost of which is determined using the weighted average cost method, then direct labour costs and fixed overheads at the actual level of production which approximates the normal capacities, as well as variable overheads that are based on the actual use of the production capacities. Merchandise on stock is recognised at purchase cost. 2.11. Trade receivables and prepayments Trade debtors and prepayments are carried at nominal amounts less an appropriate allowance for impairment for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Impairment is recognised whenever there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the originally agreed terms. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, the probability of bankruptcy proceedings at the debtor, or default or delinquency in payment are considered objective evidence of impairment. The amount of the impairment loss is determined as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. Management determines the level of impairment allowance for doubtful receivables based on a specific review of the recoverability of amounts owed by strategic customers of the ADP Group and of the overall ageing of other current receivables. The allowance for amounts doubtful of collection is charged to the statement of comprehensive income for the year. 2.12. Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises account balances with banks, cash in hand, deposits and securities at call or with maturities of less than three months. 2.13. Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event and it is probable (i.e. more likely than not) that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Integrated Annual Report 2018 243 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.13. Provisions (continued) Provisions are reviewed at each date of the statement of financial position and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where the effect of discounting is material, the amount of the provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation, determined using the estimated risk free interest rate as the discount rate. Where discounting is used, the reversal of such discounting in each year is recognised as a financial expense and the carrying amount of the provision increases in each year to reflect the passage of time. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the date of the statement of financial position, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows. 2.14. Termination, long-service and other employee benefits (a) Pension-related obligations and post-employment benefits In the normal course of business, the Company makes payments, through salary deductions, to mandatory pension funds on behalf of its employees, as required by law. The contributions paid to the mandatory pension funds are recognised as salary expense when accrued. The Company does not have any other retirement benefit plan and, consequently, has no other obligations in respect of the retirement benefits for its employees. In addition, the Company is not obliged to provide any other post-employment benefits. (b) Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Company before the normal retirement date. The Company recognises its termination benefit obligations in accordance with the applicable Union Agreement. (c) Regular termination benefits Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to their present value. (d) Long-term employee benefits For defined benefit retirement benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they arise. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested. Otherwise, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over certain period until the benefits become vested. 244 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.15. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities included in the accompanying financial statements consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, long-term receivables, loans, borrowings and investments. The details of the recognition and measurement of those items are presented in the accounting policies below. Investments are recognized and derecognized on a trade date basis, where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned. They are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Impact of initial application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In the current year, the Company has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (as revised in July 2014) and the related consequential amendments to other IFRS Standards that are effective for an annual period that begins on or after 1 January 2018. Company elected not to restate comparatives and recognize any adjustments to the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in opening retained earnings as of the date of initial application of IFRS 9 standard. Key indicatiors included in model for calculation of financial instruments impairment are • Probability of Default 2.33% and • Loss Given Default 46.10%. Loans and receivables Trade, loan and other receivables with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables, where the recognition of interest would be immaterial. Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability, and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial asset or liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indications of impairment at each date of the statement of financial position. A financial asset are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. Integrated Annual Report 2018 245 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.15. Financial instruments (continued) Impairment of financial assets (continued) For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Impairment loss on a financial asset is recognised by reducing the carrying amount of the asset through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset have expired, when the asset is transferred and when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are passed onto another entity. If the Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Company recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Company continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the underlying contractual arrangement. 2.16. Contingencies Contingent liabilities have not been recognised in these separate financial statements. They are disclosed unless the possibility of outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. A contingent asset is not recognised in financial statements, but it is disclosed when the inflow of economic benefits becomes probable. 2.17. Events subsequent to the date of the statement of financial position Events after the date of the statement of financial position that provide additional information about the Company’s position at that date (adjusting events) are reflected in the financial statements. Subsequent events that are not adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the separate financial statements when material. 2.18. Segment reporting The Company monitors and presents the results of its principal operating segments separately. The segment reporting is based on identified geographical areas. Certain financial information about the geographical segments are presented in Note 4. 246 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.18. Segment reporting (continued) The Company presents the revenue by geographical location, but does not monitor information about the long-term assets and the revenue generated in those areas from external customers. 2.19. Leases IFRS 16 „Leases“ was issued by the IASB in January 2016. The standard replaces IAS 17 „Leases“ for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model. Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is basically unchanged compared to the IAS 17. Lessors will continue to distinguish between operating and finance type of leases. IFRS 16 sets the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. Leases are recognised by the present value of the lease payments and showed either as lease assets (right-of-use assets) or together with property, plant and equipment. Company also recognises a financial liability representing its obligation to make future lease payments. Lessees are required to recognise separately interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset. Lessees are also required to re-measure lease liability due to certain events (e.g. a change in lease term, a change in future lease payments, resulting from a change in an index or discounting rate). The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees: „low-value“ leases (e.g. tablets and personal computers) and „short-term“ leases (leases which ends within 12 months). Low-value leases are considers assets with value lower than 5.000 USD. The Company has chosen to apply the standard using a cumulative catch-up approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption. At the date of transition lease liability are calculated as outstanding liability for existing leases using incremental borrowing rate. The right-of-use assets are measured at the amount of the lease liability, adjusted by amount of the prepaid or accrued lease payments. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities will be reported separately in the statement of financial position. The company has elected not to apply the requirements of IFRS 16 for low-value leases (e.g. printers) and short-term leases (e.g. apartments). The Company has performed impact assessment of IFRS 16 for first time adoption in 2019. Opening balances of right of use assets and lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 will be as follows (in thousands kunas): Right of use assets 20,478 Lease liabilities 20,478 Integrated Annual Report 2018 247 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.20. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities are classified as at fair value through profit or loss when the financial liability is (i) contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination (IFRS 3), (ii) held for trading, or (iii) it is designated as at fair value through profit or loss. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: • it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Company manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or • it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition if: • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or • the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Company’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IFRS 9 permits the entire combined contract to be designated as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item. 248 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.20. Financial liabilities (continued) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade and other payables) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Management Board is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on past experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from those estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are continually reviewed. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. Areas of estimation include, but are not limited to, depreciation periods and residual values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, impairment of receivables, and actuarial estimates. The key areas of estimation in applying the Company’s accounting policies that had a most significant impact on the amounts recognized in the financial statements were as follows: Useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets As described in Note 2.7., the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each annual reporting period. Property, plant and equipment are recognised initially at cost less accumulated depreciation. Availability of taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets could be recognised A deferred tax asset is recognized for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the related tax benefit could be realised. In determining the amount of deferred taxes that can be recognised significant judgement is required, which is based on the probable quantification of time and level of future taxable profits, together with the future tax planning strategy. In 2017, deferred tax assets were recognised in respect of tax differences available for utilisation. Integrated Annual Report 2018 249 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (continued) Impairment allowance on trade receivables Management provides for doubtful receivables based on a review of the overall ageing of all receivables and a specific review of significant individual amounts receivable. The allowance for amounts doubtful of collection is charged to the statement of comprehensive income for the year. Company applies the simplified approach according to IFRS 9 and recognises lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables. Actuarial estimates used in determining the retirement benefits The cost of defined benefits is determined using actuarial estimates. Actuarial estimates involve assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases and the mortality or fluctuation rates. Because of the long-term nature of those plans, there is uncertainty surrounding those estimates. Accounting treatment of tools According to the information available to the Company, tools are treated as inventory and are recognized in Company’s Statement of financial position from the date of purchase to the date of start of production of mass deliveries to customers (SOP – Start Of Production). Date of start of production of mass deliveries shall be the date when significant risks and rewards of ownership of tools are transferred to the buyer. Provision for legal claims There are a number of legal actions which have arisen from the regular course of operations. Management makes estimates of probable outcomes of the legal actions and recognises provisions for the liabilities that may arise to the Company in respect of claims. The Company recognises a provision in the total expected amount of outflows of economic benefits as a result of the court case, which is generally the claim amount plus the estimated related legal costs and penalty interest (if applicable), if it is more likely than not, based on the opinion of management after consultation with legal advisers, that the outcome of the court case will be unfavourable for the Company. The Company does not recognise provisions for court cases or the expected related legal costs and penalty interest (if applicable) in cases where management estimates that an unfavourable outcome of the court case is less likely than a favourable outcome for the Company. Where indications exist of a possible settlement in relation to a particular court case, a provision is recognised, based on the best estimate of management made in consultation with its legal advisers, in the amount of the expected settlement less any existing amounts already provided for in relation to that particular court case. Useful life of Projects The Management of the Company considers it appropriate to amortize the development part of the Projects for an average duration of five years. The Management believes that the described period represents the average duration of the production cycle to which the described Projects are concerned. 250 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 4. SALES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Foreign sales 914,105 805,430 Domestic sales 13,860 12,252 927,965 817,682 Segment revenue analysis by country: 2018 2017 Slovenia 432,190 386,377 France 189,415 169,679 Germany 77,157 49,910 Serbia 54,334 50,427 Italy 51,417 45,957 Russia 45,746 50,239 Spain 20,991 17,694 Romania 20,639 16,230 Others 36,076 31,169 927,965 817,682 Integrated Annual Report 2018 251 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 5. OTHER INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Service income – cardboard packaging 5,892 3,984 Rental income 2,366 2,523 Income from the sale of services to tenants 1,555 1,426 Income from consumption of own products and services 1,100 2,144 Income from maintaining safety stock 883 556 Gain from sale of long-term assets 765 676 Income from validation and laboratory testing 684 Income from support in development 394 Income from damages and insurance 391 1,944 Income from waste management services 378 521 Income from correction of accounts receivable 358 12 Income from reversal of provisions for unused vacation and 279 pensions Income from the quality control 199 687 Income from additional processing 174 8 Income from transport services 89 156 Other operating income 1,502 2,334 17.009 16.971 6. COST OF RAW MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Direct materials 398,304 329,060 Other raw material and supplies 28,851 30,311 Electricity 17,986 14,206 445,141 373,577 252 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 7. COST OF GOODS SOLD (in thousands of kunas) 2018. 2017. Cost of merchandise 68,729 65,347 Cost of materials sold 35,052 24,097 Cost of tools sold 34,409 37,197 Re-export costs 4,317 6,380 Other costs of goods sold 596 621 143,103 133,641 8. SERVICE COSTS (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Transport 36,575 31,665 Rental and lease costs 10,512 9,255 Current maintenance and preventive maintenance of machinery 6,953 4,673 Royalty fees 3,811 1,767 Intermediation costs 2,524 157 Engineering services costs 1,701 1,486 Water 1,327 1,109 Communal fees 1,315 1,201 Info-communication costs 1,147 1,215 Other service costs 3.826 2.973 69,691 55,501 Integrated Annual Report 2018 253 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 9. STAFF COSTS (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Net wages and salaries 96,592 82,304 Taxes and contributions out of salaries 37,556 32,026 Contributions on salaries 22,185 18,493 Other staff costs 18,537 18,212 174,870 151,035 Other staff costs comprise jubilee awards, termination benefits, per diems, overnight accommodation costs and business travel costs, commuting costs and other business-related costs. 10. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 19) 27,063 27,843 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 18) 25,198 23,226 Depreciation of investment property (Note 20) 781 706 53,042 51,775 254 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 11. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Customer complaints 8,658 3,082 Intelectual service cost 6,625 9,607 Communal fees for the use of construction plots 1,564 1,506 Other non-material costs 1,421 606 Insurance premiums 1,329 2,039 Professional training costs 1,208 913 Non-material assets write-off (Note 18) 1,137 1,920 Entertainment 1,029 899 Measuring equipment and laboratory tests 598 650 Gifts, donations and sponsorships 408 572 Penalties for missing handicapped employment quotas 392 303 Bank and transaction charges 388 521 Cost of goods provided free of charge 367 361 Support to employees and their families 358 347 Forest reproduction levies 253 226 Workplace health and safety 167 148 Damages reimbursment 85 726 Withholding tax 67 1,557 Other expenses 2,729 1,738 28,783 27,721 In Professional training costs in 2018 is included cost in amount of 13 thousands kunas from Company Deloitte d.o.o. Integrated Annual Report 2018 255 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 12. PROVISIONS FOR RISKS AND CHARGES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Employee bonus provisions (Note 31) 2,429 3,561 Retirement / termination benefits, net (Note 31) 2,103 Provisions for jubilee benefits, net (Note 31) 173 32 Vacation provisions, net (Note 31) 1,822 4,705 5,415 13. FINANCIAL INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Dividend income 54,536 41,983 Increase in value of financial share of a subsidiary AD Plastik Kaluga 12,268 Foreign exchange gains 7,613 12,894 Interest income 4,051 4,864 78,468 59,742 14. FINANCIAL EXPENSES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Foreign exchange losses 9,095 28,310 Interest expense 8,893 15,213 17,988 43,523 15. INCOME TAX (in thousands of kunas) Income tax comprises the following: 2018 2017 Deferred tax 410 (2,200) 410 (2,200) 256 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 15. INCOME TAX (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Deferred tax, as presented in the statement of financial position, is as follows: 2018 2017. Balance at 1 January 618 3,161 Recognition/(reversal) of deferred tax assets 411 (2,543) Balance at 31 December 1,029 618 Deferred tax assets arise from the following: (Credited ) to stateOpening Closing 2018 ment of comprehensive balance balance income, net Temporary differences: Provisions for jubilee service and termination benefits 618 410 1,029 Balance at 31 December 618 410 1,029 (Charged) to statement Opening Closing 2017 of comprehensive inbalance balance come, net Temporary differences: Provisions for jubilee service and termination benefits 574 46 618 Reserves from translation of foreign currencies, net 2,587 (2,587) Balance at 31 December 3,161 (2,543) 618 Integrated Annual Report 2018 257 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 15. INCOME TAX (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Reconciliation between the accounting and tax results is shown as follows: 2018 2017 Accounting profit before tax 88,551 55,599 Effect of tax base increasing items 16,327 11,841 Effect of tax base decreasing items 71,025 (46,142) Tax base 33,853 21,298 Tax at the rate of 18% 6,094 3,834 Tax reliefs (6,094) (3,834) Deferred tax recognised in profit or loss (410) 2,200 Income tax expense (410) 2,200 The effective income tax rate in Republic of Croatia in year 2018 was 18%. On 24 October 2012 the Company filed with the Ministry of Economy the Application for Incentive Measures for the investment project “Expansion of Production for the Purpose of Export of Car Industry Products”, in accordance with the Act on Investment Promotion and Development of Investment Climate (OG 111/2012 and 28/2013) and the Investment Promotion and Development of Investment Climate (OG 40/2013). As a result, the Company made investments in fixed assets, having thus met the prerequisites for the utilization of the tax incentives for 2018. 16. RESERVES FROM ACCRUALS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES – TRANSACTIONS WITH SUBSIDIARIES (in thousands of kunas) 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year (11,337) Realization of exchange differences 11,337 Balance at end of year 258 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 17. EARNINGS PER SHARE (in thousands of kunas) Basic earnings per share are determined by dividing the Company’s net profit by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares redeemed and held by the Company as treasury shares. The basic earnings per share equal the diluted earnings per share, as there are currently no share options that would potentially increase the number of issued shares. 2018 2017 Net profit (in HRK '000) 88,961 53,399 Weighted average number of shares 4,152,183 4,173,705 Basic and diluted earnings per share (in kunas and lipas) 21.43 12.79 Integrated Annual Report 2018 259 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 18. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) Intangible Other intangiSoftware Projects assets under Total ble assets development Cost Balance at 31 December 2016 5,664 183,093 20,053 208,811 Additions 18,317 18,317 Transfer from assets under development 1,281 20,701 (21,983) Disposals (810) (810) Write-off (3,356) (3,356) Balance at 31 December 2017 6,945 199,629 16,388 222,962 Additions 26,106 26,106 Transfer from assets under development 3,002 9,041 279 (12,322) Disposals (2,035) (2,035) Write-off (1,137) (1,137) Balance at 31 December 2018 9,947 206,635 279 29,035 245,897 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 31 December 2016 4,425 110,637 115,062 Charge for the year (Note 10) 833 22,393 23,226 Disposals (362) (362) Write-off (1,436) (1,436) Balance at 31 December 2017 5,258 131,232 136,490 Charge for the year (Note 10) 1,606 23,585 7 25,198 Disposals (10) (10) Balance at 31 December 2018 6,864 154,807 7 161,678 Net book value At 31 December 2017 1,687 68,397 16,388 86,472 At 31 December 2018 3,083 51,828 272 29,035 84,219 Projects comprise investments in the development of new products that are expected to generate economic benefits in future periods. Consequently, the costs are amortised over the period in which the related economic benefits flow into the Company. 260 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 19. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (in thousands of kunas) Plant and Assets under Land Buildings Total equipment development Cost Balance at 31 December 2016 147,283 253,390 418,708 5,324 824,704 Additions 56,597 56,597 Transfer from assets under development 1,511 17,451 (18,962) Disposals (7,467) (7,467) Retirements (23,318) (23,318) Decrease based on government grants (7,407) (7,407) Transfer to investment property (Note 20) (15,881) (33,050) (48,931) Balance at 31 December 2017 131,402 221,851 405,374 35,552 794,178 Additions 60,592 60,592 Transfer from assets under development 13,881 46,619 (60,500) Disposals (567) (1,031) (1,599) Retirements (926) (926) Decrease based on government grants (534) (534) Transfer to investment property (Note 20) (904) (4,847) (5,750) Balance at 31 December 2018 129,931 230,886 450,034 35,109 845,961 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 31 December 2016 69,902 263,915 333,817 Charge for the year (Note 10) 3,313 24,530 27,843 Disposals (6,523) (6,523) Retirements (23,318) (23,318) Transfer to investment property (Note 20) (4,733) (4,733) Balance at 31 December 2017 68,482 258,604 327,086 Charge for the year (Note 10) 3,290 23,773 27,063 Disposals (885) (885) Retirements (926) (926) Transfer to investment property (Note 20) (1,850) (1,850) Balance at 31 December 2018 69,922 280,566 350,488 Net book value At 31 December 2017 131,402 153,369 146,770 35,552 467,092 At 31 December 2018 129,931 160,964 169,468 35,109 495,472 Total amount of liabilities under financial leases at 31 December 2018 amounts to HRK 1,557 thousand (31 December 2017: HRK 2,050 thousand). Total amount of financial leases was used to finance plant and equipment. Integrated Annual Report 2018 261 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 20. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (in thousands of kunas) Land Buildings Total Cost Balance at 31 December 2016 14,303 14,303 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (Note 19) 15,881 33,050 48,930 Balance at 31 December 2017 15,881 47,353 63,233 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (Note 19) 904 4,846 5,750 Balance at 31 December 2018 16,785 52,199 68,984 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 31 December 2016 6,239 6,239 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (Note 19) 4,733 4,733 Charge for the year (Note 10) 705 705 Balance at 31 December 2017 11,677 11,677 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (Note 19) 1,850 1,850 Charge for the year (Note 10) 781 781 Balance at 31 December 2018 14,308 14,308 Net book value Balance at 31 December 2017 15,881 35,676 51,557 Balance at 31 December 2018 16,785 37,891 54,676 In 2018 the part of the building used to rent office space was reclassified. Income from the rental of the building in 2018 amounts to HRK 2,202 thousand (2017: HRK 2,218 thousand), and the depreciation charge for the year 2018 amounts to HRK 781 thousand (2017: HRK 705 thousand). 262 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 21. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (in thousands of kunas) Set out below are details of the Company’s material subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period: Amount of equity investCountry of Ownership interest in % ment, in HRK '000 Name of subsidiary Principal activity incorporation and business 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 TiszaúManufacture of other vehicle Tisza Automotive Kft spare parts jváros, 100,00 % 70,959 Mađarska Kaluga, Manufacture of other vehicle ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga spare parts and accessories Russian 100,00 % 100.00 % 36,503 24,235 Federation Manufacture of other vehicle Mladenovac, ADP d.o.o. spare parts and accessories Serbia 100,00 % 100.00 % 15,014 15,014 Samara, Manufacture of other vehicle AO AD Plastik Togliatti spare parts and accessories Russian 99.99 % 99.99 % 5,077 5,077 Federation Manufacture of other vehicle Novo Mesto, AD PLASTIK d.o.o. spare parts and accessories Slovenia 100,00 % 100.00 % 58 58 127,611 44,384 Further information about subsidiaries partly owned by the Company, but in which the Company holds a significant non-controlling interest is set out in the following table: Amount of equity investCountry of Ownership interest in % ment, in HRK '000 Name of associate Principal activity incorporation and business 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EURO AUTO PLASTIC Manufacture of other vehicle Mioveni, spare parts and accessories Romania 50,00 % 50.00 % 21,755 21,755 SYSTEMS CENTAR ZA ISTRAŽIVANJE I RAZVOJ Automotive industry research Zagreb, and development Croatia 24,00 % 24.00 % 24 AUTOMOBILSKE INDUSTRIJE d.o.o. 21,755 21,779 Total investments in subsidiaries and associates 149,366 66,163 Integrated Annual Report 2018 263 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 21. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Centar za istraživanje i razvoj automobilske industrije d.o.o., Croatia, established in 2015, is engaged in the research and development in the automotive industry. By the decision of the General Assembly of 6 November 2018, the Company ceased work and the liquidation procedure has been completed. Ad Plastik d.d., Solin has a 50-percent equity share in EURO AUTO PLASTIC SYSTEMS, but has no control over the entity. However, the company is treated as an associate. Set out below is a summary of financial information about the subsidiaries: AD PLASTIK d.o.o., Novo Mesto, Slovenia 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total assets 3,603 3,643 Total liabilities (143) (149) Net assets 3,460 3,494 Share in the net assets of the subsidiary 100,00% 100.00% AO AD Plastik Togliatti / AO ADP, Samara, Russian Federation 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total assets 137,674 150,395 Total liabilities (116,045) (143,762) Net assets 21,629 6,633 Share in the net assets of the subsidiary 99,99% 99.99% ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, Kaluga, Russian Federation 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total assets 104,519 128,077 Total liabilities (105,319) (125,922) Net assets (800) 2,155 Share in the net assets of the subsidiary 100,00 100.00 % ADP d.o.o, Mladenovac, Serbia 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total assets 87,333 93,089 Total liabilities (74,850) (81,017) Net assets 12,483 12,072 Share in the net assets of the subsidiary 100,00% 100.00 % Tisza Automotive, Tiszaújváros, Hungary 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total assets 136,745 Total liabilities (93,886) Net assets 42,859 Share in the net assets of the subsidiary 100,00% 264 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 22. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Long-term loans to subsidiaries 81,794 98,526 Long-term loans to unrelated companies 68 4,011 Other financial assets 62 62 Current portion of long-term loan receivables (Note 27) (68) (1,003) 81,856 101,596 Long-term investment loans were granted to the subsidiaries with maturities from four to eight years and an interest rate of 3.96 %. 23. LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ZAO ADP Kaluga, Russia 30,489 27.855 AO ADP Togliatti, Russia 14,191 49.070 44,680 76,925 24. INVENTORIES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Raw material and supplies on stock 52,092 46,079 Prepayments for tools 33,958 Tools 30,391 8,761 Finished products 14,714 13,390 Work in progress 5,573 4,465 Merchandise on stock 3,748 3,090 140,476 75,785 There was no impairment allowance on inventories at 31 December 2018. Integrated Annual Report 2018 265 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 25. TRADE RECEIVABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign trade receivables 183,068 226,757 Domestic trade receivables 5,579 5,718 Impairment allowance on receivables (1,215) (1,319) 187,432 231,156 The average credit period on sales is 97 days (2017: 98 days). The Company has provided for all for all sued debtors, regardless of the past due period, as well as for all receivables that are past due and assessed as doubtful of collection. The Company seeks and obtains from its domestic customers debentures as collateral for receivables, which are issued in the amount of the receivables. Movements in the impairment allowance on doubtful trade receivables can be presented as follows: 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year 1,293 1,365 Amounts written-off in total during the year (166) (60) Collected during the year (Note 5) (12) Total impairment allowance on domestic trade receivables 1,127 1,293 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the year 27 27 IFRS 9 first adoption 104 Movements based on IFRS 9 expected credit losses calculation for year end 43 Total impairment allowance on foreign trade receivables 88 27 Total impairment allowance 1,215 1,320 All receivables provided against are under litigation or included in bankruptcy estate. The maturity of the receivables can be analysed as follows: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 0 365 days past due 137 Over 365 days 1,078 1,320 1,215 1,320 266 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 25. TRADE RECEIVABLES (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Ageing analysis of receivables past due but not impaired can be presented as follows: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 0 365 days past due 71,372 87,087 Over 365 days past due 3,488 9,146 74,860 96,233 The majority of the receivables past due beyond 365 days comprise amounts owed by the subsidiaries. 26. OTHER RECEIVABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Receivables from the State and State institutions 10,789 11,717 Foreign prepayments made 4,911 16,199 Domestic prepayments made 4,114 1,137 Amounts due from employees 135 3 Other receivables 21 19,970 29,056 Amounts due from the State and State institutions comprise receivables from the State Budget in respect of VAT refund, refunds from the Croatian Health Insurance Fund and similar. 27. CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interest receivables 6,341 6,558 Current portion of long-term loan receivables (Note 22) 68 1,003 Other deposits 1 6,410 7,561 Interest receivables mostly relate to loans given to subsidiaries. Integrated Annual Report 2018 267 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 28. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign account balance 16,015 3,095 Current account balance 107 46 Cash in hand 14 3 16,136 3,144 29. PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Accrued income on tools 39,786 17,847 Prepaid operating expenses 2,541 3,102 Other accrued income 7,590 6,979 49,917 27,928 30. SHARE CAPITAL (in thousands of kunas) Subscribed capital amounts to HRK 419,958 thousand and consists of 4,199,584 shares, with a nominal value of HRK 100 per share (2017: HRK 419,958 thousand, comprising 4,199,584 shares, with a nominal value of HRK 100 each). 31. LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM PROVISIONS (in thousands of kunas) Short-term Long-term 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Vacation accrual 4,186 4,328 Employee bonuses 5,990 3,561 Termination benefits 1,980 2,057 1,934 Jubilee awards (long-service benefits) 298 1,381 1,506 Legal cases 568 767 13,022 8,656 3,438 3,440 268 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 31. LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM PROVISIONS (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Movement in provisions was as follows: Retirement / Employee Jubilee Legal Vacation Total termination bonuses benefits Balance at 1 January 2018 1,506 1,934 767 4,328 3,561 12,096 Increase/(decrease) in provisions, net 173 2,103 (199) (142) 2,429 4,364 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,679 4,037 568 4,186 5,990 16,460 Retirement / Employee Jubilee Legal Vacation Total termination bonuses benefits Balance at 1 January 2017 1,474 2,103 4,474 2,505 10,556 Increase/(decrease) in provisions, net 32 (169) (3,707) 1,823 3,561 1,540 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,506 1,934 767 4,328 3,561 12,096 Defined benefit plan According to the Collective Agreement, the Company has the obligation to pay long-service (jubilee awards), retirement-related and other benefits to employees. The Company operates a defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. Benefits payable upon retirement and long-service benefits are defined in the Union Agreement and employment agreements. No other post-retirement benefits are provided. Long-service benefits are paid for full years of service in the month of the current year in which the service is determined as completed. The present value of defined benefit obligations arising from long-service benefits and benefits payable upon retirement is determined using the Projected Credit Unit method and serves as the basis for arriving at the past and current service costs, the interest expense and the actuarial gain or loss. Key assumptions used in calculating the required provisions are the discount rate of 3.17 % and the fluctuation rate of 7.55 %. Integrated Annual Report 2018 269 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 32. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS AND DEPOSITS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Long-term borrowings 267,993 248,598 Long-term commodity credits provided by suppliers 5,671 11,177 Liabilities for received deposits 600 274,264 259,775 Current portion of long-term borrowings (Note 35) (67,936) (57,330) Total long-term borrowings 206,328 202,445 Long-term borrowings are used to finance acquisition of Tisza Automotive Kft., capital investments and development projects. Instruments of collateral provided for the for long-term loans include mortgage on real estate and/or equipment and payment instruments. Majority of the long-term loans are repayable on a quarterly basis. In 2018, the weighted average interest rate on the long-term loans was 2.38 %. The Company regularly meets all its obligations arising from the loans and observes all the conditions specified in the underlying contracts. Movements in the long-term borrowings during the year were as follows: 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 202,445 174,412 New loans raised 69,463 153,018 Received deposits 600 Foreign exchange differences (1,476) 1,418 Reclassification to short-term loans (Note 35) (64,704) (126,403) Total long-term borrowings 206,328 202,445 33. ADVANCES RECEIVED (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign customers 59,309 5,767 59,309 5,767 270 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 34. TRADE PAYABLES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Foreign trade payables 119,626 112,356 Domestic trade payables 48,537 40,869 168,163 153,225 In 2018, the average days payables outstanding was 78 (2017: 91 days). 35. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Short-term borrowings – principal payable 57,526 75,334 Current portion of long-term borrowings (Note 32) 67,936 57,330 Short-term borrowings – interest payable 569 791 126,031 133,455 The short-term borrowings were used to finance development projects and for working capital purposes. Instruments of collateral provided for the short-term borrowings are payment instruments. Majority of the total balance of the short-term borrowings are approved overdrafts on current accounts, with the limits renewable on an annual basis. In 2018, the weighted average interest rate on the short-term loans was 1.98 %. The Company fulfils all its obligations under the loans regularly. 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 133,455 211,430 Reclassification from long-term loans (Note 32) 64,704 126,403 New loans raised 85,407 85,995 Interest invoiced 8,893 15,213 Exchange rate differences (1,446) (2,268) Interest paid (9,611) (16,166) Principal repaid (155,371) (287,152) Balance at 31 December 126,031 133,455 Integrated Annual Report 2018 271 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 36. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Amounts due to employees 9,128 7,713 Due to the State and State institutions 7,313 4,493 Other current liabilities 31 45 16,472 12,251 37. ACCRUED EXPENSES (in thousands of kunas) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other current liabilities 5,185 6,867 Accrued tool expenses 538 3,286 5,723 10,153 38. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS (in thousands of kunas) Transactions with related companies were as follows: Receivables and payables for goods, Receivables Payables services and interest 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ZAO ADP KALUGA, Russia 54,500 58,541 606 58 AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia 32,314 84,458 66 1 ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac, Serbia 25,755 22,053 4,792 10,614 EURO APS, Romania 3,737 3,872 63 Centar za istraživanje i razvoj, Croatia 1 5 AD Plastik d.o.o., Slovenia 2,600 2,027 Tisza Automotive, Hungary 217 888 116,523 168,925 9,015 12,705 272 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 38. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS (continued) (in thousands of kunas) Receivables Payables Receivables and payables for loans 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ZAO ADP KALUGA, Russia 39,099 39,915 AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia 22,085 22,541 ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac, Srbija 20,610 36,070 Sankt-Peterburgskaya investicionnaya kompaniya 37,088 81,794 98,526 37,088 Sankt-Peterburgskaya investicionnaya kompaniya is member of Group in which is also company OAO Holding Autokomponenti. Company OAO Holding Autokomponenti holds 30% of shares in Company AD Plastik d.d. Purchase transactions Income Expenses Operating income and expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 ZAO ADP KALUGA, Russia 22,058 24,558 737 777 ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac 21,878 18,600 65,741 60,083 AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia 18,764 17,267 169 3 EURO APS, Romania 7,704 7,390 Tisza Automotive, Hungary 217 1,195 Centar za istraživanje i razvoj, Hrvatska 2 7 16 AD Plastik d.o.o., Slovenia 2,030 2,138 70,623 67,822 69,872 63,017 Financial transactions Income Expenses Financial income and expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 EURO APS, Romania 54,519 41,974 ZAO ADP KALUGA, Russia 1,792 1,956 ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac, Serbia 1,198 1,504 AO AD Plastik Togliatti, Russia 1,012 1,113 Centar za istraživanje i razvoj, Hrvatska 12 58,533 46,547 The total remuneration provided to the members of the Supervisory Board, the Management Board and executive directors in 2018 amounts to HRK 12,499 thousand (2017: HRK 8,026 thousand). Integrated Annual Report 2018 273 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (in thousands of kunas) 39.1 Gearing ratio The Company’s gearing ratio, expressed as the ratio of net debt to equity, is expressed as follows: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Long-term borrowings (Note 32) 205,728 202,445 Short-term borrowings (Note 35) 126,031 133,455 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 28) (16,136) (3,144) Deposits (Note 27) (1) Net debt 315,622 332,756 Equity 734,319 695,661 Net debt-to-equity ratio 42.98% 47.83% Net debt includes comoditiy loans in the amount of HRK 5,671 thousand (31 December 2017: HRK 11,177 thousand) (Note 32). Equity consists of share capital, reserves, own shares, retained earnings and profit for the year. 274 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) (in thousands of kunas) 39.2. Categories of financial instruments 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial assets 380,090 437,722 Trade receivables (Note 25) 187,432 231,156 Given loans (Notes 22, 27) 81,856 102,538 Non-current trade receivables (Note 23) 45,122 76,925 Cash and cash equivalents and deposits (Note 28) 16,137 3,144 Other receivables and other financial assets 49,543 23,959 Financial liabilities 568,939 502,650 Loans received (Notes 32, 35) 332,359 335,900 Trade and other payables 236,580 166,750 Other receivables include the balances from the following line items in the statement of financial position: other receivables less receivables from the State, and other financial assets. Trade and other payables include the balances from the following line items in the statement of financial position: trade payables, advances received and other current liabilities, less amounts owed to the State. At the reporting date there are no significant concentrations of credit risk on loans and receivables designated at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income Integrated Annual Report 2018 275 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) (in thousands of kunas) 39.3. Foreign currency risk management The Company undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign-currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are provided in the table below using the middle exchange rates of the Croatian National Bank: Assets Liabilities Net FX position At 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 RUB 1,383 1,617 1,383 1,617 CZK 604 273 604 273 USD 162 86 93 89 69 (3) GBP 41 122 302 26 (261) 96 EUR 366,402 430,103 456,491 351,977 (90,089) 78,126 368,592 432,201 456,886 352,092 (88,294) 80,109 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis On 31 December 2018, if EUR were to depreciate/appreciate by 1% compared to HRK, assuming all other variables remain unchanged, net profit of the Company for 2018. would be 901 thousand kunas (2017.: -781 thousand kunas) higher/(lower), because of positive/(negative) foreign exchange differences generated by conversion of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and loans received denominated in EUR. 276 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) (in thousands of kunas) 39.4. Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Management Board. The Company manages its liquidity using banking facilities (overdrafts) and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of its financial assets and liabilities. The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets and liabilities. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial assets and liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company can require payment and can be required to pay. Weighted average Up to 1 3 months to 2018 interest rate month 1 to 3 months 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Assets Non-interest bearing 97,629 84,334 64,744 44,680 62 291,449 Interest bearing 3.96% 1 588 8,166 61,911 32,575 103,241 97,630 84,922 72,910 106,591 32,637 394,690 Liabilities Non-interest bearing 100,064 71,192 65,263 112 236,631 Interest bearing 2.31% 1,633 14,973 115,453 188,737 26,462 347,258 101,697 86,165 180,716 188,849 26,462 583,889 Weighted average Up to 1 3 months to 2017 interest rate month 1 to 3 months 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Assets Non-interest bearing 95,056 67,562 89,020 76,925 62 328,625 Interest bearing 4.65% 1,111 1,121 10,013 87,923 28,195 128,362 96,167 68,683 99,033 164,848 28,257 456,987 Liabilities Non-interest bearing 79,426 68,630 18,694 166,750 Interest bearing 3.05% 12,503 42,480 85,413 197,497 15,438 353,331 91,929 111,110 104,108 197,497 15,438 520,081 Integrated Annual Report 2018 277 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 39.5. Fair value of financial instruments Financial instruments held to maturity in the ordinary course of business are carried at the lower of cost and net amount less repaid portion. Fair value is the price that would be generated from the sales of some item of an asset or paid for transferring some liability in a fair transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether it would be directly visible or evaluated by applying some other valuation technique. At 31 December 2018, the carrying amounts of cash, receivables, short-term liabilities, accrued expenses, short-term borrowings and other financial instruments match their fair values. 40. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE REPORTING DATE After 31 December 2018, there were no events that would have a significant impact on the financial statements for the year 2018, respectively they are not of such significance to the Company to require disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. 41. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS Based on the Management’s estimate, the Company had no material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2018 which would require to be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. The Company had no capital expenditure commitments contracted at 31 December 2018 which would require to be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. As at 31 December 2018 there were no material legal actions outstanding against the Company with an expected negative outcome other than those reflected in these financial statements. 42. APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements were approved by the Management Board of AD Plastik d.d. and authorised for issue on 18 April 2018. For AD Plastik d.d. Solin: Marinko Došen, Katija Klepo, Mladen Peroš, President of the Management Board Member of Management Board Member of Management Board 278 Integrated Annual Report 2018 01 02 Annual Financial Statement 2018 03 2018 I N T E G R AT E D A N N UA L R E P O R T Integrated Annual Report 2018 279 Your needs. Our drive.
