Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report Letter from the CEO Jan. 1, 2019 I am pleased to reaffirm Insight Enterprises’ commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. When we joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2018, one of our goals was to connect Insight’s core values of hunger, heart and harmony to a global cause dedicated to making the world a better place to work and live. In our increasingly digital world, we believe technology lies at the heart of this, connecting people in very powerful ways. Insight’s purpose of building meaningful connections that help businesses run smarter is ultimately about people because we understand that meaningful connections start with a sense of togetherness and shared purpose. We strive to be a conduit uniting unique skill sets and points of view under the common goal of making transformation happen for our clients and our community. In this annual Corporate Citizenship Report, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the United Nations Global Compact and its principles into our culture and daily operations. We are committed to sustainable and ethical supply chain practices and treating our teammates, partners and clients with dignity. Additionally, we are committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Ken Lamneck President and Chief Executive Officer, Insight Enterprises Insight at a glance Today, every business is a technology business. Clients are faced with a dichotomy: They must deliver on their responsibility to keep the operation running efficiently and help the business fuel innovation. In order to do so, they must run smarter. And they need a partner to make it happen. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 3 At Insight Enterprises Inc., we are uniquely poised to help operational excellence and transformational partner to clients deliver meaningful outcomes. With our strategic outstanding data center management and social acquisitions, new services development and deep partner responsibility. The company’s deep expertise includes more relationships, we help clients both manage IT today and than 1,800 developers, architects, engineers and consultants. transform for tomorrow. As a Fortune 500-ranked global At Insight, we are driven by three core values: hunger, heart systems integrator, Insight and our 6,600+ teammates and harmony. We believe these values are the key to growth empower organizations of all sizes with Insight Intelligent — growth of our teammates and growth of our company. Technology Solutions™ and services concentrated on: Each of us has the hunger to challenge the status quo, the • Supply Chain Optimization solutions that optimize heart to create meaningful solutions and the harmony to how IT is run day to day work together to deliver outcomes. • Connected Workforce solutions that help employees work smarter Insight’s corporate social responsibility mission • Cloud + Data Center Transformation solutions that statement modernize the businesses of customers Insight is committed to serving as a good corporate citizen • Digital Innovation solutions that create meaningful and making a positive impact on the global community. experiences for workers and clients’ customers, This means conducting business with integrity and maximizing the business value of IT from strategy and avoiding corruption of all kinds, including bribery of design to implementation and management government officials. Respect for human rights is a Celebrating our 30th anniversary in 2018, Insight was fundamental value of Insight. We strive to respect and founded and is headquartered in Tempe, Arizona, promote human rights in accordance with the United Nations maintaining operations in 20 countries and serving clients Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in our across the globe. With $6.7 billion in annual revenues in 2017, relationships with our teammates, suppliers and partners. Insight jumped 56 spots to No. 417 on the Fortune 500. Insight is also committed to reducing its impact on the environment. We strive to continually improve our Our breadth and depth of capabilities, plus deep connections environmental performance over time and to initiate with more than 5,300 partners, has earned industry accolades additional projects and activities that will further reduce from technology brands like IBM, Intel, Microsoft and Dell our environmental footprint. EMC over the past year in categories ranging from Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 4 Our hunger | Global competitiveness Hunger: We are driven by a deep curiosity — to learn, explore and grow. Where others assume, we question and where others stop, we’re just getting started. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 5 Our company story Our solution area value propositions Many great entrepreneurial tales start with two innovators As the IT industry evolves, our value proposition to Our major acquisitions are as follows: inspired by an initial idea. In 1988, Tim and Eric Crown our clients continues to evolve as well. The increased • 2006 – Acquired Software Spectrum, Inc. began their story in this fashion. With a business plan that complexity across the technology ecosystem, • 2008 – Acquired Calence, LLC in North America and took root in a college assignment and a cash advance from combined with the continual emergence of new MINX Limited in the UK a credit card, they established Hard Drives International, trends and offerings, has made it difficult for most • 2011 – Acquired Ensynch, Inc. the company that would grow into Insight Enterprises. clients to effectively manage their IT environments. • 2012 – Acquired Inmac GmbH and Micro Warehouse BV We consult with our clients regarding their IT • 2015 – Acquired BlueMetal Architects, Inc. Insight is a Fortune 500 global IT provider helping hardware and software product and service needs • 2016 – Acquired Ignia, Pty Ltd businesses of all sizes define, architect, implement and and we help them define, architect, implement and • 2017 – Acquired Datalink Corporation manage Insight Intelligent Technology Solutions. The manage their IT solutions. • 2017 – Acquired Caase.com company operates in North America; Europe, the Middle • 2018 – Acquired Cardinal Solutions East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Our solutions areas are: We empower our clients to manage their IT environments so they can drive meaningful business outcomes today and transform their operations for tomorrow. Supply Chain Connected Workforce: Our insatiable desire to create new opportunities for our Optimization: Work smarter. clients and business is apparent in everything we do. Invest smarter. Over the last three decades, we have evolved with the industry. Each strategic pivot has been in pursuit of helping our clients run their businesses smarter. Through a combination of acquisitions and organic growth, we continue to increase our geographic coverage and expand Cloud + Data Center Digital Innovation: our technical capabilities. Transformation: Innovate smarter. Run workloads smarter. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 6 We are well-positioned to participate in the market as the • Our operational excellence and systems: We offer a • Our next-generation tech skills: We quickly adapt to IT industry continues to progress. Our value drivers include: broad selection of hardware and software products new technology trends and, with our acquisition of with access to billions of dollars in virtual inventory BlueMetal in 2015 and Cardinal Solutions in August • Deep knowledge in client-relevant solution areas and efficient supply chain execution, as well as 2018, continue our evolution as thought leaders in • History of adapting our business model to respond to product fulfillment and logistics capabilities, emerging technologies that help transform our new technology trends, including the cloud management tools and technical expertise. clients’ businesses. • Differentiated consulting, technology and managed services offerings • Our software DNA: We understand complex • Internet of Things (IoT) expertise: Following the • Ability to scale to serve clients of all sizes and across licensing requirements and have the know-how to acquisition of Cardinal Solutions, Insight has many verticals optimize our clients’ usage and compliance assembled one of the largest app-development • Strong partner relationships with top market management through a portfolio of license organizations in the industry with more than 800 positions consulting and optimization services. deep technical experts dedicated to Digital • Global footprint with local presence in key markets Innovation. Combined with our hardware and • Our partner alignment: We have a multipartner • Flexible capital structure to support future growth, software expertise, we are well-positioned to deliver approach and deep relationships with leading including additional acquisitions holistic connected products, and AI and IoT solutions. product manufacturers, software publishers and Insight has a unique position in the market to gain distribution partners, as well as emerging cloud and • Our digital platform: We have customizable client profitable market share by offering Insight Intelligent other technology partners, to service our global portals, primarily in North America, which allow Technology Solutions™ that empower clients to manage portfolio of commercial and public sector clients with clients to streamline procurement and processes their IT environments so they can drive meaningful the integrated IT solutions that make the most sense through a self-service online tool, drive business outcomes today and transform their operations for their IT environments. standardization and optimize reconciliation. We for tomorrow. also have a best-in-class digital marketing engine to • Our data center transformation skills: In support of bring scalable solutions to the midmarket. our long-term strategy, in January 2017, we Insight’s unique advantages include: completed the acquisition of Datalink, a leading • Our services solutions: We can scale to help • Our global scale and coverage: We have the provider of IT services and enterprise data center organizations of all sizes and have well-developed capabilities to serve clients across the globe with solutions. This added deep technical expertise and services focused on four solutions areas: Supply Chain hardware, software provisioning and related services, complementary services offerings to our internally Optimization, Connected Workforce, Cloud + Data and with integrated technology solutions in multiple developed solutions, increasing our addressable Center Transformation and Digital Innovation. countries directly or through our partner network. market opportunity in hybrid cloud and other high growth data center categories. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 7 How we meet our objectives Our long-term strategy remains consistent and includes three components: • Grow our core business. • Grow services sales in our four solutions areas. • Accelerate with the cloud. In each of our geographic operating segments, we are focused on driving our growth objectives by acquiring new clients and expanding our relationships with existing clients by increasing the types of products and services they buy from us. In North America, we have a local market presence in key cities where we have invested in sales, technical and service delivery resources to drive growth with existing and new clients — particularly in the large account client space. In addition, we drive expansion in specific service/ solution areas with key partners. We are also concentrating our efforts on growing our business with midsized and large clients in certain vertical markets, including federal government, state and local governments, K–12 education, healthcare and service providers. We have also invested in both local market and centralized sales resources to drive these efforts. In EMEA, we are focused on increasing our share in the midmarket and public sector by increasing sales of software and certain hardware categories across the business. We continue to expand our services capabilities in the region, and we leverage strategic partner relationships and service-delivery vendors to bring software, cloud and collaboration solutions to our clients. Our APAC operating segment, which is largely comprised of software sales, is engaged in growing sales in the midmarket and enterprise space — and developing specialized software services, particularly in the areas of software license optimization and the cloud. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 8 Our heart | Social citizenship Heart: As one of our core values, heart is always in action because our teammates strive to make a meaningful difference each day while investing in the success of clients, teammates and our community. We don’t define ourselves as individuals but as a teammates. We take care of each other, our clients and communities. We believe in each other and take pride in what we can collectively achieve. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 9 Providing technology for a better world The power of technology and its ability to change lives is at the heart of what our United Way: Our United Way campaign raises $160,000 annually through teammate and teammates do at Insight. We believe in the importance of giving back and the impact partner donations. An example of our support for United Way includes the sponsorship of a we have on the communities we operate and live in across the globe. technology reading mentorship program that provides equipment to classrooms. Through this program, students can use video technology to call mentors — Insight teammates or other mentors — to read to them each week and help them improve their skills. “Technology opens countless doors for children. In-market giving: Annually, we provide in-market charitable giving support to five North American cities where we have a major presence. One of those cities is Phoenix, our It educates, inspires and gives them the tools to corporate headquarters location. Examples of giving include: develop their incredible potential.” • Sponsoring technology kiosks for the Halle Heart Children’s Museum in Phoenix Ken Lamneck, • Providing technology donations to under-served schools President and CEO of Insight Enterprises • Empowering Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) courses and mentorships in Guadalupe, Arizona • Donating laptops to Arizona foster youths headed to college at Arizona State Overview of North America reach University • Providing a virtual reality holiday experience to children at Tampa General Hospital All of Insight North America’s charitable giving focuses on the following mission: Insight is proud to support our local communities and organizations providing educational In It Together Foundation: Insight founded a 501(c)(3) charitable non-profit called the opportunities for children through our shared love for technology. Insight In It Together Foundation. The Foundation provides much-needed financial support to Insight teammates in crisis situations. Our own teammates contribute to the foundation, Our Reach program allows teammates to support programs that use technology to as does Insight. In the five years it has been operating, we have raised $750,000 for the empower children to create a better future. We run two corporate campaigns annually: cause. The Insight In It Together Foundation is the only program we run that does not Noble Cause and United Way. We also conduct community outreach programs in our subscribe to the youth and technology focus, but we believe this endeavor is truly unique markets across North America. and sets us apart from many other employers. It’s a program that most at the company cite Noble Cause: An integral part of Insight’s Reach program, Noble Cause raises $300,000 as the reason they are most proud to work at Insight and underpins our core value: heart. annually to support Ronald McDonald House Charities, the Make-a-Wish Foundation and Boys & Girls Club of Arizona. Examples of ways that we support these organizations while holding true to our charitable giving statement include: • Upgrading technology rooms in Ronald McDonald Houses so that children undergoing treatment can keep up with their school work • Supporting childhood wishes that are technology-based with the Make-A-Wish Foundation (e.g. a child that wishes to equip his or her tree house with technology to communicate with his or her parents in the house) • Installing computer labs in chapter clubs around the Valley of the Sun Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 10 Testimony from a teammate that received assistance from the In It Together The following are the major charities supported last year: Foundation: “I found myself in a very stressful situation. My spouse was • Bluebell Wood Children’s Hospice offers care and support to children and young unemployed, and we were unable to pay our rent. I reached out to the In It adults with life-shortening and life-threatening conditions, both in their own homes Together Foundation not even thinking that I would get a response right away. and at their hospice in North Anston. I was wrong. Given my delicate circumstance, they reached out to me immediately • Cardiac Risk in the Young supports young people diagnosed with potentially and paid our rent. This allowed us to keep the roof over our heads and get back life-threatening cardiac conditions and offers bereavement support to families on our feet until my spouse began receiving income from a new job. The affected by sudden cardiac death of the young. Foundation is absolutely heaven-sent. My family and I appreciate everyone who • Trinity Homeless Projects help people to move from a life of dependency to contributes and works to keep this foundation alive. It truly made a difference achieve their potential. The program provides day services, housing, coaching, in my life.” training, work placements and support to move-on. Volunteer time off: All of our teammates across North America receive two paid days off each year to volunteer their time for meaningful causes — with 4,800 teammates taking advantage of this opportunity in 2018, this amounts to 76,800 hours of donated work time. “We see our relationship with Insight as a true partnership and aim to support the whole EMEA’s community involvement: team with their endeavors, whilst ensuring In our European business, Insight is also committed to giving back to the local their experience is an exceptionally positive communities in which we work and live. In conjunction with teammate efforts and partner commitments, we continue to develop relationships with a variety of non-profit and and enjoyable one.” charitable organizations. From corporate contributions and partner donations to hands-on Rachel Dawes, participation, Insight works diligently to identify and answer unmet needs and make a Corporate fundraising manager, positive impact in our communities. Bluebell Wood Children’s Hospice We also encourage our teammates to engage actively in local community projects and provide them with two additional days of paid leave to allow them to participate. Every Insight also incentivizes clients to complete our annual Client Satisfaction Survey by year, we invite teammates from our major country locations to choose a local charity to donating 10 GBP/Euro to UNICEF on their behalf for every response received. For the last support. All corporate fundraising effort in that location go toward the chosen charity. survey year, Insight donated £7,580 to UNICEF on behalf of our annual Client Satisfaction Insight also makes a company donation to the chosen charities. Survey respondents. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 11 APAC’s community involvement: In the APAC region, Insight Australia-New Zealand (ANZ) conducts the following charitable activities: • Insight ANZ holds a charity golf event where clients and partners play golf and participate in an auction for gifts/vouchers. Each year, this event raises about AUD $20,000, which is donated to Westmead Children’s hospital. • Insight teammates annually support STEPTEMBER, walking 10,000 steps each day for the month of September. Through sponsorships, we raise funds for children with cerebral palsy. • Insight ANZ supports Underprivileged and Special Needs Children’s Movie Day by sponsoring underprivileged children to go to the movies. • Insight ANZ Supports the Mental Health Association’s Awareness and Education programs by conducting seminars across Australia for teammates, including mindfulness training, Pilates sessions and healthy eating programs. “At Insight, we believe in putting people first, and there is nothing more meaningful to us than showing our hearts to the community.” Mike Morgan, Vice President and Managing Director, Insight APAC Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 12 Our harmony | Ethics and governance Harmony: While we’re different in skill sets, perspectives and backgrounds, we’re united by a common goal. We welcome uniqueness and all points of view as we work together to make transformation happen. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 13 Insight’s culture starts with unity Diversity: At Insight, we believe diversity is a critical Insight, a 2018 Great Place to Work-Certified™ company, component of our success. Named to the Fortune 100 2018 actively pursues diversity as an equal-opportunity employer. Best Workplaces for Diversity, we work diligently to Here are a few examples of the company’s commitment to a promote a culture that celebrates and rewards creative harmonious workplace: thinking, collaborative decision-making and innovative • In 2018, Insight implemented new hiring practices solutions. Our teammates represent a wide-range of with a goal of 50% diverse candidates represented in backgrounds, life experiences and viewpoints, which we final applicant pools for each opening. leverage to better serve our clients and gain a competitive • In a survey by Great Places to Work of more than 1,300 edge in the marketplace. Insight teammates, 95% took great pride in their work. Central to fostering a rich culture of diversity at Insight is a 95% also said the company had a great atmosphere shared set of values among our teammates: while 84% believe teammates are treated fairly regardless of race, gender, age, ethnic background, • We respect and take care of each other. disability or sexual orientation. • We exist to serve our clients. • In a company Teammate Pulse Survey conducted • We act with integrity in all that we do. in August 2018, Insight’s highest score was for diversity, Insight is committed to valuing people’s differences and to as teammates were asked if they felt the company promoting a supportive environment where teammates are treated people fairly regardless of race, gender, age, encouraged to be creative, develop their skills and further ethnic background, disability, sexual orientation or their careers. Insight believes in mirroring the diversity of other differences. the marketplace within our own organization. By employing • Insight’s Global Human Rights Policy explicitly states diverse, knowledgeable and well-trained teammates, we are the company’s commitment to advancing diversity better equipped to understand each client’s unique needs and its intolerance of discrimination and harassment. and develop meaningful long-term relationships. “Our teams are more effective solving complex issues for our clients when they have varied cultural experiences, broader skill sets and perspectives. A collaborative workplace not only creates the sense of harmony we strongly believe in, it better equips us to manage our clients’ businesses today and help them transform for the future.” Steve Dodenhoff President, Insight North America Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 14 Global human rights policies Respect for human rights is a fundamental value of Insight. We strive to respect and promote human rights in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in our relationships with our teammates, suppliers and partners. At Insight, we support and respect internationally recognized human rights of all people. We’re committed to making certain that we’re not complicit in any human rights violations. Insight has adopted the principles below as informed by international standards Corporate social responsibility awards for 2018 and conventions: • EcoVadis Silver Medal for Corporate Social • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Responsibility • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human • Fortune 100 Best Workplaces for Diversity (No. 90) Rights • Phoenix Business Journal Corporate Philanthropy • United Nations Global Compact for Volunteerism • Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • Achievers 50 Most Engaged Workplaces in North • United Nations Convention Against Corruption America • The United Nations Conventions on Rights of • Cisco Social Responsibility Partner of the Year the Child • F5 Community Partner of the Year • The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) 1998 • Blue Bell Wood Masters Cutlers Challenge Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Awards – Most Creative Fundraiser at Work • Investors In People (IIP) Gold Standard Insight lives up to these principles through its Code of Business Ethics and Conduct as well as global and regional policies and practices. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 15 Our safety and health policy Labor rights and work policies The safety and health of our teammates is of paramount Insight maintains safety and emergency policies and We respect our teammates’ right to join, form or not to importance. Our policy is to provide a safe and healthy procedures with the establishment of Emergency Response join a labor union without fear of reprisal, intimidation workplace, and comply with applicable safety and health Team (ERT) members and their ongoing training and or harassment. Where teammates are represented by a laws, regulations and requirements. We work to provide management. ERT members are regular Insight teammates legally recognized union, we are committed to and maintain a safe, healthy and productive workplace, with special training and access to equipment dispersed establishing a constructive dialogue with their freely in consultation with our teammates, by addressing and throughout the facilities. chosen representatives. Insight is committed to bargaining remediating identified risks of accidents, injury and health in good faith with such representatives. Maintaining a workplace that is free from violence, impacts. Internal policy and procedure reflects our harassment, intimidation and other unsafe or disruptive Insight abides by all local, regional and global child labor commitment. We conduct annual and on-going inspections conditions due to internal and external threats is our laws. Insight doesn’t condone child labor. We also prohibit of our premises to evaluate and determine any vulnerability commitment to our communities and our teammates. the use of all forms of forced labor, including prison labor, to workplace hazards. All teammates are expected to be Creating workplaces where open and honest indentured labor, bonded labor, military labor, modern safety-conscious and to assist Insight in reporting communications among all teammates are valued forms of slavery and any form of human trafficking. conditions on premises that might prove dangerous. and respected is a part of Insight’s workplace culture. We compensate teammates competitively relative to the For example, Insight APAC’s domestic violence policy industry and local labor market — and in accordance with supports teammates who are experiencing domestic terms of applicable collective bargaining agreements. We violence by providing: counseling paid for by the company, work to ensure full compliance with applicable wage, work a safe place to stay (overnight) paid for by the company, hours, overtime and benefits laws. relocation to alternative employment and flex working hours. Insight APAC also provides a Teammate Assistance program for any teammate who is having personal, family or financial problems. The programs provides confidential 1:1 counselling sponsored by the company. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 16 Work-life balance: Insight aims to create a working environment that’s is supportive of the This year, 23 interns united weekly for business and life-skills training, including mentorship team’s responsibilities outside of the company and recognizes the importance of work-life sessions with key company leaders such as CEO Ken Lamneck and Insight founder Tim balance. Some of our policies include: Crown. The training encompassed a variety of focus areas, from public speaking to personal • Work-Life Balance Day Policy financial management and developing a professional image. • Discretionary Annual Leave Policy • Paid Parental Leave Policy • Community/Volunteer Policy • Welfare/Emergency Support Policy “Our goal is to provide meaningful work emersion APAC workplace equity: Insight AU is required under Australia’s Workplace Gender that’s valuable on a resume while imparting Equality Act 2012 to complete extensive surveys to demonstrate that women are paid equal to men for the same job and that promotion opportunities are available to women. personal principles and purpose on par with the The Workplace Gender Equality Agency acknowledges Insight AU’s compliance under the hunger, heart and harmony attributes we seek in current term. our teammates. If we’re able to help build skills Good work begins with a great start that enhance a young professional’s work and In North America, our 10-week Insight 360 Internship Experience builds on three critical personal life, and they end the program feeling more pillars that prepare up-and-coming college students for success after schooling, including real-world work in the fast-moving technology industry, business exposure to a global equipped for their next chapter, then we’ve given Fortune 500 enterprise and life-skills training. The Insight 360 Internship Experience is a them a holistic view of how to excel in the modern comprehensive program designed to develop well-rounded professionals who are valuable contributors to the workplace of tomorrow. workplace and beyond.” A unique aspect of the Insight 360 Internship Experience is the cohort nature of the Jen Vasin program, building meaningful connections to encourage collective peer learning and Vice President, Insight Human Resources support while emphasizing the importance of networking. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 17 Environment and sustainability initiatives Insight is dedicated to reducing its impact on the environment. We strive to improve our environmental performance over time and to initiate additional projects and activities that will further reduce our impact on the environment. Per our global environmental policy, Insight prevents pollution when possible and extends the life of technology by giving products a second life. We continue to improve over time by setting goals to reduce our impact each year. “Helping businesses invest smarter means optimizing their IT supply chains. This not only maximizes their technology resources but leaves a lighter footprint on the environment. We simplify the entire process of procuring, maintaining and replacing hardware so businesses can grow responsibly.” Wolfgang Ebermann, President, Insight EMEA Furthermore, through a program of continual environmental improvement and monitoring, Insight sets targets aimed at reducing energy consumption and improving energy efficiency, including the consumption of energy from sustainable sources where applicable. The company monitors and minimizes the generation of waste at source (including the management of stock) and takes all reasonable steps to see that waste is recycled or disposed of in a safe and environmentally acceptable manner. Insight offers teammates carpool benefits, car-charging stations and options to work from home. Our offices also recycle waste and use motion sensor lights. Insight is committed to helping our clients reduce their impact on the world by offering green IT products, energy management solutions, IT asset disposal and more. Working in harmony with our teammates, vendors and clients, Insight strives to promote the use of suppliers and contractors who are managing and improving environmental performance. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 18 Green IT strategy overview Concern for the environment coupled with rising • Extend the life of technology, giving products a We believe it is our responsibility to leave the planet a little electricity costs, increased power and cooling consumption, second life and recycling responsibly. better than we found it. With this in mind, we advocate and greater density in the data center has created a • Communicate our environmental commitment and employ technology solutions that are designed to be demand for a strategy that can allow firms to meet and efforts to our clients, partners, teammates environmentally friendly, including offerings that: business objectives and reduce costs, while protecting and communities. • Require fewer technology products and services the environment. • Continually improve over time by setting goals to • Reduce travel reduce these impacts each year. • Lower electrical usage and carbon dioxide emissions Power grids across the globe are at capacity, placing infrastructure at heightened risk of outage, while there’s Insight is also committed to working with our clients and • Decrease paper usage still a need to meet the supply of increasing compute partners to drive green IT through strategic product • Properly dispose of hardware and technology demand with existing levels of power consumption. One of sourcing and procurement as well as the design and equipment, recycling when possible the primary drivers fueling green IT is server and storage implementation of green IT infrastructure solutions. consolidation and virtualization. Our goals are to: Together, we can strategically align to meet mutual goals of corporate civility and environmental sustainability. • Reduce our carbon footprint and real estate costs as consolidation and virtualization drives greater We value our role as a responsible corporate citizen among density in the data center. our stakeholders —partners, clients, teammates and their • Reduce power consumption to offset increases in families, shareholders and communities. Some of Insight’s electricity costs by using smaller servers and storage sustainability highlights include: with greater capacity and more efficient processing. • Distribution center energy efficiency initiatives • Eliminate idle capacity on server and storage devices • ISO 14001:2004 certification (EMEA) and carbon through consolidation and virtualization. disclosure project (UK) • Reduce carbon emissions and protect the • Energy optimization through server virtualization environment by using clean and efficient • Internal programs for the efficient use and technologies. conservation of energy, water and materials, Our commitment to the environment extends to our including waste reduction, material reuses clients, partners, teammates and communities. We and recycling strive to: • Blink electric vehicle charging stations (Arizona campuses) and cycle to work projects (UK) • Comply with applicable environmental regulations. Insight was also awarded first place for Leadership • Prevent pollution when possible. in Innovation by the Managed Print Association for • Empower teammates to contribute to and the implementation of an efficient managed print participate in environmental savings initiatives. environment. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 19 Environmental sustainability highlights: Across the globe North America environmental sustainability activities • Energy use: Insight uses energy-efficient equipment, when applicable. • Energy optimization: Our distribution center in Hanover, Illinois, replaced all • Building Services wins Environmental Stewardship Award: Insight Building exterior lighting with LED lightbulbs to help with energy use reduction. Currently, Services was awarded an Environmental Stewardship Award for its hard work and we’re replacing dock enclosures to reduce energy usage. The corporate headquarters positive impact on the company, as well as the environment. in Tempe, Arizona, replaced the 32 metal halide lights in its sales stadiums with • Recycling program: In an effort to maintain sustainable waste management, induction/florescent lighting. Insight has implemented a recycling bin policy throughout its office locations. • Managed print environment: Insight conducted an extensive study of our current • Disposal of waste: Insight’s key objective is to reduce waste through recycling print environment on our main U.S. campuses. We then implemented an efficient initiatives, especially hazardous wastes requiring disposal. Managed Print Services program across all Insight U.S. campuses. • Supply chain: Insight continues to work closely with all members of the IT supply • Warehouse water and sewage testing: Our warehouses conduct water discharge chain community to assist in reducing the environmental impact of manufacturing, and sewage testing quarterly to ensure they comply with state and local laws. packaging, products, services and transportation methods. • Travel reduction: Through use of energy-efficient communications technology, Insight promotes the use of public transportation and energy-efficient communications mediums, such as teleconferencing and virtual meetings for communications and trainings both internally, with our client base and with our partners. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 20 EMEA environmental sustainability activities APAC environmental sustainability activities In pursuit of its mission to provide best in-class, single-source IT provision, information, • Smart lighting: Insight is replacing florescent lighting with longer lasting tubes, and product and services, Insight EMEA recognizes that its operations have an effect on local, sensor lighting has been put in place at our APAC headquarters. regional and global environments. To address the adverse environmental impact of its • Repurposing equipment: Office chairs throughout the recycle plant are recycled operations, Insight EMEA employs an environmental management system. This standard and old telephony is donated to charity for reuse. meets an ISO 14001 certification and highlights Insight EMEA’s work towards continual • Save the planet: In 2018, APAC teammates donated time and Digital Innovation improvement of its environmental performance. expertise to Save the Bees Australia, using low-powered sensors that feed data to a mobile app to detect hive health. The open-source solution helps preserve a species • Energy usage: Reducing energy consumption and improving energy efficiency, critical to the ecosystem. We also participated in Earth Hour 2018, joining millions of including implementing sustainable sources where applicable people in over 180 countries by switching off our lights as a symbolic gesture to • Waste management: Minimizing the generation of waste at source (including the preserve the planet’s biodiversity. management of stock) and taking all reasonable steps to see that all liquid and solid • Conservation efforts: Insight participates in an ongoing initiative to encourage waste is recycled or disposed of in a safe and environmentally acceptable manner teams to turn power off at the end of day. We also use 100% recycled paper napkins • Product packaging: Guaranteeing packaging of products is optimized, without and BioPAK disposable plates/cups in staff rooms. compromising on the quality of the product • Safe storage: Ensuring raw materials and waste are carefully stored to avoid accidental spillage • Teammate education: Providing all teammates with an understanding of Insight’s environmental policy, and their responsibilities in controlling and improving environmental performance; promoting the involvement of teammates by consultation in the setting and publication of environmental objectives, education, improving the working environment; and seeking individual commitment and contributions to such initiatives • Conscientious partners: Promoting the use of suppliers and contractors, who are managing and improving environmental performance Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 21 Anti-corruption, cybersecurity and data privacy Insight maintains an Anti-Corruption Zero-Tolerance Policy that prohibits corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All Insight teammates are expected to conduct business legally and ethically. Insight’s Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy states, “Insight is committed to doing business with integrity. This means avoiding corruption of all kinds, including bribery of any person, directly or indirectly. All Insight teammates are required to adhere to established policies and standards. Teammates must not knowingly violate any such laws or engage any third party agents that may knowingly violate such laws. Insight Enterprises Corporate Citizenship Report – January 2019 22
