Sustainability Report 2018/19 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress | August 2018 August 2019 R UPTION HU OR MA -C N TI R N 10 1 I A G H TS 9 2 ENV IRONMENT 8 3 7 4 6 5 R O L AB Table of Contents Content Headline 10/16 Medium Content 10/16 Light I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support 3 by the Chief Executive Officer II. About iPoint 4 III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance 7 IV. Advancing the SDGs 9 V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles 13 Human Rights 15 Principle 1 15 Principle 2 22 Labour 23 Principle 3 23 Principle 4 23 Principle 5 25 Principle 6 26 iPoint-systems gmbh Environment 28 Managing Director (CEO): Joerg Walden Principle 7 28 Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 Principle 8 35 72760 Reutlingen Principle 9 41 Germany Anti-Corruption 43 Principle 10 43 VI. Looking Forward 45 VII. Disclosure Regarding Forward-looking Statements 49 References 50 Abbreviations 56 Imprint 57 2 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer of iPoint-systems gmbh, Joerg Walden To our Stakeholders: August 7, 2019 I am pleased to confirm that iPoint-systems remains committed al challenges we need to solve to ensure a prosperous, sustainable, to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global and equitable world worth living in for future generations. In the Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environpast 12 months, we at iPoint have implemented several measures ment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on to promote the UNGC’s multi-year strategy of increasing awareProgress (CoP), we describe our actions to continually improve ness and action in support of achieving the SDGs by 2030. the integration of the UNGC and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing Increasingly scarce resources, environmental pollution, social exthis information with our stakeholders using our primary channels ploitation – the time to act is now, and I strongly believe that the of communication. iPoint became a proud signatory of the UNGC solution to many of today’s global environmental, social, and ecoon August 7, 2017. Since our business strategy already reflects nomic challenges lies in the combination of the Circular Economy the UNGC’s ten principles, it was a logical step for us to join this with digital data, an approach we at iPoint have come to call the initiative and accelerate the transition to a sustainable future. “Digital Circular Economy”. In our first CoP, published in August 2018, we identified gaps, but For the sake of our planet, the findings in this report summarize also realized how intuitively aligned we are with the UNGC’s the path we have chosen to follow. What we know is that we would objectives in many instances. It became evident that we like to be a part of that journey – and ourselves walk the walk. not only dedicate a large part of our mission and work to the attainment of these goals, and have ourselves We live sustainability. taken concrete steps to do so, but also actively assist other businesses to meet these very prinSincerely yours, ciples. In our first CoP, we also reported on our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have come to value Joerg Walden these 17 goals as a wonderfully simplified Managing Director (CEO) to-do list which covers the greatest globiPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction “I am driven by the vision that today’s solutions can contribute to securing a sustainable world for future generations.” -Joerg Walden, CEO and founder of iPoint-systems gmbh Photo by Chelsea on Unsplash 4 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction 170+ 97% Content Headline 10/16 Medium in business Content 10/16 Light 55,000+ since employees customer customers 250 14 renewal from 2001 rate locations 100+ leading global worldwide countries manufacturers iPoint-systems gmbh (iPoint) develops pioneering compliance iPoint’s holistic, circular perspective envisages a continuous, and sustainability solutions to open the door to the Circular digital system lifecycle management process that supports Economy. More specifically, we provide software and consultnot only compliance with the law, but also the sustainability of ing for environmental and social product compliance, process products, value chains, and brands. compliance, and sustainability which enables other companies to collect, process, and utilize product-related compliance and Since our founding in 2001, iPoint has been constantly expandsustainability data from and for the entire product life cycle ing the iPoint Group and its solutions portfolio to realize its viand the whole value creation network. sion of building an integrated digital platform for the Circular Economy and a holistic sustainable operating system. iPoint’s software and consulting services support companies in meeting and staying one step ahead of regulations and rePut simply, our very vision is to create solutions to solve susquirements such as REACH, RoHS, WEEE, ELV, EHS, Conflict tainability issues. As our software platforms and tailored soluMineralsand Modern Slavery-related laws, as well as other tions are premised on legal compliance and sustainability, we trending developments and challenges governing product, achieve a positive impact pursuant to the 10 UNGC principles. supply chain, and enterprise stewardship. 5 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction Yet we also strive to uphold these principles with respect to our We should note at this juncture that only iPoint-systems internal day-to-day operations. Our main business comprising gmbh, encompassing our Reutlingen headquarters and Munich software and related services, and not selling any hardware or branch, is covered by this report. The entire iPoint Group, howother goods, means that iPoint does not have traditional supever, consists of three pillars and includes 14 subsidiaries and ply chains. That said, we do procure select goods and services offices worldwide.1 that permit the functioning of a high-tech software company. This report will focus on both our in-house and external imFurther information: pacts, viewed through the UNGC lense. www.ipoint-systems.com iPoint-systems gmbh iPoint Ltd. Reutlingen, Germany iPoint-systems AB Manchester, UK Headquarters Växjö, Sweden iPoint Korea Suwon, Korea iPoint France iPoint Japan Co Ltd Paris, France Tokyo, Japan iPoint Inc. iPoint Software and Ann Arbor, MI, USA Information Technology Los Angeles, CA, USA (Shanghai) Ltd. Shanghai, China ifu Institut für Umweltinformatik Hamburg GmbH Hamburg, Germany CircularTree Melbourne, Australia iPoint-systems gmbh iPoint-Austria GmbH Berlin, Germany Munich, Germany Vienna, Austria 6 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance Over the period from August 8, 2018 to August 7, 2019 Internal: iPoint’s entire in-house paper consumption is based on 11 cyclists from iPoint contributed 2.074 kilometers to FSC FSC®certified paper, and all of our corporate printing needs are met by FSC®and ISO 12647-2-certified printers -294 kg CO2 a cycling campaign, thus avoiding 294 kilograms of CO2 emissions 44% 32% We have reduced our GHG emissions at the We have reduced our climate impact per full-time CO2 Reutlingen site by 44% equivalent by 32% 2 iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two electric External: vehicle charging stations SDG iPoint’s business solutions are aligned with ECO iPoint’s headquarters run on sustainable geothermal energy and are powered by renewable electricity sources SDG 8 and SDG 12 52,0000 The iPoint Conflict Minerals solution is now used by 21% Twenty-one percent (21%) of our employees had a citizenship other than German 52,000 companies around the globe iPoint supported independent studies investigating the 33% Thirty-three percent (33%) of our upper-level managers were female §§§ corporate implementation of human rights-related laws (e.g. concerning child labor) An iPoint employee traveled 2.011,3 kilometers via 2.011,3 public transport from Sweden to Germany in an effort to 7 iPoint donated to 7 charitable causes keep his carbon footprint low 2.478 iPoint employees have “raised” 2.478 plastic lids to contribute towards polio vaccination 2 We received 2 awards which align with the UNGC principles In June 2019, we supported the planting of 520 trees – by 3 Every day, iPoint employees consume 3 kg of sustainably produced coffee/espresso 520 handing out tree vouchers as gifts to speakers and panelists of iPoint-hosted events 7 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh III. Sustainability at iPoint Sustainability on corporate website With the release of our first Communication on Progress for UN Global Compact in August 2018, we overhauled and updated our sustainability subpage on the iPoint website: www.ipoint-systems.com/company/we-live-sustainability In March 2019, we published the extended version in German: www.ipoint-systems.com/de/unternehmen/wir-leben-nachhaltigkeit On this expanded platform, we share our sustainability status, efforts, and activities with stakeholders, interested parties, and the general public. 8 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs Promoting the SDGs ... As a member of UN Global Compact, iPoint is fully committed to promoting and advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)2 inside and outside of our company to accelerate the transition towards a sustainable future. In December 2018, we featured the SDGs as cover topic of our customer magazine iPoints. On February 3, 2019, iPoint CEO Shortly after, on February 12, 2019, Joerg Walden published a well-rewe launched a campaign to increase ceived post on the social business our stakeholders’ awareness and platform LinkedIn titled “Let’s Make knowledge of the SDGs and to sup2019 the Year of the SDGs”. 3 port them in recognizing the importance of corporate and individual action in achieving the SDGs. One part of the campaign ran on iPoint’s corporate Facebook page and focused on the SDGs, introducing one goal per week and the measures iPoint as a company is already taking to achieve the particular goal. The campaign on Facebook 9 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs ... and the Good Life Goals The other part of the campaign ran on our corporate Instagram account and focused on the Good Life Goals (GLGs) – personal actions everyone can take to help support the SDGs –,4 introducing one goal per week and the measures individual iPoint employees are already taking in their private and professional life to achieve the particular goal. We also used other company-internal channels to make our colleagues’ GLG stories known to the entire iPoint staff, including our intranet, posters in the coffee kitchens, announcements on a central display, and a “wall of fame” in our cafeteria. The campaign ran until June 4, 2019, and on July 8, 2019, we were invited to present our campaign during a webinar hosted by the European Association of Sustainability Professionals (EASP) as part of their webinar series “Good practices in SDGs”.5 The campaign on Instagram 10 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs Supporting companies in achieving the SDGs Supporting the SDGs via charitable causes and organizations Our very business model and our business portfolio is prediiPoint has a long-standing tradition of contributing to charitacated on the advancement of the SDGs. Therefore, our support ble causes around Christmas time, and over the years, iPoint to other companies in their quest to become more sustainable has donated to quite a number of charitable causes and organimay also be analyzed according to the SDGs. Our business soluzations which have programs that are tied to many of the SDG tions align perfectly with SDG 8 (promote sustained, inclusive themes.15 Spread out over reporting year 2018/19, we made a and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employdonation to: ment and decent work for all) and Goal 12 (ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns). The charity Alliance for Climate Education,16 whose mission is to educate young people on the science of climate change More specifically, our external impact is aligned with Targets and empower them to take action. Through our donation, 8.2, 8.4, and 8.7, as well as Targets 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, 6 7 8 9 10 11 we are not only able to back this great climate cause, but 12.6, 12 and 12.A. In March 2019, iPoint became a partner of 13 also advance SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 13 (Clithe Consumer Information Programme for Sustainable Conmate Action). 17 sumption and Production (CI-SCP) of the 10 Year Framework of The Food Bank of Hamburg (“Hamburger Tafel”),18 which Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production of supports those in need with food that is no longer intended the UN One Planet network. As such, we have agreed to help for sale. With our donation, we can contribute to achieving promote the programme and progress towards SDG 12 and are SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). 19 actively involved in the implementation of the CI-SCP.14 The international non-profit organization Not For Sale20 that works to end human trafficking and modern-day slavery around the world. With our donation, we can contribute to meeting SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth). 21 11 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs Plant for the Planet,22 an initiative which has set itself the In an effort to support SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being) by goal of raising awareness of climate change and actively helping end polio in children under the age of five, an iPoint emcountering it through tree-planting campaigns. Through ployee introduced the company to a campaign – “Lids Against our donation, we are able to back this great climate cause Polio – 500 lids for 1 life without polio” – that recycles the valuand advance SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 13 (Climate able plastic bottle caps and lids, and uses the proceeds to fight Action). 23 this disease.30 In the past reporting period, i.e. between August The ecumenical foundation Praeventive Jugendhilfe (Pre2018 and July 2019, staff at the Reutlingen headquarters has ventive Youth Aid), which promotes community-oriented 24 managed to raise 2.478 lids. youth welfare services and supports projects providing help for vulnerable children and adolescents – including, for example, theatre productions and violence prevention programs. We gladly support this foundation to give children and young people at risk a starting opportunity and to promote SDGs 4 (Quality Education) and 10 (Reduced Inequalities).25 The Water Project,26 a charity that provides access to clean, safe and reliable water and sanitation solutions across sub-Saharan Africa. This donation is directly related to SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation). 27 Wirbelwind e.V.,28 an association and foundation against sexual violence against children and adolescents. With the donation to the association iPoint wants to create a stronger awareness for this difficult issue and at the same time advance SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions).29 12 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Businesses should work against all forms of Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally corruption, including extortion and bribery proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence Businesses should encourage the development and 10 1 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in human rights abusesman rights 9 2 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should undertake initiatives to 8 3 association and the effective recognition of the promote greater environmental responsibility right to collective bargaining 7 4 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenge Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 6 5 forms of forced and compulsory labor Businesses should eliminate discrimination Businesses should uphold the effective in respect of employment and occupation abolition of child labor 13 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles On August 7, 2017, iPoint was officially welcomed as a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Upon joining the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, we have committed ourselves to support, implement, and uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles,31 which are grouped into four categories: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. On August 7, 2018, we published our first Communication on Progress (CoP) for reporting year 2017/2018 via the UN Global Compact website. The document at hand is our CoP for reporting year 2018/19, and in the following paragraphs, we describe our main actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 14 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. External focus Offering our solutions As a software and services provider specialized in digital supA related initiative illustrates the overlap between our compar10 1 ply chain solutions, we allow vital information to flow ative advantage and UNGC’s Principle 1. As a secure and distrithrough entire value chains in an automated and conbuted digital ledger, Blockchain technology34 has garnered trolled fashion. In many cases, the very information much attention also in the context of Conflict Minerals trace9 2 accompanying the transformation from materiability. As an early mover, iPoint has been heading the EPRM35 als to products concerns the subject of human -funded project SustainBlock since 2018. Aiming at instituting rights. For instance, iPoint’s Conflict Minerals a Blockchain-based Conflict Minerals traceability system from solution (for tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold, and mine to store, the project will be piloted in the African Great 8 3 cobalt), which is based on the Responsible MinLakes Region with partners within the next reporting period.36 erals Initiative (RMI)’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT), facilitates the flow of information concerning mineral provenance, mode of pro7 4 duction, supplier chain of custody, due diligence, corrective action, assurance, and company policies.32 6 5 52,000 companies worldwide are using our solution.33 15 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Sharing our expertise Along these lines, over the reporting period iPoint also contributed substantively to conferences and fora: topics presentation / discussion title more information Conflict Minerals • The new conflict minerals regulation of the EU – link what does it mean for your company? (“Die neue Konfliktmineralien-Verordnung der EU – was bedeutet dies für Ihr Unternehmen?”) Blockchain / material traceability / • The potential of Blockchain driving sustainability link supply chain transparency • SustainBlock: Blockchain-based supply chain link traceability • SustainBlock – detecting human rights violations via link blockchain technology (“SustainBlock – Mit der Blockchain Menschenrechtsverstößen auf die Spur kommen“) • Blockchain for Social Good – The SustainBlock project link Supporting human rights-premised fora We also financially contributed to the following events where human rights were front and center of the agenda: event location more information • Responsible Minerals Initiative Member Meeting 2018 Santa Clara, CA link 1 (incl. moderation of Work Group roundtable on Gold) 10 9 2 • RMI Responsible Sourcing Summit Berlin link 8 3 • ITI & IPC Conference on Emerging & Critical Environmental Boston, MA; Chicago, IL; link 7 4 San Jose, CA 6 5 • AIAG 2019 Responsible Materials Industry Briefing Southfield, Michigan link 16 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Supporting human rights-based research iPoint’s specific initiatives to support internationally proclaimed human rights notably include supporting independent studies on the very subject. For example, in July 2019, we were part of the Stakeholder Forum of the study “Worst Forms of Child Labour in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Cobalt Refiner Due Diligence Reporting”, published by the NGO Development International e.V. 37 Releasing human rights-related publications In the reporting period, we also released several articles on human rights-related topics, including: title publication channel more information • Can Blockchain Make Supply Chains More Humane? LinkedIn link • CSR Reporting Under EU Law Is Highest for Gender and CSRWire link Lowest for Human Rights Matters, Study Reveals • How the Blockchain Gets To The Root of Human Rights Global Compact Netzwerk link Violations (“Wie die Blockchain Menschenrechtsverstößen Jahrbuch 2019 auf die Spur kommt”) • How the Blockchain Tracks Down Child Labor and Conflict UmweltDialog link Minerals (“Wie die Blockchain Kinderarbeit und Konfliktmineralien auf die Spur kommt”) 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 17 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Engaging in collective action on social responsibility Supporting human rights via charitable causes and organizaIn our increasingly interconnected global web of production tions and service delivery, there are ever-decreasing degrees of Spread out over reporting year 2018/19, we financially support“iPoint has a long-standing separation between individual business on the planet. That ed the following NGOs and charitable organizations that work tradition of helping others is why we work hand in hand with industry associations and to support and respect the protection of internationally prothat are not well off by collective action groups that were explicitly established to claimed human rights: contributing to charitable tackle complex human rights issues. iPoint is, for example, a causes, social and regional member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI),38 of the The Food Bank of Hamburg (“Hamburger Tafel”),43 which projects, and non-profit Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG),39 and of IPC,40 to supports those in need with food that is no longer intended organizations. Furthermore, develop the systems, processes, and procedures needed to for sale.44 I make it a point to buy comply with U.S. Conflict Minerals legislation (Dodd-Frank The international non-profit organization Not For Sale45 from companies that Section 1502). In 2012, iPoint partnered with AIAG to develop that works to end human trafficking and modern-day slavpay people fairly, and the iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP), a solution now ery around the world.46 provide decent wages and used by 52,000 companies around the globe.41 Furthermore, The ecumenical foundation Praeventive Jugendhilfe (Preopportunities for all staff at in July 2019, iPoint CEO Joerg Walden was elected co-chair of ventive Youth Aid),47 which promotes community-oriented iPoint. Let’s join forces to the working group “Social Impact” of the International Associyouth welfare services and supports projects providing end poverty.” ation of Trusted Blockchain Applications (INATBA). Based on 42 help for vulnerable children and adolescents. -Joerg Walden, CEO the assumption that Blockchain and Distributed Ledger TechWirbelwind e.V.,48 an association and foundation against on Good Life Goal 1: Help End Poverty nologies (DLTs) offer a unique set of tools to tackle some of the sexual violence against children and adolescents.49 most pressing issues humanity is facing today – including climate change, modern slavery, poverty, inequality, food waste, fraud, and corruption –, the working group aims to leverage 10 1 9 2 Blockchain and DLT to achieve positive socio-economic impact 8 3 and advance societal goals such as the SDGs. 7 4 6 5 18 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Internal focus Upholding employee rights “The digital world we live in, with Satisfied, healthy, informed, qualified, and committed emits many perks and achievements, ployees are a basic condition for a sustainable company decan also become a burden at velopment. The employment contracts with each of our 99 times. The way we communicate iPoint-systems gmbh employees based in Reutlingen and Muhas become easier but also more nich are premised on German national law, and either uphold superficial – we may exchange a or surpass requirements in areas such as minimum wage, job few 100 messages a day and yet security, and paid vacation day standards. For example, all of not really listen to each other. our staff has permanent employment contracts, and we ofThe rapidly changing environment fer an attractive pension plan. In Germany, where most of our forces us to act fast and make employees are based, our contracts reflect the constitution of decisions in a heartbeat. Through Germany (Grundgesetz), which guarantees the rights as outmy job in HR I’m dealing with lined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.50 many different people and their sometimes-opposing views on We pay attention to healthy nutrition as well as employee fita daily basis. I remind myself ness and health. Workstations are ergonomic, and height-adconstantly that it’s important justable standing desks are available to everyone on request. to slow down to be able to listen The company provides – free of charge – fresh fruit, mineral carefully. Before I make a decision, water in water bottles (not plastic bottles), and coffee to I always try to understand every every employee every day on the headquarters office argument to act as fairly as possible.” 10 1 9 2 premises. — Christina B., Human Resources 8 3 7 4 on Good Life Goal 10: Be Fair. 6 5 19 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights We see the health and fitness of iPoint’s employees as both the basic prerequisite for and an indicator of the performance, competitiveness, and long-term success of our company. This is why sports are explicitly promoted at iPoint: Since 2014 iPoint has rewarded and promoted participation in certain public sports competitions through its iAmFit campaign. These include, for example, running competitions, long-distance cycling, and fitness tests to obtain the German Sports Badge (Deutsches Sportabzeichen). To equip its athletic employees, the company worked with sport outfitter Trigema to fashion Germany-made, sustainably-produced running and cycling jerseys.51 “To stay well, you need to eat a balanced and healthy diet and you need to move and get active. Besides, exercising in a team and sharing experiences is simply a lot of fun – for example like the Basketball Company Cup of the Tigers Tuebingen 10 1 with my iPoint colleagues.” 9 2 8 3 -Markus Breitsprecher, Head of Knowledge Management and Documentation 7 4 6 5 on Good Life Goal 3: Stay Well 20 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Ensuring occupational health and safety With respect to occupational health and safety, we have four specifically trained first responders (exceeding the legal minimum), and each year the company holds mandatory occupational safety events at the headquarters. The regular inspection of our office premises and the work equipment used, as well as regular consultations, guarantee our employees’ safety and risk protection in the workplace. Ensuring privacy and protection of data The protection and security of customer data have always played an important role at iPoint – not only since the implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In June 2019, a three-day certification audit of our information security management systems in accordance with ISO/IEC 2700152 and of iPoint’s compliance with the most common data protection laws, guidelines, and specifications such as the GDPR was carried out at our headquarters.53 ISO/IEC 27001 helps organizations keep information secure (e.g. concerning financial information, intellectual property, employee details, or third-party information). The audit certified that all of our processes are systematically implemented 10 1 9 2 and monitored in line with globally accepted stan8 3 dards. 7 4 6 5 21 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Human Rights: Measurement of Outcomes complicit in human rights abuses. iPoint has received zero (0) claims of human rights abuses Selecting local service providers related to our business or operations. In our assessment, the risk of our Germany-based, softwareand service-oriented company itself being complicit in human rights abuses is close to zero. Immediate service providers, 10 1 such as catering services, are carefully vetted to make sure that their business practices are legal. However, we are aware that the risk of complicity exists in 9 2 every sector and every country. That said, we employ continued vigilance and regular communication to ensure that this risk remains close to zero, and the actual incidence rate lies at exactly 0%. 8 3 7 4 6 5 22 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associPrinciple 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all ation and the effective recognition of the right to collective forms of forced and compulsory labor. bargaining. Advancing human rights-oriented reporting tools and research German law fully protects the right of employees to freely asGiven the risk to corporations, in particular within certain secsociate, join a labor union, and engage in collective bargaining, tors, of forced labor in their supply chains, and the genuine and iPoint fully upholds these rights and freedoms. concern many private sector actors have about such realities in 10 1 their supply chains, we commissioned an independent consultant to develop the electronic Labor Rights Template (eLRT), a free, open-access Excel-based data exchange standard de9 2 signed to support companies in their compliance with global human trafficking and modern-day slavery legislation.54 Underpinning this tool, we commissioned two accompanying white papers, one exploring the emerging transnational legal frame8 3 work creating disclosure and/or due diligence requirements for subject companies,55 and the other a supporting guide to the tool.56 In August 2019, we released a streamlined version of eLRT – eLRT lite – containing only the instrument’s core set of indicators.57 7 4 6 5 23 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Raising awareness To raise awareness about the practice of forced and compulsory labor as well as human trafficking, we regularly mobilize our social media platforms and other corporate media. Typical occasions include, for example, planned or new regulations, the publication of new studies, and national or international awareness days.58 “During my service in the US Peace Corps, I experienced first-hand that to make peace, we all need to contribute; people, communities, and corporations. That experience guided me to where I am today: a father, husband, member of the community, and a consultant for Corporate Social Responsibility and Compliance, specializing in Anti-Human Trafficking and Conflict Minerals. I am 10 1 proud of the work that I do and the company that I work for, because iPoint shares those same 9 2 values, and empowers me to play my part in making peace around the world.” 8 3 -Tolga Y., Senior Consultant 7 4 on Good Life Goal 16: Make Peace 6 5 24 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Raising awareness of child labor. With 1 in 4 children engaged in child labor in the world’s poorest countries, and roughly half of them engaged in hazardous laProcuring responsibly bor, as things stand, there cannot be too much awareness-raisAs a software and services company, we do not have traditional ing on the subject.62 To this end, we also leverage our social mesupply chains. However, we are conscious of the fact that even dia platforms and other corporate media to raise awareness.63 our consumables such as office materials, computers, food, 10 1 etc. have a history and origin. And we work with suppliers to make sure that the history of our consumables is a happy one. For example, at our iPoint head9 2 quarters in Reutlingen we consume 2 kilograms of coffee and 1 kilogram of espresso per day on average – one could say that it is the “lifeblood” of our staff. Needless to say, it is important to 8 3 us that our coffee consumption is also sustainable. We have selected a coffee supplier which shares our values: Lavazza, also a member of UN Global Compact,59 pursues “sustainability by promoting its principles and by applying them 7 4 daily through the involvement of all the Group’s stakeholders.”60 Specifically with regard to Principle 6 5 5, Lavazza obtains UTZ certification, which, among other things, controls for child labor.61 25 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of minierungsgesetz). In general, we at iPoint nurture an inclusive discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. culture, starting with the first day on the job. Each new employee is presented with our Code of Conduct (Verhaltenskodex) – At iPoint, men and women from various nations and age defining and condemning all forms of discrimination and sexugroups, with different cultural, religious, ethnic and social al harassment – which must be signed. For those who strive for backgrounds, and sexual orientation work side-by-side. Our more integration, non-German employees at iPoint-systems workforce diversity shapes our corporate culture and has are offered German-language courses. 10 1 a positive impact on creativity, innovation and performance, as well as employee motivation. With their iPoint’s employee composition reflects our commitment to unique individual skills, experience, and viewpoints, inclusion, gender equality, and sexual orientation non-discrim9 2 and often working in heterogeneous teams, our ination. As of July 31, 2019, iPoint-systems gmbh (Reutlingen employees not only achieve better results, but and Munich locations) had 99 employees, a number which inalso expand the potential for new ideas and includes trainees and part-time student employees (5 trainees novation within the company. Twenty-one perand 8 working students). Our male-to-female ratio was 65%, 8 3 cent (21%) of our employees had a citizenship and 21% of our employees were over the age of 50 years. Three other than German over the reporting period, out of nine (33%) of our upper-level managers64 were female. whereby the non-German employees belonged We also had 3% employees with disabilities over the reporting to 13 different nationalities. period. Equal opportunity also specifically means that our personnel and salaries are selected on the basis of the applicant’s 7 4 We treat each other with respect, appreciation, qualifications and motivation, not on the basis of ethnic origin, and mutual acceptance, are committed to the Unirace, gender, or religion. 6 5 versal Declaration of Human Rights, and act in accordance with Germany’s Anti-Discrimination Act (Antidiskri26 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor 65% Working part-time is a distinct option for our staff, and 13% Company male-to-female ratio of our employees did so over the reporting period. iPoint also actively supports employee reintegration into the workplace 21% (for those who e.g. took parental leave or were ill) with individEmployees over 50 years ualized plans. 3% Employees with disabilities Labor: Measurement of Outcomes 33% Female upper-level managers In the reporting period under consideration, iPoint has received zero (0) discrimination or labor-related claims. 13% Part-time employees 21% Non-German citizenship 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 27 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary commercial enterprises, transport, agriculture, and private approach to environmental challenges. households as their chief sources – are one of the main drivers of climate change.66 Alarmed by these risks, iPoint is continuMonitoring climate change and risks ously re-assessing where we as a software and service provider According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – with no production or handling of physical goods – may im(IPCC), “Human activities are estimated to have caused approve our own performance to prevent environmental damage. proximately 1.0°C of global warming above pre-industrial iPoint supports the goal of the United Nations Framework Con10 1 levels”. Human-induced climate change and its related 65 vention on Climate Change to limit future global warming to impacts are a global challenge, affecting every counbelow 2° or 1.5° Celsius relative to the pre-industrial level. The try on every continent and posing a threat to the company is helping to achieve this goal by pursuing a precau9 2 way we live and to the future of our planet. Sevtionary approach, which involves taking early action to ensure eral cities, councils, and jurisdictions worldwide that environmental damage does not occur. This includes, for have already declared a climate emergency. The example, several measures to record (and improve) our operainternational Fridays for Future movement tional environmental performance, increase energy efficiency, 8 3 of school students striking for climate and and reduce CO₂ emissions. demanding action to prevent further global warming and climate change also underlines Conducting life cycle assessments this sense of urgency – as well as the importance In line with the saying that you can only manage – and improve of this principle (and SDG 13). – what you measure, we have established an environmental 7 4 management system (EMS) at our Reutlingen headquarters Taking this challenge very seriously, we at iPoint are – where 67% of our iPoint Group employees work –, which we 6 5 aware that high and increasing anthropogenic greenuse to find ways of optimizing our operational environmenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – with energy production, tal performance. The recording of operational environmental 28 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment impacts, such as GHG emissions from business activities, is the LCA’s level of detail level considerably. We now calculate “Part of my work is to conducted according to standardized methods and forms the the consumption of each significant consumer, e.g. all illumicomplete the Life Cycle basis of the company’s environmentally-conscious design. nants. Furthermore, we have started our journey to include Assessment for iPoint in Continuously improving the quality of our EMS, which is based scope 3 emissions among scope 1 and 2. This is the first step to Reutlingen. iPoint obtains on the international environmental management standard not only capture and manage iPoint’s own GHG emissions, but and saves energy via district ISO 14001, we are working towards a certification according also those of our suppliers. heating and underfloor probe to ISO 14001 in 2020. Furthermore, we are expanding our EMS heating/cooling. In addition, we to include criteria of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme We also intend to carry out LCAs for subsequent reporting periuse hydropower-based Green (EMAS). We have also triggered the establishment of an EMS ods, which will enable iPoint to evaluate measures through an Electricity from Norway at 67 at our locations with more than 15 employees. ongoing controlling process. Weak points are revealed and apiPoint’s headquarters. I also propriate corrective measures can be taken where necessary. decided to switch to clean iPoint also measures its environmental footprint by carrying Our regular life cycle assessments ensure that trends are capenergy at home. For all iPoint out life cycle assessments (LCAs) on a regular, currently twotured and degrees of target achievement measured. employees I provide measuring year basis to record and evaluate environmentally relevant devices to calculate their procedures. We did so in accordance with ISO 14040ff. requireReducing CO₂ emissions own power consumption. For ments for the most recent reporting period, 2017. The latter is iPoint’s latest LCA focuses on the impact category of the greeninstance, you can save a lot of the second LCA carried out since moving into the new headhouse effect, and the result is a Corporate Carbon Footprint power by not leaving devices in quarters building in late 2014. Compared to the previous LCA, (CCF) that reflects all direct and indirect GHG emissions at comstandby mode. Every evening iPoint was able to maintain or improve our environmental perpany level. Compared to the results of the previous LCA, iPoint and over the weekend I shut formance in almost every area assessed for 2017 (see below for was able to maintain or improve our environmental performance down my PC and overnight more details). in almost every area assessed, although the number of employI always try to turn off all 1 ees has increased. This result reflects the expectations that the monitors.” 10 Showing iPoint’s commitment, we are continuously improvement measures taken by environmental management -Sebastian G., Environmental 9 2 improving our efforts on optimizing the quality and in accordance with ISO 14001 have proven their worth since 8 3 Management Representative scope of the LCA. For example, we have improved moving into our new headquarters building in December 2014. on Good Life Goal 7: Use Clean Engery 7 4 6 5 29 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment In total, we were able to reduce our GHG emissions at the Reutlingen site by 44% in the past reporting period. A reduction of 54% in GHG emissions can also be seen in the ratio of the climate impact per Full-Time Equivalent (FTE). The main reason for this sharp decline is the switch from conventionally-produced electricity to electricity from renewable sources (so-called “Ökostrom”) as well as a significantly lower consumption of district heating. Especially in service-based companies, switching to green electricity is a fundamental step towards reducing CO2 emissions, as most processes in an office or administration building are carried out with the help of electronic devices. We were also able to reduce the GHG caused by the use of materials. This was mainly achieved by switching to printers and climate-neutral printer cartridges by KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.68 Passenger transportation at iPoint causes by far the largest amount of GHG emissions. With a share of 95 % of the total CO2 emissions, this process flow is one of the biggest influential variables in the LCA. However, compared to the previous LCA, the amount of passenger kilometers traveled by air, car, and public transport has decreased. Despite an increase in the number of FTEs, CO2 emissions decreased, which is also re10 1 9 2 flected in a 32% reduction in climate impact per FTE. 8 3 Total water consumption increased by roughly 17%. Since this mainly depends on the frequency with which toilets 7 4 6 5 30 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment are used, the increased consumption of water can be explained Funding of transit passes / travel cards and e-bikes: Despite by the increased number of employees. At 19%, the increase in an increase in the number of employees, CO2 emissions deFTE is almost identical to that of water consumption, which is creased in 2017, which is also reflected in a 32% reduction in why the figures can be regarded as proportional to one anothclimate pollution per FTE. However, the company cars re“For me, smart means not er. The resulting GHG emissions are only very low and can be lease more than twice as much emissions as traveling by blindly following simple neglected in the overall LCA with a share of only 0.5 %. plane and public transport combined. Identified areas of solutions from the media or improvements include the corporate funding of transit politics. Due to my work at The recommendations for areas of improvement identified in passes / travel cards in order to reduce the commuter traffic iPoint, I decided to change my our 2017 LCA include: of employees with company cars. If there is sufficient deecological behavior only after More employee information on energy-saving measures: mand, the purchase of company e-bikes can also be dissolid analyses based on science With a share of 34 %, the area “Data & Information Processcussed. This alternative is particularly worth considering and data. For example, paper ing” covers more than a third of the annual electricity defor employees with short commutes. bags are not necessarily better mand. This implies that this area also has great potential than plastic bags, as the life for electricity-related GHG savings. Electrical appliances Ongoing Measures to Improve our Environmental Performance cycle of a plastic bag can be such as employees’ computers also consume electricity Sustainable energy supply: At our Reutlingen headquarters, longer than a paper bag if you when they are not in use and are supposedly switched off iPoint only consumes electricity from renewable sources use it frequently.” by pressing the off button. Only when consumption equip(so-called “Ökostrom”), at a significantly higher cost to the -Daniel M., Digital Marketing Manager ment is completely disconnected from the power grid can company than regular electricity. We gladly absorb that on Good Life Goal 9: Make Smart Choices such idling be avoided. With the help of a switchable socket cost impact, as it is one concrete step we can take. strip, this problem could be solved with the commitment of Corporate car policy: To conduct official business or due to the employees. In order to implement this and other energytheir leadership position, certain Reutlingen-based employsaving measures, e.g. proper ventilation techniques ees currently receive a company car. Our corporate car policy 10 1 9 2 like inrush airing, we have planned more regular, however places restrictions on the type of vehicle and the 8 3 proactive communications with employees. permissible emissions in the three predetermined classes, 7 4 6 5 31 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment the maximum CO₂-emissions being 140 g/km, 125 g/km, and And iPoint attaches importance to supporting its employ100 g/km, respectively. This policy has in fact resulted in emees in their daily commute to work by bicycle. From June 29 ployees downsizing their vehicles. Furthermore, several iPto July 19, 2019, for example, iPoint motivated employees oint staff members at the Reutlingen headquarters – includat the Reutlingen headquarters to participate in the Gering iPoint’s CEO Joerg Walden – drive electric company cars, many-wide campaign “STADTRADELN”,69 which aims at and iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two electric vehicle making a contribution to climate protection and setting an charging stations. example for increased bicycle promotion in communities. In Less international business travel: Part of the reason we opt total, 11 cyclists from iPoint contributed 2.074 kilometers, to set up country offices is to offset carbon emissions thus avoiding 294 kg of CO2 emissions. through international travel. The specific locations of our Use of digital communication and collaboration tools: country offices are chosen in such a manner that they have iPoint’s sustainability culture maximizes digital communiready access to public transport infrastructure. cation and collaboration tools such as GoToMeeting, GoTEncouragement of carpooling, use of public transport and oWebinar, Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, and Confluence in cycling: We encourage carpooling and the use of public order to simplify paperless collaboration as well as reduce transport in order to reduce emissions and to relieve road our CO₂ footprint and the volume of physical travel for our traffic. The flexible working hours enable the use of carpoolemployees and customers. ing opportunities. On request, iPoint takes over the costs Facilitation of home office: In May 2019, we introduced a of local public transport for trainees. And to support our home office policy which permits employees to work reemployees who use public transportation and bicycles to motely for up to 20 % of their weekly working hours in order commute to our headquarters, iPoint has leased “bike boxto reduce their volume of travel. es” at the Reutlingen Central Station from the city. These small, individually lockable bike garages allow employees to 10 1 9 2 park their two-wheeled steeds in a dry, theftand van8 3 dal-proof place to continue their trip to work or way home. 7 4 6 5 32 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Working in a green headquarters building The newly built company headquarters in Reutlingen, into which we moved in December 2014, meets the latest environmental standards. It is characterized by high resource efficiency with regard to building materials, energy sources, and water technology. A number of features make it especially eco-friendly: Large windows allow for much natural light to enter the building, and indoor lighting relies on LED lights which enable a clear reduction in energy consumption; the building furthermore regulates its temperature through a geothermal heat pump – a central heating and cooling system that transfers heat or cold air to or from the ground (while substantially more expensive to install than viable alternatives, iPoint does count on the geothermal pump to pay for itself over the coming decades); the building’s open design reduces the need for ventilation, Photo by Fiedler Gewerbeimmobilien GmbH heating and therefore also reduces electricity consumption; hand dryers were installed in the bathroom to render paper towels obsolete; with a vegetation layer on its roof, from above the building is turning literally green; it reduces the amount of 10 1 9 2 wastewater, as a large part of the rainwater is ab8 3 sorbed by the plants; plants within the building provide fresh oxygen. 7 4 6 5 33 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment 2011,3 km – My business trip from Växjö, Sweden, to Reutlingen, Germany via public transport By dealing with issues relating to environmental and social compliance and sustainability on a day-to-day basis, our workforce is sensitized to living in a sustainable, environmentally-friendly manner and traveling sustainably in their professional and private lives. We’d like to share our colleague Ove’s story, who – in an effort to keep his carbon footprint low when traveling from his office in Växjö, Sweden, to the iPoint customer conference in Reutlingen, Germany – made the entire journey of 2.011,3 kilometers via public transport. “Having assessed the climate impact of my own behaviour some years back, I started to reduce my impact from what I eat, what I buy, from heating and electricity, and travel. My largest impact in the past came from traveling – mainly as I was driving a diesel car and was a frequent flyer. Despite the fact that I travel in a totally different way today, my travel pattern still has the largest impact, mainly due to the few flights that I cannot avoid. Presently I am driving an electric car which, based on a Nordic energy mix, is the best solution available. Most of my business travel is done with train and as flying has such a large impact I try to avoid it if possible. This year I decided to travel to iPoint’s annual customer “fw:transparency” event via public transport. The direct distance to and from the venue included 2.011,3 kilometers. I used a combination of bus,70 ferry (hybrid), and train. The trip not only made sense from an ecological point of view, but also from an economical one: The train ticket to Reutlingen was cheaper than an equivalent plane ticket. The train trip did take more time – around 15 hours one way, while the air travel alternative (including transport to/from the airports, security control, 10 1 9 2 etc.) would have taken around 8,5 hours. However, both options more or less mean one day of traveling in each 8 3 direction. One advantage of the train ride besides the positive environmental impact is that I was actually able to see and enjoy the landscape during my trip. It was definitely an adventure worthwhile.” 7 4 6 5 34 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to leadership from the National Association of Manufacturers’ promote greater environmental responsibility. Manufacturing Leadership Council.75 Selecting business partners with sustainability criteria 2. Microsoft Our commitment to sustainability extends to the products One of the reasons we are proud to work with Microsoft is that and services we procure, and implicates our business partners. since July 2012, their global operations have been 100 % carbon Our current technology partners include: neutral.76 Furthermore, the company is scaling up its clean ener10 1 gy consumption to power its data centers and operations each 1. Oracle year. In 2017, Microsoft pledged to reduce its operational carbon Oracle has a robust environmental track record emissions by 75% by 2030, and is reportedly on target to achieve 9 2 and has set specific environmental goals for this goal.77 In an assessment of its social responsibility provided 2020 and 2025.71 It has notably improved its by Development International’s independent compliance benchscore year-over-year since 2005, when the marking study against U.S. Conflict Minerals legislation, Microcompany first reported its emission data to soft scored 14/14 (100%) on legal compliance, and 16/17 (94%) on 8 3 the CDP. 72 Oracle was recognized on CDP’s OECD Due Diligence conformance, for a combined score of 97%.78 Climate A List 2018 for the third consecutive year, acknowledging the company’s leader3. CHG-Meridian ship in fighting climate change. The company 73 To meet our hardware needs, iPoint has chosen CHG-Meridialso earned a gold medal in the 2019 EcoVadis an as a business partner. The IT specialist supports us in the 7 4 CSR Assessment, putting Oracle in the top 5 acquisition of new – and the recycling and reuse of our used percent of responding companies for supplier sus– office computers in the spirit of an ecologically responsible 6 5 tainability. 74 And in June 2019, Oracle received two Circular Economy. The company then professionally refurbishManufacturing Leadership Awards for its sustainability es and remarkets the IT equipment, and so extends its useful 35 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment life. CHG-Meridian, in turn, partners with two non-profit orgaRaising awareness nizations recognized by the UN: Close the Gap, which supplies We regularly mobilize our staff and utilize our social media schools and training establishments in developing countries platforms and other corporate media to raise awareness about with pre-owned equipment that is still in good working order, environmental issues and promote greater environmental reand WorldLoop, which collects defective used equipment in sponsibility. Typical occasions include, for example, individual developing countries and has it professionally recycled in order initiatives and campaigns85 as well as national or international to recover valuable raw materials.79 awareness days.86 Engaging in environmental sustainability collective action Collective action – i.e. actions undertaken by an alliance of individuals and/or groups towards a collective purpose – is indispensable when matters are concerned that involve a multitude of stakeholders and competing interests. To foster the cause of the global commons, we engage in a number of joint initiatives and trade associations, such as the Expert Forum Global Environmental Compliance,80 the IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit,81 and the VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund Umweltmanagement e.V.82 Furthermore, we are an organizational member of the Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation (FSLCI), a membership-based community organization which has the specific mission of accelerating the transition towards a sustainable society.83 Martina Prox of our sub10 1 9 2 sidiary ifu Institute of Environmental IT Hamburg is 8 3 a member of the Board of Directors and is currently serving as President of the Board of Directors.84 7 4 6 5 36 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Towards a Digital Circular Economy Take – make – use – dispose. This is the still prevailing linear economy system. Products which are thrown away, buried in landfills, or burnt at the end of their primary use phase can not only contain valuable materials consisting of finite natural resources, but also hazardous materials harmful to humans or the environment. We at iPoint strongly believe that the solution to many of these problems lies in the combination of the Circular Economy, which allows companies and society to manufacture, use, and re-use truly sustainable products, with digital data – an approach we at iPoint have come to call the “Digital Circular Economy”. To promote a (Digital) Circular Economy and show how we as a software company can support manufacturers and suppliers in creating more circular products and setting up circular processes, we have created a range of material on the topic of Digital Circular Economy, including a series of video clips, which we have accumulated on a webpage we are constantly expanding. www.ipoint-systems.com/digital-circular-economy/ 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 37 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Informing and educating iPoint often hosts – or participates in – national and international events that are intended to educate or inform interested stakeholders. Our subject matter experts presented the following discussions topics over the reporting period: topics presentation / discussion title more information (Digital) Circular Economy Digitalization as Key to Enabling the Circular Economy link and Life Cycle Innovation How can Digital Twins enable a Digital Circular link Economy? Circular Economy and Web3 Technologies link The Use of Life Cycle Information in a Digital Circular link Economy Unleashing the Potential of the Digital Circular link Economy using Blockchain How will Life Cycle Information Contribute to a Digital link Circular Economy? From Compliance to Circular Business Models link (iPoint Symposium) Digital Circular Economy link Blockchain / material traceability / The potential of Blockchain driving sustainability link supply chain transparency 1 SustainBlock: Blockchain-based supply chain link 10 9 2 traceability 8 3 7 4 6 5 38 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment topics presentation / discussion title more information Life cycle assessment (LCA) and Stakeholder Perspectives on Business Requirements for an link resource efficiency Automated Life Cycle Assessment using available internal data Resource efficiency through digitization: myth or reality? link (“Ressourceneffizienz durch Digitalisierung: Mythos oder Realität?“) Resource Efficiency and Material Efficiency in Business link (“Ressourceneffizienz und Materialeffizienz in der Wirtschaft”) Live LCA – New level of possibilities based on link automated LCA – A user requirements point of view EU RoHS directive, EU REACH Optimizing supply chain communication with respect link regulation, Calif. Prop 65 to requirements under RoHS, REACH The new California Proposition 65 Warning Regulations link In addition to contributing expertise, we also put money where our mouth is. Over the reporting period, we sponsored conferences or fora that had implicit or explicit environmental objectives. Examples include: event location more information • Life Cycle Innovation Conference Berlin link • LCA XVIII Fort Collins, CO link • AIAG 2018 IMDS & Product Chemical Compliance Conference Novi, MI link • ITI & IPC Conference on Emerging & Critical Environmental Boston, MA; Chicago, IL; San Jose, CA link 10 1 Product Requirements • RMI Responsible Sourcing Summit Berlin link 9 2 • AIAG 2019 Responsible Materials Industry Briefing Southfield, MI link 8 3 7 4 6 5 39 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Booking sustainable event venues Choosing sustainable gifts For regularly hosted public corporate events, such as our CusIn a bid to lead by example, our gifts and giveaways for trade tomer Conference, we choose “green locations.” The Stadthalle fairs, conferences, customer visits, and employees are selected Reutlingen 87 was the venue of iPoint’s 2019 two-day summit according to ecologically and socially sustainable standards. fw:transparency. It is the first and only city event hall in GermaThe decisive factors here are corresponding certifications or ny to conduct fully carbon-neutral events, ranks among the top information provided by the vendors as well as an assessment Green Globe-certified venues in Germany, and has several other whether the products meet our corporate criteria.90 Current sustainability certifications. promotional gifts include reusable, REACH-compliant fabric bags, plantable pencils,91 eco-ballpoint pens and USB flash Improving our paper policy drives, eco-powerbanks,92 ecocubes,93 and sustainably deDuring the current reporting period, we have switched our entire signed, reusable water bottles from a Cradle-to-Cradle-certiin-house paper consumption to FSC®-certified paper. For our corfied enterprise.94 Furthermore, instead of giving the speakers porate publishing needs (e.g. flyers, brochures, customer magaat our annual conference fw:transparency 2019 take-homezine, employee magazine, etc.), we demonstrate environmental presents, we gifted every speaker with a tree voucher from responsibility by carefully selecting print services. For our printPlant for the Planet,95 an organization which aims to raise ing needs, we work with FSC®and ISO 12647-2-certified printawareness about the issue of climate change and and activeers to achieve ecologically sustainable printing results. Since ly combat it through tree-planting campaigns. By doing so, spring 2019, we have also been using the climate-neutral printwe were able to back this great climate cause by indirectly ing services offered by our printers in cooperation with Climateplanting 520 trees and at the same time advance SDG 4 Partner. For each print order, the generated carbon emissions 88 (Quality Education) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). are calculated in line with ISO 16759 and offset via a certified project that can be chosen from the project portfolio of 10 1 9 2 ClimatePartner.89 8 3 7 4 6 5 40 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development sition 65, the US Toxic Substances Control Act, EU RoHS, EU ELV, and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and EU REACH. In 2018, iPoint’s software solutions in the area of environmental product compliance were notably recognized Offering our software and services when the European Commission selected the company out of Environmentally sound technologies should protect the envihundreds of applications to join the Scaling Circular Business inironment, are less polluting, use resources in a more sustainable tiative, a formal recognition of our innovative circular economy manner, recycle more of their wastes and products, and hansolutions underlining that we are one of the SMEs ready to help 10 1 dle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than the other organizations to become more circular.97 In May 2019, our technologies for which they were substitutes.96 As one Digital Circular Economy approach was honored as APAC CIOoutof the world’s leading software and consulting comlook selected iPoint out of more than 500 companies as one of 9 2 panies for environmental product compliance and the ten best-in-class compliance solution providers that offer sustainability, the development and diffusion state-of-the-art technology solutions which help enterprises of environmentally-friendly technologies is a tackle complex compliance challenges and optimize their busiraison d’être of iPoint and part of our core business processes. iPoint’s ‘Digital Circular Economy’ approach was 8 3 ness portfolio. The company’s digital solutions one of the decisive factors for the company’s inclusion in the permit an automated and secure exchange of ‘Top 10 Compliance Solution Providers 2019’ list.98 relevant information across the entire value creation network and product life cycle – from prodOur acquisition of the ifu Institute for Environmental IT Hamuct design, manufacturing and use, to reuse and burg – a company highly specialized in LCA – allows us to offer 7 4 recycling. Our solutions portfolio includes software pertinent software and services, and accompany our customers that enables manufacturing companies to comply on their quest to become circular.99 What started out in 2013 as 6 5 with legal requirements, regulations, and directives ada B2B cooperation to develop design and evaluation tools for dressing hazardous and substances such as California Propofunctional, ecologically-optimized, multi-material, lightweight 41 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment automotive components in mass production (research project iPoint is also a partner in the project DiBiChain,102 a three-year “MultiMaK”), flourished into a full-blown corporate merger in research project which started in July 2019 and is funded by the 2018. Our joint “Live LCA” project, which began in 2017, also imGerman Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). plemented with other industry and research partners, set out Implemented with several industry partners, the project aims to develop a software solution enabling companies to combine at investigating the application potentials of Blockchain for digavailable material and energy consumption data for a real-time itally mapping circular economy systems using the case study of calculation of LCA and Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA), a bionic component manufactured by Airbus. thereby reducing the costs for EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations) and LCAs by 90%.100 This new solution is currently Furthermore, iPoint is an industry partner of the Christian Dopbeing tested and will be available as part of the iPoint Suite unpler Laboratory for Sustainable Product Management in a Circuder the name of “iPoint Product Sustainability” in 2020. lar Economy, which was ceremoniously opened at the University of Graz in April, 2019.103 The lab seeks to shed light on the conIndustry Cooperations, R&D Projects voluted web of global supply chains and to develop a scientifiIn line with SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals), iPoint takes a cally-solid basis for sustainability assessments of products and strategic collaborative approach to implementing this UNGC services in a circular economy. principle. Since iPoint views Blockchain technology as an important enabler of the Circular Economy and the SDGs, we are proud to be a founding member of the International AssociaEnvironment: Measurement of Outcomes tion of Trusted Blockchain Applications (INATBA). Established in April 2019, INATBA aims to promote the use of blockchain techDuring the reporting period, iPoint received zero (0) comnology by developing a predictable, transparent, and trustplaints concerning environment-related violations. based global framework. It offers developers and users 10 1 9 2 of DLT a global forum to interact with regulators and 8 3 policy makers and bring blockchain technology to the next stage.101 7 4 6 5 42 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Participating in anti-corruption joint action, iPoint has endorsed its forms, including extortion and bribery. the Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda by signing the letter of support. In the letter, signed on Ethical and responsible behavior are the cornerstones of a sucAugust 2, 2018, iPoint affirms its commitment to integrate ancessful business in a dynamic global marketplace. Anti-corrupti-corruption into our strategies and operations, and work against tion clauses are therefore included in iPoint’s standard employcorruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ee contracts which we introduced in March 2018. 10 1 Also in the area of anti-corruption, iPoint actively supports reFor iPoint, sustainability means achieving long-term search on corporate behavior and disclosure. iPoint’s commisgrowth. Economic sustainability is anchored in sioning of an EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive study – that 9 2 iPoint’s business processes, solutions, and cusspecifically hones in on the actions companies in Sweden, Germatomer relationships. We strive for continuous, ny, and Austria are taking to counter the unethical practice of corsustainable improvement of the quality of our ruption –, which was released in May 2019, is another example of business processes and products. To this end, iPoint’s vested interest in measuring macro-level trends.105 8 3 in June 2019 we had our quality management system audited in accordance with ISO 9001. Business ethics is strongly related with trust. And since trust Organizations that are ISO 9001-certified have a in business is another important cornerstone of successful resingle and complete set of managed and applied lationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other procedures, regularly updated and audited. 104 ISO stakeholders, we are particularly proud that in late 2018, iPoint 7 4 9001 clauses 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 8.0 address honesty in was recognized as one of the ‘50 Most Trustworthy Companies record keeping and records. of the Year’ by The Silicon Review Magazine.106 We were select6 5 43 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Anti-Corruption ed based on iPoint’s consistency in performance, product and Corporate Non-Financial Reporting in Europe: The Cases of Germany, Sweden, and Austria service reliability, partnerships and collaborations, transparency, financial status, and the ability to reach customer expectations. In its article recognizing iPoint’s achievement, The Silicon Review acknowledges iPoint’s long-standing customer relationships and dedication to leveraging blockchain technology and other solutions to make the world a better, more sustainable place for future generations. Anti-Corruption: Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting period, there have been zero (0) infractions on the grounds of corruption or bribery, either alleged or verified. Learn more about the baseline studies: www.ipoint-systems.com/nfrd-report-2018/ Development International opportunity through insight During the reporting period, no disciplinary action was required concerning corruption. During the reporting period, the total number of confirmed cases where contracts with counterparties were terminated or not renewed due to corruption-related infringements was zero (0). 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 44 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward Over the next reporting period, we plan to undertake the following initiatives in line with the UNGC principles. Overarching (all UNGC principles) SDG–iPoint alignment analysis In the forthcoming reporting period, we will revisit where the Materiality analysis company’s impacts align with the SDGs, also in terms of the speiPoint plans to complete a materiality analysis premised on its cific SDG targets, and establish KPIs how our company will help own social and environmental footprint. This analysis, which was contribute to these SDGs and targets. started in July 2019, will form the basis of our future CSR and sus1 tainability planning. Topping the list are employees (diversity, SDG support via charitable causes and organizations 10 health&safety, intellectual property rights), energy manIn the upcoming reporting year, we plan to select the beneficiaagement, e-waste management, risk management, ries of our donations on the grounds that the charitable orgadata privacy and security, travel, etc., to be analyzed nizations support the implementation of certain Sustainable 9 2 according to spend. Development Goals (SDGs). Corporate procurement policy Expertise sharing In the fourth quarter of 2019, we plan to issue Over the next reporting period, iPoint will continue to contrib8 3 an official corporate procurement policy for susute subject matter expertise covering one or more UNGC princitainable office supplies and promotional items ples at conferences and fora. with selection criteria that include social responsibility, environment-related and other sustainSponsorship of conferences and events 7 4 ability dimensions, also making sure there are no Also in the upcoming reporting year, iPoint will host and sponsor human rights violations occurring among iPoint’s conferences where one or more UNGC principles are front and 6 5 service providers or suppliers. center. 45 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward Social Charter Having completed the development of the software for SusOur recently completed Social Charter – which contains severtainBlock in June 2019, the next steps include the rollout and al paragraphs on what kind of ethical, responsible behavior is productive use of the solution on the ground in the African expected from iPoint’s employees and which stipulates basic Great Lakes Region, thereby instituting a scalable traceability workand social-standards and will include explicit mention of process and blockchain-enabled system for tracking the provthe freedom of association and collective bargaining – will be enance of certain raw materials produced in conflict-affected rolled out during the upcoming reporting period. and high-risk areas. Sponsorship of human rights-related conferences and events Sponsorship of human rights-related research 1 Also in the upcoming reporting year, iPoint will host and iPoint plans to continue commissioning and funding indepen10 sponsor conferences where human rights are front and dent research that investigates corporate implementation of center. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)-related laws. 9 2 Human Rights Labor Further developing our Human Rights-oriented Promoting better health and fitness tools and services Since corporate commitment to promoting better health de8 3 With the release of eLRT lite – a streamlined monstrably reduces sick leave and fluctuation, increases emversion of the electronic Labor Rights Template ployee satisfaction, and thus leads to more productivity and – in August 2019, we have started to expand competitiveness, iPoint has planned two measures for the iPoint’s consulting and compliance services speupcoming reporting period. Firstly, we are considering putting 7 4 cifically focused on modern slavery legislation. the company pension scheme on a new footing and to offer In the upcoming reporting period, iPoint plans to health care services as part of the new model, which the em6 5 continue this expansion of our human rights-oriented solutions and services. ployees can use annually and as required. Secondly, in line with the phrase “Mens sana in corpore sano”, iPoint plans to sup46 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward port our employees’ fitness at the Reutlingen headquarters by Environment funding their participation in sports competitions with up to €200 per employee per year. Upscaling and audit of EMS In the upcoming reporting period, we plan to scale up the numServices for new staff from abroad ber of sites for which an Environmental Management System Furthermore, to support new employees from abroad and (EMS) will be established, starting with sites with more than make it easier for them to settle in and acclimatize, we have 15 employees. Furthermore, we plan to have our EMS audited planned to provide a new service to this group of staff at our according to the international environmental management Reutlingen headquarters – by helping them find private apartstandard ISO 14001. 1 ments near our headquarters, where new employees from 10 abroad can stay instead of taking lodgings in a hotel Carbon neutrality plan while searching for a permanent accommodation. iPoint is committed to gradually reducing its carbon emissions to the point of carbon neutrality, and has already taken spe9 2 Ensuring privacy and protection of data cific steps in this direction. Upon studying the feasibility of In the upcoming reporting period, we plan to attaining complete carbon neutrality, we will issue a carbon have our information security management neutrality plan. system audited and re-certified in accordance 8 3 with ISO/IEC 27001, thereby continuing our efKPIs of LCA forts to ensure privacy as well as protect and iPoint intends to conduct an LCA for 2019 and is considering to keep our company’s, customers’ and employmake public specific KPIs that emerged based on our 2019 LCA, ees’ information secure. including energy usage, waste, and emissions (Scope 1). 7 4 More employee information on energy-saving measures 6 5 Based on the recommendations made in the context of our 47 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward current LCA, we plan more regular, proactive communications Anti-corruption with employees concerning energy-saving measures for the office and at home. We have prepared a Social Charter which contains several paragraphs on what kind of ethical, responsible behavior is expected Release of Live LCA solution from iPoint’s employees. It will be rolled out during the upcomAs a result of our “Live LCA” project, implemented with other ing reporting period. industry and research partners, we plan to launch a software solution as part of the iPoint Suite under the name of “iPoint Furthermore, constantly striving for continuous, sustainable Product Sustainability” in early 2020 which enables companies improvement of the quality of our business processes and prod1 to combine available material and energy consumption ucts, including anti-corruption measures, we plan to have our 10 data for a real-time calculation of LCA and Material quality management system audited and re-certified in accorFlow Cost Accounting (MFCA), thereby reducing the dance with ISO 9001. ISO 9001 clauses 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 8.0 adcosts for EPDs and LCAs by 90%. dress honesty in record keeping and records. 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 48 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh VII. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains “forward-looking statements”107 based on current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts which include, but are not limited to, statements about iPoint’s expected future vendor due diligence and engagement efforts and development of related processes. Although we believe that the expectations, opinions, and comments reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by us, and we can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. Actual outcomes may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. It cannot be guaranteed, nor can any liability otherwise be assumed by iPoint and the companies of the iPoint Group, that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually be achieved in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, or changes in expectations after the date of this report. 49 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 1 The iPoint Group includes: 1) iPoint: iPoint-systems gmbh, Reutlingen, Germany (headquarters) iPoint-systems gmbh, Munich, Germany iPoint-Austria GmbH, Vienna, Austria iPoint-systems gmbh, Paris, France iPoint-systems AB, Växjö, Sweden iPoint Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom iPoint Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA (central office USA) iPoint Inc., Los Angeles, California, USA iPoint Japan Co Ltd, Tokyo, Japan iPoint Ltd., Shanghai, China iPoint Korea, Suwon, South Korea 2) ifu Institute for Environmental IT, Hamburg, Germany (https://www.ifu.com/en/) 3) CircularTree (https://www.circulartree.com/), located in Berlin, Germany, and Melbourne, Australia 2 UN, Sustainable Development Goals, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs 3 https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/lets-make-2019-year-sdgs-joerg-walden/ 4 The GLGs are the result of a multi-stakeholder collaboration between the global change agency Futerra, the UN 10YFP Sustainable Lifestyles and Education (SLE), the governments of Sweden and Japan (represented by the Stockholm Environment Institute – SEI – and the Institute for Global Environmental Strategies – IGES), as well as UNESCO, UN Environment, and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). These behaviorand lifestyle-oriented action items for individuals are aligned with the targets and indicators of the SDGs and were created to inspire individuals to participate in the conversation and act on the SDGs in their everyday lives. In short: The Good Life Goals aim at making the SDGs more personal. Learn more here: https://sdghub.com/goodlifegoals/ 5 Learn more here: https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/webinar-good-practices-in-sdgs/ 6 8.2: “Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors” 7 8.4: “Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead” 8 8.7: “Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms” 9 12.2: “By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources” 10 12.4: “By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment” 11 12.5: “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse” 12 12.6: “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle” 50 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 13 12.A: “Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production” 14 “iPoint is Partner of Consumer Information Programme for Sustainable Consumption and Production,” webnews March 21, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-is-partner-of-consumer-information-programme-for-sustainable-consumption-and-production/ 15 Previous beneficiaries of iPoint donations include (excerpt): AnnieCannons, Inc., ARCHE IntensivKinder, the German Bone Marrow Donation Register (Deutsche Knochenmarkspenderdatei), Eldoret Kids Kenia, the German foundation Give Education a Chance (“Gib Bildung eine Chance”), Hospice Veronika, JAM Deutschland e. V., Lebenshilfe Reutlingen, Make a Wish Foundation (Michigan), March of Dimes (Michigan), the Regional Group of the Registered Mucoviscidosis Association (Regionalgruppe Zollernalb-Tübingen des Mukoviszidose e.V.), YouthVille Detroit, Raise Hope for Congo, and the Wikimedia Foundation. 16 https://acespace.org/ 17 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/sustainableux-design-vs-climate-change/ 18 https://hamburger-tafel.de/ 19 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 20 https://www.notforsalecampaign.org/ 21 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 22 https://www.plant-for-the-planet.org/de/startseite 23 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/de/newsroom/news-detail-de/koerbewerfen-fuer-den-klimaschutz/ 24 https://www.praeventive-jugendhilfe.de/ 25 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 26 https://thewaterproject.org/ 27 “Clean Water, Climate Action, and Quality Education. iPoint donates to three SDG-relevant causes”, webnews August 5, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/clean-water-climate-action-and-quality-education/ 28 https://www.wirbelwind-reutlingen.de/ 29 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 30 Deckel Gegen Polio, 500 LIDS ... FOR 1 LIFE WITHOUT POLIO! http://deckel-gegen-polio.de/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/Deckel_Rotary_Flyer_DIN_A6_eng.pdf The initiative “Lids against Polio”, coordinated by Deckel drauf e.V., was discontinued on June 30, 2019. According to the website, the reasons for the discontinuation are as follows: The prices on the market for secondary raw materials have recently fallen significantly. Therefore, it cannot be guaranteed that they will continue to achieve the revenues necessary to fulfil the motto of the collection in the future. It cannot be guaranteed that the organizers will continue to achieve the revenues necessary to fulfil the motto of the collection in the future. This price development is due to market shifts triggered by the Chinese import ban on plastic waste. There is such a large quantity on the market that even our good quality on the German market only achieves poor prices. In its plastics strategy, the EU has stipulated that in future the lids must be firmly attached to the bottles. This implies that in the medium term, the organizers are running out of collection material. The organizers have been overrun by success. The project has now become so big that it can no longer be run properly by a handful of volunteers in their spare time. Cf. https://deckel-gegen-polio.de/ 31 UN Global Compact, The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles 32 “The Conflict Minerals Reporting Template is a free, standardized reporting template developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative that facilitates the transfer of information through the 51 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References supply chain regarding mineral country of origin and smelters and refiners being utilized. The template also facilitates the identification of new smelters and refiners to potentially undergo an audit via the RMI’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process.” RMI, Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/conflict-minerals-reporting-template/ 33 Based on the RMI’s CMRT and CRT, the iPoint Conflict Minerals solution allows for cascade and roll-up of the collected data from companies’ supply chain. 34 Blockchain technology is a distributed, shared electronic ledger which can add an additional layer of transparency, traceability, security, and trust in the Conflict Minerals supply chain. Replicated across many nodes in a peer-to-peer network, data recorded on a Blockchain is not only instantly verifiable, but also immutable. While users may access, inspect, or add to the data, it is very difficult to change or delete it, and the original information leaves a permanent trail (“chain”) of transactions. Each transaction is recorded and added to the previous one, resulting in a growing chain of information. The secure, auditable and immutable transaction history of the movement of commodities and products across the supply chain is achieved without the need for a trusted central organization or intermediary. By essentially self-monitoring, blockchain can provide data reliability and eliminate reconciliation. 35 The EPRM (European Partnership for Responsible Minerals) “is a multi-stakeholder partnership established with the goal to create better social and economic conditions for mine workers and local mining communities, by increasing the number of mines that adopt responsible mining practices.” As of August 6, 2019, the EPRM members from industry, government, and civil society include Apple, Philips, Intel, NXP, and Valcambi Suisse, (“strategic members”), Umicore, TATA Steel, HP, Signify, Samsung, and Drive Sustainability (“regular members”), the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), the Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center (T.I.C.), Fairphone, and the International Tin Association (“basic members”), Solidaridad, Diakonia, Cordaid, Pact, IPIS, the Alliance for Responsible Mining, Global Communities – Partners for Good, Impact, and the Responsible Sourcing Network (“civil society actors”), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office UK, and BMZ – German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (“governments and institutions”), and UN Environment, the European Commission, and the OECD (“observers”). Cf. https://europeanpartnership-responsibleminerals.eu/member 36 https://www.sustainblock.org/ 37 Chris N. Bayer, PhD; Anthony Cooper, J.D.: “Worst Forms of Child Labour in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Cobalt Refiner Due Diligence Reporting,” July 31, 2019, https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/f0f801_2a378fa6e3a246868fe136512dfe2b8e.pdf 38 iPoint joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) – then known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) – as one of the first vendor members in 2016. https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-joins-cfsi-as-vendor-member/ RMI offers a range of tools and resources including the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process, the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, the Cobalt Reporting Template, Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry data, and a range of guidance documents on responsible minerals sourcing. RMI, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/ 39 AIAG is an auto industry trade association where members collaborate to develop common global standards for Quality, Supply Chain, and Corporate Responsibility issues. AIAG, https://www.aiag.org/ 40 IPC is a global trade association serving the printed board and electronics assembly industries, and has specific data exchange standards supported by iPoint’s solutions, e.g.: IPC-1752A, which allows companies in the supply chain to share information on materials in products, and IPC-1755, developed in partnership with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), allows companies in the supply chain to exchange information related to Conflict Minerals. For more information, see IPC, http://www.ipc.org/ContentPage.aspx?pageid=Materials-Declaration 41 For more information, visit: https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-systems-launches-web-based-tool-for-conflict-minerals-compliance/, and https://www.greenbiz.com/news/2012/09/14/honda-ford-conflict-minerals-reporting-tool 42 https://inatba.org/ 43 https://hamburger-tafel.de/ 44 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 45 https://www.notforsalecampaign.org/ 46 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 47 https://www.praeventive-jugendhilfe.de/ 52 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 48 https://www.wirbelwind-reutlingen.de/ 49 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=551&cHash=70a20f2d82f6ea34c9fcff7cb7f2a7ca 50 With the exception of Article 14. See: United Nations, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/ 51 TRIGEMA, https://www.trigema.de/ 52 ISO, ISO/IEC 27001:2013(en), https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:27001:ed-2:v1:en 53 https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=624&cHash=fc2754607ecc0f623c0b36cddcc30fe6 54 eLRT, Welcome to eLRT.org! http://www.elrt.org/ 55 Corporate liabilities for modern-day slavery in supply and service chains: A transnational framework 56 The electronic Labor Rights Template (eLRT): Introducing an anti-slavery, B2B measurement, tracking, and reporting tool for global supply and service chains 57 iPoint, „New Anti-Slavery Reporting and Risk Management Tool Launched,“ press release, August 7, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/42312-New-Anti-Slavery-Reporting-and-Risk-Management-Tool-Launched 58 E.g., the World Day against Trafficking in Persons (July 30), https://www.facebook.com/iPointWorld/photos/a.255816197870586/2259868174132035/?type=3&theater 59 Lavazza, Beitritt zu UN Global Compact und Global Goals, https://www.lavazza.de/de/nachhaltigkeit/unser-engagement/global-compact.html 60 Of note is that in 2017, the Lavazza Foundation undertook 27 projects in 17 countries impacting 94,000 producers. See: Lavazza, Sustainability Report 2016, https://www.lavazza.com/content/dam/lavazza/sostenibilita/bilancio/bilanci-pdf/en/SustainabilityReport2017.pdf 61 Ibid. Page 110 62 UNICEF, Child labour, December 2017, https://data.unicef.org/topic/child-protection/child-labour/ 63 E.g., by calling attention to the World Day against Child Labor (June 12) – https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2192449567540563&id=101233979995476 64 Defined as head of department with personnel responsibilities. 65 IPCC: Global Warming of 1,5 °C. Summary for Policymakers. 2018, p. 6. https://report.ipcc.ch/sr15/pdf/sr15_spm_final.pdf 66 IPCC, Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report, 2014, https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/05/SYR_AR5_FINAL_full_wcover.pdf 67 Like the ISO norms mentioned in this paragraph, the voluntary environmental management and audit system EMAS aims to systematically improve the environmental performance of a company or organization. 68 A UN Global Compact participant since 2011, KYOCERA is dedicated to providing products which allow customers and end-users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of their products. Cf. https://global.kyocera.com/ecology/csr.html#c and https://global.kyocera.com/ecology/eco/products/index.html 69 STADTRADELN is a campaign of the Climate Alliance of European Cities with Indigenous Rainforest Peoples, the largest network of cities, municipalities, and administrative districts for the protection of the world climate, which was further developed according to the Nuremberg model and has around 1.700 members in 26 European countries. The campaign provides municipalities with a proven, easy-to-implement measure to become active in communication/PR for sustainable mobility. Teams of local politicians, school classes, associations, companies, and citizens pedal to promote cycling, climate protection, and quality of life. In the period from May 1 to September 30, 2019, 21 consecutive days will be spent cycling as many kilometers as possible without CO2 emissions, both professionally and privately. When the three STADTRADELN weeks take place is up to each municipality. More info (German): https://www.stadtradeln.de/hintergrund 70 The reason for the bus travel is that at the time of Ove’s travel, the Danish railways were improving the railway tracks between Copenhagen and Rödby. When completed, the travel time will be shorter. 53 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 71 Oracle, Corporate Citizenship / Sustainability / Achieving Operational Excellence, https://www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship/sustainability/operations.html 72 CDP was formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project. 73 Oracle, February 2, 2019: Oracle Scores an ‘A’ for Climate Change, https://blogs.oracle.com/sustainability/oracle-scores-an-%e2%80%98a%e2%80%99-for-climate-change 74 Oracle, June 25, 2019: Oracle Receives Gold From EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility Assessment, https://blogs.oracle.com/sustainability/oracle-receives-gold-from-ecovadis-corporate-social-responsibility-assessment 75 NAM, Manufacturing Leadership Awards Program Honors 2019 Top Industry Innovators, https://www.nam.org/manufacturing-leadership-awards-program-honors-2019-top-industry-innovators-5190/ 76 Microsoft: Beyond carbon neutral. Expanding beyond our carbon neutral operations to accelerate global and local good. http://aka.ms/beyond 77 For this and other areas in which Microsoft reports on its environmental performance, visit Microsoft at: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/environment 78 Development International, Dodd-Frank Section 1502 – RY2016 Filing Evaluation, July 26, 2017, http://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/f0f801_9502a3a2a8f143a7b5d863792a01318a.pdf 79 CHG-Meridian, TOTAL COMMITMENT, https://www.chg-meridian.com/explore-chg/responsibility/corporate-citizenship.html and CHG-Meridian: A New Life For IT Equipment Thanks to Close the Gap and Worldloop. https://www.chg-meridian.com/discover-chg/excellence-stories/excellence_story_close_the_gap.html 80 The Expert Forum Global Environmental Compliance was established by the Fraunhofer Institute for Manufacturing Engineering and Automation (Fraunhofer IPA) in 1994 with the objective of providing the electrical and electronic industries a comprehensive overview of current product-related environmental legislation (e.g. WEEE, RoHS, REACH, ErP and Conflict Minerals). A strong network from the scientific community, industry, associations, and legislative bodies emerged. In the regular meetings, participant exchanges focus on the current status of product-related environmental legislation, implementation strategies, and best practice approaches. See: Fraunhofer IPA, Expert Forum Global Environmental Compliance, https://www.ipa.fraunhofer.de/de/Kompetenzen/nachhaltige-produktion-und-qualitaet/schadstoffmanagement/expertenforum-global-environmental-compliance.html 81 The IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit is a network concerned with social, ecological and economic responsibility. The network provides up-to-date information and promotes the cross-industry exchange of expertise and experience. See: IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit, https://www.reutlingen.ihk.de/netzwerke/netzwerke-fortsetzung/nachhaltigkeit/ 82 The VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund Umweltmanagement e.V. is an independent community of experts and users of environmental and sustainability management systems. It designs management systems through committee action, support their practical implementation in companies, and facilitates networking between members and stakeholders through conferences and regional meetings. See: VNU Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V., https://www.vnu-ev.de/ 83 Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation, https://fslci.org/vision-mission/ 84 Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation, Board of Directors, https://fslci.org/board-of-directors/ 85 E.g., participation in tree watering challenge during the hot, dry German summer of 2018, https://www.facebook.com/101233979995476/videos/309079523009695/, or the launch of our “Plant your Pencil” campaign with our sustainable sprout pencils, https://www.facebook.com/plugins/post.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2FiPointWorld%2Fposts%2F2056567044462150&width=500 86 E.g., World Bicycle Day https://www.facebook.com/101233979995476/photos/a.255816197870586/2172508636201323/?type=3&permPage=1, International Plastic Bag Free Day https://www.instagram.com/p/Bzd32P6iDUI/, and Earth Overshoot Day https://www.instagram.com/p/B0f976iFlgN/. 87 Stadthalle Reutlingen GmbH, https://www.stadthalle-reutlingen.com/ 88 www.climatepartner.com 89 https://www.climatepartner.com/en/climatemap/offset-projects. Each print product is labeled with a special ID number so the offset can be traced in a transparent manner. 90 These criteria comprise: (1) REACH-compliant, (2) RoHS-compliant, (3) No plastics, (4) A keeper (non-disposable), (5) Biodegradable, (6) Not too big (simple transport), (7) No expiration date, and (8) In line with our brand. 54 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 91 Sprout, https://sproutworld.com/ 92 This RoHS-compliant product consists of FSC®-certified maple wood; where plastic was used for internal, non-visible components, it was made from 100% recycled material. 93 These plants come in a wooden cube which is filled with a special cultivation granulate and a biological long-term fertilizer; it is made of alder and consists of 100% compostable materials. 94 Dopper, https://dopper.com/usa/ These water bottles are at the center of an ongoing social media campaign, which involves iPoint employees sharing pictures of their bottle during their travels and holidays. 95 Plant for the Planet, https://www.plant-for-the-planet.org/en/home 96 Cf. Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/Agenda21.pdf and UN Global Compact: Principle 9, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles/principle-9 97 The European Commission, iPoint-systems, https://ec.europa.eu/environment/ecoap/scalingcircularbusiness/solution/ipoint-systems_en 98 Cf. “iPoint Recognized as Top Compliance Solution Provider 2019,” press release, July 2, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/42188-iPoint-Recognized-as-Top-Compliance-Solution-Provider-2019. In addition, APAC CIOoutlook also selected iPoint as the cover story feature for the Compliance Special of their enterprise business technology print magazine. Cf. APAC CIOoutlook, Top 10 Compliance Solution Providers 2019, May 2019, https://compliance.apacciooutlook.com/vendors/top-10-compliance-solution-providers-2019-rid-229.html# 99 iPoint, iPoint takes over industry leader in life cycle assessment and material flow cost accounting, January 25, 2018, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-takes-over-industry-leader-in-life-cycle-assessment-and-material-flow-cost-accounting/ 100 Ibid. 101 “105 Organizations Announce New Blockchain Association INATBA,” press release, April 3, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/41848-105-Organizations-Announce-New-Blockchain-Association-INATBA 102 “DiBiChain” stands for “Digital image of circular systems by means of blockchain” (German: Digitales Abbild von Kreislaufsystemen mittels Blockchain). 103 Christian Doppler Laboratory for Sustainable Product Management enabling a Circular Economy, https://idw-online.de/de/news713478 104 Under the management review of ISO 9001 clause 5.1 and the internal audit requirements of clause 8.2.2, top management is required to establish an independent audit committee and has responsibility for the outcome of the audit. The standard requires respect for auditor independence and prohibits executive management from improper influence of an auditor. Clause 4.1 assigns responsibility of process controls to top management. They are required to assess whether internal controls are effective, certify compliance to the organization’s quality manual, and be accountable for conformance to its quality system. 105 Cf. “CSR Reporting Under EU Law Is Highest for Gender and Lowest for Human Rights Matters, Study Reveals”, press release May 9, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/41945-CSR-Reporting-Under-EU-Law-Is-Highest-for-Gender-and-Lowest-for-Human-Rights-Matters-Study-Reveals and iPoint, Corporate Non-Financial Reporting in Europe, The case of Germany, Sweden and Austria, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/de/nfrd-report-2018/ 106 “iPoint-systems Recognized as One of the ‘50 Most Trustworthy Companies of the Year’,” press release, November 8, 2018, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/41519-iPoint-systems-Recognized-as-One-of-the-50-Most-Trustworthy-Companies-of-the-Year107 Statements including words such as “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “intend”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “may”, “strategy”, “potential”, “opportunity,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. 55 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh Abbreviations 3TG Tantalum, Tin, Tungsten, Gold EPRM European Partnership for Responsible Minerals LED Light-Emitting Diode AIAG Automotive Industry Action Group FSC Forest Stewardship Council MFCA Material Flow Cost Accounting BMBF Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung FSLCI Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and (German Federal Ministry of Education and Research) FTE Full-time equivalent Development B2B Business-to-Business GDPR General Data Protection Regulation REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and CCF Corporate Carbon Footprint GHG Greenhouse Gas Restriction of Chemicals (EU) CDP Carbon Disclosure Project GLG Good Life Goal RMI Responsible Minerals Initiative [formerly known as CEO Chief Executive Officer HSI Homeland Security Investigations the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)] CI-SCP Consumer Information Programme for Sustainable ICT Information and Communication Technology RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU) Consumption and Production IEC International Electrotechnical Commission SME Small and medium-sized enterprise CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template IGES Institute for Global Environmental Strategies SDG Sustainable Development Goal CoP Communication on Progress IHK Industrieund Handelskammer SEI Stockholm Environment Institute CRT Cobalt Reporting Template INATBA International Association of Trusted Blockchain SLE Sustainable Lifestyles and Education CO₂ Carbon Dioxide Applications UN United Nations CSR Corporate Social Responsibility IPC Institute of Printed Circuits – Association Connecting UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural DI Development International e.V. Electronics Industries Organizationt DLT Distributed Ledger Technology IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact EASP European Association of Sustainability Professionals iPCMP iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund EHS Environment, Health & Safety ISO International Organization for Standardization USB Universal Serial Bus eLRT electronic Labor Rights Template IT Information technology VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund UmweltELV End of Life Vehicles Directive (EU) ITI Information Technology Industry Council management e.V. EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme JEITA Japan Electronics and Information Technology WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development EMS Environmental Management System Industries Association WEEE Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment EPD Environmental Product Declaration LCA Life Cycle Assessment 56 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh Imprint Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2018/19, Feedback from our stakeholders improves further published in August 2019. development of our reporting. We welcome and look forward to your suggestions and ideas. The collection and presentation of the content in the 2018/2019 Sustainability Report are the product of the work of Contact all units of iPoint-systems gmbh and the iPoint Group, includDr. Katie Boehme ing all of its subsidiaries in Germany and abroad . Head of Corporate Communications & Sustainability iPoint-systems gmbh The Corporate Communications & Sustainability Department Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 of iPoint-systems gmbh is responsible for developing and edit72760 Reutlingen ing the content as well as designing the report: Germany • Dr. Katie Boehme M +49.151.19671894 • Carsten Girke circular@ipoint-systems.com Copy editing team • Christine Beck • Jacky Goeron • Beate Hummel 57 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2018-19 © iPoint-systems gmbh
