Sanmak Lighting Co.,Ltd. SANMAK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 三锦照明进展情况通报 (COP) From: 1 January 2018, To: 1 January 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE GENERAL MANAGER OF SANMAK 三锦照明总经理继续支持声明 1 March 2019 To our stakeholders: 尊敬的各利益攸关方： I am pleased to confirm that Sanmak reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 我很高兴确认 Sanmak 重申其支持联合国全球契约关于人权、劳工、环境和反腐败的十项原则。 In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. 在这份年度进展情况通报中，我们将说明自身在持续推进全球契约及其原则融入企业战略、文化和日常运营方 面采取的行动。同时，我们承诺通过我们的主要沟通渠道与各利益攸关方分享这些内容。 Sincerely yours, Mark Yang / General Manger 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 行动说明 Human Rights 人权 · Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities · Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, psychological harassment, abuse or threats · Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products · 确保为员工提供安全、舒适和卫生的工作环境 · 使员工免遭工作场所骚扰，包括人身、言语、心理方面的骚扰、虐待或威胁 · 采取措施消除在生产、使用或处理产品过程中可能对人身安全及健康产生伤害或威胁的原料、设计、缺陷或 副作用 Add: Block 3, Chuangfu Industry Zone, Lihe Rd., Nanhai District, 528244, Foshan, China. Tel: +86-757-81248088 Web: www.sanmak.com Sanmak Lighting Co.,Ltd. Labour 劳工 · Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour · Comply with minimum wage standards · Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria · 确保公司未参与任何形式的强制性或抵债性劳动 · 遵循最低工资标准 · 确保根据相关和客观标准做出与工作相关的决定 Environment 环境 · Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) · Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health · Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances · 通过定期维护产品处理流程以及环境保护机制（如空气污染控制、废物、废水处理系统等）避免破坏环境 · 确保采取应急措施预防并处理影响环境及人身健康的事故 · 尽量减少化学品及其他危险品的使用，并确保处理及存储安全 Anti-Corruption 反腐败 · Assess the risk of corruption when doing business · Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners · Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment · 在开展业务时评估腐败风险 · 在与商业合作伙伴订立的合同中规定“反腐败”及／或“符合道德规范的行为”的条款 · 确保通过内部程序支持公司的反腐败承诺 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 成果衡量 · Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) · Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism: 0%, 0%, 2% · Percentage of recycled materials20% · 按差异因素（如性别、种族、年龄等）划分管理层和员工 · 职业病、工伤和缺勤的比率分别为 0%，0%，2% · 回收材料的百分比 20% Add: Block 3, Chuangfu Industry Zone, Lihe Rd., Nanhai District, 528244, Foshan, China. Tel: +86-757-81248088 Web: www.sanmak.com
