FY18 NIKE, Inc. Impact Report Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 Impact Report 2 About This Report 3 Report Content Introduction 5 Letter From Our CEO 6 Purpose Committee Our Approach 8 Issue Prioritization 9 Priority Issue Definitions 10 Targets Summary Unleash Human Potential 13 FY18 Highlights 14 Employees 19 Community Impact 23 Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues Transform Manufacturing 27 FY18 Highlights 28 Sustainable Sourcing 31 Engaged Workforce 32 Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change 33 Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues Minimize Environmental Footprint 35 FY18 Highlights 36 Product 38 Materials 41 Energy and Carbon 47 Waste 51 Water 53 Chemistry Appendix 58 PwC Assurance Report 59 NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion 64 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index FY18 NIKE Impact Report 1 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix About This Report NIKE, Inc. (“NIKE”) is a brand of Innovation, The targets and measures in this NIKE Impact For the first time, we have obtained external Growth, and Purpose and our mission is Report represent the full suite of our public assurance on select reported metrics (Scope 1 to bring inspiration and innovation to every corporate responsibility commitments and and 2 energy consumption and emissions, and athlete1 in the world. And, we do that by are an aggregated view of long-term goals Scope 3 commercial air travel emissions). More building creative and diverse global teams, and commitments to meet stakeholder3 information can be found in the Appendix. making a positive impact in the communities expectations and align with NIKE’s business where we live and work and by making priorities. Building on NIKE’s reporting tradition For news, updates and more detail about NIKE, products responsibly and more sustainably. since 2001, we expect to report progress please visit purpose.nike.com. We are driven by a commitment to against our social and sustainability targets and transparency, accountability, and purposeful material issues annually. This report has been prepared in accordance impact, reflected by our approach to sharing with the GRI STANDARDS: CORE option. our priority issues and reporting our progress In this report, we cover NIKE’s fiscal year 2018 toward the NIKE 2020 targets.2 (June 1, 2017 through May 31, 2018), with the notable exception of calendar year 2018 data for the Employee and Occupational Health and Safety sections. We will refer to the fiscal year as FY18 and the calendar year as CY18 for the rest of the report. Unless otherwise stated, the baseline for the majority of our targets is fiscal year 2015. Note: The information in this report and NIKE, Inc.’s corporate responsibility/sustainability reporting and website, inclusive of charts, graphs and discussion, and all other information presented, may contain forward-looking statements, estimates or projections based on expectations as of the original date of those materials. Those statements, estimates and projections are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are detailed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q. Presented information may also discuss non-public financial and statistical information and non-GAAP financial measures. All information was current only as of the date originally presented. We do not update or delete outdated information contained in website materials, and we disclaim any obligation to do so. All content is the property of NIKE, Inc. 1 “If you have a body, you are an athlete.” – Bill Bowerman 2 Definitions of Priority issues. 3 Stakeholders are defined as customers, consumers, shareholders, employees, communities, NGOs, academics, or any group with a vested interest in a company’s strategies and development plans. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 2 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Report Content The FY18 NIKE Impact Report focuses on our 2020 RM MANUFACTUR Our Moonshot Ambition Targets and Priority Issues most relevant across NS FO ING our value chain and to our stakeholders. TRA Carbon How can we double our business while halving our impact? M FY18 Priority Issues Child Labor IN IM L IZ Water Existing Priority Issue T IA E N TAL Issues with Increased TE EN Relevance in FY184 PO MA Chemistry NM RO N Chemistry HU Climate Change Risks VI EN Active Kids Energy A SH Diversity & Equal Opportunity GHG Emissions T TPRIN Occupational Health & Safety UNLE Material Waste FOO Total Compensation Waste Non-Renewable Workforce Development Priority Issues5 Resource Depletion Water Use 2020 Targets and Measures UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Employees Product Target Attract and develop an increasingly diverse, engaged, and Target Deliver products for maximim performance with minimum impact, healthy workforce with a 10% reduction in the average environmental footprint Measure •  Provide visibility to our diversity and inclusion progress Measure •  Greater than 80% of all NIKE, Inc. product will be scored on •  Build stronger bodies and minds through Health and Wellness efforts sustainability performance •  Provide comprehensive, competitive, and equitable pay and benefits Materials Community Impact Target Increase use of sustainable materials in footwear and apparel Target Invest a minimum of 1.5% of pre-tax income to drive positive impacts Measure •  Source 100% of our cotton more sustainably across NIKE, Inc. in our communities Measure •  Get kids (ages 7-12) moving through play and sport Carbon and Energy •  Inspire a majority of NIKE employees to engage wth their Target Reach 100% renewable energy in owned or operated facilities by the communities and support their giving of expertise, time, and money end of FY25 and encourage broader adoption as part of our effort to •  Drive sustained community impact in primary markets and control absolute emissions sourcing backyards Measure •  Decrease energy use and CO2e emissions 25% unit in key operations •  Decrease energy use and CO2e emissions 35% per kg in textile dyeing and finishing TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING Waste Sustainable Sourcing Target Eliminate footwear manufacturing waste to landfill or incineration, while Target Source 100% from factories that meet our definition of sustainable continuing to reduce overall waste Measure •  Eliminate excessive overtime (EOT) Measure  • Reduce waste index by 10% in footwear manufacturing, DCs and HQs • Increase landfill diversion at DC and HQs Engaged Workforce Water Target Ensure contract factory workers share in productivity gains Target Innovate and adopt new approaches to reduce water use in our Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change supply chain, with a 20% reduction in freshwater use in textile dyeing Target  Establish partnerships that support the needs of workers both inside and finishing (l/kg per unit of production) and outside of the factories Measure •  Build resilience through supplier water risk mitigation plans with Measure •  Scale services to support management and workers for improved material processors engagement and wellbeing Chemistry Target Enable Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Measure • 100% compliance with NIKE restricted substance list (RSL) • 100% compliance with ZDHC manufacturing restricted substance list (MRSL) • Achieve better chemical input management through scaling more sustainable chemistries 4 These issues, which have always been a key focus for NIKE, have seen increased relevance to stakeholders in the past year. • Lead industry change through collective action 5 We removed the following priority issues in FY18: Employment, Excessive Overtime, and Freedom of Association. • 100% of focus suppliers meeting NIKE’s wastewater quality See Issue Prioritization for more detail. requirements for textile dyeing and finishing processes FY18 NIKE Impact Report 3 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 4 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Letter From Our CEO Sports can move the For NIKE, it also means using our voice to power greater change. As the urgency of That’s why we’re more focused than ever on growing and developing our people. We’re world forward as climate change calls for significant industry stepping up support for career development shifts, we’re joining coalitions such as the and increasing our investment in key resources, nothing else can. Global Fashion Agenda and the United Nations such as our employee networks. And this year, Framework Convention on Climate Change we achieved a global pay equity ratio for men to Call it crazy. Dismiss it as a dream. But this (UNFCCC) Fashion Industry Charter for Climate women, and white to underrepresented groups belief has long been the heart and soul of Action that seek to accelerate progress across in the U.S. NIKE, and this year, our teams rallied to borders and sectors. bring it to life for an even broader community. Yet we know there is still much more work to Our “Dream Crazy” campaign became a As an innovation-driven company, we will do. Over the past year, we increased the VPcatalyst for conversation around the world, always make room for experimentation. But level representation of women by 4% to 36% inspiring athletes to speak up about how their for NIKE, sustainability has never been a test globally and the VP-level representation of U.S. passion for sport drives them to challenge case. Over the decades, it’s shaped some of underrepresented groups by 3% to 19%. We the status quo. our most popular products and fastest-growing know that we can do better, and we know that platforms. Now, I believe we’re entering a we can be better as a more diverse company. The sweeping message of empowerment new phase for NIKE innovation – one where Incremental change is not enough. connected deeply with consumers. It also sustainability at scale is becoming a reality. inspired many of us who work at NIKE to So, we’re taking intentional action to increase continue to think bigger about the impact Take Nike Air as an example. All Nike Air-Sole representation, especially across our leadership. we can create. innovations since 2008 are composed of at That includes continuing to expand our pipeline least 50% recycled material, diverting more of diverse candidates at leadership levels. It In the face of today’s challenges – from climate than 50 million pounds of waste from landfills also includes holistic approaches across our change to inequality to how we unleash the each year. Its success speaks for itself: if Nike organization, from mitigating potential bias in potential of the next generation – I believe Air was a standalone athletic company, based the interviewing process to increasing training we need our boldest dreams yet. We need a on revenue, it would be the third-largest in the programs that will help strengthen a culture broader vision for leadership and a greater world. Nike Flyknit, which transforms recycled of belonging. openness for risk. We need to question and polyester into our highest-performing products, transform existing models. And above all, is now a multi-billion dollar business. And we Moving forward, with each Impact Report, we need to back our aspirations with continue to scale Nike Flyleather, a sustainable we’ll use the opportunity to build on where purposeful action. new super material made from at least 50% we’re making progress and face head-on the leather fiber, across our most beloved products. areas where we can improve. Yet we also Over the decades, as NIKE’s role in the understand that living up to our potential world has grown, we’ve seen what’s possible Even as our business grows in scale and means earning it every day. when our business invests in what’s best for complexity, we’re increasing transparency future generations. That starts with building throughout our supply chain. A decade and That’s really what NIKE’s impact is all about. It’s communities of young people who have a half ago, NIKE was the first company in our about leading with actions, not words. It’s about opportunities to access the life-changing impact industry to publicly disclose its supply base for showing up for our teammates and for our of sport and play. I’m incredibly proud that in all our finished goods manufacturing facilities. communities. It’s about accepting nothing less 2018, our Made to Play community programs Last year, we deepened our disclosures to than our very best – then asking ourselves how reached 16.5 million kids worldwide. This past include our core materials supply base. By we can do even better. year, we also reached nearly 100,000 coaches driving greater accountability for ourselves and through NIKE-supported programming, with our suppliers, we open up more opportunities We know that we have a long way to go. Yet, a specific focus on increasing the number of to advance worker engagement and wellbeing just as our athletes have shown us, I believe female coaches to help inspire young girls, who across our value chain. some of NIKE’s craziest dreams are just have so much potential to move the world. beginning to take flight. As we deepen our positive impact in the world, At the most fundamental level, protecting the we’re also thinking critically about the change future of sport also means providing safe places we want to drive inside NIKE. Our employees to play. For sport to thrive, we need clean air come to NIKE to be part of something greater, and open spaces. That’s why we set a bold to experience the joy and pride of working target to source 100% renewable energy across on a team that can transcend what we could our global operations by 2025, which saw major ever accomplish on our own. Time and again, Mark Parker momentum this year as we committed to 100% I’ve seen that when our teams commit to Chairman, renewable energy in North America and Europe. complex change, we don’t just exceed our own President and CEO benchmarks, we take the industry someplace Protecting our planet’s future goes beyond new. I believe it’s our culture that makes it all lessening our own environmental footprint. possible – and we don’t take that for granted. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 5 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Purpose Committee The Purpose Committee provides direction Purpose Governance at NIKE and oversight for the end-to-end integration of NIKE’s work in diversity and inclusion, community, labor, and environmental impact. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, SUSTAINABILITY AND Board They challenge our business to better GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (BOARD OF DIRECTORS) Accountability understand our social and sustainability impacts, set ambitious targets for improvement, and overcome obstacles in achieving progress. Executive Leadership and The Purpose Committee, which includes Purpose Committee Corporate Accountability the scope of the former Performance and Disclosure Committee established in 2012, meets regularly to review these targets, Cross-Functional Leadership Purpose Leadership Team performance, and disclosures. and End-to-End Integration This Committee is a key contributor in shaping NIKE’s evolving approach to transparency. Cross-Functional Purpose Subcommittee We believe that companies like NIKE play an Working Group important role in helping to address some of the complex challenges facing our global Supply Chain community today. Functional Leadership Diversity and Community Labor, Health Environment and Execution Inclusion and Safety Learn more: Governance Purpose Committee This Committee includes: President, NIKE Direct EVP, Chief Financial Officer Heidi O’Neill Andy Campion EVP, Chief Communications Officer Chief Marketing Officer Nigel Powell Dirk-Jan van Hameren President, Categories and Product President, Consumer and Marketplace Michael Spillane Elliott Hill Chief Operating Officer EVP, CAO and General Counsel Eric Sprunk Hilary Krane President, Jordan Brand EVP, Global Human Resources Craig Williams Monique Matheson VP/GM, Global Categories Amy Montagne FY18 NIKE Impact Report 6 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 7 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Issue Prioritization For over 20 years, NIKE We continuously learn, grow, and refresh our perspective by considering the global FY18 Changes has been striving to create perspective of our internal and external While there was great alignment between this year’s issue prioritization survey and last stakeholders6 in our analysis of priority a better future for our sustainability issues. Similar to last year, year’s survey results, “Diversity and Equal Opportunity” and “Climate Change Risks” people and planet by better in FY18 we surveyed a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, NGOs, were identified as key issues with a strong understanding the most academics, suppliers, and corporate peers, increase in relevance for both internal and external stakeholders. to determine the most relevant issues at each pressing issues confronting stage of our value chain and the impacts most directly linked to those issues. At NIKE, we know that our culture is at our global community, and its best when all employees feel included, respected, and heard. The increased relevance trying to innovate solutions Learn more: FY16/17 Issue Prioritization Process of “Diversity and Equal Opportunity” is to address them. Stakeholder Engagement consistent with our continued and enhanced internal focus on building an inclusive and NIKE’s Value Chain accountable culture across our company. FY18 Priority Issues Learn more: This chart details the high and low priority issues for each stage in the value chain. Employees We know that climate change is one of the UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL defining issues of our time and the FY18 survey results support this. “Climate Change Risks,” Active Kids which is related, but different, from Energy and Diversity and Equal Opportunity GHG Emissions, focuses on the risk climate Occupational Health and Safety change poses to our business, our industry, and our planet. Climate issues, like pollution Total Compensation and extreme weather conditions, affect how Workforce Development athletes perform. And as a global business, climate change introduces risk across our TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING value chain. We’re tackling climate change Child Labor head-on by investing in lower-carbon materials and renewable energy and building resilience MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT to climate uncertainty by reducing costs and Chemistry innovating new operating models. Climate Change Risks Learn more: Energy Energy and Carbon GHG Emissions For the past few years, “Employment,” Non-Renewable Resource Depletion “Excessive Overtime,” and “Freedom of Association” have received low relevance Material Waste scores from our stakeholders, so they are not Water Use listed as top priority issues in FY18. However, NIKE recognizes that excellent management in these areas is important, and we continue to Key High il es rials g g ics eta er s ife provide relevant information on these topics in Low rvic te ishin turin ist R m fL c g u o our external disclosures. Se M a Fin ufa Lo ns d Not applicable at e w nd an Co En o r R a a rp rin g sM Learn more: Co tu ood Employment ac G uf d Excessive Overtime an ishe M Freedom of Association ial s Fin ter a M 6 In FY18, we considered the input of over 100 internal and external stakeholders in the analysis of our prioritization issues. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 8 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Priority Issue Definitions UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL Priority Issue Definition Location Active Kids Helping kids reach their full potential through play and sport and creating Community more equal playing fields for all Impact Diversity and Equal Opportunity Representation of female and minority employees in workforce and Employees management positions equal to the consumers and communities we serve, and the gap in average remuneration Occupational Health and Safety Worker health and safety practices throughout the value chain Occupational Health and Safety Total Compensation Economic value generated for employees through wages and benefits Employees Workforce Development Training and development for workers to build capability and Employees career opportunities TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING Priority Issue Definition Location Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Child Labor of child labor MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Priority Issue Definition Location Chemistry Chemicals used in making materials and products and substances Chemistry released to the environment (air and water) that are toxic to humans and ecosystems Climate Change Risks Financial risks to NIKE due to operations exposed to changing climate Energy and impacts throughout the value chain Carbon Energy Energy used for electricity, use of fossil fuels, and other energy sources Energy and Carbon GHG Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from energy, transportation, and NIKE’s other Energy and business activities Carbon Non-Renewable Resource Depletion Non-renewable resources depleted through materials and fuels used Materials Material Waste Waste generated throughout NIKE’s value chain and activities to reduce, Waste reuse, or recycle Water Use Water used throughout our value chain and monitoring our impacts in Waste water-scarce regions FY18 NIKE Impact Report 9 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Targets Summary Key Favorable Increase Decrease Unfavorable UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL TABLE UNDER DEVELOPMENT Metric Unit of FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 Change FY20 Target Measurement Baseline vs. Baseline Community Impact Annual Investments as % of Pre-Tax Income % 1.9% 1.8% 1.9% 1.8% N/A7 1.5% TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING Metric Unit of FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 Change FY20 Target Measurement Baseline vs. Baseline Manufacturing8 Factories Rated Bronze or Better 44 p.p.9 % 86% 87% 91% 93% (vs. FY11 BL) 100% Factories with Excessive Overtime % 3.3% 3.2% 3.9% 2.4% 0.9 p.p 0% MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Metric Unit of FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 Change FY20 Target Measurement Baseline vs. Baseline Product kg CO2e/ Average Product Carbon Footprint10 7.33 7.19 7.15 7.45 2%11 10% unit Product Scored on Sustainability Performance % 27% 68% 71% 73% 46 p.p. 80% Materials Sustainable Materials12 – Apparel (AP) % 19% 21% 33% 34% 15 p.p. Sustainable Materials12 – Footwear (FW) % 31% 33% 32% 31% 0 p.p. Cotton Sourced More Sustainably13 % 24% 35% 53% 58% 34 p.p. 100% Carbon and Energy Renewable Energy – Owned or Operated14 % 14% 20% 22% 19%15 5 p.p. 100%16 Energy Consumption Per Unit – Key Operations17 kWhe/unit 4.74 4.29 4.74 4.39 7% 25% kg CO2e/ Carbon Emissions Per Unit – Key Operations17 1.75 1.62 1.75 1.71 2% 25% unit Energy Consumption Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing18 kWhe/kg 15.86 15.46 14.95 14.40 9% 35% Carbon Emissions Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing18 kg CO2e/ kg 4.78 4.68 4.55 4.33 9% 35% Waste N/A Waste to Landfill19 – Footwear Manufacturing % (FY16 BL) 6.6% 3.9% 1.8% 4.8 p.p. 0% Waste Index – Footwear Manufacturing, DCs, and HQs 20 N/A 100 21 98 100 103 3 10% Landfill Diversion – DCs and HQs22 % 88% 87% 88% 87% 1 p.p. Water N/A Freshwater Use Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing18 L/kg (FY16 BL) 126.5 117.2 109.3 14% 20% Chemistry Tested Material in Compliance with NIKE Restricted Substance % 95% 99% 98% 99% N/A23 100% List (RSL) Compliance with the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted % N/A N/A N/A 68%24 N/A 100% Substances List (MRSL) Focus Suppliers Meeting NIKE’s Wastewater Quality N/A % 58% 73% 69% 11 p.p. 100% Requirements – Textile Dyeing and Finishing18, 25 (FY16 BL) FY18 NIKE Impact Report 10 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Targets Summary Footnotes 7 This is an annual target. Baseline and change vs. baseline are not relevant to this target. 8 Scope includes all finished goods manufacturing. 9 p.p. = percentage points. 10 This target includes NIKE-designed/developed Nike Branded, Brand Jordan, and NIKE Golf Global apparel styles, and Nike Branded, Brand Jordan, and NIKE Golf Global footwear styles. We are using CO2e emissions as a proxy for other environmental impacts (e.g. energy, other air emissions). 11 Average product carbon footprint has increased compared to the FY15 baseline due to an increase in both material per unit (apparel getting heavier) and manufacturing emissions intensity (driven by grid electricity in Vietnam and style/model mix). While NIKE has two other FY20 carbon targets that are both trending in the right direction, these other carbon targets represent tier 1 (finished goods manufacturing) combined with other key operations, and tier 2 (materials finishing). The product target represents tiers 1 through 4 (which includes materials manufacturing and raw materials production). 12 We define more sustainable materials as those that reduce the environmental impact of a product through better chemistry, lower resource intensity, less waste, and/or recyclability. 13 Certified organic, Better Cotton (cotton grown according to the Better Cotton Standard System) or recycled. 14 The target scope includes electricity only, where we make energy purchase decisions on strategic assets. Equivalent to absolute reductions in Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions of at least 50% by FY25. 15 Slight decline in FY18 is due to the delay between WHQ and Air Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI) facility expansions and building construction going live and being incorporated into the Oregon Power Purchase Agreement (delay is a regulatory requirement). 16 Target year to achieve 100% is FY25, not FY20. 17 Key operations = finished goods manufacturing, inbound and outbound logistics, DCs, HQs, and NIKE-owned retail. Previous years have been restated due to inclusion of estimated retail natural gas consumption outside of the U.S. and Canada. 18 Measure includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials that directly support finished product assembly. 19 Target covers waste to both landfill and incineration. Incineration does not include waste to energy recovery unless otherwise noted. 20 The waste index is a weighted average of our footwear manufacturing waste per unit, DCs waste per unit and HQs waste per occupant. 21 Baseline is FY15 except for Tier 1 FW Manufacturing and Converse HQ, which are FY16 and are included in Inc.-wide baseline for comparability across years. 22 Baseline is FY15 except for Converse HQ, which is FY16 and included in Inc.-wide baseline for comparability across years. 23 As we add new chemicals and tighten the limits, we may see a small number of failures as the supply chain adapts to the more stringent requirements. Due to these changes, we do not recognize a baseline or change vs. the baseline. 24 FY18 was NIKE’s first year tracking this metric. 25 Measurement of supplier adherence to NIKE’s wastewater quality standards between FY16 and 18 in this table is based on a prior standard. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 11 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 12 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 Highlights 10% 10,000 Percentage of employees Number of employees who received an who completed Manager adjusted base salary Expectations Training as part of ongoing competitive pay management 4% 3% Increase of VP-level Increase of VP-level representation of women, representation of U.S. bringing the total to 36% underrepresented groups, bringing the total to 19% $7.5m $79.4m Amount that NIKE NIKE’s investments in employees, supported communities around the world by the NIKE Foundation’s in FY18, totaling over $396m matching gift program, since FY14 contributed to charitable causes globally 1:1 16.5m Pay ratio for Number of kids men to women that NIKE helped to (globally) and white get moving through to underrepresented its Made to Play groups (U.S.) commitment FY18 NIKE Impact Report 13 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Employees Target Our global HR Strategy is focused on We want everyone who works at NIKE to stewarding a people-first culture and we’re experience a level playing field and have the Attract and develop an empowering our teams and strengthening opportunity to reach their full potential. In order to advance this vision, we have taken our culture by: increasingly diverse, several important steps this past year including: elevating diversity and inclusion to sit at the engaged, and healthy 1 2 heart of our HR strategy to drive systemic workforce progress; enhancing our HR processes; and elevating our Employee Relations function. We have also invested in more career development Our employees are at the heart of our Creating aligned Investing in and training for employees, managers, and success as a business. We know that NIKE and effective great leaders leaders across NIKE. is at its best when every member of the organizations and managers team feels respected. That’s why we’re To ensure we remain competitive to the committed to fostering a culture of inclusion marketplace, we have adjusted base salary for and an environment where all employees are 3 4 about 10% of our employees across all bands, empowered to move the world forward through geographies, functions, and brands. And, at the the power of sport. beginning of FY19, we moved to one annual bonus plan, our Performance Sharing Plan, for This past year was a challenging and inspiring Empowering Ensuring eligible employees to reinforce our culture and year, marked by growth and learnings, and an diverse and opportunity for reward behaviors that support collaboration and increased focus on our team and culture. NIKE innovative teams everyone to learn teamwork. We also continue to strive to reflect is at its best when every member of the team the diversity of our global consumer base. feels included and heard – when everyone can show up fully as themselves and do their 5 best work every day. And we have made new Total Employees26 commitments to strengthen our culture of CY1627 CY17 CY18 inclusion, empowerment, and respect, including % Change 2% -2% increasing diversity across our organization – Employee Count 65,216 66,739 65,332 with a focus on leadership. Of course, there is Fostering an environment no finish line and we continue to make progress where everyone feels valued 26 Employee numbers exclude external or temporary workers (ETWs) and invest in the change we want to see within and is engaged and seasonal retail workers. Also, as part of our ongoing investment in development and career experiences, we have approximately 45 U.S. our teams. underrepresented groups (URG) employees working outside of the U.S. in international assignments. These employees are not included in our U.S. URG reporting. Upon return to their U.S. home location, they will be included in U.S. representation going forward. 27 For this reporting period, we have adjusted our employee section reporting to reflect calendar year data to provide more timely information. Data included is through December 31, 2018 as opposed to fiscal year ending on May 31, 2018, as used historically. To aid in comparisons to past years’ data, NIKE has also reclassed its fiscal year data into calendar year data. NIKE office – Johannesburg, South Africa FY18 NIKE Impact Report 14 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Employees Measure NIKE, Inc. Totals by Gender (Global) All Employees Directors+28 VPs Diverse representation Gender29 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY16 CY17 CY18 and culture of inclusion Female 48% 48% 49% 37% 38% 39% 28% 32% 36% 31,338 32,082 31,800 2,091 2,146 2,414 116 119 145 52% 52% 51% 63% 62% 61% 72% 68% 64% Male 33,878 34,657 33,532 3,553 3,513 3,731 299 258 257 Total 65,216 66,739 65,332 5,644 5,659 6,145 415 377 402 28 All employees who are Director level and above. Director, in this instance, refers to a certain management level within the company. 29 Numbers include those employees who identified a gender. NIKE, Inc. Employee Totals by Race/Ethnicity (U.S.)30 All Employees Directors+ VPs Race/Ethnicity CY16 CY17 CY18 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY16 CY17 CY18 American Indian or 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% Alaskan Native 124 121 122 11 9 8 8.0% 8.1% 8.5% 9.7% 10.4% 10.8% 4.6% 4.6% 5.2% Asian 2817 2949 2831 388 417 477 16 15 18 Black or African 22.6% 23.5% 21.6% 4.7% 4.5% 4.5% 8.3% 7.6% 8.1% American 7963 8530 7161 190 183 198 29 25 28 18.1% 19.0% 18.5% 5.1% 5.0% 5.0% 2.6% 2.1% 2.9% Hispanic/Latino 6399 6911 6115 204 203 220 9 7 10 Native Hawaiian or 0.7% 0.8% 0.7% 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% Other Pacific Islander 253 275 240 5 9 10 4.8% 4.8% 5.5% 2.5% 2.5% 3.2% 1.1% 1.2% 2.3% Two or More Races 1693 1727 1826 102 101 141 4 4 8 0.1% 0.4% 0.6% 0.1% 1.5% 2.1% 0.3% 2.4% 2.6% Unknown 15 141 190 4 61 92 1 8 9 45.4% 43.1% 44.2% 77.5% 75.6% 74.0% 83.1% 82.0% 78.8% White 16,029 15,661 14,630 3,112 3,043 3,270 290 268 271 Total 35,293 36,315 33,115 4,016 4,026 4,416 349 327 344 30 Percentages may not add up to 100 due to rounding. Board of Directors Board of Directors (BOD) Totals by Gender At the Board level, NIKE has adopted qualification BOD standards for nominees for Director which can be Gender CY16 CY17 CY18 found at our corporate website32, and includes 25% 18% 23% Female diversity and inclusion as a factor to be considered, 3 2 3 among others33. The Board believes that a variety Male 75% 82% 77% 9 9 10 and balance of perspectives on the Board results Total 12 11 13 in more thoughtful and robust deliberations. The company views diversity broadly, including gender, ethnicity, differences of viewpoints, geographic BOD Totals by Race/Ethnicity location, skills, education, and professional and BOD industry experience, among others. Race/Ethnicity CY16 CY17 CY18 American Indian or Alaskan Native Since July 2018, NIKE has appointed three new 8% Board Directors, one woman and two persons Asian 1 from URG. Specifically, the Board added: 17% 18% 23% Black or African American Cathleen Benko, Former Vice Chairman and 2 2 3 Managing Principal of Deloitte LLP, also serving Hispanic/Latino as Deloitte’s first Chief Talent Officer and the Native Hawaiian or Other someone whose racial or ethnic makeup is from one of the following: Pacific Islander American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Two or leader of Deloitte’s award-winning Women’s Two or More Races More Races. Initiative and broader inclusion focus; Peter B. Unknown 32 investors.nike.com 33 In accordance with the 2018 Proxy Statement and NIKE’s corporate Henry, Dean Emeritus of New York University’s 75% 82% 77% White governance guidelines, nominees for Director are selected on the basis of, among other things, distinguished business experience or other nonLeonard N. Stern School of Business and 9 9 10 business achievements; education; significant knowledge of international William R. Berkley Professor of Economics and Total 12 11 13 business, finance, marketing, technology, human resources, diversity and inclusion, law, or other fields that are complementary to, and balance the Finance; and John W. Rogers, Jr., Chairman, knowledge of, other Board members; a desire to represent the interests of all shareholders; independence; character; ethics; good judgment; Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment diversity; and ability to devote substantial time to discharge Board Officer of Ariel Investments, LLC. responsibilities. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 15 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Employees Staying Focused on Representation The Diversity Sourcing and Programs Team At the conclusion of the program, students will has also created new pipelines for recruiting have an opportunity to apply for open positions talent. For example, NIKE has developed a within the company. 4% 3% two-year program designed to provide relevant and dynamic work experiences for retired/ retiring WNBA players. Through the initiative, former professional basketball players are We will continue to evaluate and explore possible pipelines for recruiting diverse talent. increase of VP-level increase of VP-level provided an opportunity to join teams at NIKE Evolved Hiring Practices representation of representation of U.S. World Headquarters in various roles across the We remain focused on delivering a transparent women, bringing the URGs, bringing the organization. In addition to a competitive salary and consistent candidate experience and are total to 36% total to 19% and benefits package, program participants also focused on building capabilities for our (8% increase since CY16) (2% increase since CY16) also have a robust professional development HR teams and hiring managers. In the U.S., we curriculum and dedicated mentors to support have implemented a new sourcing capability a successful transition from the court to a requiring diverse slates for our Director and At our Director and above level, year over year NIKE career. above positions. We have also begun posting all we’ve seen a slight increase for representation Director and below positions – both internally and of women and our U.S. URG population. To develop new talent pipelines in design, our externally – to increase the transparency around teams have also created an apprenticeship our hiring process and available opportunities. Our increase in representation at this level has experience with the community college system In addition, also starting in the U.S., we are been driven by internal promotions, external of Los Angeles. This program offers students an optimizing job descriptions to attract a more hiring and by staying focused on retention. We opportunity to gain work experience in design, diverse candidate pool and have eliminated the continue to focus on hiring from within and footwear, apparel graphics, and color as part of collection of candidate salary history. promoting and advancing our own team at a a six-month rotational program. higher rate than external hiring. This has been, and continues to be, a key focus and is an important lever for increasing representation. Over the last year we’ve promoted more women and U.S. URGs at Director level and above and have seen the representation within these promotions increase since 2016. In addition, we have increased the number of external hires at Director level and above in the past year, and seen diverse representation for both women and U.S. URGs increase from 2016. We are committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce, and while we’ve seen some measurable progress at our leadership levels, we know we have more work to do to increase the diversity of our workforce overall. To support our efforts to increase diversity, we will continue to provide visibility to career opportunities, and invest in growth and development for all employees. We have also implemented a number of new strategies. Building Diverse Pipelines Through a significant investment in our Diversity Sourcing and Programs Team, which is focused on developing a pipeline of external diverse candidates at leadership levels, we have proactively formed partnerships with professional organizations and nonprofits to source diverse talent. Most recently, we also announced a new internal recruiting team – solely dedicated to supporting current employees in their career journey at NIKE. NIKE retail employees – NYC SoHo store FY18 NIKE Impact Report 16 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Employees Measure FY18 Global Pay Equity New Benefits Initiatives: Taking Care of Those Who Care for Others Provide comprehensive, Several new benefits launched in early 2019 competitive, and equitable pay and benefits $1 to $1 to provide even greater support for employees to meet their personal needs. These include a U.S. Military Leave benefit, increased adoption and surrogacy benefits, as well as resources for We know a personalized and holistic rewards Women vs. Men (global) families caring for children with learning, social, system is essential to attracting, inspiring, and or behavior challenges. developing talent. Through our Total Rewards program, we strive to meet the diverse needs $1 to $1 With the new Military Leave benefit, NIKE now of our employees, deliver differentiated, provides up to 12 weeks of paid time off every competitive pay and benefits, and support 12 months. a culture in which employees feel included and empowered. URG vs. White (U.S.) For employees who need to step away from work to care for their families, NIKE extended Equal Pay for Equal Work We are committed to maintaining these pay equity ratios every year and will continue to monitor this data. family care benefits effective January 1, 2019 in We are committed to competitive pay and to the Netherlands, our European Headquarters. reviewing our pay and promotion practices We significantly increased leave for non-birth annually. At NIKE, we define pay equity as equal parents (including adoption and surrogacy) to compensation for women, men, and all races/ eight weeks paid leave. We also now pay Shortethnicities who undertake the same work at the Term Care Leave at 100% of salary for up to ten same level, experience, and performance. days per year. Measure Employee growth, development, and wellbeing We engage and inspire our workforce by investing in learning and development opportunities that help them build on their capabilities through learning tools, like the more than 5,600 courses available online to employees. With Career Central, we have created a single resource to help employees navigate their careers. The internal site equips employees with tips, tools, and in-person labs for their critical career-building moments. Managers can also find tools here to better support and guide their employees in planning their careers and development. Over this past year, we also created a new required training called Manager Expectations: Living a Culture of Respect, Inclusion, and Accountability. To date more than 10,000 employees at NIKE worldwide have participated in this training. WHQ Just Do It Day celebration FY18 NIKE Impact Report 17 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Employees Enabling Great Leadership discussions and suggestions of how to mitigate NIKEUNITED Networks Leadership Defined, a new leadership the potential for bias. The training and tools NIKE has eight employee networks, collectively framework, was launched with our senior will focus on everyday scenarios and look known as NIKEUNITED: Ability & Friends, leaders in November 2018. The framework at moments that matter such as how teams Ascend Network & Friends, Black Employee & provides common language for what great are created, decision-making, hiring, and Friends, Latino & Friends, PRIDE, Nike Military leadership looks like at every level. We expect developing relationships. Veterans & Friends, Native American & Friends, to roll this framework out across NIKE in and Women of Nike & Friends. FY20. We have increased our focus on and Investing in Diverse Talent investment in developing our current and future In June 2018, we launched Amplify, an internal These employee-formed and managed leaders. Our most senior leadership have been development program for high-potential women communities are sponsored by our Global through an assessment and development and URGs at the Director and Senior Director Diversity and Inclusion team and offer resources experience aligned with NIKE’s leadership levels. We currently have 101 employees in to a diverse spectrum of individuals across behaviors and growth drivers. We will expand our first cohort, which ends in June 2019. NIKE. They advance the development of their our development approach to next level We will continue to review and expand our members, promote cultural awareness, and leaders and continue to develop high potential leadership development offerings in support of strengthen our commitment to diversity and future leaders through a combination of 360 diverse talent. inclusion by working with NIKEUNITED and assessment, coaching, development programs, our employee base generally. In 2018, we and career experiences. Mentoring Future Leaders increased our investment in these networks We launched employee mentoring programs and supported a focus on programs advancing Continuing Our Commitment to in New York, Los Angeles, Memphis, and career and culture. Our NIKEUNITED teams a Culture of Inclusion Converse headquarters in Boston, with a meet regularly with their executive sponsors We have continued to deliver Unconscious Bias sharp focus on career development. We are and bi-annually with our executive leadership Awareness trainings to teams live and have also piloting a digital mentoring platform at our team to review programming success. developed a new Unconscious Bias Awareness World Headquarters location in collaboration digital training. This new accessible training with members of our NIKEUNITED employee Wellness for All will be made available for all employees and resource groups to provide broad and diverse As a brand committed to sport, we encourage offered in 30 languages. The training will help insights and measure effectiveness and future our workforce to engage in a healthy lifestyle build awareness of where bias may occur, scalability across the company. to the best of their ability. In fact, we see health and the tools will help create meaningful as imperative to a high-performing workplace. To help our employees live healthy, active lifestyles, we provide fitness facility discounts and various wellness services. For example, NIKE has partnered with Headspace to enable employees at our World Headquarters to access its meditation and mindfulness services. NIKE has an enduring commitment to serve athletes and to be a workplace where our employees feel empowered and inspired to create the next chapter of the NIKE story. As we look ahead, we will continue to sharpen our focus against the following three areas: • Align our resources and investments against our key areas for growth – for our business and for our people • Invest in great leaders and managers • Build an increasingly diverse and inclusive team We will continue to seek opportunities to both lead and be better. Yoga class – NIKE WHQ Michael Krzyzewski Fitness Center FY18 NIKE Impact Report 18 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Community Impact Target Invest a minimum of 1.5% 16.5m of pre-tax income (PTI) kids moving to drive positive impact in our communities Performance 21,000+ Annual Investment as % of PTI community coaches FY15 / 1.9% 80+ FY16 / 1.8% organizations FY17 / 1.9% FY18 / 1.8% FY20 target At least 1.5 % Community isn’t just something we do, it’s who we are. And our communities need our help more than ever; the world is moving less, and today’s kids are part of the least active generation ever. That’s why NIKE is committed to inspiring and supporting communities to get kids moving, and the potential pay-offs are big. Active kids are healthier, happier, and do better – on the playing field, in the classroom and, one day, in their careers and communities. Made to Play is the focus of our community efforts – working with partners around the In addition to getting kids moving, we fuel the Measure world to get kids moving. Our impact portfolio efforts of our NIKE employees to give back also includes other initiatives, such as NIKE to their communities and support the causes Through the power of our brands Community Ambassadors and the NIKE they care about. During the past five years, and partnerships, get kids (ages Community Impact Fund. In FY18, we drove NIKE employees have generated $23.5 million through their donations and our matching gift 7–12) moving through play impact in communities around the world by investing $79.4 million, more than 1.5% of PTI – program, supporting more than 2,400 charities. and sport exceeding our stated target. Similarly, $12 million has been donated to community organizations over five years Kids who move, move the world. But kids today through employee-led grantmaking initiatives are less active than they’ve ever been before, Learn more: like the NIKE Community Impact Fund a trend NIKE is working to reverse. In FY18, Made to Play (NCIF) – an innovative approach that engages we launched and deepened programming with NIKE employees to advise where grants are organizations around the world to transform the Through Made to Play, NIKE and our partners awarded to support local organizations in the lives of kids through play and sport. We focused have helped more than 16.5 million kids communities where they live and work. In FY18, on where kids spend most of their time – in get active by engaging with more than 80 NCIF granted more than $1.3 million globally. schools and with community organizations – organizations around the world and supporting working with local leaders, community groups, more than 21,000 community coaches to help governments, and other organizations. kids enjoy play and sport. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 19 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Community Impact Our efforts focused on providing early, fun, and of their classrooms. Legendary athletes Li positive experiences in play and sport, with the Na and Liu Xiang attended the ceremony goal of inspiring a lifelong love of movement. that culminated with football star Cristiano Ronaldo presenting a limited edition pair of In the U.K., NIKE worked with Discovery CR7 Mercurial Campeones boots to Mr. Lv, one Education, one of the leading sources of of the award-winning PE teachers. Forty-nine educational content for teachers in the country, pairs of boots were auctioned off, with NIKE to create an innovative online platform on matching the proceeds to donate, to the China physical education. This initiative aims to reach Education and Development Foundation, 250,000 kids by the end of FY20 to get them NIKE’s Active Schools program, and Mr. Lv’s moving more by working with parents and HeKou Primary School in Gansu Province in schools. In February 2018, Olympic medalist northwest China, which used the funds to build and NIKE athlete Daryll Saskia Neita joined 250 a soccer pitch using Nike Grind. kids from the Beatrix Potter Primary School in South London to officially launch Active Kids When it comes to getting kids to move, girls, Do Better UK, which offers free online teacher in particular, urgently need our help; only about resources to get kids active. one-third of girls aged 6–11 meet healthy physical activity guidelines. Years worth of thirdIn July 2017, NIKE and China’s Ministry of party impact data made the case for focusing Education (MOE) hosted the country’s first on girls within our Made to Play portfolio, and national Active Schools Innovation Awards also confirmed the need for more genderceremony at Beijing’s iconic Water Cube. Out inclusive programming and coaching. For of more than 1,000 applicants, the ceremony example, only 23% of U.S. youth coaches are recognized 100 of the country’s most creative female, down from 28% in 2016. In FY18, NIKE and inspiring teachers who are transforming announced a new relationship with Girls Inc. in the culture of sport and physical activity in their the U.S. The work extends and builds on NIKE’s schools. The Active Schools program is part of commitment to creating equal playing fields by a long-term strategic relationship between integrating physical literacy and high-quality NIKE and the Chinese MOE, which began in coaching into Girls Inc.’s curriculum for girls 2013, and in 2016 we set a goal of getting across the country. 2 million kids active — both inside and outside Let’s Move! Active Schools In 2013, NIKE committed to investing $50 million over five years to get kids moving across the U.S., as part of then-First Lady Michelle Obama 23,000 “Let’s Move! Active Schools” initiative. As part schools reached through of this commitment, NIKE teamed up with Let’s Move! Active Schools Partnership for a Healthier America (PHA) to: • Increase the physical activity of kids in schools and communities, reaching millions of kids in more than 23,000 schools in all 50 states • Help develop PHA’s seven Essential Practices for Youth Physical Activity • Support the efforts of advocacy groups working to promote physical activity We’ve learned that most school champions want to be part of a national initiative, with a singular focus on physical activity. By 2016, more than half of them (57%) had implemented new programs as a result of Let’s Move! Active Schools. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 20 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Community Impact 5 years $23.5m 2,400 donations and matching gifts charities Measure We also give employees who volunteer $10 per The NIKE Community Ambassador program Inspire a majority of NIKE hour to donate to the cause of their choice. gives NIKE retail employees the opportunity to pass their love of sport on to the next employees to engage with generation. Community Ambassadors In FY18… their communities and support aren’t just getting kids active today – they’re their giving of expertise, time, inspiring them to be active for life. Global retail employees learn quality coaching skills, and and money then coach kids in sport and play in their local schools and communities. Since the program’s Our employees are talented, generous, inception in FY16, nearly 8,000 of our NIKE passionate about sport and enthusiastic retail employees have regularly coached kids about giving back to their communities. nearly in in their communities. We are proud to fuel their efforts. The NIKE Foundation matches donations to charitable causes, dollar-for-dollar, up to $10,000 each 7,000 31 The NCIF brings employees into the grantmaking process to advise on where grants year per employee. For causes supporting employees countries should be awarded to support the work of sport and play in the community, we give local organizations in the communities where $2 for every $1 donated by employees. In they live and work. In FY18, NCIF expanded FY18, our employees, supported by the to Barcelona and Memphis, bringing the NIKE Foundation’s matching gift program, This is great total of NCIF programs operating around the contributed approximately more than progress and we world to 11. In Barcelona and Memphis alone, $7.5 million to more than 1,900 schools and will continue to employees helped direct more than $200,000 charitable organizations around the world. offer opportunities in grants to local charities that use the power tracked more than for our employees of sport to positively impact kids in their to engage in their respective communities. 116,000 communities. volunteer hours FY18 NIKE Impact Report 21 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Community Impact Measure Drive sustained community impact in all of our primary markets and sourcing backyards In FY18, NIKE continued its sponsorship of the Portland-based bike-share program, BIKETOWN, with 1,002 bikes and 147 bike 300+ stations across the city. Launched in FY17, the five-year commitment will provide $10 million to the program, contribute designs for BIKETOWN’s stations and bicycles, and increase accessibility. In FY18, NIKE, hours invested by top industry in partnership with the Portland Bureau professionals in footwear and of Transportation and other community apparel design to share their organizations, helped launch Adaptive knowledge with students BIKETOWN, with the goal of increasing biking access for people of all abilities. NIKE also launched the BIKETOWN Community Design • Tokyo: NIKE worked with The Foundation empowering teachers to help promising Challenge, a contest to create bike wraps for Promoting Sound Growth of Children to students plan and work towards their high representing the five “quadrants” of Portland. launch JUMP-JAM, an innovative program school and college dreams. In FY18, the Wings that merges sport and free play to give Scholars Program awarded full ride college Throughout FY18, NIKE expanded its elementary school aged children both the scholarships to 31 high school seniors in relationships and programming investments to physical activity and social skills they need. North America; 350 students in Greater China get kids moving in several cities. made it through their third and final year of In our sourcing communities, we worked with high school with the Wings scholarship. The • Berlin: NIKE celebrated the launch of Berlin educators and community leaders to invest scholars program works in partnership with over Kickt, a community football program created in Unlock School Gates in Guangzhou and 30 nonprofit organizations around the world with two organizations: the International in Active With Sport in Ho Chi Minh City and who provide high school and college readiness Rescue Committee and local NGO Hanoi. With the goal of improving the quality services to underserved youth. In FY18, Wings buntkicktgut. Berlin Kickt combines the of physical education for primary school kids, provided operational grants to each partner to universal language of football with social and the NIKE-supported programs offered coach enable their powerful work in the communities emotional skills training to help girls and boys and educator training, and sport field days for they serve. from primary schools across Berlin (including families to drive activities for local kids. In FY18, many refugees) to play, learn, and realize their these programs reached more than 11,000 First-class product design is core to the Jordan potential in a safe and secure environment. primary school kids across 17 schools. Brand and Wings provides opportunities for young people to pursue educational and • Los Angeles and New York City: We inspired The Jordan Brand Wings initiative supports career opportunities in the art and design fields more than 12,000 runners to participate in underserved youth around the world, with a through the Jordan Designers Program. In the NIKE Go Races. These races helped raise particular interest in communities that have FY18, top industry professionals in footwear funds to support local schools and community traditionally faced challenges accessing quality and apparel design invested over 300 hours in organizations, like Students Run LA, the LA84 education. The Jordan Scholars Program sharing their knowledge with Chicago students. Foundation, Lower East Side Girls Club, and provides access to educational opportunities, Several student participants received the Jordan Power Play NYC. enabling young people around the world Wings scholarship and are pursuing higher to dream beyond their circumstances and education in the field of design. • Mexico City: NIKE brought play to schools through “Juega Más: Escuelas Activas” (Play More: Active Schools) in partnership with From our home state of Oregon to offices worldwide, NIKE invests in communities where we have a the nonprofit Yo Quiero, Yo Puedo (I Want large employee presence. Below is a snapshot of two of our Oregon initiatives. To, I Can), an initiative designed to improve the quality of physical education in the city’s FY18 primary schools. Initiative Goal FY18 Recipients Giving Totals NIKE School Increase Oregon high school graduation rates and help all 99 high schools $1.07 million Innovation Fund students reach their full potential NIKE Community Support local organizations in Oregon communities 44 organizations $550,000 Impact Fund and engage NIKE employees in grantmaking FY18 NIKE Impact Report 22 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues Through our issue prioritization process, we Occupational Health and Safety NIKE’s occupational health and safety (OH&S) identified a set of priority sustainability issues philosophy is anchored in our corporate NIKE believes that the protection of life and Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy; for NIKE in FY18 which determined the focal health in the workplace is a fundamental right. Code of Conduct; Code Leadership Standards; topics for this Impact Report. Most of these Our vision is to provide a safe, hygienic, and and adherence to local law. With this foundation issues overlapped with our existing 2020 healthy workplace, develop safety management in place, we build innovative approaches for sustainability targets. For FY18 priority issues systems, and foster a strong culture of safety in advancing safety systems and creating a not specifically covered by a 2020 target, we NIKE facilities as well as at NIKE’s suppliers. culture of safety. have provided additional space in this report to describe challenges faced and progress Achieving this vision requires a clearly underway. Occupational Health and Safety We monitor compliance to OH&S standards communicated corporate safety policy, at NIKE owned and operated facilities and falls into this category. integration of safety leadership capabilities, contract manufacturers through external standardized and repeatable safety Learn more: audits and internal assessments. Gaps in management systems, and an active and implementation are treated as opportunities to Issue Prioritization engaged workforce that is properly informed develop management skills and tools to close and adequately trained on the hazards of their gaps and improve performance. Additionally, job and how to perform their work safely. We we factor the results into our sourcing have begun to factor these safety capabilities strategies in how we evaluate contract factory into how we measure safety performance manufacturers performance, and how we at NIKE owned and operated facilities and determine with whom we will engage and grow contract manufacturers. our business. We have begun to extend this approach deeper into our supply chain. Creating a Culture of Safety in Contract Factories Fire safety, building safety, occupational health and machine safety issues remain the highest risk issues in the footwear and apparel manufacturing industry. When we find issues of non-compliance in these high-risk areas, we respond immediately and work with contract factories to remediate. We divest from those factories that fail to elevate performance. • F ire Safety: We require Tier 1 suppliers34 to adopt fire prevention and emergency action plans to protect workers during normal working operations and emergency situations. To accelerate management capability, worker involvement, and understanding of fire safety issues and preventative measures, NIKE engaged with the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and Institution of Occupational Safety and Health on a global initiative to develop and implement a portfolio of fire prevention and fire safety tools for factories. In FY18, the program expanded to over 33 factory locations – more than 2,100 workers were trained as safety leaders, and more than 90,000 workers completed training sessions on fire safety. Factory workers – Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 34 Tier 1 suppliers are finished goods contract manufacturers. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 23 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues • B uilding Safety: Buildings must be Establishing a culture of safety is a continual OH&S34 Data for NIKE Employees and Tier 1 constructed or retrofitted according to journey. We recognize that individual contract Focus Factories35 the laws of the manufacturing country, factories and facilities are at different levels CY16 CY17 CY1836 international standards if local laws do not of maturity. NIKE has developed a safety NIKE employees37 38 exist, or certified structural engineering maturity model, based on existing academic Distribution (industry code: 493110) construction standards. research and published white papers, and Total Case Incident NIKE 1.93 1.81 1.74 assessment tools to allow our contract Rate (TCIR) Industry39 5.10 5.20 5.20 • O ccupational Health: Additionally, we manufacturing partners to self-evaluate their Lost Time Injury NIKE 1.08 1.24 1.21 require our suppliers to anticipate, recognize, capabilities to implement a world-class safety Rate (LTIR) Industry 1.70 1.90 1.90 evaluate, and control occupational health management system in their factories. The AIR MI (industry code: 326113) and hygiene hazards in the workplace, use ability to self-criticize, accurately assess NIKE 2.80 3.70 3.56 TCIR routine monitoring and analytical methods strengths, and identify areas for improvement Industry 4.30 5.20 5.20 to determine the potential health effects of is a critical enabler of establishing a mature NIKE 0.82 0.72 1.31 LTIR hazards that are present in the workplace, culture of safety. To support this capability Industry 1.10 1.40 1.40 and control worker exposure to these and accelerate safety culture in our factory Offices (industry code: 551114) health hazards. contract manufacturers, NIKE has developed NIKE 0.24 0.27 0.32 TCIR an online training on how to use our selfIndustry 0.80 0.90 0.90 • M achine Safety: Our new Code assessment tools. LTIR NIKE 0.08 0.07 0.17 Leadership Standards require our contract Industry 0.30 0.20 0.20 manufacturers to implement machine Factories self-assess their safety culture using Tier 1 Focus Factories40 management programs and track their the maturity model. The self-assessment can Footwear (industry code: 3162) performance against international machine be supported by third party consultants or TCIR NIKE 0.50 0.40 0.39 safety standards. NIKE staff, and the results are calibrated with a Industry 6.70 4.20 4.20 worker/management safety perception survey. LTIR NIKE 0.30 0.30 0.25 The calibrated results are used as a leading Industry 2.10 1.10 1.10 indicator of safety performance. Apparel (industry code: 3152) NIKE 0.90 0.60 0.57 TCIR Industry 2.10 2.30 2.30 NIKE 0.50 0.40 0.42 LTIR Industry 0.60 0.50 0.50 Equipment NIKE 1.70 0.80 0.54 TCIR Industry N/A N/A N/A NIKE 1.10 0.80 0.54 LTIR Industry N/A N/A N/A 34 O H&S data is reported using calendar year instead of fiscal year to align data with regulatory reporting requirements, including OSHA and BLS (which is used as an industry standard). 35 Focus factories are key strategic contract factories within our source base that represent the majority of finished goods production of NIKE footwear, apparel, and Converse footwear. 36 Using CY17 BLS rates as BLS rates for CY18 have not been published at the time of the FY18 NIKE Impact Report publication. 37 The reported injury fates reflect a combination of NIKE full-time and certain external temporary workers. 38 Data is collected based on U.S. legal reporting requirements, reporting on all NIKE operations except retail which is excluded from OSHA recordkeeping requirements. Retail will be included in future reports. 39 The industry average comes from the U.S. Department of Labor; Bureau of Labor Statistics. Each industry classification (such as DC, Air MI, Offices, Footwear Manufacturing, Apparel Manufacturing) reports a separate average for recordable injuries and lost time rates (which are captured). 40 For Tier 1 focus factories by Product Engine for calendar year 2016. Self-reported by factories. The BLS does not calculate manufacturing rates for equipment. NIKE Air Force 1 Flyleather customization event FY18 NIKE Impact Report 24 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues For example, in Cambodia, all NIKE factories are monitored under the Better Work program. In 2017, the Cambodian Labor Ministry drafted safety and health guidelines that included items on preventing incidents of fainting among factory workers. In partnership with Better Work, the NIKE team confirmed that the factories were meeting these requirements. Better Work has specifically called out the issue of poor nutrition – as one of many contributing factors to mass faintings – and we continue to explore with Better Work and our suppliers how to best address this and other drivers behind this complex issue. Committed to Creating a Safe and Healthy Workplace at NIKE Facilities In FY18, NIKE developed a comprehensive, enterprise-wide Environmental Health & Safety Policy. The policy affirms our commitment to operating in a safe and responsible manner in order to protect the environment and safeguard the health and safety of our employees, contract manufacturers and customers. It formally extends NIKE’s Code of Conduct and Code Leadership standards to NIKE’s own facilities as well as our supply chain manufacturers. The policy also outlines the ways in which we meet our commitments. NIKE published the policy as a public dedication of our commitment to continually innovate and improve the way in which we create a safe and healthy workplace. General OH&S compliance remain a constant goal for NIKE owned and operated facilities, with individual business operations focusing on the biggest risks to their operation. NIKE’s global OH&S program centers on developing and implementing consistent management Factory worker – Putian, China systems to enable risk-based prioritization. Machine safety, chemical management, controlling hazardous energy, and implementing As we continue our journey to elevate a culture strengthened our program through our new comprehensive injury reporting are examples of of safety within our supply chain and across our Code Leadership Standard. Additionally, we ongoing enterprise-wide initiatives. industry, we actively seek opportunities to team worked jointly to develop simple tools and up with others beyond NIKE to resolve common training on boilers and pressure vessels for Learn more: OH&S issues. In addition to our engagement the benefit of all Better Work factories, not Environmental Health & Safety Policy with the FLA, we work closely with Better Work only NIKE contract manufacturer factories. – a joint program of the International Labour NIKE actively participates in local Better Work Organization and the International Finance programs in Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Corporation – to advance issues of health Nicaragua and Jordan. Our local teams in these and safety in our industry. Safe operation of countries, along with Better Work, continue to boilers and pressure vessels is an emerging work closely with our contract manufacturers to issue in our industry. NIKE benchmarked Better build management capabilities and enhance the Work’s approach to boiler safety, and we have health and wellbeing of their workers. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 25 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 26 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 Highlights 93% 140,000 Percentage of NIKE’s 542 Number of workers in contract factories that were contract factories deploying rated Bronze or better, our NIKE’s engagement and definition of sustainable wellbeing survey 0 1m Number of child Number of contract labor findings factory workers in NIKE supply base 471 50% Number of audits performed by NIKE or on our behalf Increase of contract factories participating in a trade finance program with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Tier 2 NIKE added additional strategic material suppliers (Tier 2) to our Manufacturing Map FY18 NIKE Impact Report 27 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Sustainable Sourcing 41 Manufacturing Map An interactive list of our Tier 1 finished goods manufacturers and strategic Tier 2 materials suppliers is available at http://manufacturingmap.nikeinc.com The map includes detailed information on factory location, supplier group, type of product made, number of workers, gender and migrant percentage, and average age. These include the FLA and Better Work, a joint program of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the IFC. NIKE continuously seeks to improve our approach to evaluating working conditions in our supply chain and works with our suppliers to enhance their capabilities. In recent years, we have made significant changes to improve supplier compliance monitoring with our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards. For example, in FY18, we increased the number of unannounced audits, use of third-party auditors, and auditor rotation. NIKE Air Force 1 showcasing the capacity of Nike Flyleather to take print Target NIKE views compliance as the foundation for Audit Counts42 business relationships that provide fair and safe FY16 FY17 FY18 Source 100% from working conditions, sustainable livelihoods, and protect the environment. Our relationship NIKE 538 390 415 factories that meet our with factories is based on the standards set FLA Better Work 31 7 15 1 5 51 out in the NIKE Code of Conduct and Code definition of sustainable Leadership Standards, which are aligned Total 576 406 471 with leading international standards to 42 Audit counts were lower in FY17 and FY18 primarly due to NIKE’s Performance protect worker rights, create a safe working introduction of the Factory Compliance Ownership (FCO) program. As the next step in evolving sustainability and compliance management, Factories Rated Bronze or Better (%) environment, safeguard communities where NIKE introduced the FCO program in early 2016. The program provides incentive opportunities for factories that maintain NIKE’s compliance suppliers operate, and advance environmental standards and move beyond minimum compliance. Included in the protections. Across our compliance and incentives is reduced audit frequency with self-assessments when a factory has met thresholds for maintaining compliance over a FY15 / 86% capability building initiatives, our approach number of years. is grounded in supplier ownership. FY16 / 87% Learn more: When factories are audited based on NIKE Commitment to Labor Standards NIKE standards, their rating informs our Sustainable Manufacturing and Sourcing FY17 / 91% We regularly review supplier factories to assess Index (SMSI). Ratings of Yellow or Red their ability to meet our high standards. These indicate performance below NIKE’s minimum assessments take the form of audit visits – both compliance expectations; Bronze reflects FY18 / 93% 44 p.p (vs. FY11 BL) announced and unannounced – by internal baseline compliance; Silver signals enhancing FY20 target and external parties who measure against our capabilities to leverage sustainability as a 100% Code Leadership Standards and the Code of Conduct. NIKE also works with third-party business driver within our industry; and Gold indicates world-class in sustainability organizations to independently audit facilities. in any industry. 41 We removed the “ELEVATE A CULTURE OF HEALTH AND SAFETY” measure from this section because we cover it in the “Additional Priority Issues: Occupational Health and Safety” section of the report. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 28 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable Manufacturing and Sourcing Index (SMSI): Factory Ratings 2% <1% Yellow: Inconsistent; remediation No rating plans in place to return to compliance 4% 1% Red: Serious issues or failure NIKE, Inc.  ilver: Industry-leading manufacturing S to return to compliance; standards and innovation remediation plans in place to 93% Bronze or better address or under review for exit 542 factories 92% Bronze: Baseline compliance with our Code of Conduct Footwear Apparel Equipment IN COMPLIANCE with NIKE Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards RED RED YELLOW BRONZE SILVER GOLD43 NO RATING UNSUCCESSFUL INCONSISTENT MEETS EXCEEDS GLOBAL LEADER 1 factory 23 factories 12 factories 499 factories 7 factories 0 factories 0 4 0 113 7 0 1 11 11 305 0 0 0 8 1 81 0 0 43 World-leading manufacturing standards and innovation When facilities receive a below compliance and processes to prevent future reoccurrence. We continue to review the most frequent areas rating, they are expected to remediate the For the situations where it was found workers of non-compliance, such as hours, wages, and issue with onsite verification of the remediation had paid fees for their employment, we required benefits (see “Audits, Non-Compliance” table) within six months. For example, in FY18, as a suppliers to repay workers for such fees. In all to identify ways we can work with our contract result of our enhanced audit program, we found instances, full re-audits are conducted to verify factories to strengthen compliance. a few isolated instances of foreign migrant corrective actions have been completed. worker employment practices that were in After the SMSI was launched in 2012, NIKE violation of NIKE’s Code of Conduct and Code If a facility does not sufficiently address an set the target of having 100% Bronze or better Leadership Standards. The issues involved issue, it is placed on probation. Further failure factories by 2020. In 2012, 49% of 910 contract workers paying fees related to their recruitment to meet compliance will lead to NIKE potentially factories were rated Bronze. By the end of and employment and one instance where considering a responsible exit, which includes FY18, just over 93% of NIKE’s 542 contract the facility had penalties for early contract providing early notice and a clear ramp-down factories were rated at Bronze or beyond. The termination. In each case, we worked with the schedule. If critical issues are found, immediate higher percentage of Bronze is due both to supplier to remediate the identified issues and remediation is required. improvements in factory compliance levels to strengthen their Human Resource systems and a reduction of factories failing to achieve baseline compliance in our source base. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 29 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Sustainable Sourcing Factory Ratings Audits, Non-Compliance (%)45 As part of requiring fair working conditions at FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 our contract manufacturers, NIKE is continuing No Rating 2 3 1 Working Hours 39 43 39 its work to incentivize contract manufacturers Red 27 23 23 Wages and Benefits 35 36 34 to eliminate EOT under the 100% Bronze audit Yellow 60 28 12 Regular Employment 11 2 7 program. This issue is prevalent throughout Bronze 570 532 499 Forced Labor Risks 0 6 5 our industry and can affect the wellbeing of Silver 4 5 7 Harassment and Abuse 4 4 3 workers, result in errors in product quality, and Gold 0 0 0 Discrimination 2 2 3 has been shown to be of uncertain benefit as Total 663 591 542 Freedom of Association the additional hours can be less productive than and Collective 0 0 1 normal hours. Bargaining We continuously search for opportunities – like Age Standards 0 1 0 One of the requirements of the NIKE Code improving the quality of audit data, addressing Other 8 5 8 Leadership Standards is to eliminate excessive the root causes of issues, and working with 45 T he top issues identified in audits in FY16, 17, and 18 remained similar working hours so that workers at supplier other brands in the supply chain – to drive with working hours, wages, and benefits being the most common types factories do not work more than 60 hours a consistent performance as we strive for of findings. For all findings, the factories were required to remediate the identified issues and the corrective actions were verified through another week and have at least 24 hours off in every 100% compliance. onsite audit. seven-day period. NIKE is a signatory of the Social Labor Worker Count Results46 In FY18, we saw a decrease in the number Convergence Program, which seeks to drive FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 of factories failing to meet NIKE’s baselines industry convergence on factory compliance to Americas 87,234 71,904 77,833 72,986 expectations for EOT, from 23 factories in reduce audit duplication and free up resources EMEA 17,197 18,674 18,396 19,114 FY17 to 13 factories, representing 2.4% of to invest in improving working conditions. It is N Asia 236,142 233,561 198,877 170,724 the supply base. also based on a model of supplier ownership S Asia 287,862 304,932 296,984 286,938 that aligns with NIKE’s approach to sustainable SE Asia 386,293 436,970 444,907 473,258 However, a low rate of repeat findings continues and consistent performance. During FY18, Total 1,014,728 1,066,041 1,036,997 1,023,020 to make it challenging to predict and anticipate NIKE was actively involved in supporting where EOT will occur. For example, of all the the development of this tool and verification 46 Count of workers in NIKE source base at fiscal year-end for period shown. factories with an EOT finding in FY18, none methodology and in FY19 will work to pilot this were repeat offenders from FY17. In fact, 45% approach in our supply chain. Measure of factories with EOT incidents during FY18 Learn more: Eliminate excessive overtime (EOT) either resolved the issues and went on to return to a Bronze rating by the end of the year or Social Labor Convergence Program were no longer NIKE factories. Performance Factory Ratings: by Product Engine44 Factories with EOT (%) While the Code of Conduct focuses on what FY16 FY17 FY18 our suppliers do, we recognize that there is T1 Apparel 394 363 328 more work that NIKE can do to accelerate No Rating 2 0 1 FY15 / 3.3% compliance and progress in our suppliers’ Red 15 14 11 factories. We are actively working to support Yellow 42 18 11 improvements in the enforcement of local Bronze 335 331 305 FY16 / 3.2% laws through our support of Better Work Silver 0 0 0 and training of factory management through Gold 0 0 0 FY17 / 3.9% Lean 2.0. NIKE is also continuing to evolve T1 Equipment 127 101 90 demand and production planning with our No Rating 0 2 0 suppliers to smooth volume fluctuations and Red 7 3 8 FY18 / 2.4% 0.9 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) enhance predictability. However, some of these Yellow 8 6 1 FY20 target factories are multi-brand facilities and require 0% Bronze 112 90 81 a collaborative approach. Our long-term vision Silver 0 0 0 is to facilitate greater industry engagement and Gold 0 0 0 alignment that shifts the approach suppliers T1 Footwear 142 127 124 take to forecasting. No Rating 0 1 0 Red 5 6 4 Yellow 10 4 0 Bronze 123 111 113 Silver 4 5 7 Gold 0 0 0 Total 663 591 542 44 Represents Tier 1 (T1) or finished goods manufacturing. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 30 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Engaged Workforce Target Ensure contract factory workers share in productivity gains Every contract factory worker in our supply chain has the right to compensation sufficient to meet their basic needs and provide some discretionary income. We are engaging with our suppliers to progressively meet this requirement. We know that factory worker wages can increase as overall factory operational efficiency improves, and we know that valued workers accelerate factory performance to the benefit of workers, factories, and NIKE. Piloting New Compensation and Benefit Models We worked with Dara O’Rourke and Niklas Lollo from the University of California at Berkeley from FY15–18 to explore new methods to increase the value created in factories Factory worker – Putian, China and share that with workers. The resulting Compensation and Benefits research pilot focused on changing compensation structures that presents a robust alternative to the current tracking, which increased facility buy-in and and tracking increases in both factory model of compensation used in most factories. measurement of impact. We observed greatest productivity levels and take-home pay. This is a complex issue and while this pilot improvements with facilities that invested alone cannot address the complex challenge of broadly in their HR management system, The research pilot implemented an alternative wages, it is an important step forward. such as their HR information systems (HRIS), approach to compensation, including improved recruitment and hiring practices, benefits transparency for employees around how pay Compensation systems that reward procedures, communications, and training and is calculated and incentive systems that are performance and attract talent will benefit development systems. better aligned to productivity goals. The results all stakeholders. We are now collaborating were encouraging; the factory we worked with internally with our leading suppliers, and with For example, one facility in Indonesia had has independently chosen to further scale external experts, to explore next steps on higher than comparable rates of unplanned versions of the approach to all lines within the scaling the learnings from this research pilot. absenteeism. After evaluating, management pilot factory as well as to other factories in discovered that workers had difficulty their network. Reducing Absenteeism and Turnover understanding the complex process to take Since NIKE supplier facilities have relatively low leave, so they took leave without notice. Learn more: rates of unplanned absenteeism and turnover A simpler leave application procedure was Compensation and Benefits Research Pilot relative to comparable facilities. In FY18, NIKE introduced and implemented across the factory focused on working with a select set of facilities with clear guidance and training to ensure We are continuing to deepen our understanding where we believed the greatest additional awareness of the workers. The factory also of what elements of the pilot were key to its improvements could be made. invested in HRIS and provided onsite HR kiosks success, such as information systems that to make it more convenient for the workers to connect business and operator data, lean Ten facilities were selected, each with higher apply for leave in advance. This resulted in a processes that focus on enabling workers than average rates of unplanned absenteeism significant reduction (approximately 25%) in through standard processes and skilling, and/or turnover relative to their peers. NIKE unplanned absenteeism during the measured problem-solving and engagement activities, field teams worked closely with each facility to period against FY17 data. worker-management communication channels, perform a thorough root cause analysis on their and strong employee input throughout the respective rates and to support development In FY19, we will expand this targeted approach process of implementing a new compensation by factory management of a customized with an additional set of supplier facilities. system. Our unique academic relationship has improvement plan. Each engagement produced a truly multi-stakeholder approach also included a detailed cost analysis and FY18 NIKE Impact Report 31 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change Target At the end of FY18, 35 factories were In FY17, we revised the existing EWB survey participating in a trade finance program with the and translated it into six languages. By the Establish partnerships IFC, which incentivizes supplier performance by offering lower trade finance terms for facilities end of FY18, four more languages were added as well as additional refinements based on that support the needs of rated Bronze or better. This represents a more stakeholder input. than 50% increase from FY17. workers both inside and In FY18, the revised EWB survey was deployed outside the factory In FY17 and FY18, NIKE worked with two technology providers, MicroBenefits and in 22 supplier facilities in nine countries, employing over 140,000 workers. The surveys Workplace Options, in our efforts to support were conducted online, onsite and remotely Measure contract manufacturers in adopting technology by two third-party vendors, MicroBenefits, and Scale services to support to improve communication, enhance worker Workplace Options. knowledge and experience, and improve ease management and workers of access to HR tools and policies. At the We also rolled out a standardized reporting for improved engagement end of FY17, six NIKE supplier facilities were template in FY18. This protects worker and wellbeing using one of the two platforms for services to anonymity by disaggregating survey results by workers. In FY18, three new facilities adopted gender and job role as well as any other facilityMany of the challenges we face are too these technology platforms. In FY19, we look selected segmentation. The reports do not complex for any individual brand or organization to further expanding this work at NIKE supplier contain a single score on engagement. Instead, to solve alone. We therefore work with a wide facilities – either with the adoption of these suppliers are encouraged to identify areas of range of stakeholders to think creatively and or similar platforms or the development of weakness from the survey, understand more pool our skills to improve outcomes for workers suppliers’ own digital solutions. about the reasons behind the results, and take and their communities. That includes identifying action to address issues raised. In FY18, we third party service providers who can work Measuring Engagement and Wellbeing launched a toolkit for our internal teams to use directly with our contract manufacturers on Supplier ownership of worker engagement is in association with facility management. The improving the workplace experience. NIKE’s long-term goal. We have continued to toolkit assists with interpretation, root cause scale our Engagement and Wellbeing (EWB) evaluation and identifying ways to resolve Third Party Solutions approach, which includes a survey that was issues. It also contains an evolving set of tools In FY18, we expanded by 34% the number piloted and refined over several years and is such as readings, case studies, trainings, and of facilities where we accept participation in statistically validated and correlated with key other resources to help factories address key the ILO’s Better Work Program in lieu of NIKE business metrics. The approach is grounded areas where they want to improve. specific labor audits (from 47 factories in FY17 in creating opportunities for suppliers to gain to 63 factories in FY18), including facilities a deeper understanding of their employees’ NIKE also established key performance producing licensed products for NIKE. experience to drive engagement and wellbeing indicators for suppliers based on timely improvements through a factory-owned model. communication of survey results to their workers and action planning against results. This aligns with our objective for suppliers to use the tool to drive improvement and strengthen accountability among factory teams. As in many areas, NIKE recognizes the strength of creating common industry approaches to reduce duplication and identify the most effective approaches. In FY17 and FY18, NIKE worked closely with a number of brands to understand different approaches to worker engagement and wellbeing and identify opportunities to harmonize and accelerate this work across the industry. 34% of facilities participate in the ILO’s Better Work Program in lieu of a NIKE specific labor audit FY18 NIKE Impact Report 32 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues Child Labor NIKE specifically and directly forbids the use of child labor in facilities contracted to make NIKE products. The NIKE Code of Conduct requires that workers must be at least 16 years of age, or past the national legal age of compulsory schooling and minimum working age, whichever is higher. The requirements also specify that workers between the ages of 16 and 18 cannot be employed in positions which may be hazardous, such as working with chemicals or heavy machinery, nor can they work at night. Our Code of Conduct age requirements exceed those of the ILO which, in specific circumstances, allows some work for workers under the age of 16. NIKE’s Code Leadership Standards include specific requirements on how suppliers must verify workers’ age prior to starting employment. They also contain specific requirements for actions the facility must take to remediate a situation where the supplier violates Factory worker – Jakarta, Indonesia NIKE’s standards, with the focus on protecting the rights and wellbeing of the worker. Those requirements include: Through our issue prioritization process, we NIKE contracts with, rather than owns or identified a set of priority sustainability issues operates, the facilities that produce its • Removing the underage employee from for NIKE in FY18, which determined the focal products. However, we are prioritizing and the workplace topics for this FY18 Impact Report. Most of growing relationships with suppliers who these issues overlapped with our existing 2020 share our commitment to respect human • Providing support to enable the underage sustainability targets. For FY18 priority issues rights and are investing in their workforces. employee to attend and remain in school or not specifically covered by a 2020 target, we NIKE’s expectations for suppliers start with vocational training until the age of 16 or the have provided additional space in this report our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership minimum legal working age, whichever is to describe challenges faced and progress Standards. NIKE’s Code of Conduct is aligned higher underway. Child Labor falls into this category. with international standards and contains the foundational requirements all suppliers must • Agreement to rehire the underage employee Learn more: meet in producing Nike-branded products. when they reach the age of 16 or legal Issue Prioritization The Code Leadership Standards contain more working age if the worker wishes detailed requirements on how the NIKE Code Advancing Respect of Conduct must be implemented. They also Teamwork include specifications on the development of for Human Rights robust management systems that are essential During FY18, we continued our relationship with At NIKE, we are deeply invested in advancing to consistently maintaining compliance with the FLA, Better Cotton Initiative implementingrespect for human rights throughout our local law and our standards. partner İyi Pamuk Uygulamalari Derneği (IPUD), operations and extended value chain. We and several other international brands to evaluate the impact of our business and set Learn more: improve employment practices in the Turkish public targets to drive holistic, continuous Code of Conduct cotton sector. The project focuses on preventing improvements against our commitment to Code Leadership Standards and addressing child labor risks and improving conducting business ethically and sustainably. Human Rights labor recruitment practices at the farm level. NIKE supports human rights as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which recognizes that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” Child Labor Findings FY16 FY17 FY18 Number of Child Labor Findings/Events 0 0 0 Number of Other Age Standard Findings/Events 0 1 0 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 33 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 34 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix FY18 Highlights 75% 73% Percentage of renewable energy secured in our owned 99.9% Percentage of Nike brand or operated facilities Percentage of footwear footwear and apparel styles through existing finished goods manufacturing that used some recycled agreements waste that was recycled or materials converted to energy in the fourth quarter of FY18 6.4bn 10m Number of plastic Pounds of athletic bottles transformed footwear and surplus into recycled polyester manufactured scrap footwear and apparel turned into performance since 2010 products through the Nike Grind program 0 32bn Amount of Liters of water PFC-based saved by sourcing finishes in our sustainable cotton products by 2021 Environmental Moonshot In the FY14/15 Sustainable Business Report, Our current 2020 targets are milestones in our industry, NIKE extrapolates much of our we introduced our intent to double our business towards the moonshot. Our 2025 targets data in Tier 2, 3, and 4 using industry averages. with half the environmental impact. This bold will expand the scope of coverage and aim We plan to work with our industry to expand our moonshot was meant to spur progressive to further reduce our impact. In addition to ability to get accurate, reliable environmental thinking within our organization and serves as a improving performance, we are also enhancing impact assessments across the value chain and north star for our work in sustainability, guiding our capability to track performance further back embrace more systemic change to scale lowour efforts in the near-term and informing the in the supply chain. Right now, like most impact solutions. development of our long-term commitments. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 35 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Product $2bn of revenue generated by Flyknit products We innovate for the athlete with zero compromise Footwear Target between performance, style, and sustainability. In our footwear manufacturing, we continued Deliver products for NIKE is known for creating innovative to focus on our biggest impact areas in FY18: materials and waste. Our teams leveraged maximum performance performance products. Today’s consumers improved manufacturing methods, such demand that brands create and manufacture as automation in die cutting, stitching and with minimum products that both perform and look great cementing, to reduce waste, energy, water and/ but also have a lighter impact on the impact, with a 10% environment. At NIKE, material innovations – or improve worker safety and health. reduction in the average such recycled polyester, Flyknit, Flyleather, and Nike Air – continue to change the world In FY18, we continued to embed sustainability into core decision-making. For example, a environmental footprint of sustainable performance. cross-functional team (including footwear, engineering, cost engineering, and product To track the environmental impact of products, sustainability) set seasonal pattern efficiency Performance we look at sustainability attributes of product targets for the category teams. This effort Average Product Carbon Footprint through our Material Sustainability Index (MSI), helped NIKE Footwear use a waste metric (kg CO2e/unit) Apparel Sustainability Index (ASI), and our to help manage category performance. Footwear Sustainability Index (FSI). These Additionally, Kids and Women’s NIKE 2% (vs. FY15 baseline) indices provide an environmental profile of each Sportswear – two of NIKE’s biggest categories 7.5 product. This transparency enables us to make 7.19 7.15 7.45 – created strategies, processes, and product 7.33 better choices in designing, product creation, reviews focused on sustainability. and planning. 7.0 Shoes made with Flyknit create 60% However, average carbon footprint has less scrap waste than a typical shoe upper. To FY20 target increased compared to the FY15 baseline due 10% 6.5 date, products with Flyknit have totaled over to an increase in both material per unit (apparel $2 billion in revenue. As we scale, we rely on getting heavier) and overall manufacturing the innovation of our vendors in the value chain. emissions intensity (driven by grid electricity in Nike’s Flyknit supplier, Unifi, continues to invest FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Vietnam and style/model mix). in new technologies and materials that allow us to produce product that is low waste and While this target tracks our product carbon contains a high percentage of recycled content footprint, our efforts to integrate sustainability (90% on average). impact also have an impact on a wide range of environmental factors such as water, chemicals, Learn more: and waste. NIKE’s Waste to Landfill 2020 Target Learn more: Product and Materials Sustainability Indices Explore NIKE’s Value Chain Footprint FY18 NIKE Impact Report 36 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Product We have scaled Nike Air – one of our most Apparel We continue to observe a shift in consumer and sustainable innovations – to 50% of our In FY18, NIKE Apparel saw recycled polyester market demand toward cotton rich products, NIKE footwear. Since 2008, all Nike Air soles usage increase by 13% compared to FY17. like cotton fleece and sportswear fabrics. We are composed of at least 50% recycled This was driven by high volume products like know that cotton can have a large impact on manufacturing waste. Released in FY18, the Legend Tee Shirt, NBA jerseys and shorts, our water and chemical footprint. As a result, Nike Air Max 270 air sole contains more than global football kits (World Cup 2018 and clubs), NIKE Sportswear apparel teams are increasing 70% recycled manufacturing waste – a tribute and Women’s (bras and pants) and Men’s their focus on efficiency to counteract fabric to the ever-increasing quality of our repurposed Training (Therma Fleece). weight increases while continuing to develop materials. Our Air Manufacturing Innovation our portfolio of sustainable cotton options facilities also divert over 95% of manufacturing (organic cotton, recycled cotton and BCI waste from landfills. cotton). We are committed to responding to consumer taste, while also balancing sustainability impacts. 13% NIKE continues to invest in research and development efforts on textile-to-textile recycling technologies with a goal of scaling them in upcoming seasons. In addition, our ASI increase of recycled includes points for a “Single Fiber Garment”, polyester in Nike brand which is a look forward to post-consumer apparel in FY18 recycling, rewarding our product teams who are thinking this way now. Measure Greater than 80% of all NIKE product will be scored on sustainability performance Performance Product Scored on Sustainability Performance (%) FY15 / 27% FY16 / 68% FY17 / 71% FY18 / 73% 46 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) FY20 target 80% NIKE’s Product Creation teams continue to add new product areas to the scope of the targets, to better measure our progress and drive continued sustainability improvements in all our products. In FY18, NIKE Apparel added large volume product groups to the ASI scoring process including Asia-Sized versions, NIKE Direct Product, and Extended Size Range. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 37 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Materials Target Increase use of more 70% sustainable materials recycled manufacturing waste in every Nike Air Max 270 Air sole Performance % More Sustainable Materials Apparel Footwear 19% 31% FY15 21% 33% FY16 33% Our materials – where they come from and continued to increase the use of EPMs in our 32% how they are used – represent the biggest products, growing their usage alongside our FY17 opportunity to reduce our environmental overall material usage. In Apparel, NIKE’s footprint, which is why we place so much continued ramp-up of Better Cotton and 15 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) emphasis on this area. strategic conversions to recycled polyester 34% has led to a steady increase in sourcing of 31% The MSI provides our material and product sustainable materials. Footwear’s use of lower FY18 0 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) teams with the information they need to choose impact materials, specifically recycled polyester the best options from amongst 70,000 different in Flyknit footwear, remains constant. FY20 target materials from more than 600 vendors. This allows them to make better decisions around In FY18, some recycled materials were used in Increase which materials are the most sustainable with 73% of Nike brand footwear and apparel styles. the ultimate goal of driving our environmental While we grew the number of styles that used footprint lower. recycled materials in FY18, the overall number of styles also increased, leading to an overall In FY18, our relative use of Environmentally decrease of 2 percentage points since FY17. Preferred Materials (EPM) remained flat across apparel and footwear, although it has done Cotton so during a period of growth for our overall See our Cotton measure for detail on our move material buys. This indicates that we have towards sourcing cotton more sustainably. Better Choices Materials in scope: Footwear Apparel Polyester Cotton Leather Synthetic EVA Rubber Thermoplastic Recycled Organic Leather working leather Recycled Environmentally Polyurethane Recycled group certified Recycled preferred rubber (TPU) Environmentally formulations Recycled BCI Better preferred leather Grind Cotton FY18 NIKE Impact Report 38 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Materials Recycling facility – Putian, China Transforming Polyester to Lessen Our Impact with 60% recycled polyester content which Rubber Polyester is a high-performance, comfortable quickly became NIKE’s highest volume By FY18, 92% of the rubber used in our material. It is the number one material used performance fleece material used across products was environmentally preferred. in our products by volume, and represents multiple programs. This increase is due to our increased use approximately 32% of our overall carbon of environmentally preferred compounds, footprint. Because of this, we are constantly Since 2010, NIKE has transformed more while slowly phasing out the less looking for ways to reduce that impact through than 6.4 billion plastic bottles into recycled preferred compounds. greater adoption of recycled polyester and polyester footwear and apparel. As a result, other technologies. NIKE has been recognized as using the most Innovating New Super Materials – Flyleather recycled polyester in the industry for the sixth For NIKE, leather is featured across many As of FY18, 19% of the polyester used in our straight year by the Textile Exchange. iconic footwear styles – and it has the secondproducts was recycled. All core Flyknit yarns highest environmental impact on the company’s continue to be recycled polyester. Our global Learn more: carbon emissions. Flyleather can change that football kits and NBA on-court and retail jerseys 2018 Preferred Fiber and Materials Market – a new super material made with at least 50% and shorts are made with 100% recycled Report leather fiber introduced by NIKE in FY18. polyester. We developed a new fleece fabric During a typical leather manufacturing process, up to 15% of a cow’s hide falls to the tannery Top Five Materials by Volume (kg) floor, eventually going to landfill. To create FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Flyleather, we combine those leather fibers Cotton with synthetic ones, using a process that fuses Organic 4,123,000 (7%) 4,613,000 (7%) 5,622,000 (8%) 7,147,000 (8%) everything into one material. Recycled 68,000 (<1%) 75,000 (<1%) 183,000 (<1%) 375,000 (<1%) BCI 9,879,000 (17%) 17,629,000 (27%) 32,487,000 (45%) 42,335,000 (50%) Flyleather is lighter and more durable than Total 59,058,000 64,416,000 72,195,000 85,514,000 traditional leather (based on abrasion testing) Polyester and creating it has a lower carbon footprint Recycled 22,769,000 (16%) 25,481,000 (18%) 25,856,000 (17%) 29,429,000 (19%) than traditional leather manufacturing. Total 138,494,000 144,499,000 156,492,000 157,611,000 Furthermore, because Flyleather is delivered on Corrugate/Paper a roll rather than as an irregularly shaped hide, Recycled 95,424,000 (84%) 103,977,000 (84%) 107,052,000 (84%) 129,087,000 (84%) it improves cutting efficiency and creates less waste than traditional full-grain leather. Total 113,568,000 123,622,000 127,236,000 153,425,000 Rubber In FY18, we included this new material in a Environmentally Preferred 63,414,000 (89%) 59,460,000 (91%) 65,808,000 (98%) 68,543,000 (92%)47 limited release of the Nike Flyleather Tennis Total 71,380,000 65,382,000 67,382,000 74,379,000 Classic SE. As we think about the future, Ethylene-Vinyl Acetate (EVA) Foam Flyleather becomes an answer to retaining the Recycled 185,000 (<1%) 151,000 (<1%) 66,000 (<1%) 158,000 (<1%) qualities intrinsic to some of NIKE’s greatest Total 81,221,000 97,214,000 103,182,000 97,001,000 icons (i.e., Air Force 1 and Air Jordan 1) with 47 Decline due to shifts in model mix. an EPM. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 39 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Materials Measure overall environmental footprint by developing Over 90% of our cotton is used by three more sustainable cotton options that promote product groups: Nike brand apparel, socks, and Source 100% of our cotton more not only better water stewardship, but pesticide Converse footwear. In FY18, Nike brand apparel sustainably (certified organic, reduction and fairer labor practices. led the company by sustainably sourcing 68% of its cotton, with Converse-branded apparel Better Cotton Initiative, or NIKE is a leader in advancing better approaches close behind at 67%. recycled) across NIKE by the to cotton. Since 1998, we’ve been blending end of calendar year 2020 organic cotton into our cotton products, and We blend a minimum of 10% organic cotton in 2002, we co-founded Organic Exchange into nearly every Nike brand apparel cotton (now Textile Exchange) to drive industry fabric, a strategy that has made us one of Performance transformation in preferred fibers, integrity and the top four buyers of certified organic cotton Cotton Sourced More Sustainably (%) standards, and responsible supply networks. globally according to Textile Exchange’s (TE) 2018 Preferred Fibers and Materials Report. Cotton Type Used in FY18 We also rank fifth in Better Cotton sourced FY15 / 24% (per BCI’s report on 2017 calendar year). 50% BCI Currently we rank third in volume of recycled FY16 / 35% cotton (TE) but aim to grow this much further. 42% Conventional We strive to continuously innovate so we can 8% Organic scale our cotton recycling and close the loop on FY17 / 53% <1% Recycled textile waste. FY18 / 58% 34 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) Looking ahead, we believe that converting the final 20% of our cotton supply chain will FY20 target 100% be the most difficult. We also need to further In 2011, we made the commitment to ensure address water risk by collaborating beyond the that, by 2020, 100% of our cotton is sourced standards and our 2020 target. We aim to be a more sustainably – certified organic, Better leader by using our influence and reach to drive Leading in Advancing Better Cotton (BCI), or recycled cotton. In FY18, we Approaches to Cotton the cotton industry toward sustainability and sourced over 58% more sustainable cotton, helping others on their journeys. As one of our top-volume materials, cotton saving more than 32 billion liters of water and represents more than one-half of our water 111,000 kilograms of pesticides. The biggest footprint, consumed mostly during the NIKE Women Sportwear popular Leg-A-See challenge is growing our sustainable cotton and Gym Vintage collections feature both agricultural phase. In addition, 78% of global sourcing at a faster rate than our overall cotton cotton farming water footprint is in high to organic cotton and recycled polyester in their consumption – which grew about 20% in FY18, fabric blends. extremely-high water stress areas. We believe driven by increased consumer preference for we can create the most positive impact on our cotton-rich products like fleece and tee shirts. FY18 External Engagements Global Fashion Agenda 2020 Circular Fashion System Commitment NIKE joined other leading brands in calling on fashion brands and retailers to accelerate the transition to a circular fashion system to urgently work towards creating a sustainable future. Sustainable Cotton Challenge This initiative brings together leading industry brands, retailers, and textile companies to champion the greater use of more sustainable cotton in marketplaces globally. NIKE Flyknit and Vapor Max Air sole FY18 NIKE Impact Report 40 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon Renewable Energy in NIKE Owned or Operated Facilities In 2015, NIKE joined RE100, a coalition of businesses that have pledged to source 100% renewable energy in their operations. As a Fortune 100 company, we have an opportunity to drive increased renewable energy production and access globally. Learn more: RE100 We currently have two agreements in the U.S. that together are expected to produce roughly 460,000 MWh/year of wind energy and deliver on more than one-half of our global commitment. One powers NIKE’s World Headquarters in Oregon with wind power from three farms in the nearby Columbia River Gorge. NIKE also powers our European Logistics Campus (ELC) in Laakdal, Belgium, with 100% renewable energy through five European Logistics Center – Laakdal, Belgium sources (onsite wind, solar, geothermal, and locally produced biomass and hydro). More than 30% of the electricity consumed at our Target NIKE exists to serve athletes. Climate issues, like pollution and extreme weather conditions, China Logistics Center in Taicang, China, is generated through rooftop solar. Reach 100% renewable affect how athletes perform. And as a global business, climate change introduces risk across energy in owned or our value chain. At our ELC, our six windmills have been an example of our commitment to sustainability operated facilities through We’re tackling climate change head-on by since 2005. In FY18, we took a step to have more control over our own power supply and FY25 and encourage investing in lower-carbon materials and renewable energy and building resilience improve efficiencies while lowering costs. Electricity generated from the windmills now broader adoption, as part to climate uncertainty by reducing costs, feeds directly into our facility. This step helps innovating new operating models, and of our effort to control strengthening our supply chain. open the door to new approaches, including energy storage and potential future conversion absolute emissions While this target focuses specifically on to other energy sources. renewable energy, we’re working to reduce our In FY18, we began pursuing options to procure Performance carbon footprint in several ways: renewable energy for all of our European Renewable Energy – Owned or Operated (%) 1. Innovating low-impact materials operations that, when operational, will help to bring us to 75% of our global commitment. In addition, we continued to advance efforts FY15 / 14% 2. Driving energy efficiency within our supply chain for onsite solar at several NIKE-leased distribution centers globally and furthered our FY16 / 20% 3. Increasing renewable energy throughout our understanding of renewable energy options in operations and supply chain the Asia Pacific and Greater China geographies. FY17 / 22% 4. Working with other organizations (i.e. As we pursue coverage for the rest of our corporate peers, government, NGOs, global operations, we see challenges in finding manufacturing partners) to scale impact solutions that fit all our guiding principles FY18 / 19%48 5 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) including cost, risk, proximity, and additionality. and create better market conditions for FY25 target We understand the need for urgent action 100% clean energy and are working with other leading brands and governments to advance renewable energy globally. 48 Slight decline in FY18 is due to the delay between buildings going live and the period of time required before the electricity meters can be incorporated into the Oregon Power Purchase Agreement. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 41 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon Factory Adoption of Renewables in the Supply Chain A comprehensive focus on energy management and carbon emissions reduction, including scaling renewable energy, has been a priority for NIKE and its factory partners for more than a decade. NIKE works with suppliers to identify, design, and execute strategies for unlocking competitive renewable energy opportunities in strategic manufacturing markets globally. A top priority for NIKE has been accelerating the adoption of onsite rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) projects by supply partners. The technology for rooftop solar PV is both proven and widely available with fewer policy European Logistics Center – Laakdal, Belgium hurdles to overcome for implementation. By the end of FY18, seven footwear factories in China Total Renewable Energy (MWh) had installed solar PV systems to account for FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 as much as 10% of their total energy use. NIKE FW Manufacturing and Textile Dyeing and Finishing also kicked off a joint solar PV procurement Total MWh 550,000 571,000 602,000 621,000 initiative in FY18 with all of our contracted % of total 14 13 13 14 footwear and vertically integrated apparel Owned or Operated factories in China and Vietnam. Total MWh 66,798 108,761 125,339 117,207 % of total 14 20 22 19 Onsite solar PV projects have typically covered approximately 20% of electricity demand for our contract manufacturers. To cover the remaining FY18 Renewable Energy portion, NIKE is also working with them to identify competitive commercial renewable contracts or cost-effective utility-scale projects. Through FY18, four factories have signed direct 117,207 MWh49 power purchase agreements (PPAs) for griddelivered renewable electricity in Brazil, Turkey, and India. RECs (DC) Power Purchase Agreement 967 72,416 Expanding renewable energy use in key Asian Hydroelectric Avangrid OR wind PPA manufacturing regions has proven challenging due to rapidly evolving conditions and regulatory 6,729 By Type (MWh) Biomass environments. NIKE is partnering on several collective action initiatives in these markets with 7,635 key stakeholders from government, industry Solar Onsite (DC) and civil society to help catalyze change. For 20,023 4,814 example, in FY18 NIKE continued to support Wind Wind USAID’s Vietnam Low Emission Energy Program aimed at accelerating clean energy development 4,624 Solar in Vietnam. In the area of public policy for example, NIKE is working together with the Vietnamese government and stakeholders on legislation advocacy to grow NIKE renewable energy via improved local regulations. 42,747 72,416 Belguim U.S. By Country (MWh) 2,045 China 49 Reported breakdowns may slightly exceed the total due to rounding. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 42 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon In parallel, we implemented or expanded alternative modes of transportation, including international trucking, international rail, and seaair (freight transport that is part-ocean, part-air, which is faster than all-ocean and less carbonintensive than all-air transport). FY18 was the second year we used our Supply Chain Sustainability Index (SCSI) with our inbound ocean freight and air freight providers. We saw positive improvement from logistics service providers from FY17 to FY18. Driving Product leaving NIKE European Logistics Center – Laakdal, Belgium our logistics service providers to meet and surpass minimum sustainability requirements has led them to fully integrate sustainability Measure In FY18, NIKE’s energy and carbon intensity into how they deliver and operate. The SCSI in key operations decreased compared to has also helped us elevate discussions with Decrease energy use and the FY15 baseline due to the increased providers on innovative offerings currently CO2e emissions 25% per unit effectiveness of our energy management at available and on the roadmap for the future. owned and operated facilities, boiler elimination in key operations (inbound and and electric motors upgrades in our focus outbound logistics, distribution Outbound Logistics footwear contract manufacturers, and a Outbound logistics (transportation from a NIKE centers, headquarter locations, reduction of air freight in our inbound logistics. distribution center to point of sale or consumer) Even though we are moving in a positive finished goods manufacturing, direction, we are currently facing significant continues to be challenging for sustainability and NIKE-owned retail) due to continued strong e-commerce growth headwinds to meet our target. The root causes and evolving consumer trends. In a marketplace for this trend include challenges to scaling demanding speed, we are looking for creative new technologies that would offer enhanced alternatives to deliver in ways that are not at Performance energy savings, an increasing volume of highthe expense of our sustainability goals. For Energy Consumption Per Unit – Key Operations performance footwear styles that require more example, we are working to understand the (kWhe/unit) energy to manufacture, and a considerable value of sustainable fulfillment services to increase in the carbon intensity of Vietnam’s our consumer. We can then begin to curate -7% (vs. FY15 baseline) electricity grid due to new coal power plants experiences our consumers want that include brought online. 6.0 their values on sustainability. Inbound Logistics One initiative implemented in North America, 5.0 The most significant driver of carbon emissions 4.39 and expanding across regions, is the switch 4.29 for logistics continues to be shipping product 4.74 4.74 to shipping e-commerce apparel orders in from origin to destination by air. On the FY20 target envelopes, which are significantly lighter and 25% 4.0 inbound leg (origin to destination geography), take up less space in transportation than boxes. air freight is 25 times more carbon intensive For apparel shipments that are switched to than ocean freight. envelopes, the estimated carbon savings per FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 unit is at least 50%. As part of our efforts to optimize air freight and help ensure decisions are demand-driven, Carbon Emissions Per Unit – Key Operations We are also working with our logistics service in FY18 cross-functional teams completed a (kg CO2e/unit) providers to elevate their sustainable service robust review of the current processes and offerings. One way we have done this is by tools. Through this work, teams identified -2% (vs. FY15 baseline) deploying our SCSI for outbound logistics key metrics, tools, operating models, and 1.8 services. As with inbound transportation, the communications needed to support demand1.75 1.75 1.71 SCSI establishes clear minimum sustainability driven decision-making. With the new process, requirements and drives innovation discussions. we are now using signals from the marketplace 1.6 1.62 Through partnering with our providers, we have as we near the start of a season to gain clarity begun taking advantage of available alternative on when product is needed. This helps to ensure FY20 target fuels for transportation in Europe and China. that we use air freight only when necessary. 25% 1.4 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 43 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon Distribution Centers Contract Manufacturing: Footwear the Electric Motors Management Program Energy use in our distribution centers is As part of our comprehensive energy and to our contracted factories. This encourages trending higher than our target, with energy carbon emissions reduction program across the factories to retrofit existing electric motors to used per shipped unit up approximately 26% supply chain, we have engaged our footwear more efficient motors. An important additional from our FY15 baseline. A continuing factor finished good factories to either eliminate or feature is the setup of the management process is that more extreme temperatures across optimize centralized boiler systems. In FY18, that uses a detailed inventory to promote seasons have increased air conditioning and more than 90% of these factories successfully and enable tracking use and sourcing further heating requirements. In FY18, work to make improved their boiler systems, creating an savings. As more of our contract manufacturers our distribution centers more energy efficient average energy saving of between 15 to 20% implement the program, we expect to included the ongoing retrofitting of buildings for factories in Asia. As part of the initiative, in see reductions in energy use in footwear to LED lighting and roof renovations, which FY18 the last footwear finished goods factory manufacturing as well as dyeing and finishing. increases insulation. successfully converted its coal-fired boiler system to use sustainably-sourced, renewable As carbon emissions are directly related to At our China Logistics Center, alternative, biomass – marking the end of coal use in any of energy use, any improvements in energy innovative solutions include tubular sky NIKE’s footwear focus factories. management or shifts to renewable energy lighting, which channels daylight along its would equate to reductions in carbon tunnel to bring the light inside, and solarNIKE’s footwear modernization teams emissions. In FY18, the carbon intensity of powered charging stations, which have seating have rolled out several new technologies Vietnam’s grid electricity increased significantly, areas for employees equipped with solar film offering energy reductions, including an which directly impacted NIKE’s footwear focus attachments linked to USB chargers. improved midsole manufacturing process, factories’ carbon footprint. By implementing a new assembly oven, and material cutting NIKE’s energy and carbon reduction programs, During FY18, we opened a new reverse technologies that have reduced energy use these factories partially mitigated the carbon logistics distribution center in North by approximately 5%. While we expected footprint impacts of new coal-fired power plants America (approximately 1.1 million square the savings to be higher, the failure to scale brought online. NIKE will continue to work with feet), which received U.S. Green Building technologies that offer enhanced energy contract manufacturers on renewable energy Council LEED (Leadership in Energy and savings offset some of our gains. To drive initiatives as well as work through collaborative Environmental Design) Gold certification further energy reductions in footwear action within our industry to promote for commercial interiors. manufacturing, in 2018, NIKE officially launched renewable energy. 90% of focus footwear factories successfully improved their boiler systems in FY18 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 44 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon For the first time, NIKE Fuel Consumption (MWh) and Scope 1 Emissions (Metric Tonnes CO2e) by Business Division has externally verified its FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Scope 1 and 2 emissions and Consumed Fuel Scope 1 Consumed Fuel Scope 1 Consumed Fuel Scope 1 Consumed Fuel Scope 1 Scope 3 commercial air travel Air MI 580 125 525 114 679 145 2,39950 496 emissions. Car Emissions 1,616 406 2,130 535 2,653 666 2,496 627 Corporate Jets 12,411 3,576 16,972 4,392 13,105 3,391 14,586 3,773 Learn more: Distribution Centers 40,970 8,084 34,026 6,698 39,872 7,861 52,377 10,048 PwC Assurance Report HQs 22,292 4,448 28,379 5,678 33,859 6,794 30,955 6,213 NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion Other Offices and 27,456 5,561 29,347 5,945 31,471 6,375 23,513 4,763 Building Construction Retail 66,269 13,423 68,935 13,963 73,593 14,907 79,098 16,022 Total: NIKE, Inc. 171,595 35,623 180,314 37,325 195,232 40,139 205,421 41,94251 Headquarter Facilities Electricity Consumption (MWh) and Scope 2 Emissions (Metric Tonnes CO2e) by Business Division At our Global HQs we continue to focus on FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 implementing our 100% renewable energy Electricity commitment and reducing energy usage Air MI through the following programs: Grid Electricity 39,121 40,647 50,249 66,50850 Distribution Centers • W orkspace optimization by reviewing the Grid Electricity 128,408 153,671 165,004 165,422 amount of new office space needed to fuel Onsite Solar 1,639 1,467 3,530 4,623 NIKE’s growth versus historic square footage Onsite Wind 4,814 requirements while enhancing the employee HQs workplace experience Grid Electricity 77,437 86,001 89,359 95,681 Onsite Solar 81 7 • E nergy efficient building standards for new Other Offices and Building Construction construction globally Grid Electricity 52,113 54,557 56,907 53,487 Retail • HVAC and other equipment upgrades to high Grid Electricity 185,280 199,352 209,300 216,982 efficiency models Steam 1,007 614 865 764 Total: NIKE 485,087 536,316 575,213 608,282 • L ED lighting retrofits and maximizing natural Grid Electricity 482,359 534,229 570,818 598,081 light for new and renovated spaces Onsite Solar 1,721 1,474 3,530 4,623 Onsite Wind 4,814 • HVAC SMART controls or other mechanisms Steam 1,007 614 865 764 to manage energy in occupied vs. Scope 2 Emissions unoccupied spaces Air MI Location-Based 25,792 25,028 33,737 34,492 In FY18, we completed the newly constructed Market-Based 18,099 14,873 18,156 36,781 Sebastian Coe and Coach K buildings at our Distribution Centers World Headquarters. The Coach K building Location-Based 66,426 79,381 82,971 77,899 has been awarded LEED Platinum certification Market-Based 58,152 67,752 61,084 55,257 and the Sebastian Coe building is on track HQs for certification. In addition, at our World Location-Based 33,457 31,481 39,176 33,235 Headquarters all HVAC and other equipment Market-Based 27,038 15,935 14,577 14,317 replacements were upgraded to high Other Offices and Building Construction efficiency models. Location-Based 27,046 26,795 28,158 20,170 Market-Based 27,238 27,254 27,280 19,908 At our Greater China Headquarters, the team Retail implemented air conditioning controls to reduce Location-Based 97,772 99,670 103,215 93,307 air conditioning of unoccupied spaces. A facility Market-Based 98,154 99,959 103,393 91,978 operations strategy which leverages weather Total: NIKE, Inc. forecasts to adjust morning cooldown scheduling Location-Based 250,493 262,354 287,256 259,10351 has reduced air conditioning electricity Market-Based 228,680 225,772 224,489 218,24051 consumption. And at our Hurley Headquarters, 50 Growth in FY18 energy consumption due to expansion of an existing Air MI facility and opening of an additional Air MI facility. Before the expansion, natural we completed an LED lighting retrofit. gas was only used to heat a small section of the Beaverton Air MI facility. With the expansion, additional equipment was installed, some of which consumes natural gas. 51 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2017 to May 31, 2018, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 45 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Energy and Carbon Nike Direct Stores Energy Consumption Outside of the Organization (MWh) NIKE Direct saw reductions in energy FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 consumption per square foot due to investments Inbound Logistics 2,355,055 1,878,244 2,521,478 2,252,525 in LEED stores and energy efficiency projects Outbound Logistics 250,606 273,722 275,661 279,127 such as HVAC and lighting upgrades. Energy FW Manufacturing 2,154,045 2,209,104 2,226,619 2,205,108 management systems (EMS) provide centralized AP Manufacturing (Estimated) 283,000 292,000 311,000 329,000 control and automation of HVAC and electrical EQ Manufacturing (Estimated) 205,000 206,000 176,000 186,000 systems. NIKE Direct has EMS installed in Textile Dyeing and Finishing 1,800,730 2,100,084 2,313,869 2,304,448 all U.S. and most Canadian stores and is developing strategies to pilot these systems in Scope 3 Emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) new markets across the globe. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Inbound Logistics 599,788 478,475 642,287 573,890 Outbound Logistics 66,379 72,465 73,080 74,017 FW Manufacturing 962,300 986,749 1,041,646 1,138,282 AP Manufacturing (Estimated) 176,000 181,000 193,000 205,000 EQ Manufacturing (Estimated) 114,000 114,000 98,000 103,000 Textile Dyeing and Finishing 542,089 635,676 703,731 693,518 Measure NIKE continues to see significant improvements in energy use from dyeing and finishing facilities. Decrease energy use and CO2e emissions 35% per kg in textile During FY18, we identified our top 10 dyeing and finishing materials suppliers, and we dyeing and finishing processes analyzed efficiency projects at those suppliers to help drive improvements. As part of this Performance work, we developed an energy deployment plan Energy Consumption Per kg – that highlights projects that each vendor can Textile Dyeing and Finishing (kWhe/kg) use to meet energy targets. Specifically, NIKE encourages factories to optimize their thermal 9.2% (vs. FY15 baseline) systems by eliminating steam leaks, maintaining 16 proper steam traps, using condensate recovery, 15.86 and optimizing their boiler efficiency. 15.46 The NIKE Shanghai House of Innovation 14.95 is LEED certified gold – Shanghai, China 13 14.40 We also conducted an energy assessment of one of our largest contract manufacturing FY18 External Engagements FY20 target factory’s dyeing and finishing materials facilities. 35% 10 This analysis identified future potential for 23% O  regon Business for Climate further energy reductions. We used insights from The Oregon Business Alliance for Climate is this assessment to develop training materials a statewide initiative focused on mobilizing FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 for the textile dyeing and finishing industry to industry support and business leadership encourage energy reductions at scale. towards advancing climate policy and instituting a price on carbon emissions while Carbon Emissions Per kg – investing in Oregon’s clean economy. Textile Dyeing and Finishing (kg CO2e/kg) S  cience Based Target Initiative 9.4% (vs. FY15 baseline) We are setting ambitious emissions reduction 5.5 targets through the Science Based Targets 4.78 4.68 Initiative, a relationship between Climate 4.55 4.33 Disclosure Project, World Resources Institute 4.5 (WRI), World Wildlife Fund, and the UN Global Compact. Participating businesses FY20 target 35% make commitments to set science-based 3.5 targets and then have two years to submit their targets for validation by the initiative’s team of experts. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 46 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Waste We Imagine a World Where There is No Waste We have an exciting opportunity to transform everything around the design solution, how we source, how we make, how the product’s used, how it’s returned, and how it’s ultimately reimagined – and to solve problems holistically. Achieving a circular future is a collective effort and we’re working with partners like the Ellen MacArthur Foundation to explore new approaches to unlocking the circular economy for our industry. In FY18, we also joined the Global Fashion Agenda 2020 Circular Fashion System Commitment which calls on fashion brands and retailers to accelerate the transition to a circular fashion system. Brillia Running Stadium walkway for paralympic track surface made from Mondo Super X with a Nike Grind backing – Tokyo, Japan Target NIKE is pushing the boundaries of the circular In addition, we are exploring new and better economy – from reducing waste generation uses of factory scrap through the expansion Eliminate footwear wherever possible to transforming remaining waste into value. Our focus is on diverting of the Nike Grind program and the NIKE Open Innovation Challenge, which launched with manufacturing waste to waste from landfill or incineration52 by reducing a focus on developing higher value recycling waste generation, increasing recycling, and markets for manufacturing materials currently landfill or incineration, converting waste that can’t be recycled into going to energy recovery. To enable this, we are while continuing to reduce energy. It doesn’t just make sense for the planet, it makes business sense too. NIKE also working to improve scrap quality control, inventory data, processing infrastructure, overall waste recognizes that the amount of materials that supply chain operational efficiency, and cost we extract and refine increases our carbon competitiveness. emissions, water use, and chemical footprint. Performance Nike Grind Waste to Landfill – Footwear Manufacturing (%) By the fourth quarter of FY18, 99.9% of Driven by the belief that “waste” is simply our footwear finished goods manufacturing excess materials in the wrong person’s hands, waste was recycled or converted to energy53. the Nike Grind program is a platform to recycle FY16 / 6.6% Additionally, 100% of in-scope footwear athletic footwear and surplus manufacturing finished goods manufacturing factories fully scrap into performance products. Internally, FY17 / 3.9% implemented the Waste Minimum Program, we upcycle Nike Grind materials back in NIKE which sets expectations for: performance footwear and apparel. Externally, NIKE has recovered and supplied Nike Grind FY18 / 1.8% 4.8 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) • Waste management commitment materials – such as rubber and foam – to sports FY20 target surface manufacturers since 1992, which 0% • A hierarchy of waste where disposal have been incorporated into more than is a last resort 1 billion square feet of running tracks, gym floors, and other surfaces worldwide. • S eparation and handling of waste for recycling • Data collection and reporting for accountability 52 Incineration without energy recovery. 53 Waste to energy refers to a method of converting waste and non-recyclable materials into electricity, heat, or fuel. Methods include combustion, gasification, pyrolysis, anaerobic digestion, and cement kiln co-processing. Using waste as energy reduces the need for virgin fossil fuel energy sources such as coal. Facilities are equipped to burn at EU level standards to protect air quality. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 47 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Waste Footwear Waste Volumes (Lbs) by Measure We’ve made some progress in waste reduction at our HQs, due in large part to a durable Nike Grind Program54 FY16 FY17 FY18 Reduce waste index by 10%, dishware program introduced in 2017 at NIKE’s Factory Waste 9,336,826 11,257,883 9,374,920 covering footwear manufacturing, World Headquarters (WHQ) that replaces Post-Consumer55 587,810 1,356,021 1,196,390 single-use plastic alternatives. And while this distribution centers, and is good progress, we continue to review ways 54 Measured in pounds of Nike Grind for use in sports and other flooring surfaces. headquarter locations to address other complex factors in footwear 55 Post-consumer includes waste from distribution centers, Reuse-A-Shoe program, defective samples, and returns. manufacturing that make waste reduction challenging, including more complicated Performance designs that can increase defect rates, new NIKE’s premium materials are made with Waste Index – FW Manufacturing, Distribution athletes in mind. By recycling those materials production shifting to factory locations that Centers (DCs), and Headquarters (HQs) into Nike Grind sports surfaces, we continue to have less experience managing waste efficiency support the athlete in all of us. This year, NIKE 3% (vs. FY15 baseline) programs, and an overall tension between worked with Olympic marathoner Joan Benoit innovation and speed-to-consumer versus 105 material efficiency. For DCs, we have seen Samuelson and the community of Freeport, ME 100 103 customer orders trend away from full-case to install a new competition level track and field using Nike Grind at the local high school. cartons, driving the need to debox inbound 100 100 factory cartons in our distribution centers, 98 resulting in additional waste. Looking to the future, NIKE is exploring new, non-sport uses for Nike Grind through FY20 target 10% 95 relationships across the automotive, furniture, NIKE’s cross-functional Material Efficiency technology, and built-environment industries. Team has identified and is driving a portfolio In April, Nike Grind launched the Design with FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 of manufacturing waste reduction initiatives Grind Open Innovation Challenge, calling upon intended to mitigate the increase in designers, engineers, and scientists to create manufacturing waste. Through data analysis new products using Nike Grind materials. NIKE is actively working towards reducing and engagement of suppliers and key NIKE After receiving over creative 600 creative waste from footwear manufacturing, DCs, stakeholders, broad agreement has been submissions from 50 countries, we selected and HQs. While HQ are on track with waste reached on the most significant drivers of five winners and are now supporting them to reduction efforts, footwear manufacturing and increased manufacturing waste. This is develop scalable, beautiful products made with DCs, are experiencing challenges which are informing development of additional initiatives Nike Grind. offsetting our gains, making the overall measure and 2025 waste reduction targets. increase by 3% versus the FY15 baseline. From Apparel to Acoustic Panels – Distribution Centers Corrugated cardboard cartons are the biggest source of waste at our DCs, accounting for about 85% of DC waste. Cardboard waste generation continues to grow because of changing customer order profiles to greater variety of products and/or smaller orders at any given time. This, in turn, means that our DCs must debox cartons delivered from our factories and repackage products into more customized orders, a process that inherently creates more waste. The most impactful initiative that we can implement within our DCs to mitigate increasing waste generation is the Re-UseA-Box program which focuses on reusing the deboxed corrugated cardboard carton waste on outbound shipments. Several of our DCs worked on optimizing their Re-Use-A-Box program during FY18. Yogo – NIKE Circular Innovation Challenge Top Idea Grand Prize FY18 NIKE Impact Report 48 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Waste More than half of the soles of NIKE shoes are made using a process in which rubber or plastic-based material is injected into a mold – through channels – and formed into parts. When this process is completed, the parts are removed and there is leftover material in the channels. Some material also gets pushed out the sides of the mold. These sources of waste account for 18% of total footwear waste. In FY18, we rolled out guidelines for designing injection molds in a way that minimizes the volume of the injection channels and associated waste. These guidelines will be applied when new molds are designed. This is expected to reduce waste from 500,000 1.2m kg to 1 million kilograms per year and save more than $1 million starting in FY19. Unfortunately, efforts such as those outlined of material saved above were offset by unexpected new sources through investment in of waste, with the net result that footwear new cutting machines by manufacturing waste per-unit increased. We contract footwear factories analyzed the root causes of this and found broad agreement within NIKE and across our suppliers on the most significant drivers. Some of these include new product innovations that Looking ahead, we are actively piloting NIKE programs such as the expansion of have yet to be fully optimized in manufacturing, alternative packaging solutions, such as reusable dishware, food waste optimization more complex designs leading to higher reusable shipping totes. We are also exploring and diversion programs, and water machines at defects, production shifts to regional locations and implementing proof of concepts with endheadquarters have contributed to decreases. with less mature waste avoidance programs, of-life product. One example of this is at our and misaligned incentives for mitigating waste. European Logistics Campus, which repurposed For food waste optimization, Nike Food end-of-life apparel into acoustic panels used in Services partners with Beaverton-based We have begun to attack some of these root office conference rooms. software Leanpath to closely monitor daily food causes working cross-functionally and with production and waste levels at our WHQ. By our factory partners. However, achieving this Keeping Waste out of Landfills – HQs using Leanpath’s smart meters to measure and 2020 waste target is likely out of reach, so we At our HQs globally we continue to focus first analyze cafe food waste, culinary teams use are focused on getting footwear manufacturing on eliminating waste from our operations and real-time data to alter their recipes for efficiency, waste per-unit back down to, and driving then second on diverting waste from landfill. to make leaner purchasing decisions, and to below, the FY16 baseline. Key focus areas Our primary sources of waste are driven ultimately reduce food waste levels at their in the next year will be reducing bottom by onsite food and catering services and locations. As a result, we were able to keep a component defects through better tracking include coffee cups, grab ’n go food/beverage total of over 36,000 kgs of food waste out of and troubleshooting and reducing inbound containers, and waste from food storage. landfills in FY18. materials packaging by switching some singleWe continue to focus on waste elimination use cardboard boxes to reusable totes. through the following programs: Contract Manufacturing: Footwear Cutting scraps from upper materials such as Looking forward, we recognize that we need to • Reusable dishware and coffee cup program textiles, leather, synthetic leather, and foams improve the effectiveness of efforts to design accounts for about 40% of NIKE’s footwear waste out of products to truly achieve global • O ptimizing food production for campus manufacturing waste. One driver of this waste and long-lasting change. We also need to demand to reduce food waste is the gap between cut parts. Modern cutting incentivize manufacturing factories to focus on equipment can achieve smaller gaps between the sources of waste that they can influence. • D irect line water machines throughout parts than traditional die cutting can. In For instance, midsole and outsole waste campus encouraging refill of reusable collaboration with our factory partners, nearly accounts for two-thirds of the increase in global water bottles 700 state-of-the-art cutting machines were waste generation FY16 to FY18. We know that deployed to 48 factories, saving nearly 1.2 by focusing on better management of molds Because of its size, waste reductions for global million kilograms of material with an estimated and overall operational and process excellence, headquarter facilities are driven by our WHQ, value of $12 million in FY18. factories can reduce this waste. which saw nearly a 10% decrease in waste per occupant versus the FY15 baseline. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 49 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Waste Reuse-a-Shoe Facility – Memphis, Tennessee USA Waste (metric tonnes) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Distribution Centers Landfilled 2,719 3,117 3,270 3,507 Recycled 29,391 29,593 32,687 34,183 Composted 247 274 197 219 Waste to Energy Incineration 560 715 1,022 1,040 Total DC Waste 32,917 33,699 37,176 38,949 HQs Landfilled 1,626 1,816 1,807 2,105 Recycled 2,063 1,708 1,927 2,325 Composted 707 1,042 1,157 868 Total HQs Waste 4,396 4,566 4,891 5,298 FW Manufacturing56 Reused and Recycled 49,800 48,055 45,887 Energy Recovery 30,356 38,335 45,389 Landfilled and Incinerated 5,639 3,550 1,702 Total FW MFG Waste 85,794 89,941 92,979 56 FW manufacturing waste baseline is FY16. Measure can’t be recycled. In locations where recycling Though some smaller programs have helped and composting infrastructure is non-existent diversion rates in our HQs globally, a change Increase landfill diversion for particular waste streams, some DCs are in the municipal composting program at WHQ at distribution centers and exploring alternative options for waste disposal, has eliminated non-food waste materials from as well as material substitution. compost streams. Since WHQ account for headquarter locations approximately 80% of the total HQs facility Seeking New Opportunities to waste, this has negatively influenced our overall Performance Reduce Waste – Distribution Centers diversion rates. However, Hurley HQ saw an Landfill Diversion DCs and HQs (%) The waste diverted from landfills by our DCs increase in landfill diversion due to increased has remained fairly constant since the FY15 focus on employee engagement programs to baseline at 91%. promote recycling. The remaining campuses FY15 / 88% have consistent diversion rates due to limited Our European Logistics Campus, as well waste diversion opportunities in local markets. as Japan and Converse Ontario distribution FY16 / 87% centers, all continued to have 100% We continue to implement and explore viable landfill diversion. options to improve diversion rates at our HQs, including: FY17 / 88% At five of our largest North America distribution centers in Memphis, Tennessee, we worked • Kitchens, cafes, and breakrooms have wellFY18 / 87% 1 p.p. (vs. FY15 baseline) with an independent third-party to conduct marked compost bins a comprehensive waste audit. The objective FY20 target was to have an in depth understanding of • Construction projects have waste diversion our waste components to reduce overall features such as well-marked recycling bins Increase waste and minimize, if not eliminate, sending and construction waste reduction policies waste to landfill. In FY19, we will prioritize the Despite NIKE’s effort to reduce overall opportunities identified during the audits and • A focus on reducing the amount of printing waste, DCs and HQs are facing challenges develop a roadmap for implementation. – including quarterly employee engagement. in increasing landfill diversion rates, leading Converse has experienced over a 30% to 1 p.p. decrease from the FY15 baseline. Headquarter Facilities reduction in printing due to this program One factor was a change in the municipal We continue to focus on waste diversion composting program at WHQ that eliminated through the following programs: non-food waste materials from compost streams, ultimately directing compostable 1. Composting food waste from campus services cups to landfills. In addition, headcount has gone up, which led to an increase in cafeteria 2. Recycling for paper/corrugate, glass, and recycling waste that once contaminated plastic, and miscellaneous streams such as construction waste FY18 NIKE Impact Report 50 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Water Target Innovate and adopt new approaches to reduce water use in our supply chain, with a 20% reduction in freshwater use in textile dyeing and finishing per unit of production Performance Freshwater Use Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing (L/kg) 14% (vs. FY16 baseline) 135 126.5 120 117.2 109.3 FY20 target 20% 105 FY16 FY17 FY18 NIKE employees at T-shirt dyeing workshop – WHQ, Beaverton, Oregon At NIKE, we take a whole-facility approach57 By the end of FY18, we were 68% of the investing in manufacturing efficiency, they to water sustainability, meaning that when we way to our FY20 target. Our key material realized a 70% reduction in their freshwater reduce our water footprint, we help to reduce vendors saved a cumulative 8.7 billion liters withdrawals by the end of FY18 from their FY16 the facility’s overall impact on the surrounding of freshwater from our FY16 baseline, of baseline and became NIKE’s third most waterwatersheds. We work with 38 material vendor which 2.5 billion liters was the reduction of efficient vendor. facilities – representing almost 80% of our NIKE’s freshwater footprint. For context, 8.7 global materials production – that primarily billion liters can supply approximately 50,000 The number of key material suppliers installing dye and finish fabric. All 38 facilities have Vietnamese households with freshwater for or pursuing wastewater recycling continues been reporting their freshwater withdrawals a year58. Because we share our supply chain to grow. In FY15, only 10% of our key vendor since 2015. manufacturing capacity our whole-facility facilities were operating or planning to install approach helps advance the industry at large. wastewater recycling systems. By the end of NIKE encourages each vendor to have a FY18, 55% of those same vendor facilities short-term strategy based on improving One of our success stories is Vertical Knits in were operating, building, or working to install manufacturing process efficiencies – fixing Merida, Mexico, which primarily dyes cotton water recycling systems. As we move into leaks; replacing old dyeing machines with fabric. The facility was consistently ranked FY19, we’re expecting continued water savings more water-efficient equipment; optimizing 25th of our 38 material vendor facilities in as our vendors meet their commitments, rinsing and scouring steps; and ensuring their terms of water efficiency. Through adopting moving towards and possibly exceeding our wastewater meets the requirements of the NIKE’s Minimum Water Program, installing 2020 commitment. ZDHC Wastewater Guideline – since all of these a 50% wastewater recycling system, and will result in a more cost-effective long-term strategy for wastewater recycling. 57 S ome facilities have non-NIKE-related water-intensive manufacturing on property that are included in our overall key metric of liters freshwater withdrawn per kilogram of fabric produced. This requires the facility to improve in all aspects of their operation, not just the portion that is related to NIKE business. Why take on a whole-facility approach that could put our 2020 target at risk? Because it’s the right thing to do. 58 Reference: “Vietnam’s Future Water Usage Model: A Controlled Living Experiment”, Journal of Water Resources and Protection, 18, 10, 204-214. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 51 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Water Measure Water (million lliters) FY16 FY17 FY18 Build resilience through supplier Air MI water risk mitigation plans with Total Freshwater Use 31.9 41.9 82.759 materials processors HQs Total Freshwater Use 597.8 604.7 792.5 Other Offices60 Performance Total Freshwater Use 28.0 30.3 25.2 Focus Factories in High-risk Zones Textile Dyeing and Finishing61 with Risk Mitigation Plans (%) Condensate Use 367.1 389.5 344.7 Ground Water 4,810.0 5,272.3 4,958.1 Municipal/City Water to Facility 8,480.2 9,269.7 9,887.6 Rain Water Collection 44.2 13.0 0.8 FY18 / 79% Surface Water 2,175.0 2,159.1 1,333.6 FY20 target 100% Total Freshwater Use 15,876.4 17,103.6 16,524.8 59 Increase in water consumption due to expansion of existing Air MI facility and additional facilities brought online. 60 Scope includes U.S. only. 61 Includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. Extreme weather events, like flooding and For example, after a severe flood one of our key drought, due to climate change have the footwear finished goods factories in Indonesia potential to interrupt our supply chains so we installed flood gates, elevated some of their are proactively working with our key finished buildings, and undertook other protective goods factories and material vendors to help measures. When their risk was recalculated, them prepare for a water event. they were no longer in high risk. We use the WRI’s Aqueduct Tool to regularly Mitigation Efforts are Effective monitor the “baseline” water scarcity and Of the 529 finished good factories across the flooding risks of each of our key suppliers. globe, only ten key finished goods factories in four countries – Brazil (1), India (1), China (3), Learn more: and Indonesia (5) – are in regions flagged as WRI Aqueduct Tool having a high baseline risk of flooding or drought. Of the 38 key material vendor facilities, NIKE developed a Water Risk Mitigation only three facilities in the Greater China region Guideline for suppliers, giving them an were identified with a high baseline water risk. overview of what is expected of them as they By the end of FY18, all ten key finished goods better understand their water risks. Our local factories completed their water risk mitigation field consultants work with these suppliers plans and were acting against those plans. The to validate their WRI risk score, taking local three material vendors located in regions of conditions into consideration, and help them high-water risk are on track to have their risk develop mitigation and management plans. mitigation plans complete Once these plans are developed, we recalculate by the end of FY19. If there are no significant their risk score to determine if their plans changes to our supply chain, we are on track to are effective. achieve 100% of focus factories in high-risk zones acting against plans one year ahead of schedule. Nike Flyleather uses less water than traditional leather manufacturing FY18 NIKE Impact Report 52 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Chemistry Target We know that chemicals must be managed It clearly outlines the expectations we place properly to protect our workers, the on our suppliers in one single supplier-facing Enable zero discharge environment, and our consumers. To achieve this, we operate a chemistry program that document and along with our updated chemistry website, it represents a significant of hazardous chemicals manages chemicals throughout the entire step forward for how we communicate our product creation process – from innovation compliance requirements. (ZDHC) and development, right through to raw material and product creation. Chemical compliance Learn more: is the foundation of our program, and our NIKE’s Chemistry Playbook Chemistry is essential to our business. From suppliers must adhere to our updated Code of raw material processing to product creation, it Conduct, which includes greater emphasis on In a shared supply base, industry-wide action is used to manufacture the products we sell and chemical management. is essential for helping us work toward our goal enables us to innovate new methods of make. of ZDHC. We continue to work within the ZDHC Chemistry deeply influences product design, In April 2018, NIKE launched the Chemistry Foundation, a global industry collaboration of performance, and the sustainability of our Playbook to support our compliance program currently 122 contributors, from co-creating overall product creation process. and explain our end-to-end chemistry strategy. the ZDHC Wastewater guideline in FY17 to actively monitoring continued compliance of our focus suppliers. We also use software tools to measure the uptake of manufacturing restricted substance list (MRSL) compliant formulations within key facilities and actively support use of the ZDHC Chemical Gateway to help procure compliant chemicals. Beyond our current chemical compliance programs, further work is being advanced across three core areas to move us closer to our ZDHC goal: 1. Elevating Chemicals Management Capability Association with the ZDHC, Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) and Apparel and Footwear International RSL Management Group (AFIRM) is being centered on the creation of tools to improve chemicals management across the supply chain 2. Assessing New Chemicals By expanding the Chemistry Assessment process, we can evaluate not just the attributes, but also the risks of new chemistries used within materials and manufacturing processes. Through our review, we aim to protect both human health and the environment 3. Prioritizing Chemicals Following a multi-year effort to landscape the chemicals used in our industry, we are now able to prioritize key chemicals for phase-out and action, reducing our overall chemical footprint By combining compliance activities with actions that go beyond compliance, and by using industry-wide tools to support and measure progress, we can scale practices that move us NIKE HyperShield Waterproof Jacket closer towards achieving our ZDHC goal. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 53 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprintImpact Appendix Chemistry their chemicals management practices where needed. To assess such management behaviors within a supplier’s facility and evaluate how effectively they can meet our requirements, we launched a new set of Code Leadership Standard for Restricted Substance Management, which we integrated into our global audit framework for finished goods facilities. This builds upon our updated Code of Conduct and is also an expectation of our raw material vendors, with assessments carried out through industry-centric tools, such as the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s (SAC) Facilities Environment Module (FEM). We continue to integrate the core requirements of the RSL program into our materials sourcing and supplier management practices. This included work completed in FY18 which created a stronger integration of RSL testing and training into our standard onboarding procedures for new material vendors. Measure NIKE Women’s Metallic Sheen Apparel 100% compliance with ZDHC MRSL Measure Since 2001, NIKE’s RSL program has been at the center of our approach to managing 100% compliance with NIKE restricted chemicals. Continued commitment to Performance Restricted Substance List (RSL) meeting global requirements supports our goal Compliance with the ZDHC MRSL62 of achieving 100% compliance and enables us to see improvements in program performance. Performance However, we recognize that tightening our FY18 / 68% Tested Material in Compliance with NIKE own voluntary commitments or adapting FY20 target 100% RSL (%) manufacturing to meet new regulations can result in materials initially not meeting our RSL requirements. Such failures are resolved before FY15 / 95% 62 FY18 was the first year we had a ZDHC standard. products are placed on the market. We believe that certain chemicals should not be FY16 / 99% Consistently meeting increasingly stringent used to manufacture the materials and products requirements demands a strong foundation of that we place on the market due to potential capability across our supply base. To elevate health and environmental risks. Controlling FY17 / 98% supplier understanding of our requirements, the chemicals used within manufacturing we built a global RSL and chemicals is therefore a critical part of our chemicals management training program and launched management program, as this can reduce risk FY18 / 99% this to our supply base during FY16. We to our workers, the environment and support FY20 target annually review the training curriculum to meet 100% the efforts of our product compliance (RSL) suppliers’ needs and make training available program. However, we operate in a complex to all suppliers across the globe. To date, we multi-tiered supply chain and achieving this have trained over 1,000 facilities. NIKE also requires us to work across the industry to leads an effort within the AFIRM Group to develop globally relevant solutions. better coordinate and align training across our shared facilities and the greater industry. Once trained, it is essential that suppliers implement these learnings and strengthen FY18 NIKE Impact Report 54 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Chemistry The ZDHC Foundation is a center for Measure Measure sustainable chemicals management and is one of the industry’s leading examples of how Achieve better chemical input Lead industry change through engagement across the supply chain can management through scaling collective action positively impact the way chemicals are used to produce footwear and apparel products globally. more sustainable chemistries As we commit to scaling sustainable Through our continued efforts to support and To scale more sustainable chemistry, NIKE has chemistry across our supply chain, we are strengthen ZDHC solutions, and further integrate launched several tools including our internal actively exploring even broader avenues for these into our business, FY18 represented a chemical assessment process to help our engagement across the industry. Without year of progress on many levels. This included: suppliers and vendors align on what better continued and sustained commitment to chemistry looks like. Through this assessment industry collaboration, the tools that we use • Improving credibility of the ZDHC MRSL by process we apply a standard method for would not be as effective in shaping the global creating a transparent governance framework evaluating new chemistries which provides a supply chain. The value of multiple brands that now includes oversight from a range consistent measure that can be used across aligning on a common approach is clear: it of independent stakeholders that represent a variety of chemistry types and ensures new increases awareness, adoption, compliance NGO, academia, regulators, and industry chemistries coming into the supply chain and, importantly, reduces confusion. • L aunching the ZDHC Gateway – a support our sustainable chemistry goals. We work closely with our innovation teams and Our external focus is on advancing work with database of MRSL compliant formulations contract manufacturers to assess chemical three groups: – to enable suppliers to source MRSL compliant chemistry hazards, allowing us to reduce the use of particular chemicals and replace them with • AFIRM: We’ve actively engaged within better alternatives. Alongside this program, we AFIRM for over a decade and remain focused • C ontinuing to roll-out “Cleanchain®” have implemented methods to baseline our on providing leadership via our position software to our key raw material vendors, chemistry footprint and to track our progress on the AFIRM Steering Committee, further enabling us to gain systematic visibility toward reducing the usage of controversial enabling achievement of the Group’s goals. into chemical formulations used across our chemicals. We continue to support the evolution of the manufacturing sites and compare this against AFIRM RSL and have integrated this into our the ZDHC Gateway. Currently, all NIKE’s One example of our efforts is our commitment own Chemical Playbook. focus suppliers are disclosing their chemical inventories into this system. to eliminate all PFC-based finishes from our products by 2021 – while still enabling the • SAC: The roll-out of the updated SAC Higg aesthetics and functionality customers expect. FEM enables an assessment of our supply • R equiring focus suppliers to perform biAll PFC alternatives undergo our chemical chain’s chemical management capabilities. annual wastewater testing against the ZDHC assessment process to ensure that regrettable Use of the Higg FEM supports a unified Wastewater Guideline to determine presence substitutions are not introduced into the approach to measuring the environmental of MRSL chemicals. During FY18, 68% of supply chain. performance of our supply chain and facilities were shown to be compliant against identifying areas for improvement. the ZDHC MRSL through wastewater testing. • ZDHC: NIKE continues to provide leadership within ZDHC and across all of ZDHC’s core focus areas (Input, Process, and Output). We have also leveraged technical expertise to guide the continued development of the ZDHC Gateway, the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines, and future ZDHC Air Emissions Guidelines. Our industry has made strong progress by aligning on common lists of restricted substances and developing tools to elevate capability and measure compliance. We are proud to be part of this effort and remain dedicated to shaping the future of the global industry. NIKE Just Do It Pack Mercurial 360, Hypervenom, Magista and Tiempo FY18 NIKE Impact Report 55 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize MinimizeEnvironmental EnvironmentalFootprint Impact Appendix Chemistry Measure 100% of focus suppliers meeting NIKE’s wastewater quality requirements for textile dyeing and finishing processes Performance Suppliers Meeting NIKE’s Wastewater Quality Requirements – Textile Dyeing and Finishing (%)63 NIKE collaboration with London Cloth Yields women’s-only footwear collection created with hand-woven, indigo-dyed fabric FY16 / 58% vendors, we expected a significant decrease in last parameter is requiring more time to those vendors who met our new requirements. resolve since it involves capital construction. FY17 / 73% In FY18, the first year of testing against the In addition, other consultants are also working ZDHC standard rather than the previous with other vendors in various parts of the FY18 / 69% 11 p.p. (vs. FY16 baseline) standard, approximately 40% of our key world to address their wastewater issues. FY20 target materials vendors reported compliance to our 100% new requirements. • Basic Training: In regions where we see a common issue among several facilities, we 63 FY16 is the baseline for this measure. Measurement of supplier These results tell us that the textile industry is hire an expert to provide training in the local adherence to NIKE’s wastewater quality standards between FY16 and FY18 in this table is based on a prior standard. ripe for disruption when it comes to wastewater language at the site of one of the affected treatment. We are proactively changing the vendors. In FY18, we provided a full-day industry with these initiatives: training session in Suzhou, China for a halfLegal compliance for discharging wastewater dozen vendors on how to perform proper is a minimum requirement for NIKE suppliers. • Innovation: In a first for the textile industry, chemical dosing. As a result, several vendors But legal compliance differs from country to NIKE, in conjunction with TÜV SÜD Water saw a 10-20% reduction in chemical use in country. This is why, through collective action Services Singapore, Ramboll Group A/S, their wastewater treatment systems. with other brands, we helped develop and and Elevate Textiles, demonstrated the adopt the ZDHC Wastewater Guideline. effectiveness of the PetWin64 computer • Collective Action: NIKE’s water program modeling software to predict the performance through FY19 and FY20 will be focused on In FY11, we helped develop an industry of textile wastewater treatment systems65. building and improving wastewater treatment standard that held our materials vendors This game-changing approach enables capability at our materials vendors. Because accountable to five key conventional faster compliance to the ZDHC Wastewater we share our suppliers with other brands, wastewater parameters. In FY17, 73% of our Guideline and NIKE’s new wastewater we realize the key to long-term success is to key material vendors met these requirements, discharge requirements, and can be used to leverage collective action. We will continue to but we saw a slight dip in FY18, with 69% assist in the design of new treatment systems occupy leadership positions in the ZDHC and compliance. We attribute this fluctuation to before they are constructed. to champion the deployment of the FEM of training and capability issues within the supply the SAC. chain. Moving forward, we will strive to unleash • Networking: We developed a global network the human potential of our vendors by focusing of wastewater treatment professionals and Moving to 100% compliance with the new NIKE on training and capability building to ensure consulting firms experienced in treating wastewater requirement by the end of FY20 will their wastewater treatment operations are difficult wastewaters who are readily available no doubt be challenging. But as NIKE has seen consistent and robust. to assist vendors. In October 2017, one firsthand, industry transformation is not just vendor in Indonesia was unable to meet possible – it is well underway. As we push for In FY17, we introduced the ZDHC Wastewater our new wastewater requirements for seven cleaner wastewater discharges, we are enabling Guidelines, holding suppliers accountable to conventional parameters. After hiring one of cost-effective water recycling to reduce our 24 additional conventional parameters and our recommended consultants to perform a freshwater footprint. Our vision is to be so 202 hazardous chemicals, to vendors that site visit, they were quickly able to eliminate successful with closed-loop water that we produce approximately 80% of our materials. all but one parameter with minor adjustments make the need for any wastewater quality Because we raised the bar for our key materials to their wastewater treatment system. The guidelines obsolete. 64 PetWin was developed by EnviroSim Associates, Ltd., Hamilton, Ontario, Canada (https://envirosim.com/) 65 J.Rydzewski, S. Pattanayak, R. Woodling, and J. Summers, ”Activated Sludge Modeling for Evaluating Textile Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations and Performance,” WEF-EESS Conference on Advancement in Water and Wastewater Treatment and Reuse, AWWTR 2019, Singapore, July 31-August 1, 2019. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 56 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix FY18 NIKE Impact Report 57 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix PwC Assurance Report Report of Independent Accountants To the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc. We have reviewed the accompanying NIKE, Inc. (“NIKE”) Management Assertions management assertion, included in the accompanying Appendix (Management Assertion), that the sustainability metrics identified below, for the year ended May 31, 2018, are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set forth in management’s assertion (the “assessment criteria”). •  Total energy consumption (MWh) • Scope 1 (Direct) Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) • Scope 2 (Indirect) Location-Based Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) • Scope 2 (Indirect) Market-Based Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) • Scope 3 (Indirect) Emissions from Commercial Air Travel (Metric tonnes CO2e) NIKE’s management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the sustainability metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on our review. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to management’s assertion in order to be fairly stated. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct issued by the AICPA. We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control. GHG emissions quantification is subject to inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things as GHG emission factors that are used in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions and the inability of those models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately measure under all circumstances the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for measuring such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being reported. Data related to total energy consumed is subject to inherent limitations given the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being reported. As discussed in the accompanying NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion, NIKE has estimated GHG emissions for certain emission sources for which no primary usage data is available. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the accompanying NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion in order for it to be fairly stated. May 15, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 805 SW Broadway, Suite 800 Portland, OR 97205 www.pwc.com FY18 NIKE Impact Report 58 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion Fiscal Year ended May 31, 2018 Scope 1, 2, and 3 (Commercial Air Travel) Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY METRICS Fiscal Year ended May 31, 2018 (FY18) Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 813,703 Scope 1 (Direct) Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) 41,942 Scope 2 (Indirect) Location-Based Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) 259,103 Scope 2 (Indirect) Market-Based Emissions (Metric tonnes CO2e) 218,240 Scope 3 Emissions from Commercial Air Travel (Metric tonnes CO2e) 75,645 Prior to conversion to CO2e, metric tonnes of GHG emissions by gas are 258,803, 17, and 3 of CO2, CH4, and N2O, respectively. Overview NIKE, Inc. (NIKE) captures, calculates, and reports direct and indirect GHG emissions data in accordance with the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative’s Corporate GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) (“GHG Protocol”) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, which are recognized external standards. NIKE management is responsible for selecting or developing, and upholding, the assessment criteria, which management believes provide an objective foundation for measuring and reporting on the selected sustainability metrics (the “metrics”) presented in the table above. NIKE management is also responsible for the assessment, collection, quantification, and reporting of energy and emissions data, and for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the GHG emissions calculations for the Fiscal Year ended May 31, 2018. Organizational Boundary NIKE uses the operational control approach in conformance with the GHG Protocol to report energy consumption and direct and indirect GHG emissions for 100% of the facilities where NIKE has operational control. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 59 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion Scope NIKE’s Scope 1 and 2 reporting is outlined below. Scope 3 (commercial air travel only) is also shown. SCOPE DESCRIPTION RETAIL • Includes NIKE owned or operated Nike Brand, Converse, and Hurley stores globally. • Energy consumed includes natural gas, electricity, and steam. Natural gas and electricity usage outside of the U.S. and Canada, as well as for landlord-managed sites in the U.S. and Canada, is estimated. Our estimation methodology is described below. • Refrigerant leakage from HVAC units are not included in reporting at this time. DISTRIBUTION CENTERS • Includes top 21 NIKE owned or operated DCs globally as of May 31, 2018, which represent more than 94% of shipped (DCs) units and square footage. • Energy consumed includes natural gas, hi-sene, diesel, propane, electricity, onsite solar, and onsite wind. • Diesel is used in backup generators. • Propane is used in at least two DCs for scrubbers/floor sweepers. A portion of propane usage is estimated leveraging known propane usage. Our estimation methodology is described below. • Refrigerant leakage from HVAC units are not included in reporting at this time. HEADQUARTERS (HQs) • Includes emissions from building facilities at five HQs: World HQ U.S. (WHQ), European HQ, Greater China HQ, Converse HQ, and Hurley HQ. This covers over 8 million square feet. Emissions from new construction at HQ locations are reported separately under Other Offices and WHQ Building Construction discussed below until buildings become operational. • Energy consumed includes natural gas, diesel, propane, and electricity. • Diesel is used in backup generators. • Propane is used in food services, vendor landscaping services, and some forklifts. • Refrigerant leakage from HVAC units are not included in reporting at this time. AIR MANUFACTURING • Includes NIKE-owned manufacturing facilities and related facilities that are the primary producers of NIKE Air units. INNOVATION Included four sites in FY18, one of which was closed (ancillary storage site), one of which was opened, and one of which was expanded. • Energy consumed includes natural gas, diesel, propane, and electricity. • Diesel is used in backup generators. • Propane is used in a single limited application in one Air Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI) facility. • Refrigerant leakage from HVAC units are not included in reporting at this time. OTHER (NON• Includes non-HQ office facilities (such as regional sales offices) and new building construction at WHQ prior to newly HQ) OFFICES AND constructed sites becoming operational. Once new construction becomes operational, in alignment with NIKE’s financial WHQ BUILDING reporting approach, new construction is reclassified to HQ scope. Three facilities transitioned to HQ scope during FY18. CONSTRUCTION Energy consumed includes natural gas and electricity. Natural gas and electricity usage outside of the U.S. and Canada, as well as for landlord-managed sites in the U.S. and Canada, is estimated. Our estimation methodology is described below. VEHICLES • V ehicles include service vehicles at WHQ. Company-leased vehicles for use by employees in other geographies are not included in reporting at this time. JETS • Includes jet aviation fuel from our business travel using NIKE’s two corporate jets, operated from the U.S. COMMERCIAL TRAVEL • Data represents commercial business air travel across 48 countries. • Commercial air travel emissions are estimated based on mileage calculated from number and route distance of trips. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 60 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion Exclusions Each year, we aim to increase the quality of the data reported. As tenants of leased facilities, we do not yet have access to complete refrigerant sources and certain energy sources for shared building common spaces. We are pursuing this data, as well as company-leased vehicles operated in geographies outside of the U.S. for future reports. GHG Base Data FY15 is used as the base year in alignment with FY20 targets baseline year. Activity data used to calculate Scope 1 (direct) emissions is sourced from direct measurements or third-party invoices (e.g., diesel, jet fuel and natural gas). Activity data used to calculate Scope 2 (indirect) emissions is sourced from thirdparty invoices (e.g., electricity) wherever possible and is collected across the business via a variety of internal processes and systems. Scope 3 (commercial air travel) data used to report GHG emissions from transporting our employees is obtained from reports provided by third-parties which includes number of flights and distance data. As described in this assertion, activity data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 is sourced from estimates where actual consumption data is not available. NIKE continues to work on obtaining systematic access to more actual consumption data. Estimates are described in more detail below. Reported data has been rounded to the nearest whole number. Estimation Methodology Estimation methodologies employ reasonable assumptions to avoid understating NIKE’s emissions footprint and are described below. Natural Gas (retail and Natural gas usage is estimated for sites outside of the U.S. and Canada, and for landlord-managed sites in the U.S. and non-HQ offices outside of Canada where visibility on energy consumption is low. Square footage of retail and non-HQ offices per country is used, along the U.S. and Canada) with country-level climate assumptions and CBECS energy use intensity applied to NIKE square footage based on climate type. In the U.S. and Canada, where some sites are landlord-managed and visibility on energy consumption is low, our internal known average country-level energy use intensity is used instead of the external CBECS benchmark. Approximately 88% of retail Scope 1 emissions in FY18 were estimated, and approximately 72% of non-HQ Scope 1 emissions in FY18 were estimated. Electricity (retail and nonElectricity usage is estimated for sites outside of the U.S. and Canada, and for landlord-managed sites in the U.S. and HQ offices outside of the Canada where visibility on energy consumption is low. Square footage of retail and non-HQ offices per country is used using U.S. and Canada) actual FY18 square footage data, along with electricity intensity kWh per square foot of known FY15 NIKE retail or offices electricity. About 72% of retail Scope 2 emissions in FY18 were estimated. About 87% of non-HQ Scope 2 emissions in FY18 were estimated. Propane (DC) Propane usage at one DC is estimated leveraging propane consumption intensity at a comparable DC based on relative square footage. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 61 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion Emissions Factors Emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Exceptions to reporting CH4 and N2O are as follows: • F acilities’ emissions are reported in CO2e except within a limited subset of consumption data where emissions factors for other gases (CH4, N2O) are not provided. These exceptions include AIB/EU Residual Mix Emissions factors and certain supplier-specific emissions factors. Although Green-E/US Residual Mix only provides CO2, NIKE back-calculates CH4 and N2O leveraging eGRID. • Commercial Travel emissions are in CO2 due to data availability. The emissions from other gases are not material to our reported GHG emissions. Carbon dioxide emissions and equivalents resulting from the activities and business units described above have been determined on the basis of measured or estimated fuel and electricity usage, multiplied by relevant, published carbon emission factors, which are updated annually according to an internal policy to use the most recent emissions factors available before the annual internal cutoff date, which is 15 days after the fiscal year end. Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions utilize Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) primarily sourced from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (Assessment Report 5 – 100 year), and EPA emissions factor sources use Assessment Report 4. The tables below outline the emissions factors sources used in emissions calculations. EMISSIONS EMISSION SOURCE SOURCE TYPE EMISSION FACTOR EMPLOYED Scope 1 Natural Gas GHG Protocol Emissions Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017 Scope 1 Hi-sene GHG Protocol Scope 1 Diesel GHG Protocol Emissions Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017 Scope 1 Propane EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership’s Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories Scope 1 Gasoline GHG Protocol Emissions Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017 Scope 2 Electricity (U.S.) Contractual instruments (Power purchase agreement) Scope 2 Electricity (U.S. and Canada) Supplier-specific emission factors (various sources) Scope 2 Electricity (U.S.) Green-e Energy U.S. Residual Mix Emissions Rates Scope 2 Electricity (U.S.) EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership’s Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories Scope 2 Electricity (U.S.) eGRID (location-based) Scope 2 Electricity (EU) Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB) European Residual Mixes Scope 2 Electricity (Global) IEA World Electricity CO2 Emissions Factors Scope 2 Steam 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Scope 3 Air Travel U.K. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Department of (Commercial Travel Only) Energy and Climate Change (DECC); GHG Protocol FY18 NIKE Impact Report 62 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion In quantifying market-based electricity GHG emissions, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines a hierarchy of factors for quantifying market-based emissions, in order from highest to lowest precision. The table below describes the hierarchy and the relevance to NIKE for the current year reporting. EMISSION SOURCE TYPE EMISSION FACTOR EMPLOYED Direct Line Connection Not applicable Energy Attribute Certificates NIKE applies a zero emission factor for onsite solar and wind generation where Renewable Energy Credits (or Guarantees of Origin) generated are retained by NIKE; and for purchased renewable energy attribute certificates applied to NIKE’s operations. Biomass renewable energy credits employ a zero emission factor for CO2; however, biomass source-specific emissions factors are applied for CH4 and N2O. Electricity Contracts NIKE applies a zero emission factor for all sites in scope of its power purchase agreement. Energy Supplier-Specific U.S.: NIKE applies publicly available supplier-specific emission factors where available. Emissions Factors Residual Mix U.S.: NIKE applies residual mix emission factors from Green-e Energy U.S. Residual Mix Emissions Rates. Europe: NIKE applies country emission factors from the AIB. Location-Based Factors If none of the above options are available, NIKE uses location-based factors as described in the table above. Uncertainty GHG emissions quantification is subject to inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things as the GHG emissions factors that are used in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions and the inability of these models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately measure under all circumstances the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for measuring such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts of metrics being reported. Data related to total energy consumed is subject to inherent limitations given the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being reported. NIKE recognizes that commercial air travel remains an estimate since unforeseen circumstances can occur (e.g., different routes due to adverse weather or unforeseen aircraft fleet changes); however, the figure presented is considered to be a reasonable estimate of NIKE’s commercial air travel emissions. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 63 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report is aligned with the GRI Standards at the Core level. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles are also referenced below. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG ORGANIZATION 102-1 Name of the organization NIKE, Inc. PROFILE FY18 10-K: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Condition and Results of Operations: page 73 (Annual Report) 102-3 Location of headquarters One Bowerman Dr, Beaverton, OR 97005 FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 and Item 2. Properties: page 68 102-4 Location of operations (Annual Report) NIKE Manufacturing Map FY18 Proxy Statement 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Bylaws FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 55 (Annual Report) 102-6 Markets served FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 (Annual Report) 102-7 Scale of the organization FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 (Annual Report) Unleash Human Potential: Employees: page 14 102-8a, b: We FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 59 (Annual Report) currently do not have 102-8 Information on employees and other workers d. We do not have a significant portion of the organization’s activities temporary workers in performed by people who are not employees. our data sources. e. No significant variations Additional Information TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER1 (102-8C) CY16 CY17 CY18 Female Male Female Male Female Male Regular Full-Time 21,599 23,824 21,628 23,875 23,581 25,345 Regular Part-Time 9,741 10,052 10,456 10,780 8,219 8,187 TOTAL REGULAR 31,340 33,876 32,084 34,655 31,800 33,532 FULL-TIME 69% 70% 67% 69% 74% 76% 1 Temporary employees excluded. NIKE, INC. EMPLOYEE TOTALS BY ETHNICITY (U.S.) ALL EMPLOYEES DIRECTORS+ VPs CY18 CY17 CY16 CY18 CY17 CY16 CY18 CY17 CY16 URG 55.2% 56.5% 54.6% 23.9% 22.9% 22.4% 18.6% 15.6% 16.6% Unknown 0.6% 0.4% 0.0% 2.1% 1.5% 0.1% 2.6% 2.4% 0.3% White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 44.2% 43.1% 45.4% 74.0% 75.6% 77.5% 78.8% 82.0% 83.1% Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: page 28 FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 57–58 (Annual Report) 102-9 Supply chain Stages of Our Value Chain Value Chain Footprint FY18 10-K: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Significant changes to the organization 102-10 Condition and Results of Operations: page 73 (Annual Report) and its supply chain FY18 10-K: Item 2. Properties: page 68 (Annual Report) Issue Prioritization: page 8 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Targets Summary: page 10 Minimize Environmental Impact: pages 34–56 Sustainability Commitments 102-12 External initiatives Industry Standards & Assessment Tools We also mention external initiatives throughout the report. Transform Manufacturing: Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change: ORGANIZATION page 32 102-13 Membership of associations PROFILE Partnerships & Collaborations We also mention memberships throughout the report. Letter From Our CEO: page 5 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Purpose Committee: page 7 Letter from Our CEO: page 5 NIKE Code of Conduct ETHICS AND Values, principles, standards, and norms 102-16 NIKE Code Leadership Standards INTEGRITY of behavior NIKE Code of Ethics Sustainability Policies FY18 NIKE Impact Report 64 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG FY18 Proxy Statement: Corporate Governance: pages 14–23 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Purpose Committee: page 6 Sustainability Governance Additional Information Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability and Governance Committee The purpose of the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc. is to review NIKE’s significant strategies, activities, and policies regarding sustainability (including labor practices), and community impact and charitable activities, and make recommendations to the Board. Learn more. Responsibilities include: • Review and provide guidance to management on sustainability issues and impacts, and the integration of sustainability into NIKE’s business, including innovation, product design, manufacturing and sourcing, and operations. • Review, provide guidance to management, and report to the Board on sustainability (including labor practices) within NIKE’s supply chain, and review reports of NIKE’s sustainability audits. • Review and provide guidance to management regarding NIKE’s work with industry organizations and non-governmental organizations concerning corporate responsibility. • Annually review the activities of the NIKE Foundation and NIKE community impact initiatives. • Review and make recommendations to management on reporting to shareholders and other communities regarding corporate responsibility activities. • Review, provide guidance to management, and report to the Board regarding the involvement of significant corporate responsibility issues in major business decisions, to protect NIKE’s valuable goodwill, and human and intellectual capital. • Review and make recommendations to the Board with respect to any shareholder proposal that relates to the matters overseen by the Committee. • Annually evaluate the performance of the Committee and report the results of the evaluation to the Board. • Review and assess annually the adequacy of the Committee’s charter. • Perform such other duties and functions as may, from time to time, be assigned to the Committee by the Board. FY18 10-K: Item 1A. Risk Factors: pages 60–67 (Annual Report) Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 FY18 10-K: Risk Management and Derivatives: pages 113–116 (Annual Report) environmental, and social impacts Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 STAKEHOLDER Issue Prioritization: page 8 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ENGAGEMENT Partnerships & Collaborations 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 59 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Partnerships & Collaborations See below 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Partnerships & Collaborations Sustainability Governance 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Issue Prioritization: page 8 REPORTING Entities included in the consolidated financial About This Report: page 2 102-45 PRACTICE statements FY18 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 55 (Annual Report) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Issue Prioritization: page 8 102-47 List of material topics Issue Prioritization: page 8 In cases where shifts in scope, methodology, and/or data quality have led 102-48 Restatements of information to changes in previously reported performance results, we’ve restated historically reported results. Details are provided below. DATA PAGE REASON Employee Data 14–15 All previously reported data was restated to show calendar year figures instead of fiscal year figures. Occupational Health & Safety Industry Rates & Codes 24 CY17 Industry Rates were adjusted to align with CY17 BLS rates, as at the time of NIKE’s FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report publication, CY17 BLS rates hadn’t yet been published and CY16 BLS rates were used instead. The Air MI Industry Code changed from 326100 (Plastics product manufacturing) to 326113 (Unlaminated plastics film and sheet [except packaging] manufacturing) to reflect a more accurate classification of the current manufacturing practices at NIKE, Inc. facilities. The Offices Industry Code changed from 561400 (Business Support Services) to 551114 (Corporate, subsidiary, and regional managing offices), which reflects a more accurate classification of the current NIKE, Inc. office activities. • Materials Target: Increase use of more sustainable materials 10, 38, 39, 40 FY16 and 17 target and measure performance values were adjusted, along with underlying reported cotton and polyester • Materials Measure: Source 100% of our cotton more sustainably volumes. Due to data availability limitations in the past, we reported Fall through Summer product in each fiscal year’s (certified organic, better cotton initiative or recycled) across NIKE performance value (e.g. FY17 was reported as FA16–SU17). To align with the 2020 target year Spring through Holiday 20 by the end of calendar year 2020 (SP–HO20), we’re now able to report SP–HO product for each fiscal year. Additionally, an error discovered in underlying data was corrected and the source for some material volume data was shifted. • Waste Target: Eliminate footwear manufacturing waste to landfill 10, 47, 48, 50 FY17 target and measure performance values were adjusted, along with underlying reported manufacturing waste volumes. or incineration, while continuing to reduce overall waste. The changes are due to improved data integrity and alignment with NIKE guidelines/definitions. • Waste Measure: Reduce waste index by 10%, covering footwear manufacturing, distribution centers, and headquarter locations FY18 NIKE Impact Report 65 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES DATA PAGE REASON • C arbon Measure: Decrease energy use and CO2e emissions 25% 10, 42, 43, 45, 46 FY15 through FY17 measure performance values were adjusted to include estimated natural gas consumption and per unit in key operations (inbound and outbound logistics, DCs, associated emissions for retail facilities outside of the U.S. and Canada (and landlord-managed retail facilities within the HQs, finished goods manufacturing, and NIKE-owned retail) U.S. and Canada), in alignment with Scope 1 and 2 emissions assurance activities, as well as other minor data integrity • Scope 1 Energy Consumed and Emissions improvements that slightly adjusted FY17 reported indirect energy consumption and emissions. Scope 1 energy consumption and emissions data were also restated to reflect a broader scope of coverage, with the addition of estimated natural gas consumption and associated emissions for retail facilities and non-HQ office facilities outside of the U.S. and Canada (and for landlord-managed sites within the U.S. and Canada), along with diesel, propane, and gasoline. Data Integrity Sustainability data is shaped by a landscape of evolving methodologies, advancing standards, and expansions in data accessibility over time. Adapting to these changes while maintaining comparability in our data is critical to instilling integrity and confidence in the validity of the insights the data provides. We understand that we must adapt and be nimble to keep pace with broadening data sets and emerging standards. We continue to focus on the internal controls in our sustainability data processes and systems. For the first time, we have obtained external assurance on select reported metrics (Scope 1 and 2 energy consumption and emissions, and Scope 3 commercial air travel emissions). More information can be found in the appendix. In cases where shifts in scope, methodology, and/or data quality have led to changes in previously reported performance results, we’ve restated historically reported results and provided context on the changes in the Restatements section of the Appendix. The data presented in this report has been collected, reviewed, and internally validated and represents the most complete and accurate information at the time of publication. NIKE will continue to be transparent on revisions to reported data in the future. GRI LOCATION AND UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Issue Prioritization: page 8 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report: page 2 102-50 Reporting period About This Report: page 2 102-51 Date of most recent report We published the FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report in May 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle NIKE reports on an annual reporting cycle. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@nike.com Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102-54 About This Report: page 2 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index: pages 66–74 PwC Assurance Letter: page 58 102-56 External assurance NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: pages 59–63 ECONOMIC GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE MATERIAL ASPECTS: Climate Change Risks Issue Prioritization: page 8 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 GRI 103: Boundaries Energy & Emissions MANAGEMENT Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 GRI 201: Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 Financial implications and other risks and ECONOMIC 201-2 Minimize Environmental Impact: Water: pages 51–52 opportunities due to climate change PERFORMANCE Energy & Emissions FY18 NIKE Impact Report 66 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT MATERIALS MATERIAL ASPECTS: Non-Renewable Resource Depletion Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 GRI 103: Boundaries Minimize Environmental Impact: Materials: pages 38–40 MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Minimize Environmental Impact: Materials: pages 38–40 103-2 APPROACH components Materials 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Materials: pages 38–40 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Minimize Environmental Impact: Materials: pages 38–40 8 MATERIALS Additional Information The top five material volumes reported include renewable materials: cotton and corrugate/paper; and non-renewable materials: polyester, rubber, and EVA foam. All material types reported are purchased from external suppliers except for EVA foam, which is sourced internally. Data reported consists of both direct measurements and estimates. While many materials are measured directly for a wide variety of products, total corrugate volumes are estimated using average packaging material used for each product group. The majority of cotton and polyester volume data is sourced using direct measurements, though product creation data is used to estimate material volumes for certain parts of the business. In FY18, NIKE shifted the data source used for reporting Nike brand apparel and footwear volumes as well as polyester volumes across all product engines. ENERGY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Energy Issue Prioritization: page 8 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 GRI 103: Boundaries Energy & Emissions MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 APPROACH 103-2 components Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 8 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 WATER MATERIAL ASPECTS: Water Use Issue Prioritization: page 8 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Minimize Environmental Impact: Water: pages 51–52 GRI 103: Boundaries Water MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Minimize Environmental Impact: Water: pages 51–52 APPROACH 103-2 components Water 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Water: pages 51–52 GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Minimize Environmental Impact: Water: pages 51–52 8 Additional Information Contract manufacturers report their freshwater withdrawal volumes and source to NIKE in accordance with NIKE’s Water Program, which outlines measurement practices and defines freshwater sources. The facility boundary is equivalent to the property boundary, and freshwater is inclusive of domestic and manufacturing uses. EMISSIONS MATERIAL ASPECTS: GHG Emissions Issue Prioritization: page 9 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103: 103-1 Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 Boundaries MANAGEMENT Energy & Emissions APPROACH The management approach and its Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 103-2 components Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 8 GRI 305: 305-2 Direct (Scope 2) GHG emissions Minimize Environmental Impact: Energy and Carbon: pages 41–46 EMISSIONS 305-3 Direct (Scope 3) GHG emissions FY18 NIKE Impact Report 67 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT Additional Information NIKE converts all energy consumed to kWhe using net calorific value of the direct fuels consumed, including transportation fuels. Emissions data for HFCs, PFCs, and SF6 are not reported. NIKE has phased out SF6 and therefore doesn’t have SF6 emissions. Emissions for other greenhouse gases are either not relevant, immaterial or data is not available. SCOPE 1 AND 2 For information on direct and indirect energy consumption, scope 1 and 2 emissions and the scope 3 emissions accounting standard used, see the Management Assertion letter. Additional breakdowns of scope 1 and 2 emissions are shown below. FUEL CONSUMPTION BY FUEL TYPE (MWh) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Natural Gas 153,342 157,002 175,197 183,861 Gasoline 1,616 2,130 2,653 2,496 Jet Fuel 12,411 16,972 13,105 14,586 Recycled Oil1 2,470 2,439 2,507 Hi-Sene 2,648 Diesel 1,236 1,251 1,251 1,308 Propane 520 520 519 523 TOTAL 171,595 180,314 195,232 205,421 1 R  ecycled oil was only consumed at one distribution center. Usage stopped in FY17. Reported values reflect consumption at this single facility. 2 Hi-sene is only consumed at one distribution center, starting in FY18. Reported values reflect consumption at this single facility. FUEL CONSUMPTION (MWh) & SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) BY COUNTRY/REGION FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Argentina 1,030 209 1,090 221 1,138 231 1,205 244 Australia 1,146 232 1,213 246 1,268 257 1,342 272 Austria 680 138 721 146 755 153 800 162 Belgium 11,399 2,309 10,959 2,220 15,155 3,070 12,745 2,582 Brazil 3,074 625 3,268 664 3,438 699 3,651 742 Canada 7,144 1,447 8,535 1,556 8,802 1,606 10,255 1,870 Chile 630 128 669 136 703 142 745 151 China 26,671 5,326 28,348 5,663 29,558 5,913 30,827 6,180 Croatia 209 42 218 44 224 45 235 48 Czech Republic 309 63 324 66 334 68 352 71 Denmark 432 88 456 92 473 96 500 101 Finland 96 20 99 20 99 20 103 21 France 3,504 710 3,712 752 3,885 787 4,115 834 Germany 5,316 1,077 5,589 1,132 5,787 1,172 4,643 940 Greece Hong Kong 370 75 380 77 380 77 393 80 Hungary 391 79 413 84 429 87 453 92 India 242 49 248 50 248 50 257 52 Indonesia 225 46 231 47 231 47 239 48 Ireland 273 55 290 59 305 62 324 66 Israel Italy 1,990 403 2,112 428 2,215 449 2,349 476 Japan 5,300 1,020 5,218 1,009 5,946 1,141 6,402 1,227 Malaysia 386 78 410 83 432 87 459 93 Mexico 3,454 700 3,685 747 3,896 789 4,147 840 Netherlands 1,183 240 1,253 254 1,310 265 1,387 281 New Zealand 84 17 89 18 93 19 98 20 Norway 422 86 440 89 450 91 472 96 Panama 21 4 21 4 21 4 22 4 Philippines 56 11 57 12 57 12 59 12 Poland 832 169 882 179 923 187 978 198 Portugal Russia 2,207 447 2,349 476 2,474 501 2,629 533 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 68 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT FUEL CONSUMPTION (MWh) & SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) BY COUNTRY/REGION CONTINUED FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Fuel Consumed Scope 1 Singapore 630 128 656 133 669 135 699 142 Slovakia 88 18 95 19 101 20 107 22 South Africa 795 161 859 175 900 183 954 194 South Korea 5,007 1,250 5,115 1,269 5,289 1,310 5,587 1,245 Spain 2,560 519 2,735 554 2,897 587 3,087 625 Sri Lanka 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 Sweden 452 92 471 95 481 97 503 102 Switzerland 515 104 543 110 565 114 597 121 Taiwan 38 8 40 8 43 9 46 9 Thailand 405 82 430 87 452 92 479 97 Turkey 1,173 238 1,246 252 1,308 265 1,116 226 United Arab Emirates 6 1 6 1 6 1 7 1 United Kingdom 5,057 1,024 5,390 1,092 5,689 1,152 6,051 1,226 United States 75,481 16,047 79,129 16,893 85,468 17,978 93,833 19,562 Uruguay 151 31 162 33 172 35 Vietnam 150 30 154 31 154 31 160 32 TOTAL 171,596 35,623 180,314 37,325 195,232 40,139 205,421 41,941 CARBON SCOPE MATRIX1 25% ENERGY AND CARBON 35% ENERGY AND CARBON SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY GAS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) IN SCOPE OUT OF SCOPE FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 10% PRODUCT PER UNIT REDUCTION2 CH4 166 171 179 110 PER UNIT REDUCTION PER UNIT REDUCTION FULL VALUE CO2 35,423 37,115 39,921 41,800 CARBON FOOTPRINT MOONSHOT N2O 35 37 38 31 CHAIN IMPACTS TOTAL 35,624 37,324 40,138 41,941 RE100 NIKE VALUE CHAIN TERMINOLOGY CORPORATE SERVICES STEAM CONSUMPTION (MWh) HQs FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Other Office Facilities and Steam 1,007 614 865 764 WHQ Building Construction Heat 0 0 0 0 Air MI Cooling 0 0 0 0 Corporate Jets Commercial Air Business Travel RAW MATERIALS PRODUCTION BIOMASS CO2 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2) Raw Materials Production FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 MATERIALS MANUFACTURING Biomass 4,696 4,254 3,051 2,422 Materials Manufacturing MATERIALS FINISHING Textile Dyeing and Finishing FINISHED GOODS MANUFACTURING FW, AP, and EQ Manufacturing LOGISTICS Inbound Logistics Outbound Logistics Distribution Centers RETAIL NIKE Direct CONSUMER USE Consumer Use END OF LIFE End of Life 1 Only NIKE-owned Retail (NIKE Direct) and Logistics (Distribution Centers, Inbound and Outbound Logistics) are in scope of NIKE commitments where designated as in scope. NonNIKE-owned Retail and Logistics are included in the Full Value Chain Impacts. 2 Target covers Nike brand apparel and footwear only. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 69 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWh) & SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWh) & SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) BY COUNTRY/REGION CO2e) BY COUNTRY/REGION FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Australia New Zealand Grid Electricity 1,399 1,456 1,487 808 Grid Electricity 91 62 94 144 Total Electricity 1,399 1,456 1,487 808 Total Electricity 91 62 94 144 Location-Based 1,122 1,097 613 Location-Based 1,129 17 10 13 18 Scope 2 Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2 1,129 1,122 1,097 613 Market-Based Scope 2 17 10 13 18 Belgium South Africa Grid Electricity 24,022 25,445 34,135 30,399 Grid Electricity 1,104 951 835 Onsite Solar 1592 1,418 1,624 2,579 Total Electricity 1,104 951 835 Total Electricity 25,613 26,863 35,759 37,791 Location-Based 1,045 965 831 Scope 2 Onsite Wind 4,814 Market-Based Scope 2 1,045 965 831 Location-Based 5,242 5,073 7,104 6,913 Scope 2 South Korea Market-Based Scope 2 89 81 58 241 Grid Electricity 1,599 1,742 1,874 1,864 Brazil Total Electricity 1,599 1,742 1,874 1,864 Grid Electricity 3,155 3,110 2,178 1,939 Location-Based 886 937 972 985 Scope 2 Total Electricity 3,155 3,110 2,178 1,939 Market-Based Scope 2 886 937 972 985 Location-Based 315 422 350 304 Scope 2 United States of America Market-Based Scope 2 315 422 350 304 Grid Electricity 285,364 318,111 337,669 357,141 Canada Onsite Solar 81 7 Grid Electricity 3,582 4,972 4,786 4,332 Steam 1,007 614 865 764 Total Electricity 3,582 4,972 4,786 4,332 Total Electricity 286,452 318,731 338,534 357,904 Location-Based Location-Based 567 748 698 659 153,273 157,752 177,067 159,661 Scope 2 Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2 179 456 354 293 Market-Based Scope 2 135,843 125,298 121,083 125,416 China Regional Extrapolation: Asia (excluding China) Grid Electricity 45,558 51,626 53,977 59,537 Grid Electricity 38,790 42,510 44,670 46,745 Onsite Solar 48 49 1906 2,045 Total Electricity 38,790 42,510 44,670 46,745 Total Electricity 45,606 51,675 55,883 61,581 Location-Based 26,603 28,246 30,765 17,230 Scope 2 Location-Based 33,268 36,788 36,880 39,300 Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2 26,603 28,246 30,765 17,230 Market-Based Scope 2 33,268 36,788 36,880 39,300 Regional Extrapolation: Europe Japan Grid Electricity 62,357 67,149 71,054 74,957 Grid Electricity 6,363 6,719 7,313 7,797 Total Electricity 62,357 67,149 71,054 74,957 Total Electricity 6,363 6,719 7,313 7,797 Location-Based 21,067 21,745 22,240 22,720 Scope 2 Location-Based 3,585 3,852 4,086 4,228 Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2 21,067 21,745 22,240 22,720 Market-Based Scope 2 3,585 3,852 4,086 4,228 Total: NIKE, Inc. Mexico Grid Electricity 482,359 534,229 570,818 598,081 Grid Electricity 1,445 1,352 1,603 1,536 Onsite Solar 1,721 1,474 3,530 4,623 Total Electricity 1,445 1,352 1,603 1,536 Onsite Wind 4,814 Location-Based Steam 1,007 614 865 764 718 653 735 708 Scope 2 Total Electricity 485,087 536,316 575,213 608,282 Market-Based Scope 2 718 653 735 708 Location-Based 250,493 262,354 287,256 259,103 Netherlands Scope 2 Grid Electricity 8,635 8,869 9,025 10,047 Market-Based Scope 2 228,680 225,772 224,489 218,240 Total Electricity 8,635 8,869 9,025 10,047 Location-Based Scope 2 3,823 3960 4,283 4,933 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORY AND OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES Market-Based Scope 2 4,982 5117 4,891 5,354 EMISSIONS EMISSIONS FACTOR SOURCE IEA World Electricity CO2 Emissions Factors Network for Transport Measurement (NTM) SCOPE 3 Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) Nominal Trade Lane Average Port – Port U.K. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) & GHG Protocol FY18 NIKE Impact Report 70 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORY AND OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS IN SCOPE OF MOONSHOT AMBITION FY18 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS CO2e AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY SOURCES EVALUATION STATUS UPSTREAM Emissions data is calculated using primary activity data and extrapolations. CO2e emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Nike Brand and Converse footwear finished goods manufacturing emissions data is derived from 100% primary data and represents nearly 90% of the emissions in Includes emissions across Nike brands and product finished goods manufacturing. For this subset, vendors provide monthly energy consumption: from 1 PURCHASED engines, including from raw materials production, materials the local utility grid, onsite generators, other fuels, and purchased steam. For electricity: kWh values GOODS AND 10,497,428 manufacturing, materials finishing, and finished goods are multiplied by CO2e emissions factors for electricity purchased from the local utility grid by the SERVICES manufacturing. country/region the factory resides in. For onsite generation and other fuels: CO2e emissions are calculated using the IPCC bottoms up calculation methodology. CO2e methodologies are used for emissions estimates outside of footwear finished goods manufacturing based on lifecycle analysis data and employ conservative assumptions to avoid understating NIKE’s footprint. 4Includes ~95% of global inbound transportation and ~90% Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon calculator against industry TRANSPORTATION of global outbound transportation via the following modes of standard emissions factors. For Air: Distance traveled (km) x cargo weight (kg) x Emission factor [g 647,907 AND DISTRIBUTION transportation: air, ocean, truck, and rail. Excludes non-NIKE of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. For all other modes: Distance traveled (km) x cargo volume (TEU) x Emission (UPSTREAM) paid freight. factor [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. Air CO2 emissions are estimated based on number and distance of trips. Short haul trips are less 6 BUSINESS 75,6451 Includes emissions from commercial air travel. fuel efficient per mile flown. Longer-haul flights become less efficient due to the need to carry TRAVEL more fuel. DOWNSTREAM There is no primary emissions data available for end of life treatment of NIKE’s products. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain footprint, we identified and quantified CO2e emissions created at each stage of the value chain. The impact of each individual product differs considerably, based on its profile, 12 END-OF-LIFE These emissions are associated with the disposal of products materials used, size and weight, method of manufacture, and location of production, use and TREATMENT OF 448,759 including landfill, recycling, and incineration. disposal. Several internal and external tools were used to develop this estimation including NIKE’s SOLD PRODUCTS Business and Environmental Scenario Tool (BEST), Enablon database, NIKE’s Apparel Sustainability Index, NIKE’s Footwear Sustainability Index, and NIKE’s Materials Sustainability Index. End of Life Stage: at the disposal stage we assumed the finished good is disposed of at the end of one year. 5 WASTE Emissions relative to the fate of the waste generated in our own Total HQs and DC waste not diverted from landfill multiplied by a lifecycle assessment-based GENERATED 2,245 operations including HQs and DCs. emission factor for municipal waste sent to landfill. IN OPERATIONS Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon calculator against industry 9standard emissions factors. For Air: Distance traveled (km) x cargo weight (kg) x Emission factor [g of TRANSPORTATION Includes emissions from non-NIKE paid freight. Excludes 113,173 CO2/ (TEU x km)]. For all other modes: Distance traveled (km) x cargo volume (TEU) x Emission factor AND DISTRIBUTION emissions from consumers traveling to stores. [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. Non-NIKE paid freight is determined by subtracting NIKE-paid inbound and (DOWNSTREAM) outbound freight from total units, separately. There is no primary emissions data available from use of NIKE’s products. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain footprint, we identified and quantified CO2e emissions created at each stage of the value chain. The impact of each individual product differs considerably, based on its profile, materials These emissions are associated with washing and drying used, size and weight, method of manufacture, and location of production, use, and disposal. NIKE’s sold apparel and socks. We assumed for the value Several internal and external tools were used to develop this estimation including NIKE’s Business chain footprint exercise that footwear and equipment were 11 USE OF and Environmental Scenario Tool (BEST), Enablon database, NIKE’s Apparel Sustainability Index, 8,090,266 not washed. Based on our footprinting work, we estimate SOLD PRODUCTS NIKE’s Footwear Sustainability Index, and NIKE’s Materials Sustainability Index. Consumer Usage: that about 36% of the emissions throughout our value chain Water and Energy Usage was estimated based on the following assumptions – only apparel units are emitted during the use phase of NIKE products. These and socks were considered. Each item was assumed washed 52 times in one year. The washing emissions are out of scope of NIKE’s moonshot ambition. assumptions were based on regional consumer washing practices and estimates of washing machine types by region. CO2e was based on regional conversion factors applied to the estimated energy usage. 1 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2017 to May 31, 2018, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 71 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ENVIRONMENT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS – NOT RELEVANT/NOT YET CALCULATED FY18 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS CO2e AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY SOURCES EVALUATION STATUS UPSTREAM NIKE does not have significant investment in capital goods 2 CAPITAL Not relevant as most manufacturing equipment is owned and operated by N/A GOODS contracted factories. 3 FUEL AND ENERGY-RELATED NIKE does not have significant use of fuel and energy-related ACTIVITIES Not relevant activities as our manufacturing is completed by contract N/A NOT INCLUDED IN factories. SCOPE 1 OR 2 Employee commuting is a relevant metric for NIKE, Inc. as 7 EMPLOYEE Relevant, not yet we had over 14,000 employees commuting just to our World N/A COMMUTING calculated Headquarters daily in FY18. We have not yet calculated the corresponding CO2 emissions for employee commuting. 8 UPSTREAM NIKE does not have significant emissions from upstream Not relevant N/A LEASED ASSETS leased assets. DOWNSTREAM 10 PROCESSING NIKE's products are finished consumer goods and do not OF SOLD Not relevant N/A undergo any additional processing once sold. PRODUCTS 13 DOWNSTREAM NIKE does not have significant emissions from downstream Not relevant N/A LEASED ASSETS leased assets. 14 FRANCHISES Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from franchises. N/A 15 INVESTMENTS Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from investments. N/A GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG EFFLUENTS AND WASTE MATERIAL ASPECTS: Effluents and Waste Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 GRI 103: Boundaries Minimize Environmental Impact: Waste: pages 47–50 MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Minimize Environmental Impact: Waste: pages 47–50 103-2 APPROACH components Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Impact: Waste: pages 47–50 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Minimize Environmental Impact: Waste: pages 47–50 8, 9 WASTE Additional Information Distribution center and office waste disposal method has been determined by information provided by waste disposal contractors. In some facilities, NIKE directly contracts with disposal providers for material-specific streams or specific containers. In other facilities, NIKE uses one provider for all waste streams. Contract manufacturers report their solid waste generation and disposal method to NIKE in accordance with NIKE’s Waste Program, which outlines separation and handling practices for non-hazardous waste and defines waste items and management methods. TOTAL WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONNES) GENERATED IN FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING1,2 FY16 FY17 FY18 Total Weight 6,858 7,311 8,178 1  Best available data reported to NIKE by manufacturing partners of finished goods. Excluded from scope is any hazardous waste generated from non-manufacturing activities. 2  Annual compliance audits verify that our partners are meeting the requirements in the NIKE Code Leadership Standards (CLS) for suppliers. Auditors confirm that partners have obtained all required permits and that hazardous waste vendors selected by the partners are properly qualified and licensed. The CLS also outlines storage requirements for any location that generates or stores 100 kg or more of hazardous waste each month. FY18 NIKE Impact Report 72 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index SOCIAL GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Occupational Health and Safety Issue Prioritization: page 8 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 28–30 GRI 103: Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues: pages 23–25 MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues: pages 23–25 APPROACH 103-2 components Culture of Health and Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues: pages 23–25 We disclose Total Case GRI 403: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Incident Rate (TCIR) and OCCUPATIONAL 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Unleash Human Potential: Priority Issues: pages 23–25 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR), HEALTH AND number of work-related fatalities which is considered industry SAFETY standard. TRAINING AND EDUCATION MATERIAL ASPECTS: Workforce Development Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 GRI 103: The management approach and its Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 MANAGEMENT 103-2 components People at NIKE APPROACH Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 404: TRAINING Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 AND EDUCATION performance and career development reviews Additional Information EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVE PERFORMANCE REVIEW (CFE RATING) CY2017 CY2018 CY2017 CY2018 GENDER % % EMPLOYMENT TYPE % % CFE Rating 92.21% 92.23% CFE Rating 93.67% 93.35% Female Full-time No CFE Rating 7.79% 7.77% No CFE Rating 6.33% 6.65% CFE Rating 92.46% 92.63% CFE Rating 88.83% 89.34% Male Part-time No CFE Rating 7.54% 7.37% No CFE Rating 11.17% 10.66% CFE Rating 92.34% 92.43% Grand Total No CFE Rating 7.66% 7.57% Notes: • Excludes temporary workers. • With the shift in timing to Calendar Year for this report it allows us to provide information on our Annual Performance Review processes when they are complete. Previously, our data cut-off (May 31) was in the early stages of our Performance Review cycles so we saw more employees without a performance rating. With the timing of our data being focused on later in the calendar year it allows us to provide information once our annual processes are complete which leads to the variance from previous reports. • Employees without a CFE include “Null” or “No Rating” values. • Employees with a “Too New to Rate” are included with employees with a rating. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Total Compensation Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 GRI 103: Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 103-2 APPROACH components People at NIKE 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 GRI 405: DIVERSITY Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of AND EQUAL 405-2 Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 14–18 women to men OPPORTUNITY FY18 NIKE Impact Report 73 Introduction Our Approach Unleash Human Potential Transform Manufacturing Minimize Environmental Footprint Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index SOCIAL GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG CHILD LABOR MATERIAL ASPECTS: Child Labor Issue Prioritization: page 8 Explanation of the material topic and its Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues: page 33 103-1 GRI 103: Boundaries Code of Conduct MANAGEMENT Code Leadership Standards (CLS) APPROACH The management approach and its Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues: page 33 103-2 components Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues: page 33 GRI 408: CHILD Operations and suppliers at significant risk 408-1 Transform Manufacturing: Priority Issues: page 33 1, 5 LABOR for incidents of child labor CHEMISTRY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Chemistry Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 53–56 GRI 103: Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 53–56 The management approach and its MANAGEMENT 103-2 Approach to Chemistry components APPROACH Chemistry Playbook Purpose Committee: page 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 53–56 CHEMISTRY N/A Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 53–56 ACTIVE KIDS MATERIAL ASPECTS: Active Kids Explanation of the material topic and its Issue Prioritization: page 8 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Community Impact: pages 19–22 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT The management approach and its Unleash Human Potential: Community Impact: pages 19–22 APPROACH 103-2 components Community Impact Purpose Committee: page 7 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Community Impact: pages 19–22 ACTIVE KIDS N/A Unleash Human Potential: Community Impact: pages 19–22 FY18 NIKE Impact Report 74
