SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS & MOBILISING HUMANITARIAN ACTION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 1 “Human rights matter for their own sake. They’re critical for individual wellbeing and must be upheld regardless of any other factors. But they can also drive successful businesses – and successful businesses in turn “The 2030 Agenda for can boost human rights. It’s a Sustainable Development is our mutually beneficial relationship.” template for Action. The business Her Excellency High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet community has an indispensable role to play, two key elements of success: reducing inequalities and respecting human rights.” Amina Mohammed, UN Deputy Secretary General 2 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 3 CEO STATEMENT OF SUPPORT 6 CONTENTS BECOMING A GLOBAL SDG PIONEER 8 GLOBAL GOALS WORLD CUP DUBAI 2018 10 ABOUT THIS REPORT 12 ABOUT CTG 16 NUMBERS FOR CHANGE 18 OUR MISSION & VISION 19 TEAM VALUES & APPROACHES 20 MEET THE TEAM 23 SPHERE OF INFLUENCE 26 CTG PERFORMANCE 28 GLOBAL IMPACT 30 GENDER EQUALITY 32 FEMALE FIRST 33 THE RIPPLE EFFECT OF GENDER EQUALITY 38 LEADING THE UAE WEPs TASKFORCE 40 PROGRESS IN NUMBERS: SDG5 44 SDG5 – TARGET 5.1 44 SDG5 – TARGET 5.2 46 SDG5 – TARGET 5.5 47 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH 48 SDG8 – TARGET 8.5 48 CTG INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 49 SDG8 – TARGET 8.8 52 DUTY OF CARE 52 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS 55 DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY AMONG PARTNERS 56 CTG GIVING: FEMALE ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN SOMALIA 57 PEACE, JUSTICE & STRONG INSTITUTIONS 58 BUSINESS FOR PEACE 60 RESPONDING TO THE MIGRATION CRISIS 60 BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES IN GAZA 62 PROGRESS IN NUMBERS SDG16 65 SDG16 – TARGET 16.1 65 SAFETRIP® 66 SDG16 – TARGET 16.3 67 SDG16 – TARGET 16.5 68 ENVIRONMENT: TREAD LIGHTLY CAMPAIGN 70 CTG STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 72 GRI CONTENT INDEX 73 4 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 5 SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS THROUGH MOBILIZING HUMANITARIAN ACTION Global Compact (UNGC) with a focus was funded by CTG Giving funds; 13 on Women’s Empowerment In Conflict women took part in the training with Settings at the 2018’s UN General three women sponsored to set up Assembly, a nomination that has only been bestowed upon 29 CEOs around the their own business at the end of it. 2018 SDG world since the SDG Pioneers were first recognised in 2016. Our nomination was Among the other highlights this year we hosted our first SDG Workshop in PIONEER a result of our dedication to our Female Gaza. The workshop addressed a UN For Women’s Empowerment First Initiative, which aims to provide report which declared Gaza “unlivable” equal opportunities to women. Our goal by 2020. We used the SDGs as a road is to have 30% female representation in all of our project-related roles by map to lead discussion with the public, private, and civil sectors. As a result of in Conflict 2030 – this year we reached 17.8% the workshop, we led the formation of an Settings SDG Council bringing all stakeholders On December 10, the world celebrated This past year, we also expanded our together to create tangible impact. the 70th anniversary of the Universal footprint and are currently supporting Declaration of Human Rights. The over 100 different humanitarian projects Whether you are our partner, client, Declaration continues to serve as in conflict-affected countries across the beneficiary, staff, or friend living in Gaza, the foundation of freedom, justice Middle East, Africa and Asia. We pride Kabul or Geneva, we invite you to explore and peace in the world, and is at the ourselves on our operational capability in this report and read more about our core of the Sustainable Development reaching difficult and remote communities progress, and our commitment to making Goals (SDGs). It, too, is at the heart of who need support whilst simultaneously human rights a reality to all. We truly value Committed to Good’s (CTG’s) work. ensuring that our staff remain safe and our relationships and would welcome have the support they need to get the any opportunities to partner in the future This yearly report captures our ongoing job done. To this end, we currently or help provide the support you need. leadership and commitment to human have 3,000 professional contractors rights. Whether it’s our support to new deployed and our team reached millions programmes in challenging communities of beneficiaries throughout 2018. or our philanthropic efforts to serve marginalized populations, we never In areas where we recognized a gap of stop innovating. As a thriving business, service or need, we responded. And this we believe that we have a duty to lead year was no different. Over the summer, Alice Laugher by example, provide our staff with the we supported an Entrepreneurship CEO CTG greatest care, and implement bespoke Training Programme for victims of Board Member of UNGC UAE Local and professional services for our partners. Gender-Based Violence in Somalia, a Network & Chair of WEPs UAE For this leadership, I was recognized as partnership with the Elman Peace an SDG Pioneer by the United Nations & Human Rights Foundation. This 6 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 7 2018 SDG PIONEER For Women’s BECOMING A GLOBAL Empowerment in Conflict LEADERS FOR ACTION SDG PIONEER Settings Three years into the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the United Nations Global Compact Leaders Summit celebrated the achievements and highlighted the areas where more progress is urgently Each year, the UN Global Compact celebrates a group required. CTG was honoured to be part of the conversation. of SDG Pioneers — individuals from around the world who are championing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through their companies and inspiring others to join the movement. With only 10 people selected globally, it was a great honour that one of the SDG Pioneers selected this year was CTG CEO, Alice Laugher. Alice was selected as an SDG Pioneer for Women’s Empowerment in Conflict Settings. The SDG Pioneers were recognized during the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2018 on the 24th September at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York. An SDG Pioneers Selection Group, comprised of representatives from the UN Global Compact Board Members, Expert Networks, Global Compact Network Council, Academia, UN Focal Points and previous SDG Pioneers, voted on the nominees based on a set of criteria. This criteria covers the individual’s commitment to embed the Ten Principles and raise awareness on the SDGs, as well as their engagement with the UN Global Compact and its Local Networks. “These ten outstanding individuals are demonstrating At the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit, Alice was also invited to join the CEO Roundtable discussion on “Closing the Inequality how business can unlock Gap: Human Rights as a Driver for Successful Business” as one of 31 global business leaders. The discussion was chaired by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations Amina J Mohammed. economic, social and environmental gains for “Unless you address “Alice passionately encourages others within the world by advancing the gender equality, you the humanitarian and private sectors to Sustainable Development Goals. aren’t even going to consider their recruitment choices. A driving Showcasing the pioneering begin to start changing force for gender equality in the UAE as Chair of actions and progress of these any form of basic WEPs Taskforce, she looks beyond hiring more leaders will help mobilize others human rights in the women, to training and support for long-lasting in this exciting movement to countries we work in.” gender equality. I was very proud to nominate create the world we all want.” Alice Laugher commenting at the CEO her as an SDG Pioneer.” Roundtable discussion in New York. Lise Kingo, CEO & Executive Director, UN Global Compact Salwa Nassar, CTG Civil Engineer, Gaza 8 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 9 GLOBAL GOALS WORLD CUP DUBAI 2018 The Global Goals World Cup is an activist soccer tournament that uses the power of sport to connect girls and women around the world to take action on the United Nations 17 Goals. The all-women tournament takes place in different countries each year – with the finalists competing against each other in New York, the week of the UN General Assembly. CTG was honoured to be chosen to be part of the Global Goals World Cup UAE, on 19th January, playing for our favourite Development Goal SDG5: Gender Equality. Our team went beyond the Dubai office, with players who were passionate about gender equality invited to join from our country offices. Our final team players came from the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Sudan and Libya. “I am proud of all the women who took part in the tournament – it wasn’t just about scoring goals, it was about raising awareness and taking action on the SDGs to make the world a better place for everyone. Each and every one of them were incredible in this movement, in that essence we were one huge team!” Helen Rees, Executive Assistant and CTG team player “Seeing women kicking the soccer ball on the pitch was a resounding message of victory towards gender equality. CTG has since erased the question, ‘Can women do this?’. That alone is unlimited empowerment for me. With my new lens, I see possibilities only.” Svitsai Kunyenya, Talent Management and Gender Specialist and CTG team player 10 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 11 An active Board Member of the UNGC in the UAE, where CTG’s ABOUT THIS REPORT head office is based, our CEO Alice Laugher has contributed to the local networks’ success and growth to over 137 companies and A very warm welcome to all readers of Committed to Good’s (CTG’s) third Sustainability Report also incorporating our United Nations non-business organizations joining the initiative. The UNGC Local Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP). We share with you here the progress we have made on the targets set at the Network UAE has supported the efforts to advance sustainable end of last year’s reporting period, our 2018 highlights and ambition and goals set for 2019. business practices since 2015 across the Emirates. REPORTING PERIOD TOPIC BOUNDARIES This report presents CTG’s performance and progress as regards sustainability in 2018. We acknowledge that there are gaps that will need to be WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES (WEPS) addressed in the future. We are committed to actively improving The Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) are a set of Principles for businesses offering guidance on achieving gender equality our existing data collection mechanisms to ensure a higher in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of a collaboration between the United Nations Entity for Gender METHODOLOGY level of disclosure on our performance in future reports. Not all Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. These Principles seek to point the Internal and external stakeholders were consulted during the stakeholder views could be considered for this report. way to best practice by elaborating the gender dimension of corporate responsibility, the UN Global Compact, and business’ role in data collection, and assessment and interviews were held to sustainable development. help identify CTG’s environmental, social, and economic impact and the progress made on set targets. FEEDBACK AS A SIGNATORY OF 4 Every year achieving the SDGs becomes a deeper part of CTG’s operational DNA as we set targets, measure our impact and  P  romotes education, training and professional REPORTING FRAMEWORK This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI implement new ideas for improvement. WEPS CTG: development for women and men Standards. It includes CTG’s CoP on the United Nations Global 1 5 CTG welcomes your feedback in regards to this report at Compact (UNGC) 10 Principles and United Nations Women csr@ctg.org.  Has established high-level corporate leadership for  Implements enterprise development, supply chain and Empowerment Principles. The report also outlines CTG’s gender equality marketing practices that empower women contribution to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES 2   Treats all women and men fairly at work – respects and support human rights and non-discrimination 6  P romotes equality through community initiatives and advocacy The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective 3 7 action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The UNGC is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles  E  nsures the health, safety and wellbeing of all women M easures and publicly reports on progress to achieve in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. and men workers gender equality As an active Participant of the UNGC, CTG adheres to its 10 principles and follows their principle-based approach to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. CTG’s CEO Alice Laugher is the Chair of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) UAE Taskforce. In 2018, Alice and the team have seen more than 62 companies sign the WEPs in the UAE. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should support and respect should uphold the freedom of should support a precautionary should work against all forms the protection of internationally association and the effective approach to environmental of corruption, including proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to challenges; extortion and bribery. collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake they are not complicit in human of all forms of forced and initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. compulsory labour; environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 5: The effective PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the abolition of child labour; development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 12 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 13 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH Businesses play a central role in advancing SDG 8, as they account for the majority of GDP in most countries as well as the majority of jobs. The foundation of supporting decent work is the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Decent work as defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO) is work that is productive and delivers a fair income; security in the workplace; social protection for families; better prospects for personal development and social integration; freedom for people to express their concerns, organize and participate in the decisions that affect their lives; and equality of opportunity and treatment for all women and men. During this year’s reporting period CTG focuses on the following SDG 8 Targets: Due to the nature of our business supporting humanitarian and development efforts in fragile and conflict-affected countries, we decided to align our efforts with the three Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) where we can really make a difference: SDG 5, 8 and 16. GENDER EQUALITY The private sector has an important role to play in advancing gender equality. All businesses have a fundamental responsibility to respect the rights of women and girls, as per the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. PEACE, JUSTICE & STRONG INSTITUTIONS Businesses have a vitally important role to play in respecting and supporting peace, During this year’s reporting period CTG focuses on the following SDG 5 Targets: justice, and strong institutions, both globally and in the countries in which they operate. SDG 16 is highly interconnected to all of the other Goals. Without a peaceful, just and inclusive society, which is supported by strong institutions, the 2030 Agenda cannot be achieved. During this year’s reporting period CTG focuses on the following SDG 16 Targets: 14 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 15 ABOUT CTG London Since 2006, CTG has been supporting clients globally in fragile, conflict-affected countries and disaster environments through our specialised recruitment, HR management and operational services. At the heart of our success is our access to high-quality, experienced national and international consultants and our indepth knowledge of the working realities in challenging locations. Today we are honoured to serve clients in 25 fragile and conflict-affected states assisting with disaster relief, peace building, humanitarian aid and development programmes. GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Dubai The environments in which CTG operates are often lawless and poorly governed, with the potential for individuals to be exposed to extreme risk and personal injury. It is the visibility CTG has in the fragile and conflict-affected countries we operate in, which encouraged us to commit to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 2974 CTG consultants 41 clients NORTH AFRICA SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA WEST & CENTRAL ASIA SOUTH EAST ASIA Egypt Djibouti Sierra Leone Afghanistan Philippines Libya Ethiopia Somalia Gaza Tunisia Kenya Sudan Iraq Liberia South Sudan Pakistan Mali Uganda Syria Yemen Cape Town 16 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 17 NUMBERS FOR CHANGE 12 290 Number of years that CTG has been creating job opportunities for men and women in conflictEMPOWER WOMEN AND GIRLS affected countries 30% The number of local women currently employed by CTG in Afghanistan working on projects such as literacy 244% Percentage of courses, construction, assisting IDPs, OUR MISSION The minimum amount of women CTG food distribution and monitoring To enable change in conflict-affected countries. increase of females will employ in project-related roles in registering with CTG conflict-affected countries by 2030, 710 through our Female First Initiative OUR VISION AT CTG, WE COMMIT TO: 21 Number of post-disaster and To be the number-one trusted partner 89% conflict-affected countries The number of local women currently for development and humanitarian • Conducting our business in a socially • Respecting the human rights of men, CTG has experience in employed by CTG in fragile and agencies providing employment and responsible and ethical manner; women and children; conflict-affected countries supporting logistic services. To be recognised for humanitarian and development efforts our commitment to uphold human rights, • Promoting anti-bribery and anti-corrupt • Engaging, learning from, respecting Percentage of CTG teams stand up to corruption and to play a role practices; and supporting the communities and who are local nationals in creating gender equality in fragile cultures within which we work; and states. • Honouring the law, local labour standards and best practice; • Protecting the environment and the safety of people and our stakeholders. OUR VALUES Respect for the fundamental human EMPOWERING THE YOUTH CTG’S CORE VALUES ARE: rights of our staff, and those our staff 2013 2018 encounter is a cornerstone of our values. We strive to empower women in conflict • Integrity • Operational excellence settings, for inclusion and diversity, and to provide fair and equal opportunities for • Accountability • Respect The year that CTG started its Youth The year that CTG started supporting all. With a focus on the 2030 Agenda for Ambassador and Internship Programme Elman Peace & Human Rights Center’s Sustainable Development and national • Transparency • Inclusion offering paid, mentored internships to female entrepreneurship training for victims of capacity building, CTG enforces the graduates gender-based violence in Mogadishu highest ethical standards at all times • Lawful and ethical conduct while also ensuring that duty of care is extended to all those we are charged with servicing. 8 2018 SDG 5 PIONEER For Women’s We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and endeavor to stay true to local Empowerment in Conflict labour laws and all local statutory requirements. This commitment is ingrained in our Settings core values, and we aim to demonstrate these responsibilities through our actions and 16 within our corporate policies. 18 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 19 TEAM VALUES & APPROACHES OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE DRIVE & FOCUS CTG specialises in the humanitarian and development sector, and we take pride in the impact we have on those living Ambitious and focused on achieving our goals, we are determined to be a company with a strong sense of purpose. in the world’s most fragile environments. The quality of our work has a direct impact on our Social Good goals, and Results-driven, with clear targets, we monitor progress regularly and effectively. With confidence in our own abilities everyone at CTG feels inextricably linked to those goals and our sense of purpose. In our latest Team Temperature and courage to take situations head-on in a responsible, professional and with integrity, we are inherently driven by Check, 30% ‘agreed’ and 62% ‘strongly agreed’ with the sentence “I feel strongly aligned with CTG’s values and delivering the best outcomes for our clients and stakeholders. We act according to our stringent code of conduct at all purpose.” We are responsive, and take pride in solving problems. We strive to be experts in our field, and people look times. to us for solutions. BEHAVIOURS: BEHAVIOURS: Target Driven Courage Confidence Innovation Training Responsiveness Sets appropriate Challenges status Demonstrates belief in Never sits still or Shares knowledge Is a role model for targets; measures and quo in a professional self and the Company accepts the status openly and generously, getting stuff done reports on progress manner, looks for better quo, always looking for pulls others along the and solving problems ways to do things better ways to do things journey, seeks the quickly progress of others Resilience Integrity Research Good Governance Is tenacious and thrives Acts ethically and Constantly seeks new Committed to ethical on hard work delivers on his/her word knowledge and to learn business behaviour, from others within the considers the welfare of industry or from the all stakeholders and the academic world wider community TAKING RESPONSIBILITY Consultants, Clients, and CTG come first. We adopt a ‘don’t walk by’ attitude of dealing with issues as they arise not leaving it to somebody else. When working with others or delegating responsibility, it’s essential to maintain overall accountability for effective delivery. We promote and uphold the highest ethical standards at all times. The value of collective success, shared experience and knowledge at every opportunity is understood, supporting and driving others to realize their potential. BEHAVIOURS: Developing Others Seeks Stretch Not Standing Still Invests in others for Drives own personal Has high expectations collective growth and development for self and others benefit Professionalism Integrity Company First Demonstrates a sense Is a role model for Puts the interest of the of ownership for acting ethically and company before self planning and delivery responsibly at all times 20 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 21 CODE OF CONDUCT MEET THE TEAM At CTG, our approach to corporate sustainability starts with our internal value system and a principled approach to business. We take a principled based approach to meeting fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The environments in which CTG operates are often lawless and poorly governed, with the potential for individuals to be exposed to extreme risk and personal injury. Our Code of Conduct is designed so that adherence to it by CTG ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE Stakeholders will ensure their wellbeing and ensure that CTG conducts itself as a responsible business, with integrity. CEO “CTG expects all Stakeholders to be courteous, fair and honest in their dealings with all other Stakeholders, Third Parties and clients. CTG will not tolerate abuse, bullying, violence, exploitation (sexual or other), COO discrimination, harassment, arrogance, forced labour, slavery or any disparagement of other Stakeholders or of its clients, or behaviour by any person which is unfair towards or with respect to any other person or group. A zero-tolerance approach is taken for any threats of, or actual, GLOBAL COUNTRY OPERATIONS & COMMS FINANCE CSR violence, sexual exploitation, abuse, verbal or psychological harassment, DIRECTOR LEGAL DIRECTOR ACCOUNT DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR or corruption.” From CTG’s Code of Conduct COUNTRY TALENT EXECUTIVE DIGITAL MANAGER MOBILISATION BID MANAGER CTG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSISTANT (COM, DCM) MANAGER MANAGER Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of a company’s many stakeholders, such as management, consultants, staff, employees, customers, suppliers, and the community. CTG GOOD GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The role of the Good Governance Committee (GGC) at The GGC meets quarterly to review compliance with CTG is to meet on behalf of the Executive Leadership CTG’s Code of Conduct and to discuss new initiatives to team to ensure strategic direction of the business ensure continual alignment and improvement to CTG’s is being followed, assessing and identifying any governance and ethical processes. From time to time, the commercial risks and seeking mitigation of future risks, to GGC seeks external advice and guidance from industry ensure ethical behaviours within the company, to ensure leaders, NGOs and academics relevant to CTG’s sphere compliance with policies, standards and procedures. of operations. TALENT FIELD COUNTRY DEVELOPING BRANDING DIGITAL ACCOUNT MOBILEGAL FINANCE The Good Governance Committee is appointed by the SECURITY SUPPORT MANAGER LISATION SUPPORT COUNTRY BID TEAM & CREATIVE TEAM SOLUTIONS CEO, and it acts as an unofficial auditing body for CTG’s OFFICER TEAM TEAM AM TEAM TEAM corporate governance. KEY: ELT SMT HoDs TEAMS 22 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 23 “2016 and 2017 were years of centralization in order to achieve standardization of our services, automation and quality control as we grew rapidly into new countries and new services. Now that we have established our standard practices, 2018 has been about empowering the country offices to take ownership for project delivery, customer service and growth. The sustainable growth for CTG will come from the grass roots level, hence we have invested heavily in new personnel, 89% of whom are local, who have a long term “Providing personnel, project commitment to the humanitarian management and services in projects we are supporting and conflict environments can be to establishing CTG in their very challenging – CTG is fully countries of operation. We committed to supporting the have invested a lot of energy in 17 Sustainable Development selecting and training our local Goals (SDGs) and ensuring teams and driving our core values the ‘wellbeing’, progress and across all our operations.” development of vulnerable James Veysey, COO communities in all the postconflict affected countries where CTG operates.” Penny Wilcocks, Deputy Director of Post Conflict People, CTG Board Member 24 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 25 CTG SPHERE MAXIMISING OUR OF INFLUENCE SOCIAL IMPACT Our stakeholders’ best interests are our priority. A sustainability strategy is only CTG has many stakeholders with THROUGH OUR as good as its implementation. Thus it’s crucial all stakeholders are on board and inspired to take action. Regular and transparent communication with our stakeholders allows us to build relationships and create mutual understanding. varying levels of influence over each. The most influential being: NETWORKS DIRECT INFLUENCE • Suppliers • Consultants & Contractors CTG HIGHLIGHTS & ACHIEVEMENTS • Permanent Employees INDIRECT 2017 2018 INFLUENCE • Local Community • NGOs • Clients CEO launches and chairs the UAE Taskforce for WEPs. As the Chair of the UAE WEPs achieved more than 62 signatories of local businesses and launching advocacy campaigns in the UAE. Other highlights included: Launches Female First Initiative and CTG Mentoring and Internship Programme, which is female-focused. • Ring the Bell for Gender Equality • Corporate partnerships to engage potential CEO moderates a panel discussing the ‘Year of signatories and enabling public signing. Giving’. Outcome of panel reinforces CTG’s decision to focus on the three SDGs where most difference • Engaged in advocacy events (eg. DMCC can be made: SDG5, 8 and 16 Knowledge Series, WIL, etc) • 78 billboards sponsored by JC Decaux CTG attends Private Sector Forum down the Jumeirah Beach Road INFORM • Training and Awareness sessions engaging newsletters, social media (One way process of across the areas of operation and UNGC Leaders Summit • Policies and Procedures Launched internal Change Champion initiative providing information • Marketing campaigns and internal and to stakeholder) • Reporting Launches rebrand of CTG. Colours of branding external communication e.g. website, aligned with 4 of the 5 key themes of SDG framework: Rewarded 2018 SDG Pioneer for Empowerment of Partnership, People, Peace and Prosperity Women in Conflict Settings at UN Global Compact CONSULT • Satisfaction Surveys for employees, clients • Written and verbal communications Leaders’ Summit at UN headquarters in New York (asking questions) and suppliers Wins 2 awards: SDG Pioneer Award in the Peace category from UNGC UAE Local Network. SDG workshop is held in Gaza, promoting local INVOLVE • Share expertise on local Labour Law • Yearly Employee satisfaction survey, Face to Most Women-Friendly Employer Award from partnership for achievement of the SDGs (Two way Face meetings Women in Leadership Economic Forum • Change Champion initiative Continual training and capacity building on respecting engagement & learning) • Events and brainstorming sessions rights, social impact and advancing gender equality COLLABORATE • Partnerships • Sharing best Practices (Joint learning • Advocacy decision making & actions) EMPOWER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CTG engages with stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, including direct dialogue, the CTG Code of Conduct, (Stakeholders play a role in governance) satisfaction surveys, written communications and reporting. 26 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 27 CTG PERFORMANCE TEAM TEMPERATURE CHECK Every six months, we send out a Team Temperature Check to our staff where the team are given the opportunity to share their feedback, both positive and negative. This helps management understand how the team are feeling about their roles, measure how well they are communicating and gather ideas for improvement. Feedback collected from our stakeholders helps to understand At CTG, we are dedicated to a quality service delivery. and communicate our goals, progress and performance more Our internationally recognised ISO9001 certification is a SURVEY STATEMENTS ON STAFF'S CONTENTMENT IN THEIR ROLES closely with stakeholder expectations. We are determined to testament to this and is one of the reasons why CTG is a trusted continuously develop and improve our operations and workplace partner for enabling humanitarian projects. environment, including overcoming any suspected discriminatory • I am happy in my job • I get the right training barriers in the local workplace, marketplace and community. and development to be • I am able to use all of my effective in my job skills in my job • I am satisfied with my • I feel that I am learning work/life balance CUSTOMER SURVEY and growing in my job Our customer survey asks our clients for feedback on Recruitment and Onboarding, Administration, Insurances, • I feel that my salary Communication, Duty of Care, Social Responsibility, Areas of Strength and Areas of Improvement. • I feel strongly aligned reflects the value of my with CTG's values and role purpose • I value the employment SURVEY QUESTIONS ON • I would like to develop benefits at CTG (leave, a long-term career with insurance etc) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CTG • Are you aware of CTG’s Commitment to SDG5, 8, and 16? • Are you aware of CTG’s Female First Initiative? TAKEAWAY NUMBERS ON TEAM TEMPERATURE CHECK: • Have you noticed changes since CTG 62% 66% 85% 91% brought in its Female First Initiative? • Is a commitment to sustainability something you look for in your providers/partners? strongly agree with CTG’s strongly agree that they would like to agreed they get the right support value the employment benefits values and purpose develop a long term career with CTG from senior management at CTG (leave, insurance etc) • Does CTG’s commitment to the SDGs impact your professional opinion of the company? TEAM WORKSHOP Field Engagement Week (FEW) one of these awards goes to takes place in December and Mahmoud Shehada who was TAKE-AWAY NUMBERS ON CTG’S SUSTAINABILITY the majority of our team from the driving force behind our COMMUNICATION WITH CLIENTS: the field join head office in the SDG Workshop in Gaza in UAE for a two-day workshop. September. He wanted to bring One of the key sessions is the company’s sustainability 42.86% 50% 28.57% 57.14% working through the summary and social responsibility of the Team Temperature initiatives into the local Check, committing to actions to community. Mahmoud came up of clients are aware of clients are not of clients are aware of CTG’s of clients are not aware of improve moving forward. with idea and took guidance of Female First aware of Female First commitment to the SDGS CTG’s commitment to the SDGs from leadership as to our Our annual Superhero Award impact initiatives, managed the goes to a member of staff who whole event, ensuring over 120 has excelled at their job but attendees, and looked at next COMMITMENT: CTG will focus on a Social Responsibility communication campaign in 2019, to raise these numbers and also supported their team, steps to take action and drive ensure that our clients are aware of our commitment to sustainability. and been a shining example our initiatives locally. for the rest of CTG. This year TEAM PHOTO FROM FEW 28 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 29 CTG’S GLOBAL IMPACT – 2018 HIGHLIGHTS It doesn’t matter how large or small your business is, at CTG we believe in being resourceful and creative with what is within your capability to make a difference. We didn’t want to try to take action for all 169 targets of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) but chose three SDGs where we as responsible, global citizens could contribute in a meaningful and measurable way. Our Consultants, however, work on a wide range of humanitarian and development projects that impact the SDGs in many ways. Some of the key highlights have been included in the below map. LEBANON LIBYA MALI SUDAN BURUNDI SOUTH GAZA SOMALIA YEMEN AFGHANISTAN Enabled women’s Enabled a project Mobilised Engaged Sourced SUDAN Recruited and Projects in CTG mobilised Our consultants are empowerment that employs IDPs International to manage International CTG Airdrop manage a team Somalia include field monitors engaged in the construction workshops in Tunisia, living in camps Quality Assurance transporting a Quantity Coordinators of 250 male and IDP resettlement, who are of the Trans-Hindukush Libya and Lebanon, to assist the and Operations monthly average of Surveyors run highfemale engineers counselling and life monitoring Road Connectivity Project such as “Mobilizing psychosocial units Officers and Mine 6000 metric tons and Local altitude airdrop who monitor the support, as well as human rights (THRCP) improving Women in the MENA identify the most Risk Education of food aid across National operations reconstruction Monitoring of IDPs. violations road transport across Region: Strategies For vulnerable groups Specialists Sudan, transported Project and to the most of buildings and across the the mountain range. Peace in Libya” and who need assistance, on demining in trucks across Field Site conflictinfrastructure and country. “Regional Platform on such as the elderly, projects. challenging terrain. Engineers. affected areas, the appropriate Gender and Prevention widows, youth supporting food use of materials. of Violent Extremism at risk and those security and in North Africa”. with disabilities. nutrition. 30 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 31 CTG 2018 PROGRESS AND SUCCESSES FEMALE FIRST INITIATIVE OUR GOAL PEOPLE BY 2030, 30% OF ALL Nothing is possible PROJECT-RELATED ROLES WILL without the skills of our accomplished teams. We BE REPRESENTED BY WOMEN employ men and women and are passionate about achieving SDG 5 for gender equality. Female First was established to encourage our recruiters, in-country teams and our clients to rebalance the gender scales when it comes to our humanitarian teams on the ground. In order to achieve our goal 60% of all candidates CTG puts forward must be women. Whilst GENDER EQUALITY good progress has been made in 2018, we hope to see at least a 2% increase in female candidates each year. With a female CEO, Gender Equality is a priority On doing a deep-dive review into our projects and throughout the organisation and has been a priority assessing our stakeholders, we realised that the main for our business before the 2030 Agenda. Our beneficiaries of the aid that CTG helps to deliver are office-based team has had a gender ratio of almost women and children. However, only 8% of our project50:50 for many years and so we have seen first-hand related staff were women. It was this revelation the value of having gender-balanced workplaces. which made us place SDG5 at the centre of our social CHALLENGES SOLUTIONS 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS good strategy and led to us launching the Female • Cultural challenges We will continue to: • Gender bias has been unlocked with recruiters and clients First initiative on International Women’s Day 2017. responsible for selecting staff, with all committed to supporting • Reaching qualified • Educate local communities CTG’s Female First initiative, including contract KPIs that insist 89% and interested on bias around women in the female candidates are represented forward for all roles. CTG employs 89% local people on CTG continues with our Female First female candidates workplace. our projects, in fragile countries like project that commits to having 30% • We have implemented and worked with clients to increase • Guaranteeing • Focus on reaching more female Sudan, Yemen and Afghanistan – this of our project-related roles in conflictbudgets to allow for gender-sensitive working environments. Gender Sensitive candidates by increasing visibility, ensures funds and resources go back affected countries represented by Training in via outreach programmes and • All staff are trained on gender sensitivities and unconscious bias into the local economy. women by 2030. inaccessible and helping women access online • We have implemented the WEPs Principles and signed up to the hard-to-reach applications. WEPs in all our eligible offices. We continue to use our influence locations • Engage and network with in the local communities we work within both at headquarters A female-founded and run business, We pride ourselves on having many where our CEO Chairs the WEPs and in our field offices. • Conscious and existing female consultants, our office-based team has a gender of the Country Management roles, unconscious bias including a “Refer a Friend” • Our supply chain has been asked to publicly commit to the WEPs ratio of almost 50:50. leading operations and projects, filled • Additional cost policy. and our retained talent sets to prove our equality status in our by women: this includes high-risk implications • Create further E-Learning workplace. operations in Yemen, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Libya, Tunisia, Iraq and & Video training for SEA, • We have advocated for the right for all women to take maternity Mali. whistleblowing and other gender benefits across our project roles and have had the right for sensitive issues. maternity benefits for all women written into our largest contract. 32 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 33 A GENDER BALANCED WORKPLACE OUR CLIENTS AGREE GENDER OFFICE-BASED STAFF PROJECT ROLES CANDIDATES EQUALITY IS NON-NEGOTIABLE We are proud of the gender Women are in the minority when it First things first: in order to achieve balance that we have comes to our in-country humanitarian the goals of Female First, we need achieved in our offices. and development positions; CTG is to lay strong foundations and When one of our major global contracts was extended this CTG’s monthly reports to the client will also include two determined to change this. increase the number of women year, CTG worked with the client to ensure that a clause be new KPIs (percentage of female candidates put forward and registered on our database. included in the contract obliging CTG to present a minimum percentage of female consultants actually contracted for number of female candidates for every role. By building project roles) so that progress is consistently monitored and in legal Female First obligations we hope to communicate measured. WHERE WE WERE THEN: 2017 with our clients that gender equality is a business priority. THE WAY FORWARD In order to have more women selected for roles the CTG recruitment team are using the funnel approach to: 47.17% 9.20% 14.91% Female Female Female • Build a bigger pool of qualified female profiles. • It is our responsibility to ensure female candidates of the best possible calibre are sourced. 52.83% 90.80% 85.09% Male Male Male • Increase the male/ female ratio per submission to 1:1. Implying for every submission there has to be a minimum • It is up to our clients to insist on diverse candidates for of two males and two females. every position and to be aware of any bias involved in final selection decisions. • With the ratio of females to males equal, the assumption (probability) is that the chance of female candidates WHERE WE ARE NOW: 2018 getting selected for roles increases thus bridging the gender gap. 48.2% 17.8% 17% Female Female Female 51.8% 82.2% 83% Male Male Male “Progress on gender diversity at work has We continue to drive Female First. In 2019 we will see our outreach in local offices increasing with stalled. To achieve equality, companies must the addition of new Talent Acquisition staff in the field. Their challenge will be capacity building turn good intentions into concrete action.” and increasing our talent pool in some of the more difficult territories to implement this, such as “Women In The Workplace 2018”, a study by McKinsey and LeanIn Somalia, Libya and South Sudan. 34 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 35 FEMALE FIRST – NO ROLE IS TOO DIFFICULT TRAINING FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE: FOR A WOMAN FEMALE FIRST IN GAZA S ome of CTG's female staff give insight into their work and how they are making a difference in the field. Nasra Starting on 17 November 2018, CTG Account Manager 25 female graduates every week and gives four hours of Mahmoud Shehada has been hosting a weekly Female First training on job applications and interview techniques. At M&E consultant, East Africa initiative in partnership with the Oxford Centre in Gaza, an the end of the sessions the students are given a certificate educational centre with a focus on teaching English. ‘How to thanking them for their attendance. “I monitor the implementation of assistance programmes. This Stand Out From The Crowd & Get The Job You Want’ invites involves monitoring and reviewing food deliveries, storage, transport and distribution at the designated sites. I undertake post-distribution monitoring by obtaining beneficiary perspective and feedback reports, which ensures the community is happy TOPICS COVERED INCLUDE: with the work we are doing. • Writing a professional CV and cover letter • Marketing yourself and building your credentials on Working in the field can be dangerous. Before visiting the LinkedIn planned areas, I ensure I inform all the relevant authorities, including the community elders, in advance to avoid speculation. • Making your interview a success It’s good to interact with members of the community; the • Brief introduction on the SDGs and the importance of community trusts us when they see us with people they know. these objectives in communities I’m proud of my job and being able to bring basic, essential services to vulnerable communities.” “It was such an honour to co-organise this Female First programme with CTG in Gaza. Initiatives like this show the way on how to empower young women, through building their capacity to be able to strongly compete in the labour market.” Lamees Hasan Al-Hamdi Isaad Abumallouh, Director of Studies, Oxford Centre Human Rights Monitor, Yemen “My path to becoming a Human Rights Monitor, started with a passion for the law. In Hadhramaut, I was the first female lawyer. There was a big outcry, especially from my father’s tribe, as they say that being a lawyer is a man’s job. My first day in court, the judge was so surprised to see a female lawyer that he threw me out saying that women can’t be lawyers and they belong at home. I work for CTG monitoring and documenting the human rights violations that are taking place in Yemen, such as violation to freedom of expression and violation to the right to life. I conduct regular visits to police stations, detention centres and prisons with the intent of monitoring the compliance with human rights standards. More young women are starting to study and work in the Law Faculty here now. I feel proud that as one of the first female lawyers, I have shown the way for these young women to succeed.” 36 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 37 THE RIPPLE EFFECT CTG BUSINESS ACTION OF GENDER EQUALITY As a business CTG has actioned the following and continues to support gender equality: $12 trillion “Gender Equality is integral to all dimensions of • Implemented policies and practices that are free from and • Established policies, procedures, grievance mechanisms prevent gender-based discrimination across the workplace and support structures for employees or suppliers to report inclusive and sustainable development. In short, and community. incidences or suspected incidences of violence, exploitation or harassment, and having protection in place for whistleall of the SDGs depend on the achievement of Could be added to global growth by • Support women’s employment and strive for gender balance blowers so that persons feel able to report without fear of 2025 if gender equality was achieved at all levels across the business and supply chain. retribution. Goal 5.” • Promoting gender equality through community initiatives and • Incorporated what constitutes acceptable employee advocacy. behaviour into the Codes of Conduct for employees and – UN Women In 18 countries, husbands suppliers. • Established a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of can legally prevent their violence in the workplace and preventing sexual harassment. wives from working – UN USING OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE TO ENGAGE THE COMMUNITY At CTG, the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) provide the holistic framework for our business actions to advance gender equality and provide further guidance to CTG’s achievement of Goal 5. With our CEO as Chair for the WEPs Taskforce in the It will take 217 years for UAE, CTG is not only looking to impact gender equality in our business operations but gender equality to become is dedicated to the greater agenda for women’s empowerment, diversity and inclusion. a reality – Ipsos MORI, In one year since the WEPs Taskforce was launched by CTG’s CEO, more than 62 research analysts companies have signed the WEPs Principles in the UAE, a positive step forward. 38 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 39 CTG LEADING THE UAE WEPs TASKFORCE International Women’s Day 2018 was a day of celebration for the UAE WEPs Taskforce with numerous events throughout the day. During the course of this memorable milestone a further 22 French companies became signatories for WEPs, and the highlight of the day was two of these WEPs signatories [JC Decaux and Societe Generale] sponsoring 78 Billboards for WEPs down the popular Jumeirah Beach Road. We also enabled the UAE Ringing The Bell for Gender Equality initiative at the Dubai Stock Exchange with the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges and Dubai Finance Management. The event made headline news globally and locally. Alice often speaks at events to promote the benefit of gender equality The Chair of the UAE WEPs Taskforce’s mission is to raise awareness for gender equality, recruit WEPs signatories, capacity building and advocacy. for businesses. In May 2018, she was invited to speak at a DMCC event titled “Equality Makes Business – “When we started looking at how we were Empowering Women in the Workplace, going to launch a Taskforce to recruit WEPs Marketplace and Community.” The signatories in the UAE there were a handful event outlined the business case for of us sitting around a table. A year on we eradicating all forms of discrimination against women and girls. had a 40-person strong Taskforce and 62 Top right: DMCC Sustainable WEPs signatories. WEPs enters Phase II Knowledge Series, Dubai. with an established future strategy and work plan. “Raising awareness is imperative. There has been a real snowball effect, because now so many more companies and CEOs understand the importance of these principles and the positive effect that it will have on business.” Alice Laugher CEO of CTG and Chair of the WEPs Taskforce in the UAE 40 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 41 MEET THE CHANGE CHAMPIONS GENDER EQUALITY AT CTG Our vision is to use our position as a partner of agencies operating in fragile communities to empower local communities and encourage more local and international women into the workplace. Through internal workshops we’ve encouraged both male and female employees to step forward as ‘Gender Champions’, helping to further CTG’s initiatives for gender balance. Hajar Shihoub, Suaad Al Salahi, Svitsai Kunyenya, Algene Suria, Country Operations Account Manager, Yemen Talent Acquisition and Digital Manager Manager, Libya Gender Specialist GENDER PARITY CHAMPIONS OF HEFORSHE COMMITTEE CHANGE CHAMPIONS Maryam Ali, Ajit Koshy, Jovel Delacruz, Tony Chessel, Focusing on Women Employees who volunteered to make Male employees who Talent Acquisition Talent Management Payroll & Finance Administration Manager Manager Specialist Associate Empowerment Principles up the think tank for gender activities pledged their support and initiatives towards gender within CTG. They are on-the-ground champion gender equality balance within CTG. drivers of the Female First programme. initiatives within CTG. Iman Elman, Amel Eddiri, Jason Smith, Mahmoud Shehada, Head of Programmes Account Associate Regional Director Account Manager & Security of Sales James Veysey, Salwa Nassar, Charlene Gichuru, Valentina Bechara, COO Civil Engineer Junior Account Manager Talent Management Specialist HER MAJESTY QUEEN RANIA AL-ABDULLAH OF JORDAN AT THE HEFORSHE IMPACT SUMMIT IN NEW YORK, SEPTEMBER 2018. CTG’S CEO AND COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR ATTENDED THE EVENT. THREE PRODUCTS WERE RELEASED POST THE SUMMIT: THE HEFORSHE PROVEN SOLUTION ON HOW TO ACHIEVE PARITY IN GLOBAL LEADERSHIP; THE HEFORSHE EMERGING SOLUTIONS FOR GENDER EQUALITY REPORT AND THE HEFORSHE MALE ALLIES GUIDE FOR GENDER EQUALITY. Iman Shawwa, Louisa Elkington, Country Director, Somalia Legal & Operations Director 42 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 43 Staff in our field office have access to security induction and CONSULTANTS POLICIES hostile environment awareness training and our induction PROGRESS IN NUMBERS SDG 5 training comprises of advice for a wide range of security AND BENEFITS issues, including but not limited to: The policies regarding benefits for consultants who have children during their contract with CTG, included in third-party • Local security situation • Local medical service In order to measure CTG’s progress, we are capturing and monitoring a number of contracting arrangements in conflict-affected countries, were availability and Medevac tangible SDG Target Indicators: • Arrival procedures not something previously considered in depth. plan • Local accommodation* This year CTG has reshaped its insurance offering to ensure that • Security procedures • Local climate* (Including theft, kidnap, all field-based staff are supported if they have children during security threats, vehicle their contract with CTG. CTG now covers: • Packing suggestions* safety) • Local cultures, customs and • Life-saving intervention in all instances as well as any • Lockdown and evacuation We are proud of our general Information* pregnancy-related complications. procedures • Communications • Insurance benefit for childbirth related costs, dependent on • Movement around the diverse team, we have procedures territory contract, and length of service, up to a fixed sum of 5,000 USD for International Consultants and 2,500 USD for Local National 18 different nationalities * Relevant for international staff consultants. alone in our main This year CTG has worked with its largest client to include the following as minimum entitlements for all field-based staff: offices, and a wide PARENTAL LEAVE, RETURN TO WORK SDG 5 TARGET 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls spectrum of ages AND MATERNITY POLICIES • The maternity and paternity benefits set out in the applicable labour law for all Local Nationals; everywhere. With flexible work options, leave and re-entry opportunities to positions of equal pay and status in place in our management • Dependent on length of service, up to three months away offices, we take a Family Friendly approach in our corporate from their job with their post ‘frozen’ for female International CTG is committed to employing talented women to offices in order for men and women to be able to balance Consultants to return, should they wish create a balance, increase women’s economic power and independence, and ensure a positive ripple-effect on local work, life and childcare; essentials to achieving gender • Dependent on length of service, the equivalent of 6-weeks communities. In time, this will help bring stability and peace. equality in the workplace. fees as a ‘return to work’ payment upon a female International contractors resuming their position. EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND BENEFITS • Dependent on length of service, extra paid leave for male RATIO OF THE ENTRY-LEVEL WAGE PERFORMANCE REVIEW & TRAINING • Extended, paid maternity leave international consultants whose partner has a child during their CTG pays equal remuneration, including benefits, for work of Regular performance reviews are ingrained in CTG’s people contract (dependent on length of service). equal value and pays a living wage to all women and men. management system and are tracked on the MyCTG HR platform. • Paternity leave CTG is proud to ensure equal access to all company-supported As other contracts come up for renewal (giving CTG the chance • Family care leave education and training programmes, including literacy classes to request amendments) and as new contracts come online TOTAL NUMBER AND RATE OF as well as vocational and information technology training. Equal • Parental leave CTG shall work with those clients to include similar or better opportunities are provided for formal and informal networking and entitlements. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER DURING THE mentoring for both men and women, at senior and junior levels. • Flexible working hours REPORTING PERIOD • Part-time working arrangements During this reporting period, nine members of our nonIn 2018, CTG dedicated almost 100 hours in training to all our project related staff moved on to new career opportunities, permanent staff. All policies and benefits are in line with, or exceeding local while we welcomed 10 new joiners of which four were female. labour law. For instance, in the UAE, we offer Maternity Leave Staff are invited to complete exit interviews to ensure we This included joint sessions to complete the following online with full pay for a period of 45 consecutive days, compared to understand reasons for leaving and can offer support where training courses: the 30 days as per UAE labour law. In addition, employees will required. be eligible for a further 26 weeks unpaid Additional Maternity Leave if they have completed 75 weeks continuous service We are a global business so diversity is essential; with 18 • The Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA) with CTG. Further, CTG is proud to offer two weeks of paid different nationalities in our main offices and a wide spectrum paternity leave. • Prevention on Sexual Harassment and Abuse of Authority of ages we excel at working across cultures, religion, gender (UNICEF) and nationality. • I know gender: An Introduction to Gender Equality for UN Staff (UN Women) • Human Rights & Business (UNGC) • The Fight Against Corruption 44 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 45 SDG 5 TARGET 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN CTG invests in workplace policies and programmes that open SDG 5 TARGET 5.2 avenues for the advancement of women at all levels and across Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the all business areas, and encourages women to enter nonpublic and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and traditional job fields. Our office-based team has a gender ratio of other types of exploitation. almost 50:50 across the various levels of the company. WOMEN AND MEN % PER CATEGORY FEMALE MALE WELL-PUBLICIZED POLICY OF ZERO TOLERANCE TOWARDS GENDER-BASED Board and Executive Leadership 40.0% 60.0% VIOLENCE AND HARASSMENT Senior Management 37.5% 62.5% CTG’s Duty of Care for our staff extends to protection from induction and ongoing training programmes for all staff on Middle Management 57.1% 42.9% While we have achieved the abuse or harassment of any sort. unconscious bias and gender sensitivities. ideal set up in our main offices, Entry/Junior Level 56.3% 43.8% the number of women in projectFurther, CTG trains staff and managers to recognise signs of Respective training material, policies and procedures are Operational Functions 12.5% 87.5% related roles remains low. CTG violence against women and understand laws and company published online and available in hard copy in every office. tackles this challenge with our TOTAL 46.6% 53.4% policies on human trafficking, labour and sexual exploitation. Further, contracts and grievance processes, as well as essential Female First initiative. policies and procedures, are available translated into most In order to support women working in conflict-affected countries, operating languages. Our Change Champions take pride in where gender-based violence and discrimination against women driving gender balance and tackling gender bias. is prevalent, it is imperative for us to have comprehensive BLOW THE WHISTLE! CTG is committed to maintaining a safe reporting In 2018, CTG recorded less than a handful of cases of environment that is free of fear, bullying, harassment suspected harassment in the field. (sexual or other) and other negative consequences. All Stakeholders are expected to report concerns about For these cases, the CTG discipline process was actual or suspected violations of CTG’s Code of Conduct followed, and additional training sessions and Change or any other policies and procedures, suspicions of Champion initiatives were organised. misconduct or wrongdoing to ethics@ctg.org. 46 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 47 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH ACCELERATING THE GOAL OF DECENT WORK FOR ALL Our legal team regularly verify that all our policies and business operations conform to the different international conventions. In 2018, almost all our employees have completed the Business and Human Rights Learning Tool. Wherever possible, we place emphasis on hiring local nationals, fair and living wage in a quest to increase welfare levels and are investing in their skill sets through training and development. determined to leave a lasting impact. Currently 89% of our staff are local nationals, working in CTG INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME economically challenged countries like South Sudan, Yemen Working in fragile and conflict-affected environments, the work and Afghanistan – this ensures funds and resources go back we do helps to create economic growth and paves the way for a into the local economy. We insist that all local staff are paid a peaceful future. Through our internship and mentoring platform, we ensuring development, and setting business goals. encourage youth development and new talent into the The mentor communicates the expectations, learning workforce – training students in a corporate environment objectives and the SMART (Specific, Measurable, PROSPERITY to add to their work experience and skills. Achievable, Relevant and Timebound) goals. The mentor will also conduct regular performance reviews and Creating job CTG believes in hiring young creative minds; it benefits performance grading. opportunities in conflictthe company’s energy and helps advance SDG 8 and affected countries SDG 4. In 2018, CTG made it a priority to improve our intern experience. We established a training and induction works towards making To ensure an organized and rewarding learning routine, advanced the Intern-Buddy initiative SDG 8 and economic experience for interns, CTG assigns a committed mentor. supplementing formal training, accelerating the Intern’s The aim is to make the tasks and roles well-defined, productivity, sense of belonging and formalised the prosperity realities. customised to fit each intern’s professional progress Mentor commitment. BUSINESS ACTION WHY PAY? Any type of unpaid labour paves the way for exploitation. •S  upporting decent working conditions for all employees across • Providing the best possible wages, benefits and working Since CTG gives interns valuable work experience the business and supply chain, with partnerships to influence conditions within the framework of government policies. by allowing them to participate in tasks and job roles, suppliers to do the same. and since CTG fervently opposes unpaid labour by ILO • Recognising, preventing and reducing the root causes of labour standards, it pays its interns. •E  ducating and training the labour force. rights violation and inequality across business functions and throughout the supply chain, and seeking to remediate adverse •D  riving economic growth and productivity by investing in impacts. upgrading skills. SDG 8 TARGET 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. In order to measure CTG’s progress, we are capturing and monitoring a number of tangible SDG Target Indicators: AVERAGE WORKING HOURS PER WEEK In addition to the information provided under SDG 5, CTG would like to emphasize that all work, including overtime work, is voluntary and staff are free to leave their employment with CTG upon reasonable notice. CTG complies with all applicable working hour requirements as established by local law and further complies with all laws and regulations regarding wages and hours, including those pertaining to minimum wages, overtime wages, piece rates and other elements of compensation and provides legally mandated benefits to all staff. 48 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 49 OUR 2018 INTERNS Alaa Mohamed Ben Hamza, Chaima Attia, Vivien Kallen, Christelle Basson, HR Internship, Libya HR Internship, Tunisia UNGC Youth Ambassador, Dubai Graphic Design Intern, CTG “The chaotic environment in Libya in the “The most important aspect of an “I have been part of the CTG team since “Working with CTG and co-leading the past few years has made me realise how internship is learning and growing. As a 6th August 2018. The aim of the internship UNGC Communication on Progress important it is to help build strong teams graphic design graduate working closely position is to learn from a Client Account Reporting efforts gave me a direct for NGOs that can provide assistance for with the marketing and bid team, CTG Manager. I have learnt how to publish view of how businesses implement people in need and give them back their gave me an opportunity to do just that. job advertisements, provide support to and drive the UNGC Principles and basic rights and freedoms, regardless The team were always available to offer consultants and how to communicate with Sustainable Development Goals. where they are from. I joined CTG to learn advice and guidance which is so important important clients in the humanitarian I have always been passionate about important customer service, administrative at my stage of work life. I learnt how sector. I am grateful for this internship Diversity and Inclusion and Gender and recruitment tasks. It is a privilege to everything should be done according to opportunity as I am gaining knowledge Equality. It’s been an empowering be able to be part of the implementation industry standards. I feel that CTG can in different areas, learning how to be experience to work with the team at CTG of human rights activities in a country be considered your second family. No responsible and developing my skill set.” as they champion and accelerate SDG5. like Libya and a bigger privilege to see it matter the obstacle, there’s a solution The internship gave me the opportunity become a priority.” and this spills on to your work ethic.” to advocate for the UNGC Principles and SDGs as well as develop and strengthen my transferable skills setting me up for a good start on my chosen career path.” 50 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 51 OVERCOMING CHALLENGING WORKPLACE SETTINGS Some countries and regions are ‘assistance black holes’ – places where inadequate infrastructure and on-going SDG8 TARGET 8.8 conflict make it especially difficult to Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working provide medical and claims services. environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular, women migrants, and those in precarious Challenges in ‘black holes’ include: employment. • Language barriers DUTY OF CARE • Poor infrastructure • Unreliable electricity One of CTG’s core functions is to take responsibility for and, finally, responding swiftly and appropriately in the the Duty of Care for all staff (which includes employees, event of an incident. • Lack of telephone coverage consultants, local and international staff). The reality of • WiFi deserts our work means that political unrest, terrorism as well as We strive to keep staff informed and monitor their medical emergencies are some of the risks our staff face. whereabouts, always adapting to the ever-changing • L imited or no access to banking This means being extremely well-informed of any risks, situation on the ground in order to respond when needed. services communicating risks, mitigating risks as far as possible CTG adheres to the United Nations’ field security advice, and all staff are asked • Inefficient bureaucracies to complete the minimum UNDSS e-learning Field Security course prior to starting work with CTG. The safety of our staff is the number one priority, and we strive to ensure peace BUT WHAT OF OUR of mind to both our teams and our clients. PROGRESS? In 2018, we enhanced our Duty of Care introducing a new on-the-ground medical and emergency response capability. Working in partnership with Tangiers International enabled us to launch a INSURANCE CRISIS MANAGEMENT SECURITY unique Duty of Care mobile application Reliable, high-risk insurance coverage Rapid activation of a team Provision of static, mobile and 24/7 emergency helpdesk number; and straightforward claims processing of security and medical security, armoured monitored by an experienced crisis through our bespoke mobile app professionals vehicles and armed close management team 365 days a year. protection where needed All management staff are issued with iPhones with data, local and international call credit, international minutes and roaming services to guarantee 24/7 support to our teams on the ground. This transformed the call centre service DOC TRAINING TRACKING & MONITORING as clients and consultants have direct Staff inductions, Hostile Environment Our app tracks real-time location access to their key point of contacts and Awareness Training, in-country security and provides safety alerts; management staff have the flexibility to briefing, and ongoing ethics and code of SafeTrip® ensures staff movements work from anywhere in the world. conduct training are planned, controlled and monitored SECURE FACILITIES EVACUATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS Provision of secure accommodation, Coordination of evacuation Planned and adaptive procedures office facilities and guarding following political unrest, for co-ordinated crisis management solutions as required medical emergency or incident 52 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 53 CTG TAKES AN ‘INFORM, PREVENT AND RESPONSE’ APPROACH TO ENSURING OUR STAFF SAFETY ON THE GROUND. • Up-to-date personal information including emergency contact details • Pre-deployment preparedness briefing • Induction & safety briefing • Security alerts (ultra-localised and relevant) and threat assessments INFORM • SafeTrip® movement planning, approval and tracking • Buddy and Warden system deployed for additional local cover TAKEAWAY NUMBERS ON HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS READINESS SURVEY: • Third party vetting (e.g. drivers) 78.9% 75% 46.8% 76.69% • Accommodation safety standards (where provided) PREVENT Are well prepared for living/ Have spent more than Are used to seeing Are very comfortable • High-risk bespoke insurance working in areas of insecurity five years working in a people with weapons interacting with people from and mobile claims processing where their life may be in danger developing country different cultures through our app • Medical planning & accreditation of local facilities • Single point of contact for RESPOND emergencies with global 24/7 response phone number • Emergency response planning, evacuation procedures and coordinated crisis management PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Partnership and cooperation are essential for achieving the Global Goals. STAFF ARE PROVIDED WITH; •A n integrated global Insurance Policy underwritten • Claims handling through our bespoke mobile app To achieve our goals, partnerships and alliances are embedded into all CTG projects. In every country by Lloyds of London and an ‘ultra-local’ assistance enabling expedited payment settlements where CTG operates, we form alliances within the local community to help us recruit top talent and to programme offering medical and political response ensure families and leaders understand and support our projects and their goals. across conflict-affected countries • Immediate access through a single international and single local Emergency Response Number to our world•F ield agents and local healthcare providers ensure swift, leading medical, security and travel assistance network appropriate treatment and minimum treatment delays PARTNERSHIP TESTING THE READINESS FOR OUR With our clients we are STAFF FOR DEPLOYMENT INTO HOSTILE coming together as a force for good in fragile ENVIRONMENTS environments. CTG has a Hostile Environment Readiness Survey which all staff stress disorder, how the candidate feels about living/working are required to complete as part of the onboarding process. in dangerous areas, whether they are prepared to meet Introduced in 2018, since its launch 578 candidates have strict security protocols and whether risks of working on a completed the survey. Some of the key areas it addresses humanitarian project have been considered, challenging cultural are: mental health and early indicators of post-traumatic awareness and personality in difficult or hostile situations. 54 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 55 DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY AMONG OUR CTG GIVING: SUPPORTING FEMALE PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN SOMALIA We aim to expand business relationships with women-owned enterprises, including small business, and women entrepreneurs as well as encourage our current partners and peers to respect the company’s commitment to advancing equality and inclusion. To achieve this, we work together with our partners and suppliers to engage them on our sustainability journey. Somalia has one of the 2018 ACTION: 2019 TARGET: highest rape and child marriage rates in the world. We have reached out to our suppliers and subcontractors inviting them Introduction of Sustainable Supply to sign up to the UN Global Compact and the Women’s Empowerment Chain Policy to set out our expectation The Gender Inequality Principles, and if already signed up, to share their communication on for suppliers to run their businesses Index for Somalia is 0.776 progress and to reach out to discuss synergies and opportunities for ethically, always acting with respect, partnership to achieve the global goals. honesty, integrity and fairness. (a maximum of 1 denotes Conducting due diligence on suppliers This year, thanks to encouragement from our leadership, one of our human rights impact and prevention CTG Giving is our staff engagement A BRIGHTER FUTURE complete inequality) key partners Tangiers International, the providers of our 24-hour global strategies, ensuring their work has a platform to encourage collective action and The donation started a one-month emergency response, signed up to these two initiatives at the onset of positive impact on the 2030 Agenda brings our team together to discuss social entrepreneurship training programme our commercial partnership. for Sustainable Development. impact initiatives. We strive to integrate at a gender-based violence victim corporate volunteering into the culture support centre, with a goal of a of our organisation. This year CTG Giving business pitch and investment partnered with the Elman Peace & Human opportunity. In the end three women Rights Centre in Mogadishu, to run an were selected based on their entrepreneurship programme for victims of complementary ideas and their gender-based violence. willingness to join forces and realise their business dream, tripling our The Elman Peace and Human Rights desired impact. Foundation aligns strongly with CTG’s social good vision. In May of this year, our CEO Alice Laugher journeyed to Mogadishu to THE WINNING IDEA: deliver a donation from CTG staff of A convenience shop and grocery USD 4,625 and met the inspiring women store in the Wadajir District that offers behind Elman Peace. hot drinks and fast food. The store will also host a small tailoring corner where members of the community can buy fabrics to be tailored for them ABOUT ELMAN PEACE: on the spot. Elman Peace is a foundation committed to providing innovative, life-saving The concept allows for a ripple effect support to those in need, particularly for community, particularly female victims of gender-based violence. The empowerment and upliftment – foundation established the first rape and complements our goals and crisis centre in Somalia, called Sister objectives aligned with SDGs 5, 8 Somalia, which provides psychosocial and 16. The women who become counselling, trauma healing and benefactors of the CTG Giving emergency medical care to survivors. grant are able to give back to the The foundation also launched an community and train other women in initiative called “Drop The Gun, Pick Up the centre. At CTG, we believe that The Pen”, which focuses on reinstating the communities that we work in will children and young adults from armed be profoundly improved by aligning groups and militias back into their our strategy with the Sustainable societies, as well as preventing the use Development Goals. We’re extremely and recruitment of children into armed proud to be supporting Elman Peace. forces. 56 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 57 KNOW YOUR HUMAN RIGHTS PEACE, JUSTICE AND & SAY NO TO CORRUPTION Management have assessed our human rights and corruption risks, addressed our responsibilities, STRONG INSTITUTIONS completed the following two courses and introduced mitigation measures. Human Rights & Business Learning Tool: To meet CTG is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and Business for Peace our human rights responsibilities, as businesses, Call-to-Action dedicated to catalysing collaborative action to advance peace. it’s critical our staff understand the nature of human rights and the steps they are expected to take to respect human rights throughout our operations. This tool serves that purpose. Fight Against Corruption: A joint product of the UN Global Compact and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). It uses six interactive learning modules to further our understanding of the UN Global Compact's 10th principle against PEACE corruption and the UN Convention against Our mission is to foster Corruption as it applies to the private sector. peaceful, just and inclusive societies, in conflict-affected countries in line with SDG 16. BUSINESS ACTION •W  orking in areas of conflict and humanitarian crises to • Ability to identify and take robust action against corruption and contribute to peace and institution building. violence in own operations and the supply chain. •M  aintaining the notion of “do no harm” and ensuring that • Understanding anti-bribery and corruption governance business operations/projects do not have an adverse effect on expectations from stakeholders and prohibiting bribery in any the countries or regions CTG operates in. form whether direct or indirect. •C  ommitted to own responsibility to respect human rights • Communicated the implications of relevant laws to employees through a statement of policy and communicating human rights through policies and trainings. expectations to employees and business partners. • Recording all incidents of corruption or bribery, and putting • Internally, raised awareness of the relevant laws, codes and processes in place for resolution and remediation. regulations among employees. Reporting any incidences and considering its impact on stakeholders and shareholders. • Implemented whistleblowing helpline and processes for employees to report (suspected) incidences. 58 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 59 BUSINESS FOR PEACE CTG is a signatory of the Business For Peace Call-to-Action, a UN Global Compact platform which leverages private sector action to advance peace. Business For Peace “recognizes the importance of local knowledge and ownership of issues related to peace”. Business for Peace addresses the SDGs: 5, 8, 10, 16 and 17. In particular the role of business in mobilizing humanitarian action to address humanitarian crisis. “After 2011, many people were displaced MOBILISING HUMANITARIAN ACTION in Libya. That’s when I decided to work in displacement tracking which improves This year at the UN Global Compact annual Business for Peace Event our CEO, and former Chair of the Business for Peace lives by providing a better understanding platform in the UAE, did a deep dive with a Director from UNHCR and Chief of Mission from IOM, with other private sector of the movements and needs of IDPs members, on the Global Compact on Refugees and the Global Compact for Migration which address human rights, protection of migrants, women’s rights and many other areas. and migrants. The DTM project monitors These Global Compacts follow on from the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants adopted by UN Member local Libyan nationals and my team is States in September 2016 to “share the burden and responsibility for hosting and supporting the world’s refugees”. distributed to most Libyan cities. Many This same Declaration calls for the private sector to play an active role in the implementation of the Global Compacts. Within the Global Compact on Refugees it talks about a “programme of action” and “areas of support” where the Private people need support now and we are trying Sector can be mobilised. to help them in every way possible. I am most proud when my team succeeds in helping IDPs or migrants, assisting them CTG RESPONDING TO THE to return voluntarily to their homes or MIGRATION CRISIS providing them with free healthcare. CTG supports me by taking care of the administrative and financial aspects, One of the many humanitarian projects CTG enables is the tracking of displaced persons and monitoring of detention centres in Libya, ‘registered’ detention centres run by the Interior Ministry’s Department for Combating Illegal Immigration. Detention which allows me to focus on the field work. conditions across the country are a matter of “grave concern” as detainees are forced to live in severely overcrowded facilities with little food, water, or medical care, and suffer physical abuse, forced labour, slavery, and torture. The automatic I believe that my work helps to protect placement of asylum seekers and migrants in detention centres places them at risk of human rights abuses. migrants and displaced people until the Getting to the detention centres from a security perspective is extremely high risk, so strict duty of care protocol is adopted country is rebuilt.” for staff using SafeTrip®. Enabling this support helps the international community identify the problem and severity of the situation at hand, so sustainable solutions can be identified and implemented. Innovation and implementation are important Salah Khalifa areas where the public sector needs private sector engagement to increase the action taken. Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM) Operations Assistant, Libya 60 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 61 THE TEAM BEHIND THE IDEA BUILDING SUSTAINABLE AND PEACEFUL COMMUNITIES IN GAZA THE EVENT: SDG WORKSHOP IN GAZA MAHMOUD SHEHADA SALWA NASSER MOHAMMED ALQAHWAJI This year, when one of our local staff in Gaza voiced his belief CTG Senior Account Manager in Gaza CTG Quantity Surveyor CTG Onsite Monitoring Engineer that an SDG-focused workshop could assist in improving the lives of the people of Gaza we took action. Our Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) workshop in Gaza THE OBJECTIVE was held on 10 and 11 September 2018 and titled: “Improvement of Life in Gaza by Delivery of Sustainable Development Goals: Challenges and Opportunities” GA The primary objective of the workshop was for attendees to brainstorm and hold principal discussions on practical actions, explore solutions and build consensual approaches on the major themes relevant to implementation of the 2030 Agenda ZA for Sustainable Development in different sectors throughout Gaza. This showed that the SDGs are not only intrinsically woven into CTG’s operations and strategic business plan but that our staff feel the SDGs are an essential requirement, a ‘roadmap’, WHAT WE HOPE TO ACHIEVE to achieving resilience and peace in conflict settings, such as Gaza. One of the main aims of the workshop was to raise awareness of the SDGs and start the conversation about how everyone The Workshop and SDG Council were conceptualised by in Gaza could work together to move forward. three of CTG’s team in Gaza, after reading the United Nations Country Team 2017 report which declared Gaza would be Three years into the implementation of the Sustainable Development Agenda globally, countries are translating this shared “unliveable by 2020”. It was this innovative team who decided vision into national development plans and strategies. This workshop aimed to promote the implementation of SDGs in the more action needed to be taken to activate the SDGs in Gaza, Gaza Strip and to frame the way forward for Sustainable Development on different levels. as they believe that driving the SDG agenda could make a real difference to improving the lives of those in Gaza. This While we understood that the UN, in particular, is intimately involved in the SDGs and actions to push them forward, we led to CTG supporting and funding the workshop. More than were not aware of a forum whereby the private sector and other actors were also involved in that conversation in Gaza. We 120 people, from humanitarian and development agencies, wanted to give individuals and organisations an opportunity to learn about the SDGs, and the realities of the needs in Gaza, international and local NGOs and the private sector attended so they could consider where they can make a difference. the two-day workshop. Through a combination of keynote presentations by renowned private sector experts, on-stage interviews with high-level practitioners from UN Agencies and INGOs, panel discussions and round tables, the conference wanted to open a debate among the different stakeholders on solutions for sustainable development and how to transform society at local and global level. We wanted everyone to exchange knowledge, ideas, experiences and expectations around the SDGs and UNITED NATIONS NATIONS UNIES UNITED NATIONS NATIONS UNIES using them as a roadmap to change the future of Gaza. “The private sector is a critical force in driving the SDGs.” UNICEF-oPt/El Baba © Shareef Sarhan, UNDP/PAPP image bank Gaza in 2020 A liveable place? GAZA A report by the United Nations Country Team in the occupied Palestinian territory August 2012 TEN YEARS LATER United Nations Country Team in the occupied Palestinian territory July 2017 62 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 63 PROGRESS IN NUMBERS SDG 16 In order to measure CTG’s progress, we are capturing and monitoring a number of tangible SDG Target Indicators: SDG16 – TARGET 16.1 Significantly reduce all forms of violence and related death rates everywhere. OUR MESSAGE CTG hoped to get across the message that small steps add up. The SDGs can seem overwhelming when you look at them altogether. It is isn’t possible for everyone to do everything but equally if no one does anything (because the task seems so SECURITY BRIEFING IN SOUTH SUDAN AND SOMALIA daunting) then nothing will ever happen. We used as an example how CTG has identified three SDGs where it feels, given its business, it can make a real difference. To read the full report from the event, please visit ctg.org and head to our Media Library. WHAT NEXT? FORMATION OF AN SDG COUNCIL SECURITY IN THE FIELD The security situation is often fluid given the fragility of the operational locations of our staff. With vulnerability to possible The formation of an SDG Council will ensure that both public and private partners work in a coherent and collaborative way. complex attacks, IED/suicide attacks, kidnapping, targeted killings and terrorist attacks a rigorous methodology of mitigation The SDG Council will bring together contributors to experiment and create strategies to unlock Gaza’s development potential. measures for such incidents is applied. For each project, and daily movement, we assess and implement risk mitigation plans This SDG Council will promote and create a permanent and multidisciplinary knowledge network on implementation of SDGs, dependent on the location, travel areas and duty stations. where all stakeholders will learn from each other. CTG will be responsible for contacting all those who attended the workshop to see if they would be interested in joining. The next meeting will be aimed at those who’ve expressed interest to form and Security oversight in all our countries of operation is an absolute priority, as is monitoring and managing staff whereabouts. move the SDG Council forward. The next meeting will: With strong ties to local law enforcement, and other sources of local and international intelligence, we try to mitigate any likelihood of staff encountering danger. Operating in conflict zones is extremely high-risk and strict protocols and procedures 1 Create a more structured action plan for building awareness of the SDGs in particular amongst the private sector, are mandatorily adopted by all staff. Training is part of our onboarding process, security briefings and hostile environment 2 Come up with a strategy for advocating the involvement of the private sector in the ongoing SDG discussions, and awareness training [HEAT] is provided to all staff at the onset, and ongoing, through our Field Security Officers and other incountry management. 3 Include training on how to select and implement the SDGs in which the individual, business or group can make a change. 64 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 65 SAFETRIP® All staff are required to follow our SafeTrip® procedure ensuring management are notified of all staff’s daily, sometimes hourly, movements around each country we work in. SafeTrip® protocols enable us to provide critical information on any geographical area, local elders/clans, political and provincial dynamics long before staff move into any area enabling monitoring of staff movements. Mitigation of our staff encountering violence is the approach we take to avoiding injury or death. Sharing knowledge of movements enables management to act quickly in the case of an emergency in the event of anything unexpected. SDG16 – TARGET 16.3 Late 2018, we further invested into our MyCTG technology to create a SafeTrip® module and workspace enabling staff to Promote the rule of law at the national and international speed up approval processes for timely movements. This enables weekly, monthly and annual monitoring of movements of all levels and ensure equal access to justice for all. consultants globally and rigorous assessments to ensure our crisis response plans. During 2018, CTG ran a rigorous assessment on local labour laws and staff benefits across eight countries. Due to organic growth and the procurement methodologies used by our clients we found that, within the same country, local national staff benefits sometimes varied from client to client and project to project. The staff benefits are determined during the initial procurement process with CTG’s clients and, generally speaking, local national staff are given, as a minimum, the benefits set out in the local Labour Law. However, sometimes those laws change during the contract term, sometimes local statutory provisions are simply not in place or are in the process of evolving thus the contractual provisions can become outdated. In short, benefit entitlements change and CTG looks to adhere to the latest legal requirements which must be taken into consideration by our clients in case of financial implications. CTG endeavours to be ‘assertive’ with its staff benefits, wherever possible meeting (and ideally surpassing) statutory requirements. The benefits assessed include: • Weekend / Weekly Rest Days • Paternity Benefit • Overtime (hours) • Annual Leave • Marriage leave • Overtime (pay) • Public Holidays • Hardship Leave • End of Service Benefit • Sick Leave • Compassionate Leave • Statutory Bonus • Maternity Benefit • Religious Leave 66 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 67 Furthermore, we have proposed to our clients some forward-thinking benefits for International Consultants who are not governed by local employment laws to ensure their human right to work, even during pregnancy. CTG has proposed a policy whereby International Consultants have a right to return to the same role after a break and that those who do return receive a return to work incentive. CTG feels a moral obligation to treat staff in a manner that is consistent with our high ethical standards and one of the gaps in the coverage was maternity. Historically, CTG has not discussed gaps in benefits with its clients after the initial procurement process had concluded. At the end of 2018, CTG presented its assessment to its largest client at the point of contract extension who agreed with the results of the assessment and incorporated the amended benefits into the contract. In 2019 we shall further address all staff benefits globally with all clients and make any adjustment to contracts where required foreseeing these to be only minor changes. SDG16 – TARGET 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. ANTI-CORRUPTION CTG holds a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, whether public or private or directly or indirectly through a third party. As per our Code of Conduct, a “bribe” is defined as an offer, promise or authorisation, to give, or the giving of, anything of value to influence the actions of a third party. CTG standards have been communicated to all stakeholders, and it is everybody’s responsibility to raise any incidents with the Good Governance Committee. CTG’s whistleblowing process enables concerns to be raised anonymously. The Code of Conduct is accessible to all on CTG’s website and is explained during annual training sessions. During this year’s reporting period no incidents of corruption and bribery were raised. Employee adherence to CTG values is administered through MyCTG, our in-house human capital management software, where the demonstration of compliance with the company’s core values is assessed. 68 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 69 1. TWITTER 2. FACEBOOK ENVIRONMENT We know that environmental degradation is fueling wars and wars are fueling environmental degradation and at CTG we work to stop the cycle. We acknowledge the interaction between the environmental and security and their relationship to human wellbeing and development. Through our work in conflict areas, we provide humanitarian support and sustainable approaches to rebuilding peaceful and prosperous communities. Our Environmental Policy helps us to regulate resource use and reduce pollution to promote human welfare and protect natural systems. TREAD LIGHTLY CAMPAIGN IMPRESSIONS: 829 REACH: 1 454 In 2018, we reached out to our staff and consultants to encourage everyone to be aware of minimising their footprint in the conflict-affected regions they work in. Our campaign included a newsletter and social media encouragement – emphasising that small efforts of environmental awareness can make a big difference. AT THIS YEAR’S UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY THE POTENTIALLY CATASTROPHIC IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE WAS TOP OF THE AGENDA, 1. EMAIL COMMUNICATIONS: LINKEDIN WITH THE SECRETARY-GENERAL SAYING THIS ISSUE IS THE ‘ABSOLUTE PRIORITY’ FOR THE UN. Let’s All “We need to do more and OUR ENVIRONMENTAL Tread Lightly PRINCIPLES: we need to do it quicker” CTG staff should ensure that they are – Secretary-General António Guterres considerate of the environments in which they stay and work and should incorporate principles like: 1. We minimize our environmental impact: We maintain policies, practices to conduct operations in an environmentally responsible manner through virtual meetings. 2. We comply with local and international standards: We comply with applicable environmental laws and requirements for environmental protection and industry standards. RECIPIENTS: 3 082 IMPRESSIONS: 1378 OPEN RATE: 60,7% 3. We conserve the natural resources: We reduce the quantity of non-recycled waste that is produced and minimize our use of electricity, natural gas, water and air travel. 70 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 71 CTG STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX While some of our strategic objectives are more challenging to achieve, we are committed to our future business journey being responsible, sustainable and ethical. Here are our targets for 2019. G4 Guidelines GRI Standards G4 Disclosure G4 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number Comments •A s a step towards CTG’s overall goal of 30% of project • CTG will introduce a specific Supplier Code of Conduct Title Number related roles being held by women by 2030 CTG will aim in Q1 of 2019 and conduct its first compliance audit on a to achieve a 5% increase in project roles held by women selection of suppliers in Q3 2019. by 2019. Strategy and Analysis • CTG will offer access to a bank account to its project •A s a step towards CTG’s overall goal of 60% of CTG’s related staff. G4-1 Strategy and General 102-14 Statement from Page 6 candidate data base being women, CTG will aim to Analysis Disclosures senior decisionachieve a 3% increase in the overall number of females maker • CTG will aim to ensure all project-based staff complete on the database by 2019. comprehensive training on anti-bribery and corruption. Organizational Profile •C TG will aim to ensure that its commitment to shortlist a • CTG will roll out a Sustainable Supply Chain Policy. This minimum of two female candidates in every five or one G4-3 Organizational General 102-1 Name of the Page 12 sets out our expectation for suppliers to run their business in every three is included as a contractual obligation on all Profile Disclosures organization ethically, always acting with respect, honesty, integrity new contracts. and fairness. G4-4 Organizational General 102-2 Activities, Pages 16-17 •C TG will aim to ensure all new staff complete online Profile Disclosures brands, • CTG will run an assessment on its human rights impact, products, and training on gender, sexual exploitation and sexual review and update its policy and will introduce due harassment. services diligence tools to assess the risks faced by people across the chains and spectrum of our business G4-5 Organizational General 102-3 Location of Pages 16-17 •C TG will roll out its Female First CV and Cover Letter operations involving the entire organization, workers and Profile Disclosures headquarters writing initiative in all major countries of operation. management. G4-6 Organizational General 102-1 Location of Pages 16-17 Profile Disclosures operations •C TG will introduce its internship programme into two new countries of operation. G4-7 Organizational General 102-5 Ownership and Page 22 Profile Disclosures legal form G4-8 Organizational General 102-6 Markets served Pages 16-17 Profile Disclosures G4-9 Organizational General 102-7 Scale of the Pages 16-17 Profile Disclosures organization G4-10 Organizational General 102-8 Information on Pages Profile Disclosures employees and 16-17, 23 other workers G4-11 Organizational General 102-41 Collective No page number Collective Profile Disclosures bargaining as per comment bargaining agreements covered agreements are not permitted in the UAE under the federal law 72 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 73 G4 Guidelines GRI Standards G4 Guidelines GRI Standards G4 Disclosure G4 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number Comments G4 Disclosure G4 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number Comments Title Number Title Number G4-14 Organizational General 102-11 Precautionary No page number CTG endeavours Governance Profile Disclosures Principle or as per comment to use approach covered precautionary G4-34 Governance General 102-18 Governance Pages 22-24 principles in all Disclosures structure its activities (as applicable) G4-37 Governance General 102-21 Consulting Page 28 G4-15 Organizational General 102-12 External Pages 27, 30-31, Disclosures stakeholders Profile Disclosures initiatives 62-66 on economic, environmental, and social topics Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-46 Governance General 102-30 Effectiveness Page 54 G4-18 Identified General 102-46 Defining report Pages 12-15 Disclosures of risk Material Aspects Disclosures content and management and Boundaries topic Boundaries processes Ethics and Integrity Stakeholder Engagement G4-56 Ethics and General 102-16 Values, Page 19 G4-24 Stakeholder General 102-40 List of Page 26 Integrity Disclosures principles, Engagement Disclosures stakeholder standards, groups and norms of G4-25 Stakeholder General 102-42 Identifying Page 26 behavior Engagement Disclosures and selecting G4-57 Ethics and General 102-17 Mechanisms Page 46 stakeholders Integrity Disclosures for advice and G4-26 Stakeholder General 102-43 Approach to Page 26 concerns about Engagement Disclosures stakeholder ethics engagement Market Presence G4-27 Stakeholder General 102-44 Key topics and Pages 28-29 Engagement Disclosures concerns raised G4-EC5 Aspect: Market Market 202-1 Ratios of Page 44 Presence Presence standard entry level wage Report Profile by gender compared to G4-28 Report Profile General 102-50 Reporting period Page 12 local minimum Disclosures wage G4-29 Report Profile General 102-51 Date of most Page 12 Disclosures recent report G4-30 Report Profile General 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 12 Disclosures G4-31 Report Profile General 102-53 Contact point Page 12 Disclosures for questions regarding the report G4-32-b Report Profile General 102-55 GRI content Pages 73-77 Disclosures index G4-33 Report Profile General 102-56 External No page number This report is Disclosures assurance as per comment not externally covered assured 74 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 75 G4 Guidelines GRI Standards G4 Guidelines GRI Standards G4 Disclosure G4 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number Comments G4 Disclosure G4 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page Number Comments Title Number Title Number Employment Human Rights Assessment G4-LA1 Aspect: Employment 401-1 New employee Page 44 G4-HR1 Aspect: Human Rights 412-3 Significant Page 67 Employment hires and Investment Assessment investment employee agreements and turnover contracts that G4-LA2 Aspect: Employment 401-2 Benefits Page 45 include human Employment provided to fullrights clauses or time employees that underwent that are not human rights provided to screening temporary G4-HR2 Aspect: Human Rights 412-2 Employee Page 44 or part-time Investment Assessment training on employees human rights G4-LA3 Aspect: Employment 401-3 Parental leave Page 45 policies or Employment procedures Local Communities G4-LA9 Aspect: Training Training and 404-1 Average hours Page 44 and Education Education of training G4-SO1 Aspect: Local Local 413-1 Operations with Page 68 per year per Communities Communities local community employee engagement, impact G4-LA10 Aspect: Training Training and 404-2 Programs for Page 44 assessments, and Education Education upgrading and employee skills development and transition programs assistance programs Anti-corruption G4-LA11 Aspect: Training Training and 404-3 Percentage Page 44 and Education Education of employees G4-SO4 Aspect: AntiAnti-corruption 205-2 Communication Page 44 receiving regular corruption and training performance about antiand career corruption development policies and reviews procedures G4-LA12 Aspect: Diversity Diversity 405-1 Diversity of Page 47 and Equal and Equal governance Opportunity Opportunity bodies and employees 76 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 77 THANK YOU Thank you for taking the time to read our 2018 Social Good Report. To our clients, we look forward to you joining us on our social good journey. To our teams, thank you for embracing our social good vision so whole-heartedly and committing to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Agenda for Humanity. We are making a difference. Let's continue to do so. 78 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 79 www.ctg.org
