Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Out of the Box reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first second Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, in addition to the SDGs. The SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals, is at the heart of our core business since we facilitate Cross Sector Partnership and enable NGOs to work with the government, businesses and their communities and help them maximise their impact and get closer on achieving the SDGs. Sincerely yours, Nadine Al Achi Managing Director www.gooutofthebox.com REPORT Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Out of the Box highly respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human rights, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Out Of The Box is committed to protecting the dignity and respect of all those who work within the Organisation. In particular, we are committed to ensuring that the Organisation is free from any form of bullying or harassment at work and that the work environment has an atmosphere of respect, safety and equality. No bullying or harassment within the Organisation or in connection with the work of the Organisation will be tolerated. Dignity at Work Policy We are committed to encouraging a positive working environment for our employees and contractors. As an advisor to other organisations on issues including human rights, we seek to increase knowledge and understanding of the importance of this topic while providing tools and training to improve performance. Implementation Out Of the Box has: Conducted trainings and awareness for all employees and contractors about the importance of human rights. Created an employee suggestion box that encourages all employees to offer their input, comments, complaints and suggestions to help improve performance and quality of their work, and the company’s work Implemented employee satisfaction surveys annually Out of the Box has always had an open door policy where employees are free to address any issue or suggestion to the managing director/ Country Director at anytime. Any Human Rights violation will be dealt with immediately and very seriously. As it is laid down in our Dignity at work Policy All employees have the right to make a complaint if they feel they have been bullied and/or harassed. All complaints will be taken seriously and will be handled with fairness, sensitivity and with due respect for the rights of both the complainant and the alleged perpetrator. Employees who make or participate in an investigation of a complaint will not be subject to victimisation of any kind for doing so. During any investigation into a complaint, the principles of natural justice will be adhered to. Those involved in the complaint must maintain confidentiality on the subject. At all times, every effort will be made to ensure that all complaints are dealt with in a timely manner. External assistance may be necessary to deal with complaints in some circumstances so as to ensure impartiality, objectivity and fairness in an investigation. Measurement of outcomes We have an annual evaluation process for all employees At Out of the Box no human right violation has been reported to date. Our team consists of 70% females, and includes people from across 5 Nationalities Some of the projects Out of the Box has worked on related to Human Rights and the SDGs are: SDG 3: Good Health SDG 4: Quality Education SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 8: Good Jobs and Economic Growth SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities The SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Examples of Projects: EX 1: Location: Lebanon Client: British council in Lebanon and office of the prime minister Out of the box facilitated a series of 8 consultation events to develop a national action plan to prevent violent extremism, these workshop over 2 days each. Each workshop involved a whole range of actors from the public sector, relevant governmental entities, various associations and unions to private sector, banking sector and relevant institutions to academia and researchers. The National Strategy for Preventing Violent Extremism was adopted on 27 March 2018. The Strategy provides the national objectives, policies and plans to prevent violent extremism in the short-, mediumand long-term. Led by the Office of the Prime Minister, the process of developing the strategy involved the Lebanese Government and a broad network of civil society, academia, media and private sector. EX2: -Location: Uganda -Client: Gorta Self Help Africa Out of the Box completed an evaluation of Gorta Self Help Africa, Irish Aid funded programme in Uganda. This evaluation focused on three projects – Seed Enterprise Development; Climate Adaption through Beekeeping and Plant Clinics – Research and Advisory Service on Crop Pests and Disease. These projects were located in Kayunga, Kumi, and Gulu. Out of the Box assessed these three projects in their entirety in terms of effectiveness, relevance, efficiency, sustainability, and impact, with a strong focus on assessing the results at the outcome and project goals levels. EX3 Location: Kenya, South Africa, Thailand, Lebanon and India -Client: Misean Cara Effectiveness Review of projects supporting the realization of equal education rights of migrants, refugees and/or internally displaced people (Misean Cara) – Out of the Box completed an effectiveness review of 6 projects across 5 countries in including Kenya, South Africa, Thailand, Lebanon and India. This included conducting a desk review, traveling to each project, engaging with stakeholders (interviews and focus group discussions), and compiling field research reports for each project visited, as well as a final thematic report. The extensive research enabled us to compile robust conclusions and recommendations for Misean Cara and its member organisations. Photographs from all projects were also compiled for the member organisations and Misean Cara. EX4: Research “Transforming Global Child Safeguarding and Children’s Rights 2018-2019” – Out of the Box completed a research on child safeguarding across 16 projects in 4 countries (Kenya, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda). This included conducting a desk review, traveling to each project, engaging with stakeholders (interviews and focus group discussions), and compiling data sets for each project visited, as well as a final research report. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company . Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals At Out of the Box we work not only in Lebanon and Kenya where our offices are located, but across the Middle East, Africa and Europe, therefore in addition to our fixed employees we have a network of consultants working on projects all over the world based on their expertise. We respect all employees, and we treat everyone in a professional manner regardless of gender, race, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity or expression or any other protected characteristic (The Equality Act covers the same groups that were protected by existing equality legislation – age, disability, gender reassignment, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, marriage and civil partnership and pregnancy and maternity). All employment decisions are made without discrimination and based on valid job requirements. We believe health and safety are very important and we are entirely committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for our employees which we believe is important for protecting human rights as well. Out of the Box have no tolerance for child labor and support the elimination of forced labor. Implementation Concrete actions taken by Out of the box to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Out of the Box follows all Lebanese and Kenyan Labour laws wherever applicable and the laws of the countries we work in. All employees are and should be above 18 years. We make sure of the right information based on their passport and other official documentation. Out of the Box has created an employee suggestion box that encourages all employees to offer their input, comments, complaints. Out of the Box has conducted trainings and awareness for all employees about labor rights and policies. We have made it clear that we expect all our employees adhere to the labour standards. Any labor violation can be reported directly to the Managing Director in Lebanon or Country Director in Kenya and will be dealt with immediately. We make sure not to work with any clients we suspect have violated any of the labour policies. If any employee works on a weekend for a certain project (which occurs only with certain clients on few occasions for specific reasons) they are compensated through time off in lieu. The benefit of Out of the Box being a small company is that we have been able to have one to one meetings and employee satisfactory evaluations annually with our employees through a range of one to one interviews, team meetings, and surveys with our international network of consultants that we work with Measurement of outcomes Description of how Out of the Box monitors and evaluates performance. Employees belonging to 5 Nationalities work with us regardless of our international network of consultants 70% Of our employees are women Age between 25 and 55 years old 0% complaints of any of labour violations Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals At Out of the Box we strongly believe and know that we have an obligation to the environment and incorporate responsible practices and procedures into our standard ways of work. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents Implementation We have conducted trainings and awareness for our employees on environmental practices. We make sure all employees reduce the usage of water and power in our offices, through making sure all air conditioning, heaters, lights, computers, printers etc are switched off when not being used. Recycling bins are in place in all our offices Usage of Led lights in the office We strongly encourage communication via email, to avoid printing unnecessary paper. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance The senior managers are in charge of making sure that employees are minimizing the use of resources such as electricity, water and paper. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Out Of The Box is committed to the highest standards of ethics, honesty, openness and accountability. We wish to support a culture of honesty and opposition to fraud in all its forms. As an organisation, we take a zero-tolerance approach to any form of corruption, bribery and extortion: in the course of our business activities we do not endorse any form of fraud or corruption from either our own staff or those acting on our behalf. Our staff has been trained on policies covering corruption, and bribery, and how to report any improper business and behaviour. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. At Out of the Box we take anti-corruption and anti-bribery very seriously. If we have ever have a case where an employee was taking part in bribery or an incident involving corruption then the employee will be fully investigated and the higher management will be immediately involved as per our Fraud and Whistleblowing Policy Actions arising from Fraud Investigations Disciplinary Procedures Persons who are judged guilty of fraud have committed gross misconduct and will be dealt with in accordance with the Out Of The Box HR Employee Procedures. In addition where appropriate Out Of The Box will refer significant fraud to the local law enforcement agencies with a view to initiating criminal prosecution. The final decision whether or not to prosecute should be taken by the Managing Director and Country Director. Changes to systems of controls -The fraud investigation is likely to highlight where there has been a failure of supervision and/or a breakdown or absence of control. The course of action required to improve systems will be documented and implemented once the investigation report is finalised. Recovery of Losses Where Out Of The Box has suffered loss, full restitution will be sought of any benefit or advantage obtained and the recovery of costs will be sought from individual(s) or organisations responsible for the loss. Monitoring and Review The Managing Director / Country Director will monitor the effectiveness and review the implementation of this Policy, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. Any improvements identified will be made as soon as possible. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Out of the Box has not been involved in any legal cases, or events related to corruption and bribery. We have an external audit that audits our finances who reports directly to the Managing Director and in turn the Partners of the organization.
