SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Palm trees of Kharga Oasis. Disclaimer The 2018 Sustainability Report is an outline of ALEXBANK’s sustainable business and operations. While ALEXBANK has made every attempt to ensure that the information contained in this publication is accountable and accurate, all information and performance indicated in this publication is historical; past performance is not an assurance of future results. All Intellectual Property Rights associated with this publication are proprietary. 1 Corporate and Registered Head Office* Address: 49 Kasr El-Nile, Downtown – Cairo. Egypt View “Impact Through Innovation: A New Phase of Sustainable Growth” online. In order to remain true to our values as ALEXBANK, we ask you to please consider the environment before printing this report. 1. 102-3 4 About this Report* 1 Scope of the Report Period and Cycle Bank of Alexandria (“ALEXBANK”) is an Egyptian Joint Covered* 3 Stock Company (S.A.E) and subsidiary of Intesa Sanpaolo S.P.A., performing under the provisions of the The report covers the fiscal year 2018 (from 1st of JanCentral Bank of Egypt and Monetary Law No. 88/2003. uary to the 31st of December) and reviews the results ALEXBANK was established in 1957, and Intesa Sanachieved with a vision on the future. It describes ALEXpaolo became its main shareholder in 2007. BANK’s strive towards responsible and sustainable development and management in all its operations. Any Editorial Policy efforts described outside this period are indicated in the respective sections. ALEXBANK publishes its second annual Sustainability Report to further cement its incorporation of social deDate of Previous Report velopment and environmental sustainability dimensions Sustainability* 4 into its core business operations, creating shared value for all ALEXBANK stakeholders, including but not limitALEXBANK’s fist Sustainability Report with the title ed to its employees, customers, partners and the com“Creating Shared Value – Driving Financial Inclusivity munities that host and support the Bank’s activities. We Across Egypt” was published on the 31st of August 2017 are fully convinced that creating long-term value for all and covered the year 2017 (from 1st of January to the our stakeholders is a direct function of doing business 31st of December). sustainably and responsibly. Integrating sustainability principles into our business operations allows us to recognize and respond to gaps resulting from both global Forward-Looking and local trends. Statement like it is common for Intesa Sanpaolo Group, we have The second Sustainability Report by the title “Imchosen society to be the direct beneficiary of all our pact Through Innovation: A New Phase of Sustainable initiatives, while upholding good governance principles Growth” contains various forward-looking statements and without compromising the sustainability of the enabout future developments which are based on the curvironment. 2018 marks the first year of the CSR & Susrent status of ALEXBANK and Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s tainable Development Office Strategy. Just For the comassumptions and forecasts. Subject to any number of ing three years, we have plans to further increase our predictable or unpredictable risks or challenges, the efforts towards environmental and social sustainability, current outcome, its future development or performance wider financial inclusion, further develop our responcould considerably change. sible investments and support a variety of local actors active in the arts, culture and preservation of heritage. For Further Information Referenced Reporting Guideline* 2 Laila Hosny Head of CSR & Sustainable Development Office Email: laila.hosny@alexbank.com This report is prepared according to the Global ReportAddress: 49 Kasr El-Nile, Downtown – Cairo. Egypt ing Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards: core option. The content is based on consultations and interviews with stakeholders, reports and audited statements. It covers indicators that are material to Amina Khalil ALEXBANK’s activities as per the requirements of GRI Head of Social Performance & Reporting Unit “core” disclosure areas. Disclosure labels are included CSR & Sustainable Development Office in footnotes throughout the report to facilitate the use of Email: amina.khalil@alexbank.com the GRI Content Index at the end of the Sustainability Address: 49 Kasr El-Nile, Downtown – Cairo. Egypt Report. Copyright © 2018 by ALEXBANK 1. 102-1 2. 102-54 3. 102-50 102-52 4. 102-51 5 Table o f Co n t en t s A Message from our CEO & Managing Director 8 Behind the Lens: Ahmed Hayman 10 01 About Us 12 02 Reporting for shared value 14 03 Growth for impact: our year in review 24 3.1 Financial Highlights & Position 26 3.2 Our Market Share 30 3.3 Our Economic Value Distribution 32 04 Partners of Success 40 4.1 Engagement Activities & Key Topics Raised 42 4.2 Risks & Opportunities 46 4.3 Topic Boundaries & Materiality Matrix 48 05 ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics 54 06 Good Governance 56 6.1 The Board of Directors 56 6.2 Control Committees 58 6.3 Organizational Structure 62 6.4 Compliance 64 6.4.1 Reporting & Monitoring 6.4.2 Training & Awareness 6.5 Social & Environmental Governance 68 07 Risk Management for Sustainability 74 7.1 Responsible Risk Management & Governance 75 7.2 Our Operational Risk Culture 76 7.3 Serving with Impact 77 7.4 ECA: A Digital Transformation 78 08 Our Sustainability Redefined 82 8.1 Creating Shared Value 83 8.2 Framework of Action 84 8.3 Communicating Our Impact 85 09 Creating Social Impact & Value 88 9.1 Ebda3 men Masr 90 9.1.1 Corporate Giveaways 2018 9.1.2 Ramadan Giveaways 9.1.3 Qesetna Fi Herfetna 9.1.4 Exhibitions: Breaking Marketing & Sales Thresholds 9.1.5 Impact Through Partnerships 9.1.6 Ebda3 men Masr: A Model for Social Solidarity 9.2 Community Development Projects 109 9.3 Our Main CSR Contributions 118 9.4 ALEXBANK for ALEXBANK 120 6 10 Our Commitment to the Environment 124 10.1 Direct Environmental Impacts 125 10.1.1 Energy Efficiency 10.1.2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 10.1.3 Paper Consumption & Waste 10.1.4 Waste Management 10.2 Indirect Environmental Impacts 128 10.3 Dialogue & Listening 130 11 Financial Inclusion 134 11.1 Microfinance: Serving the Underserved 134 11.1.1 Our Microfinance Portfolio 11.1.2 Tamkeen: Responsible Micro-lending 11.2 Our YOUTH Proposition 142 11.3 FinTech for Inclusion 143 11.4 Financial Literacy: Tailored Learning 145 11.4.1 Ask the Expert 11.4.2 Tamkeen 11.4.3 The SME Toolkit 11.4.4 YOUTH 11.4.5 Women 11.4.6 Hady Bady 11.5 Digital Financial Inclusion (DFI) 147 11.6 Agriculture & Rural Inclusion 148 12 Serving with Excellence 154 12.1 Enabling Digitalization, Driving Innovation 154 12.2 Liverpool Football Club (LFC) Cards 156 12.3 Remittances 156 12.4 Beyond Banking 157 12.5 Physical Accessibility 158 12.6 Customer Satisfaction & Privacy 158 13 Strong in Our Diversity: Our Human Capital 162 13.1 Beyond Traditional Benefits 164 13.1.1 Health Insurance 13.1.2 EduCare 13.1.3 Children with Special Needs: EduCare & Early Retirement 13.1.4 Early Retirement Program 13.2 Women of ALEXBANK 166 13.3 Talent Acquisition, Development & Growth 170 13.3.1 Talent Acquisition 13.3.2 Training & Development 13.4 Our Summer Internship Program 171 13.5 Staying in Touch 171 13.6 ALEXBANK’s Staff Union 171 14 Our Commitment to Sustainability 174 14.1 Global Report Index (GRI) 174 14.2 The Advancement of the United Nations 174 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 14.3 United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC) 180 14.4 Equator Principles 181 15 Memberships & Awards 182 15.1 Memberships 182 15.2 Awards 183 7 A Message from our CEO & Managing Director *1 such as financial inclusion, responsible lending, environmental sustainability, social development, and governance. Sustainable and responsible practices remain central to our business approach which, in continuation with tradition, will remain a crucial component of our guidelines and values. Thus, ALEXBANK has welcomed the introduction of the Group’s four-year Business Plan and has mirrored it with a CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy spanning over the same period, cementing our responsibility towards all our stakeholders including the communities where we operate. We are committed to promoting financial inclusion among Egyptians from marginalized communities, recognizing that this can be an accelerator for their individual as well as the country’s collective economic growth. To address this issue, we are constantly developing new products leveraging on the digital technologies we keep developing, also applicable to efficient, affordable and responsible lending and micro-lending solutions. To widen our reach, we are developing tailor-made microfinance products to enable marginalized Egyptians to realize their hopes and dreams. Following the launch of ALEXBANK’s first sustainability report last year, it is with great pleasure that We reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles we present our second edition, which highlights of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the directions to which ALEXBANK has and will the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment continue to evolve its business, affirming its susand Anti-Corruption and commit to sharing all the tainable and socially responsible nature. In alignavailable information with our stakeholders usment with Intesa Sanpaolo Group and the Global ing all our primary channels of communication. Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, ALEXBANK Since 2014, ALEXBANK has been a signatory of remains committed to offer its contribution to the principles adopting a wide array of initiatives combat environmental issues and social inequalto anchor and align the principles with our strateities, both in the field of finance and beyond. Our gies, policies and procedures. Throughout the reSustainability Report reflects the values we hold port, it is highlighted how these principles are inat ALEXBANK, all of which place great emphasis corporated into our business, our daily operations on the relationships we have with our customers, and our culture. It is also demonstrated how these partners and community, seeking to preserve the guidelines are assisting us in applying a princilong term welfare of all our stakeholders. ples-based approach to doing business purposefully, promoting a vision of sustainable growth. Out of 6,000 listed companies worldwide, Intesa The process and implementation of policies in faSanpaolo Group – to which we proudly belong vor of sustainability are often neglected in tradito is among the top performing banks in sustaintional business models. At ALEXBANK, we recogably globally. The Intesa Sanpaolo Group Businize the crucial role these can play in securing the ness Plan (2018-2021) not only clearly identifies relationships we maintain with our stakeholders economic targets, but also sets social objectives including our employees, and in generating posi8 1. 102-14 tive impact on communities beyond the spheres of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), aligned the specific business performed. As such, Intesa with the Egypt Vision 2030 and our four year CSR Sanpaolo Group ensures their members act ethi& Sustainable Development plan, continue to pave cally and that social and environmental progress the way for ALEXBANK, to lead its 175 branchremain integral to their policies and daily practices and more than 1.5 million direct customers to es. In 2018, our approach to sustainable develeconomic prosperity without compromising enviopment and CSR has led to international recogronmental sustainability. Our goal for the future is nition of our achievements, receiving the award to continue reducing the environmental impact of for “Best Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility our activities, also supporting the community by in the Middle East” by EUROMONEY, one of the dedicating specific efforts and funding such as most prominent international magazines in asthe Sustainable Energy Financing Facility providsessing the performance of financial institutions ed by European Bank for Reconstruction and Deworldwide. velopment (EBRD) and the European Investment ALEXBANK is introducing new guidelines and Bank (EIB), which supports energy saving investkey features to promote environmental and social ments. advancement across the country in line with its Code of Ethics. We place great emphasis on enIt is of paramount importance that Egypt’s bankforcing the Egypt Vision 2030, through which the ing ecosystem realizes the significance of enviEgyptian government approaches economic, soronmentally conscious practices, and our 2018 cial and environmental welfare nationwide. Over Sustainability Report is a testimony of the exthe coming decade, ALEXBANK will be dedicating pansion of our efforts towards the affirmation of its efforts to affirm its standing as a successful sustainable development’s logics. More than ever, bank while contributing to the sustainable develALEXBANK has been enhancing its sustainabiliopment of Egypt. Dedication to both the social ty profile by extending its support to sustainable and environmental spheres, we believe, is crucial businesses, empowering their growth and develto Egypt’s future success, -an endorsement, that opment. I invite you to explore this Sustainability both ALEXBANK and the Intesa Sanpaolo Group Report, as we journey through the practices that will continue to witness and support endlessly. reflect our commitment to responsible, sustainIn this regard, ALEXBANK has received a speable and transparent business, allowing us to crecial recognition for implementing an efficient LED ate shared value, which helps securing a brighter lighting system in seven of our largest premises, future to our community. supporting the National Energy Efficiency Improvement Project. Thank you Local communities benefit most when the financial institutions they trust and turn to for assistance offer their support to sustainable and socially impactful projects. ALEXBANK believes in making available its financial support to build initiatives that matter, that recognize the value of diversity and enable social and environmental progDante Campioni, ress. With our creating shared value approach, Managing Director & CEO and in alignment with the national regulators and Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ALEXBANK is consistently embarking on new initiatives to solidify its relationship with partners, while simultaneously supporting different groups of Egypt’s diverse landscape with a view to future generations. The 9 Behind The Lens: Ahmed Hayman 10 From Cairo, to the New Valley and Upper Egypt. A journey to the center of Egypt’s most thrilling locations bursting with untapped potential and opportunities. I was able to meet and photograph generous people who welcomed us with open arms to show us how they are attempting to strengthen and preserve their heritage. So many women, men and children are finding unique ways to turn everyday surroundings that are so often ignored into a craft that can sustain their community and environment. The people we met were rich in spirit, and simply needed further support to sustain their achievements. ALEXBANK has provided multiple communities across the country with the necessary resources to realize their potential and pursue their goals. The hope and positivity I witnessed for 10 days was certainly very moving to me. Thank you ALEXBANK for giving me the chance to document such hopeful dreams in the making. 11 Established as a public institution 61 years ago, ALEXBANK continuously furthers itself without compromising its Egyptian identity. By implementing a sustainable development 01 ABOUT US strategy, ALEXBANK was able to navigate the national economic situation over the past few years without disrupting the functions that benefit its stakeholders and communities where it operates. The Egyptian society remains central to our initiatives and delivering services that enable its welfare will always remain essential to our business decisions. Intesa Sanpaolo Group, of which ALEXBANK has been a subsidiary since 2007, is a responsible financial intermediary that ensures innovation, creation of new services and financial solutions remain integral to its practices. ALEXBANK is in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s four-year Business Plan (2018 – 2021) which prioritizes strong and sustainable value creation, while maintaining a solid capital position and reducing the risk profile at no cost to shareholders. Moreover, ALEXBANK is committed to maintaining its leadership position in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and strictly adhering to national and international standards with regards to social and environmental principles. Guided by the Intesa Sanpaolo Group guidelines and the Egypt Vision 2030, ALEXBANK continues to serve Egypt and contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our business offers tailored products and services to all our 1.584 million customers who are served by 4,509 employees. Our community benefits from one of Egypt’s largest distribution networks, with 175 branches and over 375 ATMs across the nation. They also enjoy world-class online, mobile and phone banking services, with a seamless digital access to their accounts 24 hours per 7 days a week. In 2018, we call a total of five fully accessible branches our own, with more accessible branches planned for 2019.*1 Furthermore, in the desire to achieve safe and sustainable ALEXBANK branches, and together with all relevant internal stakeholders as well as external consultants, ALEXBANK’s 2019 plans include the development of a Sustainable & Accessible Branches Policy to ensure the whole branch network can continues growing inclusively, truly be safe, sustainable and accessible to everyone, thereby ensuring financial inclusion and highest service quality to our existing and potential customers. Our Branch Network*2 While we have more and more customers connecting with us via our internet and mobile banking services, still a large part of our customers values the experience associated with our branch network staff. ALEXBANK is a personal bank, with deep-rooted relationships of trust between our customers and staff in the branches, and our network has been key in carrying decades-long connections into 2018. This year, we opened three new branches to reach a total of 175 branches across Egypt. In conjuncture with the expansion of our network, we renovated six branches to guarantee a welcoming environment and the best ALEXBANK customer experience. Ta r e k S a l a h H ead of N etw o r k D e p a r t m e n t “Through our new branches and continuous improve-ments of the existing ones, in addition to our various alliances with the concerned governmental entities (the General Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI) and the Industrial Development Authority (IDA), we are supporting the growth of the Egyptian economy by extending our support to MSMEs nationwide and the expansion of microbusiness too.” 1. 102-2 102-4 102-6 2. 102-4 12 ALEXANDIRA SOUTH CAIRO NORTHERN CANAL Alexandria U PPE R EGY P T Cairo North Sinai Matrouh Giza Damietta Menya Menoufiya Bani Suef Ismailiya Fayoum Port-Said Asyut South Sinai Red Sea Suez W E S T D E LTA E L D E LTA SOUTHERN NORTH CAIRO U PPE R EGY P T Kafr El-Sheikh Dakahliya Cairo Beheira Kalyoubeya Aswan Sharkiya Gharbiya Sharkiya Qena Menoufiya Luxor Sohag 13 1 ALEXBANK accepts as true that its investment decisions and credit 0 2 REPORT I N G FOR S HARED VALUE * policies must consider environmental and social risks, given business that produces economic value can be sustainable only if it does not simultaneously destroy social or environmental value. Furthermore, ALEXBANK believes that negative impacts on project-affiliated ecosystems, communities and climate should be avoided where possible and, in the cases, where these impacts are unavoidable they should be mitigated. Aligned with Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Business Plan (2018-2021), Egypt 2030 Vision and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ALEXBANK’s four-year CSR & Sustainable Development Strategy resulted in a new structure for the CSR & Sustainable Development Office which now directly reports to the CEO & Managing Director of ALEXBANK. By addressing environmental and social issues at a highest management level, the Bank ensures its operations are consistent with this Strategy. As ALEXBANK continues to progress towards a more sustainable future, this report acts as a tool to highlight the context in which we operate, internal policies and guidelines, past performance, challenges, achievements as well as plans and commitments. Through our reporting practices, we aim to remain in constant dialogue with all stakeholders. Our goal remains to create shared value to all our stakeholders, increase customer satisfaction as well as achieve higher levels of inclusion and equality. Throughout this report, we reflect on the growing connections between ALEXBANK’s three core elements that constitute the foundation of our sustainability: A sound system for managing social and environmental impacts and miniming risks to our economic performance. The integration of responsible lending principles into our core business practices. Our deep commitment to investing in our employees as the foundation for our success. 1. 102-19 102-20 14 Salsabeel, Um Gana’s five-year old daughter, posing in her family’s farm in Dakhla Oasis. The stories we share are one of our greatest assets. ALEXBANK is extremely proud of all the work and achievements of its beneficiaries. We treasure the inspiration they provide to all of us and we are very keen on sharing these powerful stories with all our partners and clients. Throughout this report you will find photos, snippets and details of many of these success stories that we are so proud to be a part of. We hope they inspire you through text and photos as much as they inspire us in real life. 15 Um Gana Palm Leaves, Individual Artist, Dakhla Oasis, New Valley Ebda3 men Masr 600 kilometers away from Cairoads as her display area, Um Through “Ebda3 Men Masr”, ro and in the heart of the abanGana was selling accessories she encountered a very different doned Islamic touristic village of and traditional embroidery prodkind of customer than what she AlQasr, it is impossible to pass ucts only. Once her business is usually accustomed to and inby the glorious abandoned Old started to flourish, she cooperteracted with new peers. Kasr village without paying a visated with other women active in Based on her belief that women it to Um Gana. What used to be traditional local crafts. The wommust be financially independent, the house of Um Gana’s family en enabled Um Gana to diverUm Gana is teaching school is now being used as a musesify her merchandise, enabling girls how to make accessories um, with a bazaar attached to it. her to increase her profits while from locally sourced materials The historic house museum in making it possible for them to during holidays, encouraging Old Kasr village allows visitors earn an income with the sale of them through providing them to imagine how the inhabitants their handmade products. with an outlet through which of the village used to live prior to they can earn additional pocket its abandonments. Today, she works with a network money by sells their products. of 20 women from five different She dreams of having a perThe bazaar showcases Um villages, to provide them with an manent workshop where womGana’s hand-crafted products opportunity to market for their en can work for fixed working made of dried palm leaves, a palm leave products through her hours. She is certain that evenpopular raw material used for bazaar and the exhibitions she tually, improvements in quality a wide array of decorative and takes part in. ALEXBANK’s Crafand higher levels of production day-to-day items. Back in 2009, fiti Exhibition held in October will bring about prosperity to with not more than EGP 300 2018 was Um Gana’s first expeher growing network of women to invest and the sidewalks of rience with “Ebda3 men Masr”. bursting with potential. 16 One of the many women working with Um Gana weaving dried palm leaves. A peak inside Um Gana’s bazaar: woven baskets made by the working women. 17 A peak inside Um Gana’s bazaar: light shining through the shop and its many traditional and hand-crafted products displayed for the village visitors. 18 19 A group of women working with Um Gana making products using dried palm leaves. The abandoned village of Old Kasr in Dakhla Oasis. 20 “I was the only woman who had broken the customs and traditions of the village and traveled for exhibitions, of course with the support of my husband. The exhibitions I attend added so much value to me and to the women who I work with. My goal for the future is to have a permanent workshop where women can earn a fixed income making products at the highest quality.” Um Gana 21 Um Gana’s father-in-law, Hag Mahmoud ElSenousy, a proud resident of Old Kasr village carrying fresh produce that he cultivates from his farm. The hat he wears is made of palm leaves and an old practice by farmers in the area to protect them from the brilliant sun. 22 23 1 03 GROW TH FOR I M PACT: OUR YE AR I N RE V IE W * Connecting Egypt and Italy in the past laid the foundations for an exceptional present and a confident outlook to sustainably serving our customers in the future. With 70.25% of ALEXBANK falling under the ownership of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, the Egyptian government maintaining 20% ownership and 9.75% owned by the International Finance Cooperation (IFC), the Bank is equipped with a deep understanding of the national context, needs, challenges, regulatory requirements, a distinctive and profound grasp of international best practices and a solid future vision. ALEXBANK offers current and savings accounts, deposits, overdraft accounts, loans, credit facilities, financial derivatives, credit cards, and personal and mortgage loans. ALEXBANK also provides companies’ mergers, investments purchase, company restructuring financing, and financial instruments, as well as treasury management services. Against a backdrop of a challenging economic situation and a high interest rate environment, the Bank kept a set of commendable results for 2018. In the fiscal year 2017/2018, Egypt’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a rate of 5.3% compared to 4.2% in the previous year. Also in 2018, the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) increased its efforts towards wider financial inclusion, strengthening the resilience of small and medium enterprises (SME) and micro financing. ALEXBANK has embraced these initiatives and capitalized on the resulting business opportunities to provide long term value-added services to all its SME customers. Indeed, ALEXBANK’s loans to SMEs active in the industrial and agricultural sectors increased by around EGP 60 million (ca. 8.3%). This was made possible via flexible financing programs designed to cover all financing needs of our customers and innovative non-financial services including advisory, financial inclusion and literacy initiatives. ALEXBANK’s network of 175 branches nationwide remains an important channel linking us to our customers. As a result, in 2018, ALEXBANK crossed EGP 3 billion net profit for the first time. 1. 102-4 102-5 24 Loom threads of a hand-sewed carpet, a new activity introduced in the Oasis, supports the conscious use of resources. These carpets are set to secure an extra source of income for the Oasis. Aly Wasfy H ead o f A c c o u n t i n g D e p a r t m e n t This year, we accomplished unprecedented results reflecting our commitment and deter-mination to grow sustainably. We place equal importance on considering economic results and maximizing positive social impact to affirm our strong position in the Egyptian Market. The fair distribution of economic value created for all the stakeholders is our primary aim.” 25 3 .1 F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G H T S & P O S I T I O N * 1 Total Assets (EGP, Million) 2018 95,133 2017 77,697 2016 62,812 Net Interest Income (EGP, Million) 2018 5,573 2017 4,862 2016 3,329 Net Fees and Commissions Income (EGP, Million) 2018 679 2017 563 2016 436 Net Profit before Income Tax (EGP, Million) 2018 3,981 2017 3,685 2016 1,869 Net Profit (EGP, Million) 2018 3,025 2017 2,783 2016 1,514 Net Loans (EGP, Million) 2018 38,239 2017 32,149 2016 30,000 Customers’ Deposits (EGP, Million) 2018 78,782 2017 63,537 2016 51,621 1. 102-7 102-45 201-1 26 T O TA L ALEXBANK’s total assets reached EGP 95.1 million in 2018, an increase of more ASSETS than 22% vis-à-vis 2017 (EGP 77.7 million). Balance Sheet volumes displayed noticeable growth compared to December 2017, primarily driven by strong increases in Net Loans to Customers and Customer Deposits. Lending activities have been addressed to create the conditions for sustainable growth through selectively rebuilding and re-balancing the corporate portfolio. NET I NTE R E ST Net Interest Income increased by EGP 711 million, a 14.6% jump versus 2017. INCOME NET FEES AND Total Net Fees and Commissions increased by 20.8% (EGP 117 million) year-onCOMMISSIONS year to record EGP 680 as of December 2019 versus EGP 563 million in the full INCOME year 2017. NET PROFIT The Bank registered an increase in Net Profit Before Income Tax by 8.6% to BEFORE reach EGP 3.9 million. I N C O M E TA X NET PROFIT Net profit for the year grew by 8.7% to a record EGP 3 billion. This performance AND INCOME was partially attributed to the surge in Net Income by around 15.3% year-onyear to reach EGP 6.253 million in 2018. The overall performance was sustained by the healthy growth of our Operating Profit which increased to reach EGP 6.4 billion supported by the continued growth of both Net Interest Income and Fees & Commissions of 21% versus 2017. The increase of revenues from loans to customers has constituted 17% (equivalent to EGP 728 million) of Net Income. C U STO M E R The Central Bank of Egypt initiatives and ALEXBANK’s efforts have reflected on DE POSITS our customer landscape: & N E T LO A N S Customer Deposits increased by 24% in year-on-year to reach EGP 78.8 billion. The increase in total Customer Deposits volume is attributed to the growth of retail deposits by 26.2% mainly driven by AlexPrime and a 11.5% boost in Corporate Deposits. Total Net Loans and Advances (performing and non-performing) increased by 18.9% to reach a total of EGP. 38.2 billion in 2018, mainly driven by an increase in the gross performing corporate loans. NET TRADING ALEXBANK’s NTI decreased by 32.2% to reach EGP 59 million versus EGP 87 INCOME (NTI) million in 2017, mainly due to the EGP 10.5 million decrease in profits from foreign currency exchange. 27 Cost / Income (%) 2018 36.2% 2017 32.0% 2016 46.6% Return on Equity (%) 2018 28.8% 2017 31.0% 2016 23.3% Return on Assets (%) 2018 3.5% 2017 4.0% 2016 2.7% Loans (Net) / Deposits (%) 2018 48.5% 2017 50.6% 2016 58.1% Earnings per Share (EGP) 2018 6.83 2017 6.26 2016 3.41 Capital Adequacy (Basel II) (%) 2018 21.23% 2017 18.88% 2016 12.45% 28 C O ST TO ALEXBANK continues to build-up revenue growth over expenses with a INCOME Cost-to-Income ratio reaching 36% versus 32% in 2017. The higher ratio in 2018 is driven by the high cost impacted by higher inflation rates. SHAREHOLDERS’ Total Shareholders’ Equity increased by 17%, equivalent to EGP 1.529 EQUITY million, due to the following: Increase of retained earnings by EGP 1.578 million reaching EGP 7.858 million.. Decrease in ALEXBANK’s reserves by EGP 49 million, affected by the decrease in the net change in fair value of available for sale investments compared to 2018 revaluations. RETURN ON The 0.5% decrease is due to the 24% increase in average assets, which is AVE RAG E primarily driven by the business activity. ASSETS N E T LO A N S TO Our Net Loans-to-Deposits ratio has slightly decreased year-on-year drivDE POSITS en by the enormous growth in loans utilized in CBE placements. EARNINGS PER Our Earnings-Per-Share rose by 9% to reach EGP 6.83/share. SHARE C A P I TA L The Bank’s liquidity position and capital base are adequate to support its ADEQUACY future growth plans, since the CAR increased by 2.4% at the level of 21.2% R AT I O ( C A R ) versus 18.9% in 2017. (BASEL II) 1 ALEXBANK’s audited 2018 financial statements can be viewed via this link:* https://www.alexbank.com/Cms_Data/Contents/AlexBank_En/Media/pdf/Financial-S/BOD_Annual-Report_2018_English.pdf 1. 102-45 29 3.2 OUR MARKET SHARE Total Assets (EGP, Million) Total Loans (Gross) 1.94% 1.88% 1.83% 1.74% 2.31% 2.25% 2.26% 2.2% Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Total Deposits Retail Loans 2.1% 2.1% 6.0% 6.1% 2.0% 5.9% 5.9% 1.9% Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Corporate Deposits Retail Deposits 0.83% 2.8% 0.77% 0.77% 0.77% 2.7% 2.5% 2.6% Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 Corporate Loans 1.50% 1.48% 1.47% 1.45% Mar-18 Jun-18 Sep-18 Dec-18 30 T O TA L A S S E T S By December 2018, ALEXBANK’s market share of total assets decreased MARKET SHARE by 0.2% compared to January 2018. T O TA L LO A N S Despite an increase in performing retail loans portfolio by 18.1% due to MARKET SHARE new fully cash covered loans of low cost to the customers, total loans market share dropped to 2.3% by the end of 2018 due to the decrease in the market share of corporate loans to 1.5%. T O TA L D E P O S I T S Total Customer Deposits market share increased by 2.1% on December MARKET SHARE 31, 2018 versus 1.8% in January of the same year. Galal Fahmy He a d o f Tre a s u r y O f f i c e “Despite challenging economic and political situations in the world, and especially the emerging markets, our division was able to work in harmony with all our internal and external counterparts. Being part of a Group such as Intesa Sanpaolo, strongly asserting its global position while choosing to operate responsibly and sustainably, continues to give me the confidence in our chosen creating shared value approach.” Loom threads of a hand-sewed carpet, a new activity introduced in the Health and Hope Oasis. 31 3 . 3 O U R E C O N O M I C VA L U E D I S T R I B U T I O N * 1 In line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s strategy, ALEXBANK strives and continues to provide sustainable solutions to its customers, while maintaining responsible lending activities, highest levels of social cohesion and conscious environmental practices. W E L FA R E O F 2018 witnessed an increase of the post-retirement medical benefits by E M P LO Y E E S around EGP 143 million, 17.9% more than in 2017. The rise in pension cost was due to the cost of the Early Retirement Plan, reaching EGP 120 million in 2018. Salaries cost increased by EGP 61 million, around 6.7% more than in 2017. ALEXBANK’s financing businesses and individuals grew by 18.9% to reach C U STO M E R S EGP 38.3 billion, with a loan market share of 1.91%. ALEXBANK’s operations generated EGP 1.36 billion in corporate, payroll and S TA B L E P A R T N E R various taxes. Excluding payroll taxes and contributions, ALEXBANK’s payTO T H E E GY P T I A N ments for corporate income tax and other taxes amounted to EGP 937 million G OVE R N M E NT for 2018. 2 GROWTH FOR THE Supply chain* impacts on sustainability, environmental footprint and creating ECONOMY *1 shared value performance can be significant. ALEXBANK’s indirect impact on the stability of it operations and jobs of its suppliers can be measured by the EGP 1.1 billion allocated for local procurement in 2018. Following the Procurement Department’s success to transform into a strategic business partner over the past few years, in 2018, the Department took far-reaching steps to further raise the bar for its standards. We currently do not have a supply chain, which does not hinder us from improving the quality of our vendors’ management process by including more vendors and enhancing the relationship with new and existing suppliers through regular meetings to discuss the market, new products and services. We are using the database comprised of all our 180 vendors and suppliers mostly located in Egypt. This database was created within the Procurement Centralization Project in 2017 which had as purpose allowing efficient interactions with all our suppliers. Furthermore, we were able to see direct positive results of the new procurement structure that was approved in late 2017, which ensuring the alignment of all our procurement practices with the Code of Ethics. 1. 204-1 2. 102-9 102-10 32 3. 401-1 SUPPORT In 2018, the team responsible for CSR and Sustainable Development initiatives TO TH E grew to nine members after having been a trio for the past two years at least. COMMUNITY 1 Impact in Numbe rs:* 9,500 Beneficiaries 13 Partner Organizations EGP 10 Million Total CSR Spending 20,000 Beneficiaries 18 Partner Organizations EGP 13 Million Total CSR Spending 30,000 Beneficiaries 36 Partner Organizations EGP 22 Million Total CSR Spending The hand-sewed carpets are close to see the light and be placed in the Oasis rooms to welcome the visitors. 1. 102-6 33 Faiza AbdelKhalick F o u n d i n g M e m b e r, F r i e n d s o f C h i l d r e n w i t h C a n c e r, Wadi El Natroun, El Beheira. Health & Hope Oasis Education Kitchen Project Faiza Abdel-Khalick is a key person at the Health & Hope Oasis sanctuary in Wadi El Natroun, whose smile never escapes her face. The “Our dream is to sanctuary spread over a 50-feddan large farm aims to alleviate the make this place effects of harsh experiences on children undergoing cancer treatment and their families. Faiza believes that to truly help children, ena hub for recovery tertainment and psychological support are as important as the medfor everyone who ical treatment. comes to us.” A key feature of the wellness aspect provided by the Oasis is a rich and balanced nutritional program, which plays a crucial role in promoting health and supporting recovery of the cancer patients and their families. In this light, ALEXBANK contributed with a new kitchen in which fresh, home cooked meals are will be cooked for everyone to enjoy. In the future, Faiza looks forward to accommodating more families. Being a force behind reaching higher rates of cured children with cancer in Egypt is her biggest hope. 34 Children and their families along with the Oasis team members at the end of a day filled with games and activities. Siham Samir Fawzy “Our goal is to make the families feel at Head of Child and Family Program, home with us. We offer psychological Care with Love NGO. care and entertainment activities in ad(A partner of Friends of Children dition to awareness activities targeting with Cancer) mothers who contribute directly to their child’s healing process. We want them to Health & Hope Oasis Education Kitchen Project reclaim their hope.” 35 Live moments of a normal day for the Oasis visitors. 36 Um Ismail “The Oasis Mother of four children diagnosed with cancer makes me Health and Hope Education Kitchen Project feel home, “I have been coming here for a long time. I like everything about the Oasis, especially we do not how we are being taken care of. The Oasis makes me feel home, we do not suffer here. suffer here.” I have learned so much about nutrition and hygiene and how they affect my children’s’ state of physical and mental being.” Um Ismail with three of her children diagnosed with cancer. 37 38 Beautiful greenery showing through the window of the Health and Hope Oasis kitchen, which will be opened in 2019. 39 1 0 4 PARTN ERS O F SUCCES S * With a growing business and wider outreach of our services, our direct and indirect impacts grow in magnitude. An integral part of our approach to sustainability is the relationship we maintain with all our stakeholders, which is built on trust, CommUnityShip and shared value. Ongoing dialogue and engagement activities, directly through listening actions and emails as well as indirectly through the analysis of reports and documents, allows us to address these impacts and identify areas of priority with all our stakeholders. Each function in the Bank assesses its needs and acts accordingly in respect to the dialogue it establishes with all its stakeholders. Internally, the dialogue also takes place between all functions and their respective governance bodies in charge of their supervision in accordance to ALEXBANK’s policies and the influence and significance of each arising matter. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage and not to engage varies depending on new emerging matters and regulations, changes in our strategy, and the launch of new products and /or services. STAKEHOLDER MAP EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS • Network personnel • Retail & individual customers • Intesa Sanpaolo Group • Staff personnel • Microfinance customers • Egyptian government • All employees and managers • SME customers • International Finance • Top management • Large corporate customers Corporation (IFC) • Trade unions • Social enterprises • Public authorities • Associations SUPPLIERS THE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY • Largeand small-scale suppliers • Future generations • Communities we serve and • Commercial partners operate in • Sub-suppliers • NGOs and CSR partners • Regulatory authorities • National and international public institutions • Media 1. 102-40 102-42 40 The daughter of Safaa, one of many women receiving assistance for a microproject within our Tamkeen Integrated Village Development Project in collaboration with Khair wa Baraka, NGO. Her daughter also frequents the project nursery in the village. 41 4 .1 E N G A G E M E N T A C T I V I T I E S & K E Y T O P I C S R A I S E D * 1 Continuous communication ensures we deliver on our objectives, meet all expectations and respond adequately and timely to all opportunities and challenges. Our engagement is often via regular reports and site visits but embraces other channels and activities outlined throughout this report. A major step in our multi-stakeholder consultation for this report encompassed three engagement workshops held in the presence and participation of ALEXBANK’s management and representatives from all functions to collect their insights on material areas. These workshops were structured around their feedback on how our 2017 Sustainability Report presented their respective functions, how it affected the way they perceive ALEXBANK, what synergies they deemed important to cultivate, which aspects they believed needed further strengthening, how ALEXBANK’s sustainability efforts and plans have been mirrored in their day-to-day operations during 2018, and what were their plans for the future of ALEXBANK. The management team, in attendance of the Bank’s CEO & Managing Director, CRO and COO highlighted the significance of sustainability reporting as a main initiator and driver of dialogue. The underlying themes of many discussions revolved around main risks, challenges and opportunities essential for our business continuity and operational success. Main aspects of the engagement activities, stakeholder categories and topics covered are summarized below. 1. 102-43 102-44 42 “The grocery shop helps me cover for my children’s education expenses. I do not want them to drop out of school and envision a future in which this grocery shop turns into a full-fledged supermarket.” Safaa A panoramic view of the Ghonymiah village in Edfu captured from the rooftop of a local NGO within the scope of Tamkeen project. 43 Channel of Communication Frequency Issues Covered & Raised • In-person and DAILY CommUnityShip online trainings WEEKLY Learning and development programs • Company intranet MONTHLY Tailored career development plans EMPLOYEES and email QUARTERLY Diversity and Human Rights aspects • Face-to-face meetings Transparent performance appraisal processes • Performance reviews Accessibility of offices to colleagues with special • Employee abilities engagement events Health & Safety • CLOSER and other Work-life balance and employee wellbeing periodical internal Various compensation and benefits programs communications Intesa Sanpaolo talent program • Surveys on Full-time job opportunities for outsourced personnel priority topics • Customer satisfaction DAILY Enhancing customer financial education surveys and calls WEEKLY and access to credit • Customer service MONTHLY Protection and responsible management of savings hotline QUARTERLY Cyber security • Marketing campaigns Transparency and accountability • Help desk tickets Social inclusion of specific segments of society • Social media (youth and women) Expansion of microfinance services to more businesses, individuals and sectors CUSTOMERS Electronic Credit Application (ECA) digital platform with the objective to reduce the “Time to YES” (approve) and “Time to CASH” (disburse) New digital services Development of non-financial advisory services, including the SME Toolkit in the ALEXBANK Business Passport Individualized advisory services for business customers New maintenance plan for ATMs and digital services Accessibility of branches to customers with special abilities New Customer Relationship Management (CRM) reducing time associated with handling customer complaints • Board of Directors MONTHLY Compliance to rigorous national laws, Intesa meetings QUARTERLY Sanpaolo Group rules and international principles • Board Committee Integrity Meetings 2018 growth, value and profitability indicators SHAREHOLDERS • Policies and circular Corporate governance and transparency communication Timely disclosures • Regular reports on Adherence to international best practices ALEXBANK’s Ventures into the agricultural and industrial sectors performance Environmental and social guidelines, due diligence • Delegations and management system (indirect environmental • Quarterly meetings impacts) at Headquarters Application of ESG criteria and standards • Direct calls and Direct environmental impacts meetings Health & Safety matters Employee wellbeing 44 Quality and innovation in customer relations Face-to-face meetDAILY Integrity in corporate conduct SUPPLIERS ings and direct calls. WEEKLY Alignment with new Group Procurement Rules Communication of MONTHLY Direct environmental impacts updated policies or QUARTERLY Relationships with contractors and subcontractors requirements from the Labor practices Bank Expansion plans Long term partnerships Sustainability requirements THE ENVIRONMENT Directly via email DAILY Alliance with global Sustainable Development Goals published on the WEEKLY (SDGs) ALEXBANK website MONTHLY Implementation of ALEXBANK’s Social and Environencouraging dialogue QUARTERLY mental Management System (SEMS) on environmental and ANNUALLY The implementation of Equator Principles social matters related Energy Efficiency and resource consumption issues to ALEXBANK’s directly impacting the environment business activities. • Regular meetings WEEKLY CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy • Field visits MONTHLY (2018-2021) • Capacity building QUARTERLY Amendments in the microfinance product catalogue trainings to accommodate underserved segments of society COMMUNITY • Partnerships and New microfinance units and branches in Upper Egypt collaborations to expand reach to underserved segments of the • Industry associations population • Participations in Specialized training for marginalized entrepreneurs advocacy forums Projects directly addressing community needs • Press conferences Local in international Exhibitions and trade fairs serv • Membership of ing supporting “Ebda3 men Masr” artisans government-affiliated Capacity building programs councils and Partnerships with leading NGOs committees Financial inclusion and literacy initiatives Agricultural and livestock development activities 45 4 . 2 R I S K S A N D O P P O R T U N I T I E S *1 Together with insights gathered from our stakeholder engagement sessions, topics presenting risks and/or opportunities have been identified and presented according the GRI standard matrix. Topics Risks Opportunities FINANCIAL The presence of a large, highly Large unbanked segments translate into a huge I N C LU S I O N dynamic informal sector untapped market with significant prospects for undermines our capacity to growth. monitor and accurately forecast economic activity. D I G I TA L I Z AT I O N The rise of digitalization is Digital transformation permits us to widen our cusexpected to disrupt traditional tomer base, deliver better services, improve work banking services in unpreceflows, and increase customer satisfaction. dented ways. CYB E R While online banking is conveALEXBANK is keen to apply customer protection SECURITY nient, it has potential negative principles to decrease financial and reputational impacts on the privacy of risks. Introducing new ways to educate our cusfinancial information globally. tomers on how to detect security breaches, while simultaneously providing them with reliable channels through which they can seek assistance is the foundation for a sustainable trust relationship. C L I M AT E With largely uncertain impliThe financial sector has the potential to mobilize CHANGE cations, a changing climate resources that support measures to mitigate clipresents the most challenging mate change, as well as increase the resilience of risk. With boundaries beyond communities around the world. The incorporation anything familiar, all sectors of ESG criteria not only results in lover levels of are expected to suffer. negative environmental impacts, but also long-term financial sustainability. 1. 102-15 46 Fresh bread rolls ready to be baked by Mona, one of the wpmen benefiting from the microproject support under Tamkeen. Dareen Shaheen H ead of I nfor mati on Sec u r i t y D e p a r t m e n t “Protecting our customers is our priority. In line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Business Plan for 2018-2021, ALEXBANK’s resilient cyber-security strategy spans through all corporate bodies and functions and is one of our core business goals. We remain committed to constantly improving the efficiency of our information security program by integrating global and local regulatory compliance requirements.” 47 4 . 3 T O P I C B O U N D A R I E S & M AT E R I A L I T Y M AT R I X * 1 The collective information is the base for defining this report’s content, its various sections, and the topic boundaries to ensure implementation of the reporting principles. Each section of the report was once again presented to the relevant business units and top management for review, verification and/or incorporation of any significant additional input. It is important to highlight the major challenges that ALEXBANK encountered and which it has addressed in the past two years. These challenges would be those related to customers in remote and frontier areas and our dependence on our partners in monitoring and evaluation of our community projects due to our limited capacity. In regards to the former, the Bank has implemented rigorous control practices and customer satisfaction efforts which have been key to paving the way for more effective communication with our customers. These efforts are outlined throughout the report; however, it is notable to mention that ALEXBANK’s digital revamping and the KYC protocol undertakings were essential measures leading to the elimination of any such barriers. To overcome the latter challenge, significant due to the fact that ALEXBANK has one of the largest community development programs and projects among Egyptian banks, site visit, capacity building activities and focus groups have been vital elements enabling us to engage directly with all our beneficiaries. The CSR & Sustainable Development Office has updated its reporting processes and built robust monitoring and evaluation procedures. The results of our materiality assessment are detailed in the table below as per GRI aspects and their materiality in relation to ALEXBANK. The table complements the summary table above, and includes each aspect’s materiality and the aspect boundary for every material aspect. The various indicators reflect the position of the topic on ALEXBANK’s Heba Iskandar Materiality Matrix. To assess the priority of each topic within the context of the Bank, we analyzed the materiality in relaNo r t h Ca i ro ( 2 ) A re a M a n a g e r tion to our goals and the expectations of our stakeholders. “Team work and the exchange of ideas and experiences among the various teams across all branches is a key element enabling us to attain long-term customer satisfaction.” 1. 102-46 102-47 102-49 48 2018 MATERIAL TOPICS Priority Topic Boundaries Integrity, Governance & Compliance High / High Inside / Outside Financial Inclusion High / High Inside / Outside Employee Wellbeing & Development High / High Inside / Outside Privacy & Security High / High Inside / Outside Digitalization High / Medium Outside Training & Development High / Medium Inside Business Efficiency & Continuity High / Medium Outside Economic Performance & Market Presence High / Medium Inside Responsible Management of Savings High / Medium Inside Sustainable & Responsible Procurement Medium / High Outside Women Empowerment Medium / High Outside Youth Empowerment Medium / High Outside Environmental Investment Medium / High Outside Community Development Medium / High Inside / Outside Reducing Environmental Footprint Medium / Medium Inside / Outside Agribusiness Medium / Medium Outside Workplace Diversity Medium / Medium Inside SIGNIFICANCE TO THE BANK AND STAKEHOLDERS SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND/OR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 49 1 Compared to 2017, the main variations in the Bank’s Materiality Matrix are* : 1. Integrity, Governance & Compliance 3. Financial Inclusion, Financial Literacy and Access to Finance Remains at equal materiality given the continuous alignment with Intesa Sanpaolo Group policies Gained momentum in light of the increased nationand the regulatory stability. al efforts to make banking services more available and accessible to a broader base of the Egyptian 2. Economic Performance population. Under the CBE’s 2016 initiative to fi& Market Presence nance SME’s and indirectly create job opportunities, 20% of bank loans were to be allocated to Just as in 2017, ALEXBANK’s economic perforSME’s by 2020. ALEXBANK established strong mance remains its top priority. Sound risk manmutual collaborations with governmental and priagement, responsible asset management, susvate sector entities in support of this initiative and tainable operations and an expanding branch to provide financing solutions and non-financial network resulted in unprecedented net profits. support to SME’s. Mona, while preparing her home-made bread ahead of selling it to retail shops and neighbors. The oven is annexed to her home. 1. 102-49 50 4. Responsible Management of Savings ALEXBANK’s incorporation of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria into its investment lines is in line with stakeholder’s expectations. We have incorporated ESG across our different business segments and into the risk process. he Bank complies with social and environmental standards, Equator Principles and is keen to conform to the strategic objectives laid out in the Egypt Vision 2030. 5. Quality & Innovation in Customer Relations The materiality of this topic remain highly relevant to all stakeholders given its cross-cutting nature and impacts on all stakeholders. The dialogue between us and our customers has evolved and promptness of service provision has decreased through innovation to guarantee a higher level of customer satisfaction without compromising efficiency of operations. Digitalization has allowed further degrees of financial inclusion through e-solutions in collaboration with strategic partners, such as ALEXBANK’s internet banking and mobile application. Mona’s daughter watching her mother bake. 6. Employee Wellbeing & Development Highly significant. The promotion of Human Rights, diversity and the values in our Code of Ethics continue to guide us in our operations. 7. Direct Environmental Impacts ALEXBANK’s efforts towards efficient use of resources, better the management of waste and the improvement of its environmental footprint are pronounced, moving up slightly in terms of materiality. 8. Community Development This topic’s materiality last year was cemented by the new four-year CSR & Sustainable Development Strategy (2018—2021) with its three dimensions: economic development, social innovation and education; environmental sustainability; and financial inclusion and sustainable finance. 51 Um Ziyad A t e l i e r P r o j e c t O w n e r, A s s i u t Ta m k e e n M i c r o f i n a n c e Um Ziyad learnt how to sew from her mother. When she got married, she left her job as a teacher and focused her efforts on sewing. With support and encouragement from her husband, she rented a small workshop, put her mother’s old machine to use and the business picked up. In 2017, she came across information about a training course on business management offered by Al-Nagah NGO. She underwent a three-day training that taught her the basics of money management, budgeting, costing, and profit/loss calculations. At the end of the training, she received a EGP 10,000 microloan from ALEXBANK and bought a new sewing machine. In 2018, she received a second 40,000 EGP microloan that allowed her to buy two more machines. “In 2017, I came across information about a training course on business management offered under Tamkeen program. After a 2-day training, I applied for a loan and here I am with three sewing machines, two workers and a busy business to run.” 52 53 0 5 ALE XBAN K’S CO D E O F E TH I CS ALEXBANK has been entrusted with the welfare of individuals and businesses nationwide. Trust is at the center of our activities as our reach not only impacts our customers but extends to all our stakeholders and communities where we operate. We are guided by our Code of Ethics which is a governance tool and is part of the wider vision of ALEXBANK’s social and environmental responsibility. Integrity Excellence ALEXBANK pursues its goals with The Bank sets itself the target of continuhonesty, fairness and responsibility in ous improvement, farsightedness, anticthe full and true respect of the rules ipating challenges, cultivating extensive and professional ethics and in the creativity aimed at innovation. Moreover, spirit of signed agreements. it recognizes and rewards merit. Transparency Respect for Specific Qualities We are committed to making transparIt is ALEXBANK’s intention to combine ency the basis of our actions, advertiselarge-scale operations with profound ments and contracts to allow stakeholdlocal roots and to be a bank with a broad ers to make independent and informed vision, without losing sight of individuals. decisions. 54 Equality Values of Individual We are committed to eliminating all The value of each single person is a forms of discrimination from its conduct guide for ALEXBANK’s routine, which and to respect differences in sex, age, adopts listening and dialogue as tools for race, religion, political and union persuacontinuously improving its relationships sions, language or disability. with all stakeholders. Responsibility in the Use of Resources The Bank aims to use all its resources attentively, promote behavior based on the best use of resources and the avoidance of waste and ostentation, and gives priority to choices that take sustainability into account. 1 These values* put forth by our Code of Ethics are the foundation of our principles of conduct in governing our relations with our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, the environment and communities hosting our operations. 1. 102-16 55 1 To actualize our vision of sustainable and responsible banking while creating 0 6 GOO D GOVERNAN CE * shared value, ALEXBANK ensures sound governance processes are implemented to maintain the trust of all our stakeholders. ALEXBANK is guided by the principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Equator Principles, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the Egypt Vision 2030 to: • Further strengthen our • Provide value to con• Promote gender equality, governance framework sumers through effective diversity and wellbeing stakeholder engagement of all employees • Respect the protection • Build inclusive, healthy • Undertake initiatives to of internationally pro and sustainable commupromote greater environclaimed human rights nities mental responsibility • Promote responsible • Communicate our sustainable development commit access to finance and ments to all internal and external stakeholders sustainable finance In compliance with our Code of Ethics, lines of responsibility, governance and accountability are set as follows: The Board of Directors Board Committees 1 Organizational Structure* 6 .1 T H E B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S ALEXBANK’s highest governance body, the Board Our board of seven experts provides ALEXBANK of Directors, determines the strategic orientation with the necessary tools and insight to enable of the Bank and supervises its implementation. It sustainable growth, deliver strong financial peris also responsible for ensuring all departments formance as well as uphold our commitment to are complying with internal regulations, executive ensuring sustainable development remains a core laws and Group policies while guaranteeing an value across all operations. adequate risk management approach is executed comprehensively. 1. 102-18 56 Dante Campioni Elena Breno C E O & M a n a g i n g D i re c t o r, D e p u t y Ch a i r m a n o f t h e Rep re s e n t a t i v e o f I n t e s a B o a rd , R e p re s e n t a t i v e o f San p a o l o Intesa Sanpaolo Eduardo Bombieri Andrea Bressani Giovanni Bergamini E xecu ti ve M em b er of the Board , Mem b e r o f t h e B o a rd , R e p re M e m b e r o f t h e B o a rd , R e p resen t aRepresen t ati v e of I ntes a Sanp aol o s en t a t i v e o f I n t e s a S a n p a o l o t i v e o f t h e R e p u b l i c D o m a in Atter Ezzat Mohamed Maait D r. E h a b M o h a m m e d Hannoura Hassan Abou-Eish Mem b e r o f t h e B o a rd , M em ber o f th e Board , Rep res ent aRep re s e n t a t i v e o f t h e *replaced Mohamed Maait, who has been Minister of Finance since his resigti ve o f th e Re p ub l i c Domai n. Rep u b l i c D o m a i n nation from ALEXBANK’s Board of Directors in May 2018. 57 6.2 CONTROL COMMIT TEES For high level deliverables, the Board of Directors strategic supervisory functions are supported by five control committees. Control Committees act according to policies and regulations approved by the Board of Directors as part of the Banking Governance Principles that allow ALEXBANK to be fully aligned with Intesa Sanpaolo Group. 1 2 Executive Committee Risk (EXCO) Committee Along with the Banking Governance Principles Along with Intesa Sanpaolo Group Guidelines on and in compliance with the article number 82 of Risk Management and local regulatory requirethe Central Bank of Egypt and Banking Sector ments, this Committee ensures the management and Money Law number 88 of 2003, the EXCO of the risks to which the Bank is exposed to and is set with the purpose to: (1) decide on credit the protection of the company assets and worthirisk exposures of the Bank to a single legal enness and formulates proposals and provide contity and affiliated entities, within the limits set by sultancy and information regarding risk managethe Board of the Bank; (2) propose to the Board ment strategies and policies. 3 corporate equity operations; (3) propose to the Board significant modifications to the organizational structure of the Bank; (4) submit the following: classification of finance and credit facilities, clients’ provisions, contribution to corporate equiRemuneration ties; (5) provide oversight and strategic guidelines aimed at assuring achievement and adherence Committee of commercial targets as defined in the budget and strategic plans; and (6) discuss any matter The Committee’s purpose is recommending the that is considered strategic in the Bank’s activapproval/endorsement of the Group Remuneraities. The EXCO shall have the right to delegate tion Policy, the final approval of the remuneration any of its prerogatives including lending authority rules of the Board members and verify the align(in compliance with Parent Company Guidelines) ment with the Group Remuneration Policy of the and procure fulfillment of any of its duties to the (1) total expenses of the annual remuneration for appropriate specialized internal bodies of the senior executives of the Bank including Board of Bank. It is resolved that the EXCO delegates to Directors members and (2) total expenses of the the Credit Committee the responsibility to study annual remuneration of the heads of the Control and take decisions related to finance and credit Functions. The Committee also discusses and facility. The Board of Directors must be informed recommends to the Board the final approval of of all the decisions/rulings of the EXCO. the remuneration policies/incentive schemes and the total expenses of the annual remuneration for the rest of the personnel and receives and analyses the annual independent review from Internal Audit, related to the remuneration issues, recommending the appropriate actions to the Board. 1. 102-18 58 4 5 Governance and Nominations Audit Committee Committee Along with the Intesa Sanpaolo Group GuideThe Committee has respectively recommending, lines on Corporate Governance, local regulatory advisory and investigative functions towards the requirements and the Articles of Association, the Board with reference to the periodic evaluation of Governance and Nomination Committee is set the adequacy and effectiveness of the overall inwith the purpose of (1) regularly evaluating the ternal controls system of the Bank. It must perform Bank’s governance system and (2) supporting the on a continuous basis its functions according to Board in the consulting, selection and proposithe principles of independence and autonomy. tional tasks regarding its composition and comThe Committee is assisted by the Bank’s Internal mittees. Audit function in carrying out its audits, analysis and other duties undertaken on an ongoing basis. The composition and responsibilities of each committee are articulated in ALEXBANK’s GenAn accelerated implementation process of eral Rules & Charters for Management CommitCommittee decisions; tees which ensure duties are performed to reflect 2 the Bank’s core values* . A crucial component of these Committees stems from the Rules of ComConsistency of operations across all relevant positions that guarantee effective management departments and units; and representation, where members of the Committees include the Bank’s chief officers and heads of all departments. Effectiveness, efficiency and alignment with Board of Directors strategies, especially those The effect of this mechanism is both evident and relating to operational processes. reflected in: 59 60 “Pottery teaches me patience. It is the oldest craft that man has ever known. It is a vivid art and full of spirit.” Anwar Rashwan, a potter from the Cultural Palace Pioneers Association in Kharga Oasis and a sample of his crafted lighting units. He views life in metaphors, with this installation shedding a ray of light on human beings from within and showcasing their differences in the shadows. To him, light shows the truth within. 61 6 . 3 O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L S T R U C T U R E Our organizational structure allows a top-down implementation of strategies while maintaining a bottom-up feedback loop required for sound decision making. BOARD OF D IRECTORS Chairman Governance Remuneration Executive Audit Risk & Nomination Committee Acting as Chairman Committee Committee Committee Committee (Elena Breno) CEO Dante Campioni Customer Satisfaction Internal Audit Ashraf Hamed Amr El Ghannam General Secretariat Compliance Noha Said & AML CSR & Sustainable Mohamed AbdelKader Development Laila Hosni HR & Organization Mohamed Sherif PR & Marketing Communication Legal Ramy Taha Ahmed El Fallal Treasury Retail & Corporate COO CFO CRO & ALM Small Investment Business Banking & Amr Gamali Sherif Lokman Medium Joman Salama Mohamed Raef Eduardo Bombieri Enterprises A.I. (Dante Campioni) Legend Chief/ Division Department Office Unit 62 “To stay abreast with the Bank’s direction towards digitalization, the Legal Department has been working on introducing new features governing its work. This year, our efforts culminated into launching the automated Osama Mousa system for legal affairs. A critical step for the facilitation Head o f Leg al A ffai r s of implementing sound governance standards, the system ensures appropriate management of social, environmental, and economic factors preserving the interests of all the stakeholders.” Another landscape of the truly unique Dakhla Oasis. 63 6.4 COMPLIANCE As a subsidiary of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, the approach to combating corruption is also guided by applicable international conventions, principles and best practices of responsible banking Compliance Function is an independent and autonomous from operating and business functions which reports dotted line to the CEO and straight line to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. The compliance and AML structures are directly reporting to Head of Compliance & AML. The main objectives of this function include performing direct governance on the most important regulatory contexts concerning banking and intermediation activity; overseeing the financial crime component of the conduct risk through the compliance macro-processes which describes compliance risk governance and control procedures regulatory alignment; advisory and clearing; assurance; diffusion of the compliance culture; interaction with the authorities; and management of non-compliance events with information flows to corporate bodies. With 175 branches across Egypt, compliance assurance and culture diffusion require a systematic process and continuous monitoring of all branches. 6 . 4 .1 R E P O R T I N G & M O N I T O R I N G The Head of Compliance & AML Department reports directly to the Audit Committee to which he is a permanent invitee. The Audit Committee members include two external auditors (or their representatives) and ALEXBANK’s the Head of Internal Audit Department. The monitoring of compliance is carried out through electronic and digital reporting by the Heads of Branches as well as site visits by representatives of the Compliance & AML Department to address challenges and ways to improve efficiency of internal controls. A woman from the village of Bashandi while weaving the palm leaves, a very common and traditional craft in Dakhla Oasis. She can showcase her work regularly through the platforms granted to her by Ebda3 men Masr. 64 Anti-Corruption Guidelines* 1 Reporting on anti-corruption is overseen by the AML Office in collaboration of the Human Resources Department and Legal Division. The Guidelines reinforce a zero-tolerance approach to dealing with corruption, which is reported on in line with regulatory requirements, Intesa Sanpaolo Group policies and Code of Conduct. The Office reviews all risk areas set out in Bank’s Guidelines to have an assessment of overall exposure to the risk of corruption. Based on the risk assessment results, the Office identifies necessary management measures. With 175 branches across the nation, compliance assurance and culture diffusion require a systematic process and continuous monitoring to all branches. Due to the volume and complexity of the activities subject to control, these controls are rigorously planned and regularly carried out with the utmost diligence. They are adequately documented to support the findings and recommendations made, with the results of the control activities reported throughout the branch network. In the case of issues arising, organizational units that are subject to controls are promptly informed and involved. These processes support ALEXBANK in measuring the extent and effectiveness of risk assessment and implementation across all its divisions, while it also detects possible incidents of corruption. The monitoring of compliance is carried out via two parallel processes: (1) electronic and digital reporting by the Heads of Branches addressed to the Head of Compliance Department (accessible by all control and organizational functions and regional directors who are in charge of resolving issues and reporting back to the Head of Compliance for adequate action); and (2) site visits to all branches conducted by the Head of Compliance or representatives of the Compliance Department in order to directly address challenges and ways to improve the efficiency of internal controls. The diffusion of our corporate culture is on principles of honesty, fairness and respect for the spirit and letter of our Code of Conduct. Accordingly, the AML & Internal Sanctions Office conducts trainings for corporate officers and employees who are most exposed to the risk of corruption. These training initiatives are mandatory and monitored. The Head of Compliance Department also acts as a focal and contact point for queries from staff members or for interpreting the Code of Conduct and assists employees with guidance to the proper management of conflicts of interest. AML & International Sanctions Under Egypt’s laws to combat money-laundering and the financing of activities associated with terrorism, and as part of the World Bank’s requirements, ALEXBANK has taken rigorous measures to investigate up to 33% of reported “unusual transactions” identified via digital detection platform. This interactive digital reporting tool is a national data base directly connected to the Egyptian Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Combating Unit (EMLCU) overseeing all public and private Egyptian banks. 2 Whistle Blowing* ALEXBANK’s Whistle Blowing Policy encourages employees to feel confident in raising serious concerns, suspected fraud cases or corruption. Intesa Sanpaolo Group guarantees to protect individuals from any form of retaliation, discrimination or penalization, and ensures maximum confidentiality, except in cases otherwise indicated by law. A dedicated email is set in place to direct any communications to the Head of AML and the CEO directly, who is the only designated person to receive whistle-blowing cases of non-compliance. 1. 102-11 205-1 2. 102-17 65 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) One of ALEXBANK’s most comprehensive due diligence processes undertaken is the update of our customer database to ensure all our customers are compliant with the FATCA (part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s FATCA digital engine). As of July 2014, the Bank registered on IRS portal as FATCA Participant FFI with applying FATCA Final Regulations according to CBE decision with ALEXBANK’s CFO being the “FATCA Responsible Officer FATCA RO”. Said project aims at comprehensive due diligence control processes to be applied on new and pre-existing customers prior to the date of implementation through Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s centralized FATCA engine, which is integrated with the core banking system to support customer classifications and reporting activities. Since 2015, the Bank has been successfully submitting all requested FATCA reporting to IRS and Intesa Sanpaolo Group on time in line with the CBE and FATCA rules. We also submit FATCA certifications which confirm ALEXBANK’s compliance with IRS requirements for Periodical Certification and Pre-existing Customers Accounts Certification (COPA). In terms of reinforcement of due diligence and updating activities, FATCA Partial Block was applied in December 2018 for unreachable customers (recalcitrant) upon Bank communication with available tools, urging these customers to provide ALEXBANK with updated documents. In this context, ongoing monitoring and controls are carried out by the Compliance & AML Department together with Branches Network team and concerned business units to ensure the Bank’s compliance with regulations and avoidance of any related risks A mural painting performed by Adel ElOmda, an Ebda3 men Masr artist at his own showroom located in Tneeda village, also in the Oasis of Dakhla. The mural depicts the various roles played by women in his village. 66 6.4.2 TRAINING & SUPPORT To further equip staff with necessary tools to identify and prevent non-compliance incidents, the department supports ALEXBANK’s implementation of national regulations and Group policies through various trainings*1, including: 01 Detecting Forgery 02 Specific training to 03 CLOSER editions & Falsification prevent bribery and AML circulated to all Bank’s (291 participants) (2,709 participants) staff Participants from the branches Designed to enable participants For raising their awareness renetwork acquire the skills needto prevent bribery and/or AML garding ALEXBANK’s rules and ed to detect forged currency and in their daily work with a special regulations in addition to Intefalsified documents, the training focus on ALEXBANK policies sa Sanpaolo Group guidelines, supported by real cases. and procedures. particularly on topics related to: proper reporting under the whistleblowing policy; Anti-Corruption; Rules for Management of Gifts and Entertainment Expense; and reporting on immoral and illegal cases. An electronic library was developed by the Information & Communication Technologies (ICT) Department to provide full disclosures and updates on any CBE related matter. This is to ensure efficiency and adequacy of the Bank’s internal control system and maintain alignment with CBE regulations and instructions. The library is an interactive platform in both Arabic and English. The Head of Compliance & AML Department remains the contact person for staff members inquiring about ALEXBANK’s Code of Conduct. 1. 205-2 67 6 . 5 S O C I A L & E N V I R O N M E N TA L G O V E R N A N C E * 1 Under the guidance of ALEXBANK’s CEO & Managing Director, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office oversees the Bank’s framework for sustainable development. Beyond compliance, ALEXBANK complements its internal procedures, Code of Ethics and good governance principles with relevant local, national and international regulations to integrate environmental sustainability and social considerations into our core business. Adopting a framework of Creating Shared Value, the Office has integrated sustainable practices across all corporate levels throughout the Bank, with two inter-connected facets: 1. Explicitly as strategic objective based on specific targets; and 2. Implicitly, as a component of the ALEXBANK’s management system measured by key performance indicators. In 2018, the new four-year CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy was launched with special emphasis on four key dimensions: 1. Economic Development, Social Innovation and Education 2. Financial Inclusion and Sustainable Finance 3. Environmental Sustainability 4. Employee Engagement As a common corporate objective, environmental and social issues are addressed, and projects must be measurable against sustainability standards; ensuring that, in addition to financial risks, environmental and social impacts are taken into consideration in the decision-making process. To remain in dialogue with all our stakeholders, we created a channel for addressing internal and external queries and concerns over environmental and social matters related to our capital investments, which is managed by the CSR & Sustainable Development Office. Interested and affected parties may submit queries or concerns without fear of retribution may reach out to ALEX2 BANK via e-mail to CSR@Alexbank.com on the ALEXBANK’s website* . Any issues or risks associated with our investments’ sustainability, our projects’ and suppliers’ workers’ rights to exercise their freedom of association or collective bargaining power 3 and labor rights may be raised and inquired about via this email address also.* 1. 102-11 102-19 2. 102-17 3. 4071 68 Two residents of Kharga Oasis wondering among the oasis’s abundant palm trees. 69 Ahmed Wahba Sand Painting, Individual Artist, Kharga Oasis, New Valley Ebda3 men Masr Ahmed Wahba, the “wizard of sand” is a 58-year old Egyptian artist who was born in the desert of Kharga Oasis. His love for the desert and all its creations is his constant inspiration for the paintings he draws with sand. The various colors of sand, pure and mixed, reflect the vibrant culture of his hometown and its different landscapes. Ahmed works as an employee in El-Kharga Culture Palace, but his sand paintings became locally and internationally acclaimed. His recognition is manifested international publications concerned with non-traditional environmental art, which he aims to safeguard and revive not only in the memory of his community but worldwide. “Ebda3 men Masr has produced a great impact on my life, no one before joining Ebda3 men Masr had heard about me. Now, through the exhibitions I am getting people inside and outside Egypt to know more about the Oasis culture through my paintings.” 70 71 72 “No one before joining Ebda3 men Masr had heard about me.” Ahmed Wahba 73 1 07 RI S K MANAGEM EN T FOR SUS TA I NAB I LI T Y* The Bank’s approach to assessing, managing and mitigating risks ensures profits are not compromised and customer welfare is maintained. Our risk management has become a major stakeholder in the decision making and strategy setting process. It strongly advocates for corporate values and principles, supported by a robust risk culture that is clearly defined, communicated, and strongly reinforced throughout the Bank. Ultimately, our risk management approach aims at increasing the reliance on advanced analytical models to support decisions and enhancing regulatory (including Basel and Intesa Sanpaolo Group) focus. Eventually, our goal is the automation of decisions and processes with minimal manual interventions. Eduardo Bombieri C hi ef Ri s k O ffi cer “ALEXBANK’s risk strategy demonstrates its adherence to creating value for all our stakeholders without jeopardizing the environment. To maintain our goals, we regularly develop and upgrade our risk framework to ensure it is properly considering all the recognized risks, including among others financial, environmental and reputational risks with their potential economic impact. The risk appetite framework does not only serve the objective of controlling, but also of meeting our customers’ expectations by lending responsibly. We have also been introducing new digital and proactive systems to help manage our credit portfolio and ensure adequate support to strategic areas of the Bank in line with the national main guidelines of financial inclusion.” 1. 102-11 74 7.1 R E S P O N S I B L E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T & G O V E R N A N C E A member of the Association for the Protection of the Environment (A.P.E.) family sewing a clutch made of recycled cans tabs at their premises in Mansheyet Nasser. The Bank undertakes rigorous screening activities to appropriately manage financial risks and account for environmental and social risks and impacts of its lending activities, guaranteeing all projects are aligned with strict Group rules and international standards, including the Equator Principles. In this respect, and as a subsidiary of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, the Bank implements Intesa Sanpaolo Group guidelines while remaining in line with national rules and regulations. We guarantee the existence and enhancement of robust risk management activities throughout ALEXBANK by embedding a vital risk culture throughout the Bank and ensuring the appropriate mitigation of potential risks through strong risk governance supported by Committees, internal rules and policies. Our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) was prepared in line CBE regulations, Intesa Sanpaolo Group guidelines and ALEXBANK internal audit considerations to ensure the Bank has enough capital to cover the current and future risks and to ensure that our client can absorb our conditions. The first Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) was prepared with the purpose to evaluate ALEXBANK’s shortand medium-term liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, ensuring that we maintain adequate levels of liquidity buffers. We effectively monitor and control ALEXBANK’s credit risk exposure and forward measurements through internally developed statistical models and continue to strengthen our risk data governance and reporting processes as data is becoming a key asset for financial institutions such as ALEXBANK. Regarding risk aggregated data and reporting, we ensure compliance to Basel regulations through adopting strong data governance for risk management analytics and reporting. ALEXBANK’s “Data Repository” was upgraded to a more advanced analytical database for faster analytical activities, self-reporting and business intelligence capabilities. Moreover, ongoing improvements are implemented to ensure that ALEXBANK’s operational risk management is integrated into core activities, products, processes and systems in line with business lines through understanding criticalities and being part of the overall solutions. 75 7. 2 O U R O P E R AT I O N A L R I S K C U LT U R E ALEXBANK attributes great importance to Operational Risk, particularly to contain operational losses within a set limit. The Bank adopts an operational risk management strategy based on prudent management principles and aimed at guaranteeing long-term solidity and continuity for the Bank. We focus on achieving an optimal balance between growth and profitability, ensuring resulting risks are managed responsibly. In 2018, the Operational Risk Unit under the Enterprise Risk Office succeeded in ensuring a robust operational risk culture is embedded throughout ALEXBANK. The Unit developed solid monitoring tools, governance and policies that were integrated into the Bank’s core activities, products, processes and systems in line with business lines. A solid control environment was secured by appropriate internal controls, risk mitigation and risk transfer strategies. We activated the Operational Risk Committee, which took decisions based on analysis and rigorously followed up on mitigation actions up until their finalization. Finally, an operational risk e-learning module and quiz were communicated bank-wide and classroom operational risk awareness sessions for branch managers, area managers, regional managers and the COO Division and its Office Heads were conducted. In our efforts to sustainably deepen our operational risk culture, operational risk awareness is now part of the new hires’ induction training. For ALEXBANK, achieving effective enterprise risk management means going beyond reactively managing our internal and external risks. In 2017, our Proactive Credit Management (PCM) Office was established. The Office is dedicated to proactively managing our risk, thereby sustaining robust levels of profitability and growth. A close-up of the clutch 1. 102-6 76 7. 3 S E R V I N G W I T H I M PA C T ALEXBANK’s Credit Policy in place since 2017 has permitted a strong framework for processes, procedures and controls that manage all our lending activities. To soundly estimate credit losses, optimize portfolio and allocate capital, our credit granting underwriting process is designed to provide time efficient solutions to the many services customers seek. Our advisory services are consistently evolving to produce a successful system through which we mitigate risks for our customers. Credit proposals are prepared following thorough investigations to provide clients with a tailored arrangement to meet their individual needs. With a diversified and robust market and credit portfolio that is continuously optimized, ALEXBANK directly aligns with and contributes to the national economy through a wide array of sectors and through its widespread branch network*1 CORPORATE In line with our credit policies, the Bank introduced a plan that aims to reduce the “Time to YES”, as well as ensure the credit decision-making proPORTFOLIO cess remains effective. In 2016, five junior credit committees delegated prerogatives and underlying business segments for which the latter are apBY SECTOR plicable. ALEXBANK is also committed to tailoring payment plans to meet specific customer needs. A process matrix designed to identify a logical disbursement timeframe and payment plan based on individual customer industry backgrounds reOil & Gas Financials Telecomsulted in shorter “Time to CASH” particularly relMetallurgy munication evant to our customers who depend on seasonFood & & Metal Utility al financial sales and returns. This step not only Beverage Products increased our approval ratio, but it also anchors ALEXBANK’s support the growth of SMEs maniWaste Wholesale and Technology fested in the cooperation protocol with the Bank Management Retail Trade and signed with the Ministry of Agriculture, which has Textile & ApElectronics allowed agribusinesses to receive the financing Construction parel they need. Automotive PharmaMedia and To ensure credit policies for both small business Business ceuticals Publishing and retail customers are aligned with changes in Support Intesa Sanpaolo Group guidelines and consistentActivities ly implemented, they are reviewed annually. Policies are approved by the Credit Risk Governance Committee and the Board of Directors after being previously endorsed by relevant functions in the Group. 77 Gilan ElBassuni Head o f Cred i t A d mi ni s tr ati on Depar tm en t SME “Technology uptake is now a prerequisite for business growth PORTFOLIO and sustainability. This prompted us to revisit our processes across all segments resulted in a better BY SECTOR customer experience in terms of time Wholesale and Leisure and Machinery to cash. We decreased the number Retail Trade Tourism Information of documents that our customers and Telecom have to sign which has allowed us lower our consumption of paper while Intermediate Agriculture Transport maintaining transparency.” Products Equipment Utility Today 7. 4 E C A : A D I G I TA L T R A N S F O R M AT I O N As part of ALEXBANK’s digital transformation, the Electronic Credit Application (ECA) platform was developed. This integrated, workflow-driven software platform enriched with risk analytics places the entire credit origination process under structured control, which improves the quality of our credit portfolio credit. In 2018, we were able to launch phase one of the ECA platform for small business following the same logic implemented for the SME and corporate segments back in 2015. Ultimately, the objectives of ECA include (1) accuracy of information pertaining to all functions during preparation, approval and monitoring phases; (2) ensuring transparency of documents and data related to all credit lines; (3) automate designation of Credit Prerogatives based on credit facility type; (4) reducing approval time to a maximum of three weeks; (5) raising automated alarms in case of negative indicators, expiry of collaterals, or mismanagement; and (6) detecting deficiencies and promptly report to the corporate bodies. ECA indirectly supports ALEXBANK’s efforts to reduce its environmental footprint by the reductions in paper consumption it brings about. We are proud that ALEXBANK to have been identified by the Group as pilot project for the ECA systems, which is planned to be applied throughout the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. 1. 102-6 78 “ALEXBANK is dedicated to financing small business enterprises with a special focus on the agricultural sector and exporting enterprises, aiming to contribute to the national economy’s Sherif Mahrous growth and development, thereby creating Head o f Sm al l Bus i nes s employment opportunities for our youth Credi t Offi ce sustainably.” Her colleague finalizing another bag made from cans tabs, an approach to dealing with collected waste that adds value to materials by upcycling. 79 Antonella, an 8-months old baby girl, after getting her weekly shower at A.P.E. This initiative is part of the health program targeting recent moms of the local community and raising their awareness and capacities to adequately cater for the needs of their first-borns. 80 81 0 8 SUS TA I NAB I LI T Y RED EFI N ED Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Business Plan (2018-2021) has taken unprecedented steps towards incorporating social development and environmental sustainability into its core business activities. Just like Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ALEXBANK, has an approach to value creation that prevails in its day-to-day operations. We take a longterm approach to sustainably serving the interests of all our stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, potential customers, the environment, and the community at large. In 2018, ALEXBANK embarked on a new roadmap for shared value creation, financial inclusion, sustainable finance, environmental sustainability, and social and transparent performance reporting. Pioneering a full-fledged shared value platform based on sustainable community development projects, inclusive finance, socially responsible investments, broad-scale financial literacy programs, and environmental sustainability initiatives, the new four-year CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy (2018-2021) strengthens ALEXBANK’s efforts toward integrated sustainable development in the business, environmental and social realms. Our four-year strategy is in line with UN Global Compact Principles, Equator Principles, Intesa Sanpaolo Group guidelines, Egypt Vision 2030 and other national regulations, and the SDGs. “In 2018, ALEXBANK’s achievements in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility have culminated to being awarded “Best Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility in the Laila Hosni Middle East” by EUROMONEY, one H ead of C S R & Sus t ai nab l e of the most prominent international Dev el op ment O ffi ce magazines in assessing banks and the performance of financial institutions. Ultimately, our strategy will not only serve as a continuation of ALEXBANK’s mission in accordance with its recognition in the Egyptian market, but it will also contribute to the fulfillment of Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Business Plan 2018-2021.” 82 8 .1 C R E AT I N G S H A R E D VA L U E ( C S V ) ALEXBANK’s shared value model addresses business activities through the design and implementation of social projects that generate economic value, business value and social value in response to the economic, social and environmental needs of the community. We believe that our corporate success is directly related to our social contributions and environmental commitments. T H E S T R AT E G Y ’ S D I M E N S I O N S 01 02 03 Economic Development, Environmental Financial Inclusion Social Innovation and Sustainability and Sustainable Finance Education Designing income-generating Raising awareness about Providing financial services to activities that lead to creativity environmental issues, encour under-served populations and productivity in economic aging stakeholders’ participathereby boosting financial fields such as handicrafts, sotion in environmental and inclusion. cial entrepreneurship, agriculsocial initiatives, and building Supporting financial literacy ture and rural activities. capacity of ALEXBANK staff programs via partnerships Developing educational opporto ensure the Bank’s environ with national regulatory bodies tunities to enhance vocational mental and social objectives, and organizations active in the skills and employability among commitments, and standards realm of financial inclusion. children, women, elderly, and are met. persons with disabilities Integrating environmental (PWDs). and social considerations into ALEXBANK’s core business activities by implementing an environmental and social risks management system with strong foundations in Intesa Sanpaolo Group rules and international environmental principles. 83 8 . 2 FRAMEWORK OF ACTION The CSR & Sustainable Development Office, whose Head reports directly to the CEO & Managing Director, oversees the implementation and monitoring of the four-year strategy. CSR & Creating Shared Social Performance Sustainabe Finance for Value Unit & Reporting Unit Development unit Addressing societal needs Mitigate and integrate EnviContinuous integration of through a 360 degree ronmental and Social (E&S) sustainable and reponsible approach enabling the impact and/or risk considerfinance methodology in ALEXconcept of Creating Shared ations into ALEXBANK core BANK’s business through: Value through: business operations through: Furthening responsible lending Community Investments: Social Impact & Governance: Microfinance Incorporating social issues Contribute to the deveopment NGO financial empowerment into core business strategies of sustainability policies and Developing new long term strategies Development of social partnerships and building Set targets and performance and environmental lending upon existing partnerships indicators and analyze return products together with the on investment business teams CSR & Activations: Strategic CSR events Environmental Risks & Financial literacy & inclusion Activating/Marketing Governance: projetcs on ground Develop policies, strategies Staying abreast of local and plans for managing E&S market trens in green finance Employee Engagement: impacts and/or risks in lending Encourage employee activities together with risk and citizenship corporate business teams Alignment with internal and national strategy Reporting Issue ALEXBANKS’s annual Sustainability Report Publish Sustainability publications 1. 102-6 102-7 84 With ALEXBANK’s wide network of 175 branches, the Bank has a responsibility towards all the communities in which it operates. With an ever-expanding portfolio of sustainable and socially responsible initiatives, we are on track with our targets for the first year of the Strategy. In 2018 alone, our CSR and sustainable development initiatives benefited more than 30,000 citizens.*1 The strategy remains mendable, preserving its adaptability to our stakeholder needs and requirements. Our goals, projects and initiatives are reviewed regularly based on the assessment of past outcomes and current situations. Accurate identification and categorization of beneficiaries, benchmarking our performance against best practices and international standards, and research are integral parts of how the Office sets its targets and assess its impact. Efforts to structure our monitoring and evaluation mechanism, where baseline indicators have been set and field visits are conducted regularly, have resulted in maximizing our understanding of opportunities and challenges. Our key performance indicators are both realistic and ambitious, to allow a true reflection of sustainable development. Regulars of all age groups attending a literacy class at A.P.E. in Mansheyet Nasser. 85 8 . 3 C O M M U N I C AT I N G O U R I M PA C T Communicating our activities, commitments and lessons learned to all our stakeholders is an essential part in putting our values of transparency, accountability and good governance into action. We remain in regular contact with all our partners through direct interaction, meetings monitoring visits, progress reports, and status updates. In addition to ALEXBANK’s annual sustainability report which is published for the second time this year, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office submits an annual report on the status of its activities to ALEXBANK’s Board of Directors. It is also in constant dialogue with Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes to its yearly Consolidated Non-Financial Statement and takes part in Group-wide projects such as the 2017 and 2018 ISO 26000, World Savings Day and the World Environment Day. For 2019, the Office has plans to introduce a bi-annual publication intended to update especially ALEXBANK’s external stakeholders with its CSR and sustainable development activities. Two participating women practicing what they have learnt during literacy class in A.P.E. 1. 102-12 86 87 1 0 9 SO C IAL I M PACT & VALUE * ALEXBANK is traditionally active in the field of community development and CSR. In 2018, we have been recognized for our social contributions and shared value creation. Our strength is rooted in our connections with local communities, our commitment to impactful development interventions and transparent monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. This year alone, we have directly impacted the lives of more than 30,000 individuals. Number of Direct Number of Partner Total CSR Spending Beneficiaries Organizations 2016 9,500 13 EGP 10 Million 2017 20,000 18 EGP 13 Million 2018 30,000 36 EGP 22 Million Hesham ElBadrawy Tel l er Bel q as B r a n ch , E a s t D e l t a R e g i o n “Our customers’ satisfaction and the continuity of our relationships with them is our primary goal; hence, we strive to provide excellence-based services founded on transparency, accuracy and timeliness.” 1. 102-6 203-1 203-2 413-1 88 A group of children attending the nursery, as part of Tamkeen, our Integrated Village Development project in Edfu. 89 9 .1 E B D A 3 M E N M A S R * 1 “Ebda3 men Masr” is our flagship CSR initiative. Launched in 2016 with an aim to support the Egyptian Creative Economy and save diminishing national crafts, “Ebda3 men Masr” has supported more than 5,000 artisans across all Egyptian governorates to date. 90% of our beneficiaries are women, while 60% are youth. The initiative leverages on more than 25 partnerships and collaborations between NGOs, governmental bodies, private sector entities, and individual actors. “Ebda3 men Masr” key partnerships are with the Egyptian Ministry of Social Solidarity, Fair Trade Egypt, the Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID), Yadaweya and Tunis Village in Fayoum. Amal Mansour, an Ebda3 men Masr artisan working on stone craved items made out of naturally colored sands found in the Oasis Dakhla. 1. 203-1 203-2 413-1 90 Amal Mansour A r ti s t, S t o n e Ca r v i n g , E b d a3 m e n M a s r “Before ‘Ebda3 men Masr’ I thought I was invisible and the work I did destined to stay behind closed doors. The exhibitions I attended as part of ‘Ebda3 men Masr’ made me realize that the art I make is valued and appreciated by Egyptians beyond my community in Dakhla Oasis. I still remember how I cried after making my first sale.” 91 A L E X B A N K ’ S E D B A 3 M E N M A S R ’ S I M PA C T M A P CAIRO ZONE -Communities supported by capacity building workshops and projects -Communities supported via exhibitions and access to markets Copyright © Usama Fathallah, ALEXBANK CSR Consultant 92 52 55 86 2600 Crafts Region/Village/ Artisans group/ Direct Beneficiary Town in Egypt Community “Ebda3 men Masr” Success Stories E sraa Shoman Found er, A l w a n e t a Esraa, through Alwaneta, decided to uplift the art of crochet and change how people perceive it. She began by introducing new designs and integrating different materials such as genuine leather, palm and argoun leaves decorated with typical Siwa Oasis embroidery. In 2017, Esraa participated in an “Ebda3 men Masr”-affiliated exhibition for the first time the International Exhibition of Handicrafts. Since then, Esraa has been to several local and international exhibitions. With an expanding horizon of possibilities for expansion in front of her, she registered her business. Today, Alwaneta employs a network of 35 ladies in Cairo and Monufia. Alwaneta’s pieces stand out in the market and the percept of crochet has forever changed among those who are familiar with Alwaneta. T o n y E l M a s r y Found er, To n y Le a t h e r The International Handicrafts Show in 2017 was also Tony’s first exhibition experience with us and ever since, he has been participating independently in bazaars and exhibitions powered by “Ebda3 men Masr”. After enhancing his skills, receiving wider exposure and making more sales profits, Tony decided to register his business, enabling him to obtain a P.O.S and giving him access to a loan to further grow his business. 93 9 .1 .1 C O R P O R AT E G I V E AWAY S 2 0 1 8 Since 2016, it has been customary for the CSR & Sustainable Development Office to manage and design ALEXBNAK’s gifts to its partners and important clients with the goal of empowering local communities and talents through a laser-focused economic development and value creation approach. With a new concept and implementing partners every year, our corporate giveaways tell the story of Egypt’s artisans and the heritage they guard with their hands and hearts. The total number of individuals whose lives have been positively affected by our having our corporate giveaways made by them has reached more than 2,000, of which 75% are women. Mary Saad F o u n d e r , M a c r a m e . R o u 7, A s s i u t Ebda3 men Masr Mary Saad struggled for years to convince her parents with the significance of what she was doing but they never saw the point behind the handwoven threads. The support she received from ALEXBANK changed this. “Ebda3 men Masr transformed the way my parMacrame.Rouh started as a workshop for women three years ago and slowly developed into becoming a company ents perceive my work. It with the goal to revive the almost extinct craft of macramé. also changed my view on Macramé is a form of textile produced using various combinations of knotting techniques. Macramé art needs no exhibitions. Before Ebda3 hooks, needles, gadgets or tools: only a few yarns of pure men Masr, the exhibitions Egyptian cotton and creative, expert hands to makes wonders out of it. were merely channels to Marrying modern designs with traditional Egyptian craftsassess how much money manship, Mary Saad, the founder of Marame.Rouh, not only bridges the gap between people but also creates designs I made versus the rest. Tothat fit in any setting. Mary focuses on training girls and day, I think of expansion, women aged between 17 and 42 years old have not been fortunate enough to enjoy a sound basic education. The marketing and the respontraining furnishes them with the opportunity to unleash their sibility I have towards the creativity after acquiring skills on all stages of production. By doing so, Macrame.Rouh is team of women supportgiving them the chance to learn a handcraft and earn a ing me. Ebda3 men Masr sustainable source of income, in addition to expanding and challenging social notions of women’s entrepreneurship truly is reviving the handiand the associated stigma of female labor. crafts in Egypt.” 94 9 .1 . 2 R A M A D A N G I V E AWAY S Following the same custom, 2018 Ramadan giveaways to ALEXBANK employees were unique bags made of palm leaves, macramé and leather. “Rouh”, the name we gave these bags, married materials originating form five governorates (El-Fayoum, New Valley, Asyut, Aswan and Giza) and initiated connections between craftsmen and artists across the five governorates. Representing a value chain that is typical for “Ebda3 men Masr”, 85% of the 300 artisans who handmade “Rouh” were women who live in marginalized areas. “Rouh” represents a new milestone, another Ramadan during which we shared our happiness and gratitude with others, empowering and women community across Egypt and proudly promoting Egyptian craftsmanship. OUR Investment: EGP 1 million CONTRIBUTION Preparation Time: 64 days from inception to delivery (320 hours) Number of direct Beneficiaries: 300 artisans O U T P U T 2 018 Organizations involved: • Fayoum Agro Organic and Development Association • Yadaweya • Macrame.Rouh 9 .1 . 3 Q E S E T N A F I H E R F E T N A ( “ O U R C R A F T: O U R S T O R Y ” ) ALEXBANK and the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development (SFSD) launched “Qesetna Fi Herfetna” aiming to integrate persons with disabilities into “Ebda3 men Masr” by providing them with a quality handicrafts training program. The project is planned to build the capacity of more than 500 young men and women with motor, visual, audio or mental disabilities in four governorates and over the course of four years. To achieve real inclusion, target beneficiaries will join their non-disabled peers in trainings to psychologically prepare all participants for dealing with disabilities in the labor market as well as raise awareness comprehensive integration among their families. The launch of “Qesetna Fi Herfetna” was part of the celebratory event concluding the year 2018, dubbed the “Year of People with Disabilities” by the President of Egypt. Organized by the Federal Egyptian Association for Intellectual Disabilities and under the auspices of H.E. the President of Egypt, the first “Qesetna Fi Herfetna bazaar took place, featuring handicrafts and traditional products made by differently abled artisans. 1. 201-1 203-2 413-1 95 Safaa Mahran F o u n d e r, S e n d a n N G O , S o h a g Ebda3 men Masr Qesetna Fi Herfetna Safaa Mahran, is the founder of Sendan NGO based in Sohag. The “I defy all the cusNGO’s work primarily focuses on providing vocational training to members of her community living with a wide range of disabilities. toms and traditions The training enables these unique individuals to receive the necesthat limit the women sary tools to make hand-crafted kilims and handmade products using bamboo and leather. Despite receiving criticism from her comin my village munity for challenging gender norms and independently pursuing to empower people an entrepreneurial project, Safaa maintains her motivation which has always been to empower people living with special abilities and living with disabiliprovide them with opportunities to join the workforce and added ties to become active their very own value to society. citizens.” Sendan continues to feature local crafts and handmade products in exhibitions, providing many artisans with a platform to gain attention and national recognition. In the future, Safaa hopes to lead three permanent production units, securing a fixed income for her comrades. From 2016 to 2018, Safaa provided training to 186 disabled persons from various governorates around Upper Egypt. 96 Mostafa Galal “I went to the exhibition in Cairo to deliver the message that we can and I hope I can go to more exhibitions in the future.” Students of Sendan during their daily class practicing the art of bamboo braiding. Eventually, students can become teachers bringing this craft closer to others in Sohag. 97 Dar Al-Salam Galal “What matters to me the most is to learn and teach others this craft and anything else this life has taught me.” 98 Safaa giving her students some bamboo braiding tricks and finishing advice. 99 9 .1 . 4 E X H I B I T I O N S : B R E A K I N G M A R K E T I N G & SALES THRESHOLDS Exhibitions are a major dimension of our “Ebda3 men Masr” initiative. The greatest challenge facing the crafts industry in Egypt is the lack of opportunities to establish a strong presence in local and international markets. To address this issue, we created points of sale across three different levels. LOCAL NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL Local Exhibitions Our exhibitions are held accross Egypt. Some are old staples, while others are pop-ups that change annually. In 2018, ALEXBANK demonstrated presence in numerous local exhibitions, including Turathna, Indoors 2018, Library of Alexandria, among others. The most significant local event of the year remains Tunis Village Festival. Pottery designed and displayed in the Cultural Palace Pioneers Association, Kharga Oasis. 100 Tunis Village Festival The 8th Annual Tunis Village Festival was organized and sponsored by “Ebda3 men Masr” in cooperation with Tunis Village Potters Association and under the auspices of El-Fayoum Governorate. For the fourth time in a row, ALEXBANK has been supporting the Festival, which encompassed concerts, an open-air cinema, workshops and various handicrafts from different governorates. Artisans from all over Egypt showcased thousands of handmade products, from wood and granite carving, to palm leaf baskets, handmade carpets, needle works, clay objects and hammered copper. During the three-day Festival, visitors are encouraged learn more about the rich handicrafts’ heritage and wealth of Egyptian crafts. In 2018, the Festival attracted more local and international visitors than ever before, garnering national and international exposure to the beautiful village of Tunis in El-Fayoum and to all Festival exhibitors. OUR Financial Contribution: EGP 1.2 million CONTRIBUTION Preparation Time: two months prior to the Festival On-ground organization support Village Beautification: Phase II in collaboration with Alwan NGO Business Support: P.O.S machines at 0% commission ATMs O U T P U T 2 018 15 workshops by “Ebda3 men Masr” partners 80 Exhibitors 3,000 visitors, including 200 ALEXBANK employees from across Egypt. 1. 201-1 203-2 413-1 101 Mahmoud ElSherif Usama El Ghazali Fayoum’s Potters’ Association F o u n d e r o f Ya d a w e y a President “Currently, the festival is more than “This year, the festival has been just an annual event which takes transformed into an open museum place in the city. It has become to a featuring over 80 exhibitors coming greater degree a national day for all from 15 different governorates. The villagers and Fayoum residents.” spirit is incredible, performances are very engaging and entertaining.” Potter of the single remaining pottery workshop in Kasr village in the Oasis Dakhal where the process of pottery production is still 100% hand-made and all natural including the kilns where the firing takes place (as opposed the modern electric ovens being used in most pottery workshops today). 102 A member of the Cultural Palace Pioneers Association’s decoration division working on completing perfecting a pottery piece. Mrs. Janet Heckman Ya s m i n a A b o u Yo u s s e f E B R D Egypt Managing Director Ta w a s o l N G O f o r d e v e l o p i n g Istabl Antar “We are very impressed.ALEXBANK’s “I have never seen Tawasol’s kids involvement truly transformed the that happy; this has been a retreat for village. We have bought pottery them, they don’t want to leave. This pieces from all workshops. The bank festival has been a great opportunity should be very proud of such an for them to expose their talents on achievement. The tours organized stage.” with the help of AUC students are a great addition.” 103 National Exhibitions Every year, we organize an annual national exhibition which then becomes our largest and most highly anticipated show. It is the event where all our “Ebda3 men Masr” artists participate and the whole sector gathers for a comprehensive exhibition of Egyptian crafts. This annual event alone constitutes more than 50% of direct annual sales generated by most of our them. This year, we partnered with Craffiti Egypt as the main sponsor. Extending the initiative’s support to the entire creative economy, we subsidized the space rental fees for all partaking exhibitors, not just “Ebda3 men Masr” artists. OUR Financial Contribution: EGP 3 million CONTRIBUTION Preparation Time: 400 hours Marketing campaign on social media Booth and ATMs setup for ALEXBANK banking services On ground organization and consulting support. O U T P U T 2 018 Direct Beneficiaries: 162 Full support provided to 86 artisans (48 women and 38 men) Subsidized 76 artisans (40 women and 36 men) amounting to a total of EGP 349,000 to cover the rental cost of exhibition space Indirect Beneficiaries: 2,124 Exhibitors: 250 Sales generated: EGP 1.5 million Total ATM transactions: 1,013 Total value of cash dispensed from ALEXBANK ATMs: EGP 732,950 49 P.O.S machines (39 existing and ten new machines) at 0% commission over the period of the exhibition. 104 International Exhibitions In 2017, ALEXBANK launched the first World Fair Trade Certification Program in Egypt to support 22 active members of the creative economy. Eleven of these craftsmen received provisionary certificates by 2018, opening the international market for their merchandise. “Ebda3 men Masr” kicked-off 2018 by visiting two of the biggest trade shows in Europe “Maison & Objet” in Paris and “Ambiente” in Frankfurt. Alongside five aspiring Egyptian designers, we embarked on a journey to learn more about the latest trends in the international handicrafts scene. Our experience in Paris and Frankfurt paved the way to our first participation in the principal handicrafts marketplace in the world L’Artigiano in Fiera, by year end. L’Artigiano in Fiera Our work with the craftsmen and -women in Egypt has kept us aware of the lack of accessible opportunities to participate in the international market despite the high quality and uniqueness of their products. In 2018, determined to support our artists in breaking that ceiling, five of them were able to participate in Italy’s nine-day “L’Artigiano In Fiera”. OUR Financial Contribution: EGP 1.3 million CONTRIBUTION Preparation Time: 10 weeks prior to the event O U T P U T 2 018 Number of Exhibitors: 24 Egyptian Exhibitors, including five “Ebda3 men Masr” artists Sales generated: EUR 32,215 1. 102-12 201-1 203-2 413-1 105 106 The various stages of pottery production in a glimpse. 107 9 .1 . 5 I M PA C T T H R O U G H PA R T N E R S H I P S Fair Trade Empowerment and Promotion in Egypt (2016 – 2018) With a total reach of 3,600 artisans in clusters across eleven governorates, we are proud to announce the conclusion and success of our first strategic partnership under “Ebda3 men Masr”. In 2018 only, Fair Trade Egypt has worked on the capacity building of 571 beneficiaries (496 women and 75 men), in addition to providing them with marketing and sales opportunities in collaboration with ALEXBANK. Cluster Formation for Handicrafts and Entrepreneurship Development in Upper Egypt (2016 – 2018) After three years of addressing critical issues like reviving traditional handicrafts, improving socioeconomic conditions of marginalized women and youth of Upper Egypt, and breaking the stereotype of male-dominated crafts, “Ebda3 men Masr” in collaboration with Egyptian Network for Integrated Development (ENID) provided 1,200 women with tailored crafts-based training. Most participants are now skilled enough to proudly call themselves experts in Khayameya, French loom and furniture making. Moreover, they received the opportunity to display their products in an international exhibition in Dubai for the first time in 2018. Yadaweya (2017 2018) One of “Ebda3 men Masr” most important milestones is our partnership with Yadaweya, which has been significantly impacting the lives of more than 800 craftsmen and their families across six governorates since 2017. The partnership not only revived and developed almost extinct craftsmanship like Telli and Siwa salt carving, but it also provided sales opportunities for its artisans. Within our partnership, we were able to create a comprehensive map of handicrafts in Egypt. Additionally, we have created a children’s book that tells the story of the Egyptian handicrafts, their heritage and cultural ties to the numerous communities. Both, the map and the children’s book will be published in 2019 as a reference to Egypt’s authentic handicrafts for the whole world. 9 .1 . 6 E B D A 3 M E N M A S R : A M O D E L F O R S O C I A L S O L I D A R I T Y ALEXBANK signed a two-year agreement worth EGP 3 million with the Egyptian Ministry of Social Solidarity to further expand its impact and ensure long-term resilience of our artisan community, embracing 25,000 local artisans across all governorates. The partnership entails enhancing their sales opportunities by promoting them locally and globally through organizing a few local and international exhibitions. 108 ”We always pride ourselves on collaborating with ALEXBANK for their continuous efforts contributing to the advancement of our Egypt Vison 2030. The handicrafts sector falls under the strategic focus of the Ghada Waly Ministry for the preservation of the Egyptian creative M i n i ster o f So ci al Sol i d ar i ty heritage and industry, and ALEXBANK through ‘Ebda3 men Masr’ has been a loyal supporter to thousands of artisans nationwide who succeeded in getting their nascent projects off the ground. Together, we are hoping to integrate additional markets globally and bolster the image of Egypt globally. Capitalizing on this longstanding partnership, a decent life will be secured for thousands of great minds and souls.” 9. 2 COMMUNIT Y DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS*1 Project Partner(s) ABO TEEG A handmade carpet production facility • Sawiris Foundation for Social ( 2 018 – 2 019 ) and training center projected to proDevelopment (SFSD duce high-quality carpets for the export • Egyptian Chamber of Handicrafts ASYUT market. 150 students will be trained and • Egyptian Export Council for equipped with skills that will enable them Handicrafts to directly contribute to improving the • Ministry of Trade and Industry local carpet industry, with the prospect of (through The Micro, Small and employment in the facility. Medium Enterprises Development Agency) WOMEN Our project with ACT supports women in • Appropriate Communication TechE D U C AT I O N vulnerable communities through raising niques for Development Center (ACT) AND ECONOMIC awareness and capacity building workEMPOWERMENT shops. To raise their resilience against T O C O M B AT different forms of abuse, our target is to E A R LY pave the way for financial independence MARRIAGE and stability for 50 women. ( 2 018 – ONGOING) GIZA 1. 102-12 109 G.A. & A.A. S m a l l B u s i n e s s O w n e r, G i z a Women Education and Economic Empowerment to Combat Early Marriage ACT G.A. and A.A. are sisters. Together, they run Today, G.A. and A.A. not only own a growing their very own make up and accessories business enterprise, they also recognize the shop in Giza. They are planning the expanimportance of raising their daughters to besion of their store, purchasing a photocopy come independent young women and emmachine and integrating new services to powering them through education. offer their ever-growing client base. They credit their newfound success to ACT, “I now know we do not need an NGO that aims to combat early marriage and empower women. G.A. and A.A. particto completely rely on men and ipated in public awareness sessions held I recognize the importance of by ACT, equipping them with the social and financial support necessary to embark on educating my daughters from this ambitious career path. a young age onwards.” 110 M.M G r o c e r y s h o p o w n e r, G i z a Women Education and Economic Empowerment to Combat Early Marriage ACT This shop used to be my mother-in-law’s property and when I offered to work with her, we expanded it in terms of space and product range. Today, it is my source of income enabling me to actively contribute to my family’s wellbeing.” 111 Women Attending Literacy Class ACT “We are now able to help our children with their school work, which has changed the way they look at us.” “My daughters will not go through what I had to endure.” 112 A.M “We prepare them for life away from what Field coordinator ACT they believed will be their destiny forever.” 113 H.A is one of the women who applied for the financial grant as part of the economic empowerment component of our project with ACT in Gizah. Her project is a fish stand in Gizah, where the tasks are divided up between her and her husband who goes on daily fishing trips on the Nile. Her dream is to continue providing for her children. 114 115 Project Partner(s) C OT TO N F O R This project continues to educate farmers, • Filmar Nile Textile (FNT) LIFE (C4L) vocational school students and young • Ministry of Agriculture and Land ( 2 015 – 2 019 ) designers aiming at enhancing the sustainReclamation ability of their agricultural methodologies, • United Nations Industrial DevelopALEXANDRIA industrial processes and value added ment Organization (UNIDO) A N D D A M I E T TA of the long staple and extra-long staple • Ministry of Trade and Industry Egyptian cotton value chains across 12 governorates. More than 650 students, 50 teachers, 50 technicians, 20 farmers, and more than 25 designers are part of C4L. TA M K E E N : The integrated development approach • Khair Wa Baraka NGO I N T E G R AT E D covers a range of development intervenVILLAGE tions and assistance to ultra-poor families D E V E LO P M E N T in five villages in in the center of Edfu. Our IN EDFU support includes basic, preventive and ( 2 017 – curative healthcare services, skill-develONGOING) opment workshops, in-kind donations, and micro-projects assistance with the objecA S WA N tive of raining the villagers’ independence. To date, more than 50 families living in these five villages have profited and 67 microloans provisioned. H E A LT H & H O P E ALEXBANK contributes directly to the • Friends of Children with Cancer OASIS well-being of cancer-ridden children and NGO E D U C AT I O N A L their families. We financed a community K I TC H E N edu-kitchen for whole family, in which a ( 2 018 – 2 019 ) team of experts can raise awareness about appropriate hygiene and infection control BEHEIRA practices and provide balanced nutrition to support the children’s medical treatment. The edu-kitchen is set to benefit 250 individuals. F R O M FA R M This project aims to support 4,000 wom• Knowledge Co. for Sustainable TO F O R K en living in rural areas in scaling up their Development ( 2 017 – 2 018 ) micro-business activities. The focus lies on processing tomatoes into high quality BEHEIRA, MINconsumer products, with a pilot phase YA A N D F AY O U M completed in 2018. 116 Project Partner(s) ONE-DREAM One Dream’s mission is to improve the • Sawiris Foundation for Social ( 2 018 – O N G O I N G ) living conditions of communities involved Development (SFSD) in waste recycling active in Mansheyet • Star Care Egypt Foundation CAIRO Nasser and Tora’s informal areas. Over the • Shorouk Misr Foundation period of two years, the project will target • Association for the Protection 35,000 individuals through the completion of the Environment (APE) of virus C screenings and treatment, combatting anemia, early detection for diabetes, new born and premature care, addiction treatment, adult literacy, and financial literacy for women and kids. I M P R OVI N G TH E Under the three-year long partnership with • Sawiris Foundation for Social LIVING CONDITIONS SFSD, we launched this project to contribDevelopment (SFSD) OF CHILDREN IN ute to better living standards for 450 chil• Banati and “I The Egyptian” S T R E E T S I T U AT I O N S dren in shelters and up to 1,500 children Foundation ( 2 017 – 2 019 ) in street situations. CAIRO T R A N S F O R M AT I O N A L With the objective of designing and deliver• MetLife Foundation TEACHING PROGRAM ing professional development programs for • Educate Me Foundation ( 2 016 – 2 019 ) teachers working in governmental schools, the program offers teachers practical CAIRO AND GIZA training on best practices in dealing with children in the classroom. More than 3,500 teachers across 150 schools participated to date. “We aim to have a positive impact on all the lives of everyone we encounter. For the future, we are looking Ta m e r M a g d y forward to more partnerships to maximize the impact E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t o r, A P E of our interventions.” 117 9.3 OUR MAIN CSR CONTRIBUTIONS “Donate A Meal with Every Transaction” The CSR & Sustainable Development Office, Cards Products Office and the Marketing, Public Relations & Research Department join forces for the first time. Since Ramadan is the month of giving, ALEXBANK, in partnership with VISA, donated a set percentage of every purchase made via ALEXBANK VISA Card for during the holly month. In partnership with Misr El Kheir Foundation and VISA, we covered the cost of a Ramadan tent located in El Sheikh Zayed City in Giza, which hosted more than 500 people every day and provided more than 18,000 “iftar” meals during the 30 days of Ramadan. “Iftar El-Abtal” ALEXBANK’s Second Annual Ramadan Iftar for Children in Street Situations For the second consecutive year, ALEXBANK and SFSD dedicated their annual Ramadan iftar to marginalized children in street situations. Organized in cooperation with Samusocial International Egypte, the iftar took place at the “Al-Horreya Park” in Zamalek. Entertainment activities offered a gateway from day-to-day realities of 800 children, 100 of which differently disabled. On the sidelines of the celebration, ALEXBANK and SFSD signed a cooperation protocol worth EGP 50 million aiming at providing health and educational support improvement of their living conditions and adequate housing opportunities especially for children with disabilities. The cooperation extends over a period of 5 years and will be based on the collaboration with NGOs and the relevant government authorities. The CSR Conference ALEXBANK’s 4th Annual CSR Conference Co-organized with the International Labor Organization (ILO), SFSD and Professional Development Foundation (PDF), ALEXBANK invited experts and practitioners to an interactive discussion on “The Impact of Responsible Business on Economic & Social Empowerment”. 2,000 entrepreneurs and representatives of business organizations, multinationals, SMEs, universities, research centers and NGOs attended the two-day conference. Light was shed on the private sector’s role in job creation directly and reflected in a matchmaking forum where participants had the chance to present their case studies and network with like-minded professionals. “Ebda3 men Masr” was also present through a bazaar on the sidelines of the conference. 118 “The community I live in does not support the education of girls. Today, I feel proud of myself having educated myself and even learnt a little English. My Sanaa AbdelRady husband and I agreed that our daughter will stay at school and will not get married before 18.” Atten dee o f the l i ter acy cl as s Women of Ghonaymiah village in Edfu while attending a literacy class as part of the Tamkeen Integrated Village Development project in partnership with the NGO Khair wa Baraka. Usually the classes are conducted in Arabic and English. 119 9.4 ALE XBANK FOR ALE XBANK*1 Forsa Bazaar A monthly pop-up bazaar initiated in July of 2018, “Forsa” (“Chance”) is a unique ALEXBANK happening that places special emphasis on a different theme ever basis. The bazaar provides a platform for homegrown enterprises to promote their skills and showcase their merchandise. Different exhibitors reflecting the various themes are chosen each month, presenting their products and offering the ALEXBANK community with a unique shopping experience every month. More than 60 exhibitors participated in our six “Forsa” bazaars. Themes included: “Summer”, “Back to School”, and “Pink for Breast Cancer Awareness”. “For My People” (aka “Make Their Dreams Come True”) Competition The CSR & Sustainable Development Office engages ALEXBANK employees across all locations in the design of ALEXBANK’s social investment programs. As part of the annual competition, staff members propose ideas for social projects which then undergo a selection process. The projects with the highest votes win a donation. In 2018, and in line with the national agenda, the focus was on projects that serve people with disabilities. Six ideas were submitted and received a total of 1,712 votes. The two winning proposals included collaborations with “Deraz Charitable Foundation” for orphan care and “Alhassan Foundation”, a Disabled People’s Organization (DPO) with more than 50% of its board members being wheelchair users, in addition to 80% of the foundation’s employees being permanent wheelchair users. A total donation of EGP 300,000 to be used in supporting a comprehensive rehabilitation programs for people living with a wide range of disabilities was divided equally among the two winners. To date, ALEXBANK has funded a total of 26 projects across Egypt representing all regions. Ramadan Lights 2018 ALEXBANK supported the Egyptian Food Bank’s packaging of thousands of Ramadan bags that were gifted to underprivileged people, helping them in meeting their basic nutritional needs during the holy month. Also, considering the initiative, employees from all over ALEXBANK visited our “Misr El Kheir” tent, helping the team on the field (see section: 9.2 Our Main CSR Contributions). 1. 413-1 120 Children and their teachers on a day at the nursery in Edfu. “Those Who Need Us” A monthly campaign launched in 2014, “Those Who Need Us” is a channel through which employees can suggest and propose volunteering opportunities. In 2018, our volunteering visits conducted included: • August: Leprosy Colony in AbuZaabal where 5 wheelchairs, 56 crutches, and 38 mattresses were donated form ALEXBANK employees. • September: “Kheir on the Go” campaign where employees passed donated around 100 milk packs and nutritious date biscuits to give to homeless children on their way back home. • November: Extending emergency relief to “Awaad Island” in Aswan in collaboration with Kheir Wa Baraka NGO and ALEXBANK’s Network Department. We aided 40 families living in extreme poverty in form of food supplies covering a period of two months, along with the provision of in-kind cash donations and a medical convoy of doctors (pediatrics, ophthalmology, GIT, and OB/GYN) serving more than 350 individuals. 12 employees from Aswan, Qena and Luxor joined the visit, distributed food distribution and assisted doctors. More than EGP 15,000 were donated by ALEXBANK employees to directly support the island’s inhabitants. • December: Decorating Children’s Cancer Hospital 57357 in celebration of Christmas and the New Year. Over 35% of ALEXBANK’s staff have engaged in “Those Who Need Us” campaigns. Additionally, we organized three blood donation campaigns in collaboration with the Association of Friends of the National Cancer-Free Initiative (AFNCI). 121 Nadine, one of more than 250 children attending nursery in her village in Edfu. 122 ALEXBANK Cares about You The health of our employees is at the forefront of ALEXBANK’s priorities. 2018 witnessed our first comprehensive medical care campaign, where our Medical Care Unit in collaboration with the CSR & Sustainable Development Office launched an awareness campaign for Vitamin D Deficiency, Prostate Cancer and Breast Cancer. The campaign ran for two months and included free vitamin D tests were provided to employees, across all governorates in collaboration with Glob Med and with Children Cancer Hospital 57357 for those in Cairo and Giza. For every test conducted, the Bank donated EGP 200 to Children Cancer Hospital 57357. In addition to the vitamin D tests, all relevant employees were given the chance to undergo prostate cancer tests and mammograms provided in Glob Med labs across all governorates. 1,006 employees underwent voluntary vitamin D testing, resulting in a contributed of EGP 201,000 donated to the Children Cancer Hospital 57357. 200 male employees took prostate cancer tests and 50 female employees underwent mammography. 123 10 OUR CO M M I TM EN T TO THE ENV I RO N M EN T As part of our CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy (2018-2021) and in line with the Group’s Business Plan spanning over the same period, we aim to advance our environmental performance within a process of continuous improvement. Our guiding principles are laid out in ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics and the Intesa Sanpaolo Group Rules for the Environmental and Energy Policy concerned with managing, reducing, and where possible preventing, direct and indirect environmental impacts of our operations, such as the reduction of waste, energy efficiency improvements, and the consideration of environmental and social consequences tied to our lending activities and investment decisions. Common local goodies of dates and oranges used for greeting visitors of the Oasis of Dakhla. Both are sourced from the widespread palm trees thriving everywhere in the oasis. 124 1 0 .1 D I R E C T E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T S To remain accountable to our customers from whom we demand higher levels of environmental and social integrity and based on environmental sustainability being one of the three dimensions of ALEXBANK’s CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy, we develop various initiatives to reduce our negative direct environmental impact. Most of these endeavors are owned and implemented by teams consist of representatives from several divisions. Often led by the CSR & Sustainable Development Office, these initiatives frequently result in the creation of internal “networks” in which we can assess multidimensional issues effectively. 1 0 .1 .1 E N E R G Y E F F I C I E N C Y Energy efficiency is a national priority under Alaa Gaafar the Egypt Vision 2030 “Energy Security” pillar. The urgency and importance of this topic was He a d o f R e a l E s t a t e D e p a r t m e n t subsequently highlighted in the National Plan for Energy Efficiency (2018-2020) and the National “Sustainability is a red thread Energy Strategy. throughout all stages of our operations; we use locally manufactured In 2017, installing a LED-lighting system in two of our three main premises has resulted in cost materials whenever possible, savings of EGP 102,750. Our energy consumpenergy saving equipment to reduce tion reduced by 12% in addition to producing electricity consumption, reduce 35.5 tons less carbon dioxide emissions than water consumption by using low flow in 2016. As ALEXBANK, we aim to reduce our energy consumption even further to reach 37% tap switches while upholding our reduction by 2022 (with 2012 as base year). environmental integrity.” Yellow flower field in Dakhla Oasis. 125 1 0 .1 . 2 G R E E N H O U S E G A S ( G H G ) E M I S S I O N S Although comprehensive information on the fuel efficiency of our vehicles is currently unavailable, it is safe to assume that our transportation fleet remains the main source of our direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. ALEXBANK downsized its transportation fleet from 53 buses in 2015 to only nine buses in 2018, significantly decreasing fuel consumption. Currently, the fleet cover Greater Cairo and Alexandria and serves 940 subscribed employees, up from 908 in 2017. Between 2017 and 2018, we cut our gasoline consumption by 47% and diesel fuel consumption by 17%. FUEL CONSUMPTION Gasoline Diesel Fuel 2016 71, 357 213,006 2017 42,000 (decrease by 42% vis-à-vis 2016) 153,167 (decrease by 28% vis-à-vis 2016) 2018 22,249 (further reduction by 47% vis-à-vis 2017) 126,872 (further reduction by 17% vis-à-vis 2017) NUMBER OF BUS SUBSCRIBERS Cairo Alexandria Total 2017 692 216 908 2018 724 216 940 1 0 .1 . 3 PA P E R C O N S U M P T I O N & WA S T E We are committed to consistency in our pursuit of sustainable operations. Paper and waste management are linked to various functions across the Bank. Moreover, both are affected by changes in the archival policy, CBE laws and regulations, Group rules on resource efficient consumption, and advancements in ALEXBANK’s digitalization efforts. To reduce our paper consumption and waste, and as a logical step in our digitalization strategy, an assessment of all printing machines was conducted. This assessment identified 14 different models, each requiring a different type of cartridge, paper, and spare parts. The findings, specifically in terms of cost efficiency and waste implications, prompted our Operations Division to start replacing all machines across all branches and headquarters with multifunction machines over a period of two years stating 2018. 126 MACHINE REPLACEMENT PROGRESS 2018 2019 2019 Total (Achieved) (Achieved) (Planned) Large Multifunction 35 179 40 254 Machines Small Multifunction 116 13 60 189 Machines The new and significantly more efficient machines are linked to a software that monitors paper consumption per employee and produces monthly consumption reports. Our aim is to monitor, regulate, and effectively reduce our paper consumption through educated awareness exercises planned for 2019. MACHINE REPLACEMENT PROGRESS 2016 2017 2018 Paper purchased 22,426 26,436 21,168 boxes boxes Shredded paper waste 113 115 137 * Due to changes tons tons tons * in archival policy “We managed to cut paper consumption by more than 15% and Ay m a n Yo u n i s have plans to decrease it even further Head o f G en er al Ser v i ces O ffi ce in 2019.” 1 0 .1 . 4 WA S T E M A N A G E M E N T The expansion and sustainability of our environmental initiatives depends first and foremost on ALEXBANK’s employees’ awareness and agency. The Operations Division together with the CSR & Sustainable Development Office are designing a new waste management and collection system piloting our two of our main premises in Downtown, Cairo. The aim of this project is to reduce our imprint on the environmental footprint by (1) recycling most of our waste which will be segregated at source; (2) engaging our employees in the process by raising awareness and creating an incentive scheme; and (3) creating shared value by engaging local social enterprises active in the field or recycling and up cycling. Eventually, we aim to roll out this project across all our branches. 127 1 0 . 2 I N D I R E C T E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T S ALEXBANK’s commitment to environmental sustainability stems from our deep conviction that sustainable financial returns come hand in hand with sound social and environmental management. As an active participant in society, we do not have merely economic responsibilities but must be accountable for social and environmental consequences of their decisions. Thus, the protection of the environment is key to our commitment to responsible operations. Since adhering to the Equator Principles in 2012, our management approach of environmental & social risks and impacts has been evolving. The principles are a framework for managing environmental and social risks. They provide financial institutions with guidance to address environmental and social matters associated with their business activities and large financial projects. As such, ALEXBANK has had a Social & Environmental Management System (SEMS) Policy and Procedures in place since 2012. This year, together with the Risk Division as well as all other relevant functions, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office is drafting the “Guidelines for the Implementation of the Equator Principles in the Management of Environmental & Social Risks and/or Impacts When Granting Loans”. The “Guidelines”, aimed at assessing and managing environmental and social risks and impacts in respect to its relevant financing operations, shall replace the SEMS in 2019. Furthermore, in 2019, we will proceed by creating procedures that enable a clear and effective division of roles and responsibilities between all relevant functions once the Board of Directors approve them. In 2018 alone, ALEXBANK has signed a senior unsecured term loan agreement amounting to the equivalent of EUR 20 million (i.e. USD 25 million) with the aim of financing projects by SMEs and Mid-Cap enterprises implemented on the territory of Egypt. This loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) is associated with a technical assistance grant package of up to EUR 500,000. The technical assistance package and cooperation agreement will have a focus on financial services for pre-IPO preparation for SMEs seeking to go public and be listed on NILEX. The cooperation agreement is planned to be signed during the first quarter of 2019. ALEXBANK places great emphasis on equipping its employees with the tools necessary to make sound decisions. Thus, in 2018 the Bank invested in training sessions on “Sustainable Energy Finance” provided by IFC and another one on “Green Economy Financing” by EBRD and Green for Growth by Finance in Motion. Furthermore, many relevant ALEXBANK employees took part in “MOSTADAM: Introduction to Sustainable Finance”, a platform promoting sustainable finance in the financial sector in Egypt and the MENA region. All training sessions were attended by representatives of the Retail & Small Business Division, Corporate Investment Banking & Medium Enterprises Division, and the CSR & Sustainable Development Office. 128 Client Story The Green for Growth Fund (GGF) has the ultimate aim to contribute to enhancing energy efficiency and fostering renewable energies in various regions around the world, including in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) via public-private partnerships and mainly through providing dedicated financing to businesses and households. In this light, GGF’s endeavours in strengthening and developing positive environmental impacts through their impact-driven approach have been producing continuous success stories. Especially relevant to the nascent biogas segment in Egypt is GGF’s method of addressing responsible management of waste while generating energy sustainably. In 2018, and within ALEXBANK’s strive to deepen its support of Egypt’s renewable energy sector, the Bank provided financing to a 1 MW biogas plant with funding from the GGF credit line. This plant by the startup ‘Empower NRE’ is a waste-to-energy solution that is actively promoting sustainable waste management in Egypt. Located in close proximity to an existing wastewater treatment facility, the plant is continuously supplied by sewerage sludge. The 160 cubic meters of sludge that the plant is expected to treat per day will produce electricity and fertilizer. Moreover, through the energetic use of by-products, the plant will reduce its residual waste, thereby contributing to the environmental impact of otherwise landfilled wastes and permitting additional sources of revenue through the production of energy and fertilizer. For the future, ‘Empower NRE’ has plans to set up more of these facilities. More about this success story can be read in the Annual Impact Report 2018 published by the GGF For the remaining three years of the four-year CSR & Sustainable Development Office Strategy, we have plans to institutionalize our responsible lending activities even further by endorsing the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Six Principles for Responsible Banking and become a member of the UNEP FI (planned: 2020).*1 More than 230 financial institutions, including banks, insurers, and investors, work with UNEP to understand today’s environmental, social and governance challenges, why they matter to finance, and how to actively participate in addressing them. The Principles (alignment; impact; clients & customers; stakeholders; governance & target setting; and transparency & accountability) provide guidance for banks to create value for their customers, shareholders and society. They are the first global framework to enable banks to integrate sustainability across all business areas, from strategic, to portfolio, to transaction level. Just like Intesa Sanpaolo Group and ALEXBANK, the coalition of banks behind these Principles is committed to align their strategy, portfolio and business practices with the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement. 129 10 . 3 D I A LO G U E & L I S T E N I N G At ALEXBANK, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office represents the “voice” of the environment. The Office is working together with many stakeholders to advance ALEXBANK’s response to environmental concerns, including the integration of ESG criteria into our credit policy, supplier assessment criteria, investment strategy, and product design. Our annual Sustainability Reports will continue to provide important updates on our commitment to the environment to all our stakeholders. Moreover, we remain accessible to interested parties and affected stakeholders via e-mail CSR@Alexbank. com which is published on the ALEXBANK’s website.*2 Yellow flower field in Dakhla Oasis. 1. 102-12 2. 407-1 130 131 Adel El-Omda Palm Wood Engraving, Individual Artist, Tneeda Village, Dakhla Oasis Ebda3 men Masr Residing in the abandoned Tneeda Village in the Oasis Dakhla, Adel El-Omda has made it his mission to transform palm wood into art. Traditionally, palm wood has been deemed unusable and as a result, burned annually. However, Adel believes it is an excellent tool to create art with. Aside from upcycling palm wood waste, Adel uses palm wood to create art that addresses social topics. His art often represents the women in his village, highlighting their significance and their value to the community, thereby ensuring their social contributions are made public. Adel’s work has since been featured in numerous ALEXBANK supported exhibitions, which have provided him with the platform and necessary reach to expand his work. Adel is currently running a small museum in his home to showcase his art. He looks forward to producing work that attracts tourists and preserves the heritage of his village. 132 “The message I try to convey about palm wood an often neglected component of the palm tree is that it can be made into art and put to good use.” Adel El-Omda 133 1 Financial inclusion has become a core responsibility of financial institutions in their 11 FI NAN C IAL I N CLUS I O N * efforts towards sustainable development. With more than 60% of Egyptians unbanked, particularly in areas where poverty is rampant, ALEXBANK has increased its investments in the microfinance and small business segments. This focus was fueled by a growing and dedicated team, research-based marketing strategies, and strong partnerships with governmental and private sector entities. Our approach to financial literacy remains true to CSV principles. The fruit of ALEXBANK’s contribution to financial inclusion can be divided among five clusters. Microfinance YOUTH FinTech Financial Literacy 2 11 .1 M I C R O F I N A N C E : S E R V I N G T H E U N D E R S E R V E D * Microfinance has become one of our fastest growing financial services at ALEXBANK. We invest in tailoring our microfinance products to match the needs of our local market and to the communities where we operate. Key elements of our microfinance model are agility in responding to the different segments and their individual requirements and a special focus on the unbanked. 11 .1 .1 O U R M I C R O F I N A N C E P O R T F O L I O * 1 Our clientele consists predominantly of customers active in the commercial and crafting sectors such as plumbing, welding and sewing. 1. 102-6 102-7 203-1 203-2 2. 203-1 203-2 134 11 .1 .1 O U R M I C R O F I N A N C E P O R T F O L I O * 1 Our clientele consists predominantly of customers active in the commercial and crafting sectors such as plumbing, welding and sewing. Outstanding Volumes Increase in outstanding portfolio (year-on-year) 39% 63% 2018 2017 2 Total Booked Amounts* Microfinance asset Volume 2016 2017 2018 Number of Accounts 58,750 68,698 82,390 Individuals Total Amount in EGP 266,000,000 422,000,000 535,000,000 Number of 306 Accounts 2,303 Companies Total Amount 11,975,213 in EGP 66,510,000 Number of Accounts 28 Tamkeen Total Amount in EGP 1,191,000 Number of Accounts 58,750 69,004 84,721 Total Total Amount in EGP 266,000,000 433,975,213 602,701,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Number of Total Accounts 48,597 54,332 69,050 77,305 249,284 Booking Total Amount in EGP 391,836,000 424,583,000 705,336,600 941,633,600 2,463,389,200 1. 102-6 102-7 2. FS7 135 3. 102-2 Microfinance Success Stories Abeer Wesal Branch: El Bagour Ty p e o f A c t i v i t y : H a i r a n d f a c e p r o d u c t s Abeer’s journey started with a loan of EGP 4,000, and gradually increased to EGP 7,500 in 2015, EGP 10,000 in 2016, EGP 15,000 in 2017 and EGP 20,000 in 2018. Hany El-Maghawry Branch: El Bagour Ty p e o f A c t i v i t y : P h o t o s t u d i o A loan of EGP 10,000 was the beginning of Hany’s business endeavor. His success is showcased in the ever-increasing loans he has been granted ever since: EGP 15,000 in 2013, EGP 12,000 in 2014, EGP 25,000 in 2015, EGP 20,000 in 2016 and another EGP 20,000 in 2018. Hoda Elsayed Branch: El Maamoun Ty p e o f A c t i v i t y : K i o s k Hoda’s relationship with the Bank started with a loan of EGP 7,500 in 2017. She was able to rent a storage room to expand her business by doubling her loan amount in 2018. Wafaa Mostafa Branch: Quesna Ty p e o f A c t i v i t y : B a s i c g r o ceries (eggs and margarine) Her small business of basic groceries jump-started with a loan of EGP 5,000 in 2016 and kept growing in the following years. Wafaa took a loan of EGP 15,000 EGP in 2018. 136 1 11 .1 . 2 TA M K E E N : R E S P O N S I B L E M I C R O L E N D I N G * Tamkeen is a modern and responsible response to the needs of underserved segments without compromising ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics, strict compliance rules and sound risk management policies. The product addresses the needs of the rural communities, tailored for agricultural, commercial and manufacturing activities. Livestock and fixed asset finance are also feasible over a 36-months scheme and an optional three-month grace period. Particularly significant is that the Tamkeen is offered at a competitive interest rate. The product, an innovative and closely monitored banking product, proved successful in generating a new customer base. Tamkeen was first conceived as a development project to promote women and youth employability through skill enhancement trainings, NGO capacity building, self-employment as well as creating new job opportunities. In 2018, the first phase of the training was completed in Asyut for 488 selected recipients through civil associations and grass root NGOs. It quickly became apparent that the standard microfinance product is not a convenient offering for the targeted segment with large parts not considering banks to be of service. Issues with previous representations of banking in Egypt deter the trust from members of vulnerable communities, assuming banks are meant to serve wealthier citizens. Oftentimes, they have only used rural cooperatives and microfinance NGOs for access to credit before reaching out to ALEXBANK. Our traditional microfinance products provide access to loans through standardized applications that identify certain financial thresholds. These tiers are irrelevant in Tamkeen given the pre-credit services and selection process. People eligible for Tamkeen were chosen through a comprehensive filtration process that assessed non-financial indicators like skill-sets in addition to standard financial requirements. Furthermore, we collaborate with local NGOs to provide continuous monitoring, coaching, and general support to keep our customers’ micro businesses alive and healthy. Our main purpose is to establish a connection and build trust between ALEXBANK and the community that represents a wide untapped segment of the Egyptian population. We are proud that Tamkeen has proven itself as a unique service that is tailored to achieve sustainable financial inclusion. Results and lessons learnt from the first phase will feed into specific tailor-made financial inclusion products. We will continue our path in reimagining microfinance and challenging conventional banking norms. All in effort of better serving our community and furthering financial inclusion. 137 138 Amal Mahfouz Live Stock, Assiut Ta m k e e n M i c r o f i n a n c e Amal Mahfouz’s family owns a livestock farm where she used to help take care of the cows and buffalos on a daily basis. I did not own any heads of my own. She talks about the training she received from ALEXBANK with her neighbors and acquaintances and how she learnt how to manage her project, as well as how to further benefit from it. Amal has been managing her business for 6 months now and currently has one buffalo, four cows and four sheep. ALEXBANK granted her a EGP 50,000 loan and with the help of her husband and people living on her farm, Amal raises and feeds the livestock and then milks them to produce cheese, milk, and ghee. She is then able to sell the produce to people living in her area. The farm helps Amal provide for herself and her family. 139 Amal Mahfouz and her family portrait in the barn of her small agricultural venture. 140 “I continue to take care of the cows and buffalos, but now the herd has heads that I own and I have a voice in how our cheese and milk business is managed.” Amal Mahfouz 141 11 . 2 O U R Y O U T H P R O P O S I T I O N We aim to equip young people with both financial knowledge and services to enhance their financial literacy, initiate their savings and encourage their entrepreneurial ambitions. ALEXBANK provides its financial services to the youth population through the “Youth and Small Depositor” tailored to individuals between 16 and 25 years old. The account requires a minimal opening balance and monthly interest rate. Designed to be managed through our digital platform, the “Digital Youth Package” permits YOUTH account holders to manage and monitor their spending via e-statements sent on a monthly or a quarterly basis and accessible through ALEXLINK, the Bank’s internet banking. Among an array of benefits, YOUTH account holders receive a free Vodafone Cash e-wallet to make sending and receiving money at any time and from anywhere in Egypt safe and convenient. Ultimately, we aim to raise financial awareness, ignite a young adult’s habit of savings and dismiss any potential discomfort of engaging in entrepreneurial endeavors that may lead to a prosperous future. Moreover, the YOUTH account offers a competitive minimal opening balance and monthly interest rate, underlining our commitment to creating a ripple effect that impacts our youth customers and the sustainability of Egypt’s economy on multiple levels. “ALEXBANK’s marketing strategy reflects the unified vision of the Bank. We are consistently working towards establishing a wider reach, as well as promoting R a m y Ta h a financial inclusion, particularly among Head o f P R & Mar keti ng youth groups. Digitalizing our services Co m m u n i cati on and establishing a strong presence on social media has made communicating with our customers and stakeholders more convenient. Aside from guaranteeing our services are accessible, diversifying communication channels has made reaching diverse segments of Egyptian society possible.” 1. 102-2 142 11 . 3 F I N T E C H F O R I N C L U S I O N Our commitment to digitalization has never been more evident than in 2018. In line with Egypt’s efforts towards a cashless society. In addition to our partnership with Vodafone Egypt to provide our YOUTH account holders with a free Vodafone Cash e-wallet, ALEXBANK strongly ventures into financial technologies to provide all its customers with excellent services. Ma7fazty (“My Wallet”) is ALEXBANK’s first mobile banking application and our own mobile wallet, offering fast and secure money transactions via a few simple steps only. It combines all essential daily financial transactions users may need, including but not limited to paying utility bills, phone bills and ADSL, purchasing goods, paying for services, and to cash-in and cash-out from ALEXBANK branches or Fawry agents. Mobile banking services have been found to serve financial inclusion objectives globally. However, the variables negatively affecting their adoption rates persist and include the perception of risk, security concerns and the complexity of dealing with digital solutions. ALEXBANK’s legacy of integrity, trust and our sustainable community development initiatives has been vital in our quest for financial inclusion through mobile banking. Today, Ma7fazty serves large segments of the Egyptian population living in remote areas. With a user-friendly interface and the fact that no bank account is required to benefit from Ma7fazty’s services, the application which is featured in Arabic can tear down most of the residual barriers to adoption. Mohamed Aly Head o f M u l ti channel Dep ar tment “Reflecting Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s directions, digitalizing the customer experience was one way in which we strengthened our relationship with the banked and non-banked alike while directly supporting the CBE’s financial inclusion initiatives. For our existing customers, we released the internet and mobile banking applications with multiple payment services including bill payments, top-ups, currency exchange and credit cards payoffs. our mobile wallet Ma7fazty, an application providing users with additional features, includes clients who do not have an ALEXBANK account” 1. 102-2 143 “A healthy, stable foundation for anyone must start with access to education.” The A.P.E. school prepares children of the community to succeed in life and build a future for themselves. 144 11 . 4 F I N A N C I A L L I T E R A C Y: TA I L O R E D L E A R N I N G We believe financial literacy is foundational to financial inclusion and sustainable finance. Through developing content that is easy to understand and relevant to respective target audiences, we pave the way for its applicability. ALEXBANK’s financial services for under-served populations are presented with financial literacy programs via partnerships with national regulatory bodies and organizations active in the realm of financial inclusion we aim to reach continuously higher levels of financial inclusion. All our financial literacy efforts are structured to develop skills and acquire knowledge necessary to effectively manage participants’ own financial situation and support progress toward meeting their financial needs. These efforts consider participants’ diverse realities, including educational background, age, income levels, and ambitions. 11 . 4 .1 A S K T H E E X P E R T “Ask the Expert” is our 8-episode online edutainment series that addresses basic questions around banking terminologies, financial services and products. It has been running since 2017. 11 . 4 . 2 TA M K E E N ALEXBANK collaborated with Sawiris Foundation for Social Development (SFSD), the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the Professional Development Foundation (PDF) on “Tamkeen”, a project that aims at promoting the employability of youth and women by investing in their education and skills development. To ensure the sustainability of these trainings and to provide opportunities for income creation, ALEXBANK developed a micro-credit line that caters specifically to the beneficiaries of the program. Beneficiaries who successfully pass the “Tamkeen” training program are entitled to apply for this special micro-credit product at ALEXBANK at favorable conditions (lower interest, grace period and higher credit limit). 11 . 4 . 3 T H E S M E T O O L K I T In addition to the intensive advisory service and guidance offered to applicants during the lending process, ALEXBANK provides a value-added digital service for new and existing SME customers. The SME Business Passport supports customers to optimize their business operations while enabling ALEXBANK to generate further growth. Included in the Business Passport is a SME Toolkit and digital knowledge bank that helps entrepreneurs manage their finances in addition to several other tools that strengthen the national entrepreneurial ecosystem. 145 11 . 4 . 4 Y O U T H ALEXBANK was present at 22 locations of youth concentration, including universities and sports clubs, introducing its YOUTH proposition tailored to individuals between 16 and 25 years old. We provided financial information and guidance to interested individuals in Cairo, Qena, Edfu, and Sohag, together with “How-to-save” workshops for students. Through our interactions and engagement activities, more than 3,500 YOUTH accounts were opened in 2018. A parade promoting the importance of saving was in 11 . 4 . 5 W O M E N Globally, women are less likely than men to have a bank account. Even in cases where women have access to banking services, they face much greater challenges in obtaining services that meet their needs. In line with the CBE’s efforts towards ensuring women are recognized in nation-wide financial inclusion initiatives, ALEXBANK took part in the Arab Financial Inclusion Week under the auspices of the CBE. Through our awareness campaigns, over 900 females participated in various financial literacy workshops and 3,982 ALEXBANK accounts were opened for female customers across all governorates. 11 . 4 . 6 H A D Y B A D Y ALEXBANK celebrated the World Savings Day with a financial awareness workshop dedicated to children aged between 8 and 10 years old. Organized in collaboration with “Educate Me” community school in Talbeya, Giza, the event was structured around “Hady Bady”. “Hady Bady” is ALEXBANK’s first financial literacy game tailored for Egyptian children with the purpose of enshrining principles of prioritizing financial needs in balance with supporting others with less fortunate financial circumstances. The game educates children how they can spend for belongings they desire, save to purchase items they love and donate money to help people in need. With initially 20 children reached, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office is planning a national rollout of the game to reach more than 8,000 students across seven governorates in 2019. Children playing at A.P.E., children seek entertainment through their learning experiences. 1. 102-6 146 11 . 5 D I G I TA L F I N A N C I A L I N C L U S I O N ( D F I ) The banked population tripled in the last six year. This growth was in large part powered by technology and digital financial services. Today, more than 30% of employees in Egypt receive their salaries via electronic transaction accounts. E G Y P T ’ S U N B A N K E D AT A G L A N C E 2 0 11 10 0 10% Millions of Adults 57.5 50 49.4 2 0 17 0 33% # of unbanked adults (2017) # of total adults (2017) % of adults that own a transaction account Source: UFA2020 Universal Financial Access by 2020, World Bank ALEXBANK established the Digital Financial Inclusion Office to promote financial inclusion using reliable and secure digital inclusion solutions. In line with the National Telecom Regulator Authority’s (NTRA) plans to avail access to services via Information & Communication Technologies (ICT), our full-fledged new DFI strategy permits the so-called Base of the Pyramid (BOP) to gain digital access to financial services. 147 11 . 6 A G R I C U LT U R E & R U R A L I N C L U S I O N Agriculture remains an important element of the Egyptian economy, and a long-standing priority for the government. To enable sound rural development, ALEXBANK has signed a cooperation protocol with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, establishing a strong and mutual alliance for financing SEMs devoted to livestock activities. The protocol includes a package of integrated services and facilities aimed at implementing projects that will contribute to pursue the country’s development strategy. Egypt’s agricultural sector has become key to cater to national as well as export demand. With a rise in global prices and demand, it is set to benefit from a renewed popularity as a reliable export market. Signing this protocol is based on our belief in the importance of supporting SMEs, especially those active in the agricultural sector, a cornerstone of the Egyptian economy providing livelihoods for more than 70% of the rural population and exports exceeding 15% of Egypt’s total exports. It is our contribution to supporting the agricultural sector’s potential for creating inclusive and sustainable economic growth. 1. 102-6 2. 102-2 148 3. 102-12 Landscape from Assiut 149 Asmaa Abdelghany Poultry Farm, Assiut Ta m k e e n M i c r o f i n a n c e Asmaa Abdelghany started a duck farm in her own home; however, the demands of her neighboring community were not sufficient for her to be able to sustain a stable income for her and her family. She therefore decided to start raising chicks and included them in her micro-business. When she heard of receiving a loan from ALEXBANK, she jumped at the opportunity and contacted Mohamed from the Assiut branch. She was then able to receive a loan of EGP 30,000 LE. The loan helped Asmaa buy heaters, barrels and even helped her build a new room for her chicks and chickens. She was happy to elaborate upon the 24-hour special care that they require in order to grow. Furthermore, she received training from the Professional Development Foundation (PDF) that taught her how to manage both her money and business. Asmaa was pleasantly surprised that ALEXBANK granted her the loan within a week and was very happy to see the effects the loan had on her growing business. 150 151 “I learnt about Tamkeen from my local NGO. I received the training that taught me how to manage both my money and business. When I heard of receiving a loan from ALEXBANK, I jumped at the opportunity. I am very happy to see the effects the loan has on growing my business.” Asmaa Abdelghany 152 Asmaa’s husband showing us the chicks being raised in a dedicated, highly sanitized room in their home. Asmaa’ and her husband provide for their small family by selling the chicks, once older, to local outlets. 153 1 1 2 S ERV I N G W I TH E XCELLEN CE* The Bank works to provide quality banking and financial services to its customers and activates ways to promote development in all the areas where it operates. Conscious of our Code of Ethics, we aim to creating shared value for all our stakeholders, promoting sustainable prosperity and creating service based on trust and customer satisfaction. ALEXBANK takes responsibility for prudent savings management, undertakes initiatives to widen access to credit and financial services and sustainably develops the commercial system, while being aware of the direct and indirect environmental and social impacts of its decisions. Mohamed AbdelAziz Manager Wes t Del t a Regi onal “Despite challenges, West Delta region succeeded to maintain high achievements due to the excellence of the team members and the sense of responsibility they own.” 1 2 .1 E N A B L I N G D I G I TA L I Z AT I O N , D R I V I N G I N N O VAT I O N Digitalization is an imperative tool to providing a service of excellence to all our customers. In 2018, our Multichannel Department lead the way with its innovative service, which are always offered in Arabic and English. Indeed, our strides have reflected not only on our financial performance this year, but they have also significantly impacted our image as an innovator in the Egyptian financial sector. To cement its commitment to further advance the Bank’s performance, the Department developed a comprehensive multi-channel action plan that extents to 2019. 1. 102-2 154 1 ALEXBANK Internet Banking & Mobile Application AC C O U NTS Access all types of accounts details & D E PO S ITS Access all types of deposits details Display and export transactions and transactions history Total account balance segregated by available and reserved funds CARDS Access all types of debit and credit cards details Display and export cards transactions Information on card balance, available funds due amounts, and due dates LO A N S Access all types of loans details & FA C I L I T I E S Access overdraft account details Display loan installments (paid vs non-paid installments) Display and export all facilities’ transactions and transactions history FUNDS TRANSFER Transfer funds between own accounts in EGP Transfer funds between foreign currency accounts or from foreign currency accounts to EGP accounts Settle credit card dues Transfer funds to any other EGP account inside or out side ALEXBANK within Egypt Schedule and/or save any of fund transfer requests Execute Fawry bill payments (for individual customers only) Execute payroll and bulk transfers (for corporate accounts only) OT H E R S E R V I C E S Access to personal data Create favorites list to facilitate the daily payments Locate your nearest ALEXBANK branch or ATM across Egypt Currency Calculator and latest FX rates Customize display of accounts, deposits, cards and credit facilities Change transfer limits (decease only) Dual control (maker and checker profiles) on transactions (for Corporate customers) 2 Ma7fazty Transfer money from one wallet to another Cash-in and cash-out from ALEXBANK ATMs and branches Make purchases from any outlet in Egypt displaying a “MasterCard Mobile” logo. Fawry services 3 Fawry Utility bills inquiry and payments through ALEXBANK ATMs Direct donations through ALEXBANK ATMs. 1. 102-2 155 12 . 2 L I V E R P O O L F O O T BA L L C L U B ( L F C) CA R D S ALEXBANK offers a wide range of cards that suit all needs. In 2017, we signed a breakthrough deal with LFC to engage our customers with one of the world’s leading clubs. ALEXBANK distinguished itself by becoming LFC’s official card partner in Egypt, introducing a set of new cards as part of its efforts to improve existing products and introduce new ones. The new cards were launched in partnership with MasterCard and are offered to all customer segments. Specifically designed to offer unique banking experiences reflecting the uniqueness of each individual cardholder with packages of exclusive features, our Liverpool World Debit Card is tailor-made for our private customers. In addition to the waving of withdrawal fees from non-ALEXBANK ATMs, private segment customers can also apply for the Liverpool World Credit Card which offers a wide array of additional privileges and a credit limit of up to EGP 1 million. 1 2 . 3 R E M I T TA N C E S We aim to remain a national gate for our Egyptian expatriates is evident by the EGP 211 million increase in remittances we channeled back into Egypt in 2018. In addition to our longstanding partnership with Western Union, ALEXBANK has signed a new cooperation with the Jordan Post Service. The Jordan Post Service expands over 300 branches spread across the country, a network that will significantly facilitate services to Egyptians living in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Our cooperation will further allow potential new receivers to utilize ALEXBANK’s unique banking services. Mohamed “Coupled with ensuring compliance with Abouelmagd international standards and national safety Seni or H eal th, Safety laws, we have set in motion diverse safety & E nv i ronment O ffi cer training programs to members of staff across our wide branches network. To guarantee ALEXBANK staff and our customers are safe in times of crises, we started upgrading of firefighting and fire alarm system and expect to finalize works by the end of 2019.” 1. 102-2 156 12 . 4 B E YO N D BA N K I N G As part of the Bank’s vision to offer our customers all what they need, and with a special focus on our affluent customers, we launched the ALEXBANK Concierge in 2018. In cooperation with Les Concierges, Egypt the ALEXBANK Concierge is a one-stop-shop to an unlimited bouquet of lifestyle services handling unique demands of our Private and Magnifica customers’ daily lifestyle. The bespoke services cover most personal and professional aspects, anywhere and 24 hours for 7 days a week. Ultimately, our customers do not need to look beyond ALEXBANK for their banking and non-banking needs alike. ALEXBANK CONCIERGE Travel Health & Wellness Government Services Personal Services Personal Shopping Pick-up & Drop-off Services Entertainment & Leisure Home Services Party & Event Planning Auto Services Bill Payment Airport VIP Services *Magnifica customers can enjoy Travel & Governmental services only 12 . 5 P H YS I CA L AC C E S S I B I L I T Y In line with the year 2018 being declared “Year of Persons with Disabilities”, ALEXBANK partnered up with “Helm Consulting” to conduct an assessment on the physical accessibility situation of our branches. Consequently, five branches have been made physically accessible. The physical changes that took place in these branches include: installation of ramps, installing lights for alarm systems, renovation of bathrooms to include disabled cabinets and disabilities signage with Braille. To cement the impact of this initiative, a training on “disabilities equality” was delivered to 17 employees to change attitudes towards the greater inclusion of people in mainstream operations, services and activities. 1. 102-2 157 1 2 . 6 C U S T O M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N & P R I VA C Y We believe that customers should always be at the center of our attention and that only through on-going dialogue can we truly understand their actual expectations and maintain excellent relations. We continuously strive to meet ever increasing expectation and improve the delivery of all our services to our diverse portfolio of customers. Protecting their interests and needs and responding to all their concerns remain our top priority. This year, we introduced a new Complaint Relationship Management (CRM) system applied in our Contact Center. This incrementally improved our Net Promoter Score (NET), a measure by which customer loyalty. C U S T O M E R R E L AT I O N S H I P M A N A G E M E N T ( C R M ) Better client Improved ability Increased team relationships to cross-sell coloration Improved efficiency in Greater staff Increased revenue and serving clients satisfaction profitability Cost savings Less client attrition Moreover, in 2018, the CSR & Sustainable Development Office, in collaboration with the Customer Satisfaction Office, the Contact Center, and the People Management & Development Office implemented the Intesa Sanpaolo Group wide the Ethical Complaints Management Project. The training session that embraced 16 participants representing different functions: Customer Satisfactions Office, Contact Center, Microfinance Quality Assurance Office, CSR & Sustainable Development Office, and Branch Network Development Office. The objective was to provide all teams involved in the handling of customer complaints a more comprehensive understanding of how the nine principles of conduct are put into action. It was dedicated strengthening their ability to identify and handle complaints proactively. “In managing our relationships and interactions we ensure to stay connected with our customers and improve x-selling, upselling and profitability. Our CRM strategy resulted in us performing above the Ihab Nour Intesa Sanpaolo Group average in small business Head o f C R M O ffi ce central driven sales only within 18 months since Small Business joined ALEXBANK’s Retail Division.” 158 P R I N C I P L E S O F C O N D U C T I N C U S T O M E R R E L AT I O N S Listening and dialogue Transparency Equality Access to credit and Supporting the development Promotion of local financial inclusion of the country economies and strong roots in Italy and abroad Socially responsible Security and safety Assessment of investments social-environmental risk “For us at the call center, the new Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system covering all relevant departments and our whole branches represents a milestone towards our goal of ultimate Mahmoud Amin customer satisfaction. The new system is providing Head o f Co n t a ct C enter O ffi ce us with deeper analysis of complaints we receive, which has enabled us to increase turnaround time of complaints to 88% compared to 71% last year.” We realize that the increasing number of newly banked customers will continue to have direct effects on how we respond to complaints. Consequently, our customer satisfaction strategy based on our strict customer protection policies is becoming increasingly comprehensive. In line with national regulations governing how banks handle written complaints, adequately responding to inquiries or complaints through our Contact Center requires agility and flexibility. We are aware of the challenges ahead and we are looking forward to witnessing previously unbanked Egyptian joining the landscape. T H E S H I F T: F R O M F I X E D T O VA R I A B L E R AT E S This year, we transformed our liability structure from a fixed to a variable rate, a challenging but important step that is echoed both in our increased profitability as well as our customer satisfaction levels. This shift highlighted the gravity of our retail team reach along with our commitment to reaching out to our customers to ensure that they are aware of this shift, its consequences and options. More than 300 phone calls and visits to unreachable customers across the country were conducted under a full call-back. Under a strict CEO mandate and a well-structured plan, the outreach presents the largest and most complex communication experience in the history of our Bank to date. It reaffirmed the principles we stand for in their highest forms, particularly valuing our commitment to the protection of our customers’ rights and interest. 159 160 161 13 S TRO N G I N OUR D IVERS I T Y: OUR HU MAN CAPI TAL Our success stems from our belief in collective leadership and a unified culture – CommUnitSship. CommUnityShip is the essence of our people management and our internal culture blueprint. It entails delivering quality services and creating shared value creation for all our stakeholders. Fully in line with regulatory requirements and Intesa Sanpaolo Group policies, the development and management of our people is governed by clear procedures and international best practices. Devoid of favoritism and discrimination of any sort, we undertake enormous efforts to recruit the best talents. P I LLAR S O F C O M M U N ITYS H I P A ccountability R espect Adaptability E mpower ment Innovation E ngagement Dante Campioni C E O & Ma n a g i n g D i re c t o r “Local communities benefit most when the financial institutions they trust and turn to for assistance place their support in projects that are sustainable. ALEXBANK believes in building initiatives that matter, that recognize the value of diversity and enable social progress without jeopardizing the environment. This is reinforced by the notion of commUnityship which is the essence of our culture as an organization.” We are proud of the cultural transformation and the paradigm shift the Bank has gone through in the past 50 years. This shift was carried by the diversity of our body of staff, primarily, an outcome of the unique history and legacy of ALEXBANK. We consider our diversity a competitive advantage, which allows us to better understand the communities where we operate to whom we cater. We strive to create a safe and supportive work environment, respond to the evolving needs and demands of our staff and invest in their life-long learning and career progression. 162 HEADCOUNT * MANAGEMENT POSITIONS * Female Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Total Female Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Total 20% 11% 41% 48% 4,718 10% 0% 49% 51% 182 21% 13% 39% 48% 4,707 14% 1% 53% 46% 205 22% 15% 38% 47% 4,509 21% 2% 56% 44% 238 NEW HIRES * TU R N OVE R * Female Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Total Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Total 20% 11% 41% 48% 4,718 20% 14% 11% 41% 48% 254 21% 13% 39% 48% 4,707 21% 9% 13% 39% 48% 332 22% 15% 38% 47% 4,509 22% 12% 15% 38% 12 315 2016 2017 2018 “We consider ourselves in an optimum position to foster diversity here at ALEXBANK a top priority for the national Mariam ElGammal development agenda and one of Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Head o f Peo pl e Management main commitments in its strive to achieve an inclusive & Devel o pm en t O ffi ce workplace, thanks to the diversity of our own demographics.” ALEXBANK’s high rates of growth, competitiveness, profitability and regulatory excellence are based on its performance management culture, which is based on three pillars: individual performance, Bank performance and local economic priorities. Founded on a performance-based approach and through a sound performance appraisal cycle that considers Key Performance Indicators, PA ratings and a fair merit cycle, we can tailor individual development needs and paths for ALEXBANK staff. To encourage the ”WE” instead of the “ME” and safeguard or values as stipulated in the Code of Ethics in line with the Bank’s commercial interests, we measured ALEXBANK’s commercial performance in 2018 in terms of individual role criticality, performance and business segment profitability. 1. 102-7 – 405-1 4. 401-1 2. 102-8 – 405-1 3. 401-1 163 1 3 .1 B E Y O N D T R A D I T I O N A L B E N E F I T S * 1 Constructing fair, adequate, and comprehensive compensation packages is a top priority and an area we always strive to improve. This is emphasized across multiple spheres across ALEXBANK. We comply with the provisions set by the Egyptian Labor Law and provide additional premiums across most categories. Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s current Business Plan (2018-2021) involves topics of work-life balance and stress management as a priority for the subsidiaries, which we will follow closely in the coming phvases. Therefore, in addition to the usual benefits provided in the banking sector, ALEXBANK distinguished itself through a set of benefits to further cement our role towards the community and creating shared value. Samar and one of her pigeons. She holds pigeons and sells them in her own livestock microproject that she was able to grow due to Tamkeen Integrated Village Development project in collaboration with Khair wa Baraka NGO. 164 1 3 .1 .1 H E A LT H I N S U R A N C E * 1 We provide medical insurance to employees and their families with the opportunity to expand their coverage to full insurance coverage. Additionally, ALEXBANK International Healthcare program allowing international access to a network of second degree medical advisory consultation, in addition receiving worldwide high-class medical treatment for employee and for family members. Noting that family members are supported and provided with small contribution from staff members based on the level of the monthly income, ensuring the access to the scheme to all our employees. 1 3 .1 . 2 E D U C A R E * 2 Our “EduCare” program is a real-life example of our commitment to global and nation development goals. Sustainable economic development cannot be achieved without substantial investment in tomorrow’s talents. The program, initiated in 2016, provides support to employees in their children’s educational development. Priority is given to our colleagues in the lower income tranches of our ALEXBANK community Parents Children Total Financial Contribution 2016 1,189 1,793 1,400 2017 1,793 2,250 2,252 2018 EGP 5 Million EGP 7.1 Million EGP 9,1 Million 1 3 .1 . 3 C H I L D R E N W I T H D I S A B I L I T I E S : E D U C A R E & E A R LY R E T I R E M E N T * 1 In response to our increased awareness of the daily struggles of living with disabilities, ALEXBANK decided to intensify its efforts and extend additional support to our employees caring for children with disabilities. This support, reflected in a sharp increase the financial contribution to our EduCare program, also covers rehabilitation therapy and treatment. Furthermore, our early retirement program also embraces parents of children with disabilities. 1 3 .1 . 4 E A R LY R E T I R E M E N T P R O G R A M * 2 ALEXBANK continues to provide voluntary early retirement options to its staff in 2018. Features of our program are based on the welfare of the employee and ensure a smooth transition to retirement. 1. 401-2 2. 401-2 165 13 . 2 WO M E N O F A L E X BA N K* 2 Empowering women and young professionals within ALEXBANK and in the wider community is critical to our business continuity. Women and youth constitute a growing segment of our customer base thus, identifying and serving their needs begins with their inclusion in our decision-making processes. In 2018, the number of women in managerial positions increased significantly. Our ambitious hiring strategy will further target the slowly increasing proportion of young professionals in our total headcount, with a goal of 58% of managerial positions to be filled by young professionals. Leveraging on our Group declaring “Diversity & Women Inclusion” as one of its main pillars, we have organized several workshops targeting 153 participants from our female leaders and young professionals. 2016 2018 Women in Managerial Positions 10% 21% Samar’s pigeons, the source of her income. 1. 405-1 166 Ayten ElAshi H ead of Mi d C or p or ate O ff i c e “I joined ALEXBANK after graduating and have been in the Corporate Banking Division for more than 12 years now. I was lucky enough to witness and be part of the evolvement and continuous development of Corporate Banking along with all areas of our Bank. The opportunities I was granted were key to my development, enabling me to handle diversified portfolios with a wide exposure to different sectors, large corporates and syndicated transactions. In 2011, I was nominated by ALEXBANK to participate in the first edition of the Talent Program offered by Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The one-year long “Executive Program in Banking Management” offered by SDA Bocconi contributed significantly to my knowledge of all functions within the Bank, an experience I continuously benefit from. For the past few years, I had been responsible for the construction, real estate and building material sectors where my team succeeded in growing the portfolio substantially, establishing strong relationships with major players in the market. In 2018, the Bank granted me a new challenge, where I have been assigned the responsibility of Head of Mid Corporate Office as one of the youngest managers in the Corporate Banking Division. My target is to widen the corporate clientele base, diversify the portfolio and ultimately penetrate a major segment in the Egyptian economy.” Leveraging on our Group declaring “Diversity & Women Inclusion” WOMEN as one of its main pillars, we have organized several workshops targeting 153 participants from our female leaders and young EMPOWERMENT professionals. “The Women Leadership” – Development Dimensions International (DDI) ALEXBANK joined hands with the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI) to bring DDI’s “The Women Leadership” workshop to Egypt. The workshop is exclusively tailored for women in middle and senior management and aims to drive change and productivity by empowering them to take on leadership roles that align with their respective business goals. Dr. Lamis Negm – CSR Advisor to H.E the Governor of the CBE shared her very own success story at the workshop. 1. 102-13 167 Lamise Negm C S R A d v i s or to the G ov ern o r, C entr al Bank of Egy p t ( C B E ) “ALEXBANK continues to represent a unique model that successfully promotes social responsibility without compromising economic growth. This is particularly evident in the Bank’s support of the handicrafts and efforts to preserve Egypt’s national heritage. We encourage and support ALEXBANK’s endeavors to unify these efforts, as they maximize positive impacts the Central Bank of Egypt is planning to achieve.” “Juggling the Balls” Program The program comprised of one-day interactive workshops is devoted to young female professionals across the Bank. It is designed to address and provide tools to help women mitigate challenges associated with balancing both their professional and personal lives. In 2018, ALEXBANK’s women in the Retail & Small Business Division, Corporate Investment Banking & Medium Enterprises Division and the Risk Division have taken part in the “Juggling the Balls” program, with more workshops planned for the remaining divisions in 2019. We leverage on ALEXBANK’s “Ebda3 men Masr” initiative to provide for our giveaways for training participants. By so doing, we remain true to our CSV approach while encouraging handmade and locally sourced products while raising awareness about the Bank’s community development and handicraft preservation initiatives. After Maternity*1 The rate of return from maternity leave has decreased in 2018, indicating that the transition back to work after giving birth has been experienced as more difficult than in the preceding years. We are closely monitoring this rate and studying actions to pave an obstacle-free way for our mothers. A F T E R M AT E R N I T Y * 2016 2017 2018 Number of Employees who took Maternity Leave 37 37 38 Rate of Return from Maternity Leave within 4 Months 21.6% 21.6% 39.5% Rate of Return from Maternity Leave within 1 Year 64.9% 64.9% 60.5% Rate of Return from Maternity Leave within 2 Years 13.5% 13.5% 0% 1. 401-2 401-3 168 “My financial situation has improved a lot since receiving assistance to start my own project and it has not been getting increasingly better with time.” Amal, readymade garments shop owner and Tamkeen beneficiary from Edfu. “My life is better now.” Amna, grocery shop owner and Tamkeen beneficiary from Edfu. 169 1 3 . 3 TA L E N T A C Q U I S I T I O N , D E V E L O P M E N T & G R O W T H * 1 ALEXBANK recognizes that in a dynamic and competitive work environment such as the Egyptian banking sector, it is the caliber and quality of its employees that distinguish one bank from the rest. We are committed to providing our employees with continuous opportunities for learning and development for them to reach their full potential and achieve their career aspirations. 1 3 . 3 .1 TA L E N T A C Q U I S I T I O N Our recruitment processes juxtapose a candidate’s qualifications and ambitions with ALEXBANK’s needs and values. We aim at growing our community sustainably, so a look on the future is integral in making our final decision. While external hiring brings new and fresh mind sets to our Bank, internal vertically and horizontal mobility remains one of the key career advancement opportunities of existing employees. We are proud to be one of the banks in Egypt that have young HR Account Managers who prove to be a great asset, especially in assessing entry-level candidates and young professionals. 13 . 3 . 2 T R A I N I N G & D E V E LO P M E N T * 2 ALEXBANK’s training activities are equally directed to the personal growth and professional development of our people. We are guided by the Bank’s business strategy, which in 2018 entailed training in agriculture fund management (More on our training activities in sections 14.3, 6.4.2 and 12.7). In 2018 alone, our investment in training and development amounted to EGP 13 million. We delivered more than 127,000 hours, an estimated 29,000 hours of which delivered in trainings especially catered to Health, Safety & Environment Office, Physical Security, and Anti-Corruption requirements).*3 2016 2017 2018 Total Spending EGP 6.1 million EGP 11 million EGP 13 Million Total Hours 87,700 129,100 127,300 Laila ElOteifi Di rector of S M E Uni t, Egy p ti a n Banki ng I ns ti tute ( E B I ) “In 2009, the SME Unit of the EBI in light of the CBE’s handling of access to finance and support of SMEs as top priority. Acting as a catalyst for the CBE, the Unit works on bridging the gap between bankers and SMEs to facilitate the process of access to finance and creating an enabling environment for SMEs in Egypt. Moving forward with our purpose, we maintain a thriving long term relationship with ALEXBANK. In 2018, the Unit succeeded in instilling ALEXBANK SME bankers with the tools necessary to facilitate the planned development in ALEXBANK’s SME financing and handling. Also, and in line with our goal to enhance the capacities of entrepreneurs, we cooperated with ALEXBANK’s CSR & Sustainable Development Office to guide the Bank’s existing SME clients and entrepreneurs related to Ebda3 men Masr and ‘Cotton for Life’ through the processes required to establish robust business plans that result in sustainable businesses.” 1. 404-2 2. 404-1 170 3. 4041 13 . 4 O U R S U M M E R I N T E R N S H I P PR O G R A M 2018 witnessed a breakthrough in our Summer Internship Program. The program was published on ALEXBANK’s LinkedIn page and more than 1,000 candidates applied to our internship openings. For the first time, we embraced university students with disabilities. In partnership with Alhassan Foundation and Cairo University, we welcomed 29 students with a wide range of disabilities. To advance their financial knowledge, we arranged for our interns a two-day financial literacy training in collaboration with EBI. The 29 interns spent the whole month of September. Nora ElMasry “My summer internship at ALEXBANK was my first internship ever and I I nter n, Summer 2 018 I nte r n s h i p hope it will not be the last.” 1 3 . 5 S TAY I N G I N T O U C H ALEXBANK’s people are also its ambassadors, who we always keep informed and educated. Internal Communication Digital Proximity Intranet National Initiatives of Inclusion & Culture Training Giveaways (more in section 13.2) Closer is our bi-monthly electronic newsletter, delivered in both Arabic and English to all our employees. It is a special communication tool that plays a great role in informing and aligning the ALEXBANK community. • Announcements, new offerings, events • Surveys • Compliance procedures • Updates on the national economy Every issue includes a personal message from our CEO & Managing Director providing an overview of the highlights of the issue. Our last issue in December was the 89th and included reflections by all our Chief Officers on 2018 achievements, challenges and plans for the new year. 1 3 . 6 A L E X B A N K ’ S S TA F F U N I O N * 1 Our Staff Union Committee was established in 1957. The Union is regulated by law No. 213 of 2017 and is part of the General Syndicate of the Banking Sector and Financial Institutions. 100% of our employees are covered by the staff Union, noting that the proportion of staff subscribed in the Union is 91%. 1. 102-41 171 172 Rahma Shafik S ch o o l Co o rd i n a t o r “At this point, I can see that we truly have an impact on people’s lives.” Mariam Isaac Pa re n t “The awareness sessions are so useful for us and for our children. We always exchange experiences and we learn new things from each other every day.” One of many health-related activities organized for children, adults and the elderly of the A.P.E. community in Mansheyet Nasser 173 In an increasingly interconnected world, ALEXBANK has embarked on a quest to 14 O U R C O M M I T M E N T T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y reach continuously higher levels of sustainable development. This ambition is supported by national development strategies, Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s Business Plan and guidelines as well as the SDGs. 14 .1 G L O B A L R E P O R T I N G I N I T I AT I V E The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are the first and most widely adopted standards for sustainability reporting globally. With higher levels of transparency and accountability, reporting supports ALEXBANK to identify and manage risks, safeguard the environment for future generations, develop communities sustainably, and enhance good governance practices. By communicating our impacts and performance, we seek to build a relationship of trust with all our stakeholder. 14 . 2 T H E A D VA N C E M E N T O F T H E U N I T E D N AT I O N S S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S ( S D G S ) Our commitment to the SDGs considers our 2017 materiality analysis. The following are our prioritized targets for 2018, reaffirming our commitment to both create shared value and increase the sustainability of ALEXBANK’s operations moving forward. “Target 1.4: Ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable have access to financial services, including microfinance.” Our contribution to this target is clearly outlined in 11.1 Microfinance: Serving the Underserved.*1 “Target 2.3: Double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers through secure and equal access to financial services.” ALEXBANK signed a cooperation protocol with the Egyptian Ministry of Agriculture that aims to support small agricultural businesses. More on this can be found in section 11.5 Agriculture & Rural Inclusion*2 1. 102-6 2. 102-6 174 “Target 3.8: Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all.” ALEXBANK commits to ensure the wellbeing of all its employees and the renewal of the Intesa Sanpaolo Banks Division (ISBD) “International Healthcare Program” from 1 December 2018 to 31 December 2019 is an example of this commitment. Moreover, regular health awareness campaigns tackling numerous health issues such as Vitamin D deficiency take place internally, by which employees are informed about all known prevention strategies. Employees are encouraged to donate blood as part of blood donation campaigns or contribute in kind to causes in question. Access to healthcare is crucial, especially to less privileged communities living in marginalized areas. As such, medical check-ups provided to beneficiaries are part of most of the projects under the CSR & Sustainable Development Office. Furthermore, the Office engages either directly or within partnerships with NGOs and governmental entities, in making available targeted prevention and assistance to persons suffering from diseases. Our contributions to this target are laid out in 9.2 Community Development Projects*1; 9.3 ALEXBANK for ALEXBANK*2; and 13.1 Beyond Traditional Benefits*3 “Target 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship.” We contribute to this target primarily through our “Ebda3 men Masr” projects outlined in section 9.1 Ebda3 men Masr*4 “Target 4.5: By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations.” ALEXBANK recognizes the role of education both as a human right and a tool of empowerment for multiple segments of the society. Our CSR & Sustainable Development Office works towards supporting projects that advance and empower women. More in 9.2 Community Development Projects.*5 1. 413-1 2. 413-1 3. 401-2 4. 203-1 203-2 413-1 5. 413-1 175 “Target 5.2: Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation.” The CSR & Sustainable Development Office supports multiple projects that provide holistic solutions to an issue that is as complex as violence against women. We will continue to collaborate with organizations that enable, educate and support women who have been victims of abuse. More on this target in section 9.2 Community Development Projects*1 “Target 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life.” Ensuring women are provided with equal opportunities at ALEXBANK is embedded in all our policies and guidelines. In fact, it prompted an 11% increase of women in managerial positions in just three years. This is further outlined in 13. Strong in Our Diversity: Our Human Capital.*2 and 13.2 Women of ALEXBANK*3 “Target 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.” As part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, we have ambitious targets in place to reduce our energy consumption significantly by 2022. This is further outlined in sections 10. Our Commitment to the Environment; 14.3 United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC)*4; and 14.4 Equator Principles.*5 “Target 7.a: Enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology.” ALEXBANK’s partnerships with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the International Finance Cooperation (IFC) highlight our commitment to promoting sustainable investments and promote sustainable banking practices in Egypt’s banking industry. More on this is laid out in sections 4.2 Risks and Opportunities*6 and 10.2 Indirect Environmental Impacts. 1. 413-1 2. 102-8 405-1 3. 405-1 4. 102-12 5. 102-12 176 “Target 8.3: Encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium sized enterprises, including through access to financial services.” Financial inclusion has become core to ALEXBANK’s efforts towards sustainable development. With more than 60% of Egyptians unbanked, particularly in areas where poverty is rampant, ALEXBANK has increased its investments in the microfinance and small business segments. This focus was fueled by strong partnerships with governmental and private sector entities within the CBE’s SME initiative. Furthermore, ALEXBANK CSR activities and community development projects are being embedded as part of the Bank’s 4-years Strategy, its core business activities and practices of shared value creation. These practices are coupled with financial literacy efforts; we created its first financial literacy game, “Hady Bady”, to educate children on spending and saving principles More in sections 11.1 Microfinance: Serving the Underserved*1; 11.5 Agriculture & Rural Inclusion*2 ; 9.1 Ebda3 men Masr *3; and 9.2 Community Development Projects. “Target 8.6: By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training.” The CSR & Sustainable Development Office is engaged in projects targeting youth employability through skill-enhancement and vocational training. Some of our contributions hereto can be found in subsections 9.1 Ebda3 men Masr*4 and 9.2 Community Development Projects.*5 “Target 8.8: Protect Labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers.” In accordance with the Egyptian Code, our Health, Safety & Environment Office in the COO division is tasked with guaranteeing health and safety measures are implemented consistently to provide all employees with a secure working environment. Moreover, the Office provides regular training to ALEXBANK’s staff in the branch network on how to handle situations of crisis. Furthermore, ALEXBANK recognizes the importance of protecting all its employees. As such, the Bank remains committed to aligning with Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s guidelines as well as national labor laws and regulations. All matters pertaining to labor rights are embedded in our business strategy, safeguarding employee. Moreover, ALEXBANK has had an established Staff Union Committee since 1957, with 100% of our employees covered by the Staff Union. This is further outlined in sections 5. ALEXBANK’s 1 Code of Ethics* ; 14.3 United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC)* ; 13.3.2 Training & Development*3; and 13.6 ALEXBANK’s 2 Staff Union.*4 1. 102-6 2. 102-6 3. 203-1 203-2 413-1 4. 203-1 203-2 413-1 5. 413-1 177 “Target 8.10: Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all.” Our contribution to this target is clearly outlined in sections 10. Financial Inclusion*5; 12. Serving with Excellence*6); and 3.4 Our Economic Value Distribution.*7 “Target 9.3: Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and markets.” In addition to our micro-finance lending facilities, ALEXBANK signed a cooperation protocol with the Egyptian Industrial Development Authority that highlights our commitment to small businesses and empowering marginalized communities. Our commitment to this target is clearly outlined in sections 3.4 Our Economic Value Distribution*8; 10. Financial Inclusion*9 ; and 15. Memberships & Awards.*10 “Target 10.2: Empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status.” Inclusion and diversity are the foundation of ALEXBANK’s culture. Discrimination of any kind is prohibited as evidenced in Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s guidelines and our Code of Ethics. Moreover, most of our CSR & Sustainable Development Office projects seek to promote inclusivity both inside the Bank and beyond. More on this is More on this is in sections 5. ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics*11); 9. Social Impact & Value*12; 10. Financial Inclusion*13; and 13. Strong in Our Diversity: Our Human Capital*14 1. 102-16 6. 102-2 102-6 11.102-16 2. 102-12 7. 201-1 12. 102-6 203-1 203-2 413-1 3. 404-1 8. 201-1 13. 102-6 102-7 203-1 203-2 4. 102-41 9. 102-6 102-7 203-1 203-2 14. 102-8 405-1 5. 102-6 102-7 203-1 203-2 10.102-12 102-13 178 We are committed to making sound investments with the goal of creating a positive societal impact. Our efforts are directed to improving our operational efficiency and demonstrate ALEXBANK’s strong emphasis on responsible consumption and sustainable practices; thus, not only reducing our environmental footprint, but also operating more consciously. Our beneficiaries and customers are provided access to our knowledge, network and resources through workshops, and partners to support their growing businesses while remaining sustainable. With an increasing number of businesses offering ever more opportunities to their employees and suppliers, overall more sustainable incomes are generated. Moreover, ALEXBANK’s efforts towards banking the unbanked, thereby working towards formalizing the informal economy. In addition, we are proud that all our giveaways are 100% sourced and produced locally. More on our efforts can be found in sections 9. Social Impact & Value*1 ; 9.2 Community Development Projects*2; and 10. Our Commitment to the Environment. “Target 16.3: Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all.” These targets are embedded in our Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct. Moreover, they are in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group, the Equator Principles and the national strategy laws and regulations which we are aligned with. We encourage capital investment to comply with the UN’s Global Compact principles. “Target 16.4: By 2030 significantly reduce illicit financial and arms flows, strengthen recovery and return of stolen assets, and combat all forms of organized crime.” “Target 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all its forms.” “Target 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels.” Our Anti-Corruption statement, policy and measures in place are all part of our efforts to eradicate bribery and corruption We have also harnessed the power of technology and digital tools to detect fraud or manipulation and develop accountability and transparency on all levels. More on ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics*3; Anti-Corruption Guidelines*4; United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC)*5; Equator Principles*6; and Memberships & Awards*7 can be read throughout the report. 1. 102-6 203-1 203-2 413-1 6. 102-12 2. 413-1 7. 102-12 102-13 3. 102-16 4. 102-11 205-1 5. 102-12 179 We recognize that the only solution to securing a sustainable business is by ensuring all our partnerships consider social and environmental implications. As outlined in this report, our innovative solutions, responsible products, customer-centric services and community development practices are rooted in multi-stakeholder partnerships. Some of these partnerships benefit tens of thousands, enjoy international exposure and are acclaimed nationwide, such as our “Ebda3 men Masr” initiative. More on our partnerships can be found throughout all sections of this report. 14 . 3 U N I T E D N AT I O N S G L O B A L C O M PA C T PR I N C I PL E S ( U N G C)*1 ALEXBANK has been a signatory to the ten principles of the UNGC since 2014. Our business and non-business actions are mapped against principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, and Environment and Anti-Corruption to help us move towards a more sustainable entity. The ten principles are also deeply anchored in our culture and Code of Ethics. O n H uman Ri ghts Pr i nci p l e s Our Bank adheres to Human Rights Principles and promotes a culture that values diversity and individuality, placing employee welfare and career development at the forefront of its priorities. In March 2018, ALEXBANK ‘s Board of Directors approved the Principles on Human Rights, which specify Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s commitment to identify, mitigate and where possible prevent, potential Human Rights violations linked to its own activities. The Principles are in line with our Code of Ethics and have implications on our relationship with our stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, community and the environment. Our benefit programs provide medical assistance to all our employees and extends to their family members. Additionally, with freedom of expression being a fundamental right, ALEXBANK has a staff union that is elected by the employees. All staff are covered by the staff union, with 91% subscribed with voting rights. Our Labor Principles ALEXBANK strictly abides by Egypt’s labor laws. Beyond ensuring the Bank is fully aligned with national requirements, we guarantee a legal precedent is set in place to secure the rights of all matters pertaining to our employees and promoting their welfare. 180 Environment al Principles Environmental welfare is a core component of ALEXBANK’s financing of large projects. This is addressed through an environmental and social risk management system that ensures social and environmental impacts are accounted for and mitigated. Furthermore, embedded in our policies, the Bank has been a signatory of the Equator Principles since 2012. ALEXBANK’s creating shared value goals ensure resources are consumed responsibly to steadily reduce the Bank’s carbon footprint and secure ALEXBANK’s position as a sustainable institution active in the Egyptian banking industry. AntiCorruption Principles A clear and defined policy on anti-money laundering and anti-corruption is integrated in every facet of ALEXBANK’s operations. Our anti-corruption stance is further reiterated through mandatory training sessions to inform employees on accountability and the importance of abiding by Bank policies from the Head of Compliance. Reporting and Communicating our Commitment As a financial institution that embraces the Principles of the UNGC, we recognize the importance of transparent reporting to stakeholders as part of our commitment to operating sustainably. ALEXBANK’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) is a key component of our commitment to the UN Global Compact. This year, our Sustainability Report presented to the Board of Directors will be submitted in alignment with the COP reporting cycle. 14 . 4 E Q U AT O R P R I N C I P L E S * 1 Since 2012, ALEXBANK has been implementing by the Equator Principles. The Principles provide the Bank with the guidance necessary to limit the environmental and social impact of large financial projects, providing financial institutions with the resources to operate sustainably. They are a framework for managing environmental and social issues that are directly linked to financial industries and provide financial institutions with guidance to address environmental and social risks associated with business operations. 1. 102-12 181 1 1 5 M EM BERS H I PS & AWARDS * ALEXBANK’s memberships define our commitment to promoting sustainability through multiple international frameworks and incorporating diversity in our approach. 1 5 .1 M E M B E R S H I P S Equator Principles We have been adoptees of the Equator Principles since 2012 and implement the framework for managing the impacts on the environment and on local communities that may arise from financing large projects. The United Nations Global Compact ( U N G C) ALEXBANK has been a signatory of the UNGC initiative since 2014. The UNGC policies are multifaceted, addressing ten universal principles to promote environmental welfare, human rights and ethical practice. The Bank’s membership ensures business operations are approached through a framework that is both ethical and sustainable. Federation of Egyptian Banks ( F E B ) Since 2013, ALEXBANK has been an active member of the FEB, which is deeply committed to positively impacting Egyptian communities. We are member in the Social Development Steering Committee of the Social Development Committee, which has successfully encouraged Egyptian banks to contribute 2% of their net profit to the development of informal areas in Egypt. This initiative embraces a few sub-projects within an integrated development approach that targets education, sustainable agriculture, youth employability, and the economic empowerment of women. 1. 102-12 – 102-13 182 1 5 . 2 AWA R D S Following in the footsteps of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ALEXBANK has chosen society at large to be the direct beneficiary of all its activities. In 2018 alone, our CSR and sustainable development initiatives benefited more than 30,000 citizens. H.E. Governor of the Central Bank of Egypt, Tarek Amer, bestowed our “Ebda3 men Masr” initiative the award for “Most Socially Impactful Project in the Banking Sector” was presented to by the Central Bank of Egypt. ALEXBANK received a special award in recognition of its efforts in transforming the conventional lighting system in seven premises into an efficient LED-lighting system. The “Energy Efficiency” award, supported by the National Energy Efficiency Improvement Project was presented by H.E. Mohamed Shaker, Minister of Electricity and Renewable Energy. Our work culminated to ALEXBANK being awarded “Best Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility in the Middle East”, by EUROMONEY, one of the most prominent international magazines in assessing banks and the performance of financial institutions. Through ALEXBANK’s collaboration with J. Walter Thomson Worldwide (JWT) on the “Ebda3 men Masr” song and campaign in 2017 to shed light on Egyptian handicrafts and the stories of Egyptian craftsmen and women, JWT won the 2018 Middle East Effie Award. 183 Bank of Alexandria (Egyptian Joint Stock Company) Financial Position As at 31 December 2018 Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Assets No. EGP 000 EGP 000 Cash and balances at Central Bank of Egypt (16) 3 915 184 4 137 615 Due from banks (17) 29 238 822 23 795 746 Treasury bills and other governmental notes (18) 19 070 088 14 885 831 Loans and advances to customers (19) 38 239 121 32 148 661 Financial assets classified at fair value through profit and loss (20) 4 384 5 388 Financial investments : Available -forsale (21) 2 571 649 1 244 791 Held -tomaturity (21) 30 187 31 885 Investments in associates (22) 60 373 58 122 Intangible assets (23) 193 523 152 308 Other assets (24) 1 225 539 777 220 Fixed assets (25) 583 753 459 331 Total assets 95 132 623 77 696 898 Liabilities and shareholders' equity Liabilities Due to banks (26) 419 215 404 737 Customers' deposits (27) 78 782 023 63 537 024 Other loans (28) 778 510 718 578 Other liabilities (29) 2 553 171 2 049 291 Other provisions (30) 492 163 564 728 Current income tax liabilities 524 744 515 376 Deferred tax liabilities (31) 136 869 133 050 Retirement benefits obligations (32) 941 443 798 000 Total Liabilities 84 628 138 68 720 784 Shareholders' equity Share capital (33) 800 000 800 000 Reserves (34) 1 846 982 1 896 198 Retained earnings (34) 7 857 503 6 279 916 Total Shareholders' equity 10 504 485 8 976 114 Total liabilities and Shareholders' equity 95 132 623 77 696 898 Auditors' Report attached The accompanying notes from page (6) to page (73) are an integral part of these interim financial statements and are to be read therewith. Dante Campioni Mohamed Raef CEO and Managing Director Chief Financial Officer -1184 Bank of Alexandria (Egyptian Joint Stock Company) Statement of Income For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year end For the year end 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Note EGP 000 EGP 000 No. Interest and similar income (6) 11 960 183 9 268 731 Interest and similar expense (6) (6 387 252) (4 407 137) Net interest income 5 572 931 4 861 594 Fee and commission income (7) 871 537 705 256 Fee and commission expense (7) ( 191 833) ( 142 443) Net fee and commission income 679 704 562 813 Net income 6 252 635 5 424 407 Dividends' income (8) 36 711 31 705 Net income from financial assets classified at fair value through profit and loss (9) ( 1 413) 1 651 Net trading income (10) 58 877 87 351 Gains from financial investments (21) 1 036 226 324 Bank's share in undistributed profit of associated companies 5 734 18 020 Impairment (loss) recovery on loans and advances (13,19) ( 19 840) ( 234 222) Administrative expenses (11) (2 270 997) (1 822 402) Other operating revenues/ (expenses) (12) ( 81 765) ( 67 532) Net profit before income tax 3 980 978 3 665 302 Income tax expense (14) ( 955 493) ( 882 557) Net profit for the year 3 025 485 2 782 745 Earnings per share (EGP/share) Basic (15) 6.83 6.26 The accompanying notes from page (6) to page (73) are an integral part of these interim financial statements and are to be read therewith. Dante Campioni Mohamed Raef CEO and Managing Director Chief Financial Officer -2185 G RI 102: G E N E R A L D I S C L OSURES ( CORE OPT ION) 2 0 1 6 Disclosure/ Category of Information Page Number(s) Sustainable DeveUNGC KPIs or URL References lopment Goals Principles ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G 10 2 1 Name of the organization 5 G 10 2 2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12,26,27,28,29, 8 135,142,148,154, 155,156,157 G 10 2 3 Location of headquarters 4 G 10 2 4 Location of operations 12,24 G 10 2 5 Ownership and legal form 24 G 10 2 6 Markets served 12,76,77,78,85, 1,2,8,9,10,12,16 88,134,146,148 Scale of the organization 85,134,135,163 8,9,10 G 10 2 7 Information on employees and other workers 163 5,10 Principle 6 G 10 2 8 Supply chain 32 G 10 2 9 Significant changes to supply chain 32 G 10 2 10 Precautionary principle or approach 65,68,74,76 7,16 Principle 10 G 10 2 11 86,104,105,108,109, 7,8,9,16 Principle 7 G 10 2 12 External initiatives 14,181,182 G 10 2 13 Membership of associations 167,182 7,9,16 STRATEGY G 10 2 14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8 G 10 2 15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 46 7,8 Principle 7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G 10 2 16 Values, principles, standards and norms of 54,55 8,10,16 All Principles behaviour G 10 2 17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 65,66,68 “Principles ethics 6 & 10” GOVERNANCE G 10 2 18 Governance structure 56,57,58,59,61 G 10 2 19 Delegating authority 14,68 G 10 2 2 0 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 14 Principle 7 environmental and social topics STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G 10 2 4 0 List of stakeholder groups 40 G 10 2 41 Collective bargaining agreements 171 8 Principles 3&4 G 10 2 4 2 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 40 G 10 2 4 3 Approach to stakeholder engagement 42 G 10 2 4 4 Key topics and concerns raised 42,44,45 186 REPORTING PRACTICE G 10 2 4 5 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements ALEXBANK’s audited 2018 financial statements can be viewed via this link: https://www.alexbank.com/ Cms_Data/Contents/AlexBank_En/ Media/pdf/Financial-S/BOD_AnnualReport_2018_English.pdf G 10 2 4 6 Defining report content and topic Boundaries G 10 2 47 List of material topics G 10 2 4 8 Restatements of information G 10 2 4 9 Changes in reporting G 10 2 5 0 Reporting period G 10 2 51 Date of most recent report G 10 2 5 2 Reporting cycle G 10 2 5 3 Contact point for questions regarding the report G 10 2 5 4 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards G 10 2 5 5 GRI content index Our Sustainability Report has been assured by the independent firm G 10 2 5 6 External assurance DCarbon Consultants. The report has been submitted for approval by the Bank’s Board of Directors in its Meeting of 6 May 2019. GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Disclosures on the management approach has been reported on all material topics through the relevant section covering the material topic. MATERIAL TOPICS: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS G 2 01 1 Direct economic value G201-1 8,9 G 2 01 3 Defined benefit plan, obligations and other 201-3 retirement plans G203-1 Infrastructure investments 203-1 4,8,9,12,16 G203-2 Indirect economic impacts 203-2 4,8,9,12,16 G204-1 Spending on local suppliers 204-1 G205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 16 Principle 10 corruption G205-2 Communication and training about anti205-2 Principle 10 corruption policies and procedures G 4 01 1 New employee hires and employee turnove 401-1 5,8 Principle 6 G 4 01 2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 401-2 3,8 G 4 01 3 Parental leave 401-3 5,8 Principle 6 G4041 Average hours of training per year per employee 4041 8 Principle 6 G404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 8 transition assistance programs G4051 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 4051 5 Principle 6 G 4 07 1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 4071 Principle 6 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk G 413 1 Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 3,4,5,8,10, “Principles impact assessments and development programs 12,16,17 1,2,4 “ 187 DCarbon © Villa 78, road 282, Investment Village, Cairo, Egypt. www.dcarboneg.com Independent Assurance Statement ehab@dcarboneg.com To the Board of Directors ALEXBANK Egypt Introduction Dcarbon is a local sustainability and environmental consultancy firm registered under the Egyptian law no. 159 for the year 1981 and its executive regulation. Dcarbon is a certified training partner to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and a GRI Gold Community member. Our main focus is to assist organizations, public and private, in understanding and addressing their economic, environmental, and social impact. DCarbon was engaged by ALEXBANK (The Bank) to perform an independent assurance on ALEXBANK Sustainability reporting process (‘the Report’), in order to advance the implementation of GRI reporting principles and disclosures for fulfilling the GRI Standards Core option. Scope, Boundary and Limitations The scope of assurance has included data and information for the period 01 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 for operations in Egypt, based on Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards in accordance with Core option. The boundary of the report comprises of data and information that were captured for all functions and branches through the Bank's Head Office and stakeholders engagement were undertaken as part of this assurance and as indicated in the report. Assurance scope excludes: • Data and information in the Report outside this reporting period indicating looking-forward statements by the bank . • Verification statements indicating testimonial, opinion, success stories, and / or aspiration by the Bank. • Verification of claims ( limited to data and information presented ) Assurance procedures The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary independent team including experts in auditing environmental, social and economic information and abiding to our values of integrity, confidentiality, professional competence, objectivity, and due attention. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected , depended on our engagements with the Bank, data provided from the bank, followed by the review of Intesa Sanpaolo Group Management , and the revision and approval of ALEXBANK Board of Directors. 188 A piece of pottery by Anwar Rashwan, Kharga Oasis
