SUSTAINABILITY HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION REPORT 2018 2018 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENGLISH 2018 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 2018 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CHARACTERISTICS OF THIS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY This report is the ninth Sustainability Report of Hyundai E&C which presents the corporate-wide strategy for its sustainability management implementations. It consists of value creation cases as well as key activities and performances by divisions in economic, REPORT environmental, and social aspects. In particular, we try to include our efforts to promote stakeholders' understanding by disclosing value creation methodologies of major business divisions and reporting our implementation strategies and performance indicators for sustainable value empowerment. REPORTING PERIOD & BOUNDARY This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances of the headquarters as well as domestic and overseas sites from 1 JAN 2017 to 31 DEC 2017. In addition, we partially included activities and performances until MAY 2018 that have significant impacts on our business. For the quantitative performance, data of the recent 3 years is reported so that the yearly development can be analyzed. REPORTING STANDARD This report has been written according to the Comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 100-400. It is ENGLISH reflecting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of ISO 26000 as well. For the financial performance, Hyundai E&C reports its financial data based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE In order to secure the credibility and fairness of the writing process and contents of the report, a third-party assurance was conducted by an external, independent specialized agency and the results are available on p. 72~73 of this report. 2018 COVER STORY As a global sustainability management leader, Hyundai E&C has been leading the value creation in the global construction industry. Now, we have visualized the cohesiveness of Hyundai E&C, which is moving beyond value creation to the era of value empowement, is rising in the form of value for building a sustainable world. WE BUILD TOMORROW SUSTAINABLE CONTENTS 2018 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION VALUE CREATOIN Backed by the indomitable challenging spirit, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Hyundai E&C is building a sustainable tomorrow for humankind through its sustainable construction 02 Message from the CEO products and environment-friendly technology 04 Company Overview services. Creating Shared Value 06 Management Philosophy & Vision Hyundai E&C Is Building Sustainable Tomorrow for Humankind. 10 Value Creation 1 INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS : Challenge 08 HDEC VALUE CREATION 12 Value Creation 2 BUILDING WORKS : Imagination 14 Value Creation 3 PLANT WORKS : Future Hyundai E&C has been fortifying its global competitiveness in the world beyond Korea based on its leading FORTIFYING GLOBAL COMPETITIVENESS business model and proven business capabilities. 18 Value Empowerment Strategy & Performance Hyundai E&C has been striving to improve the future sustainability of humankind and business by developing source SECURING CORE TECHNOLOGY 16 HDEC VALUE EMPOWERMENT 20 Strategy 1 Fortifying Global Competitiveness 24 Strategy 2 Securing Core Technology technologies and strengthening the business creating foothold. 28 Strategy 3 Responding Climate Changes Hyundai E&C has been improving its environmental value through various strategies to improve efficiency RESPONDING CLIMATE 32 Strategy 4 Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure of environmental energy management recognizing CHANGES the importance of responding climate change. 38 Strategy 5 Cultivating Innovative Talents Hyundai E&C has been systematically minimizing 42 Strategy 6 Enhancing Value Chain Capability safety accidents and reducing environmental impacts ESTABLISHING SAFETY & through a safety management system and ENVIRONMENT INFRASTRUCTURE 46 Strategy 7 Advancing Strategic Social Contributions an environment-friendly construction process. 52 Principle 1 Propelling Corporate-wide Sustainability Management 50 Hyundai E&C has been cultivating innovative talents who can improve organizational efficiency and executive CULTIVATING HDEC 56 Principle 2 Securing Sound Governance INNOVATIVE TALENTS ability while creating new values. VALUE PRINCIPLE 60 Principle 3 Internalizing Ethics & Compliance Management Hyundai E&C has been promoting the improvement of suppliers' business capability and management stability while promoting ENHANCING VALUE CHAIN 62 Principle 4 Managing Risks Proactively the competitiveness of the value chain effectively by providing CAPABILITY sustainable value chain management system. 64 Principle 5 Protecting Human Rights in Value Chain Hyundai E&C has been promoting strategic social contribution 67 Financial Performance ADVANCING STRATEGIC 66 projects based on industrial characteristics to improve social value in overseas countries where it operates business. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS APPENDIX 68 Key Sustainability Indicators 71 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 72 Third Party Assurance Report 74 GRI Standards Index 78 Global Sustainability Leadership 79 Major Awards and Accolades / Memberships MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Toward a 'Global Top-tier' with Creating New Values Hyundai E&C is taking a grand step toward 'Global Top-tier'. The global market where top-tier companies are competing is our stage to expand. As a representative global engineering company, we are striving to create new added value and quality growth. We will advance to the global top-tier with advanced technology and differentiated services in all areas of the construction industry from design, construction to planning, engineering and operation. Sustainability management is another ultimate destination of ours. Beyond short-term business performance, our goal is to create shared values of mutual benefits from a macro perspective. For securing to expand financial, environmental and social values, we will strive to maximize the added value of all stakeholders including shareholders, customers, cooperating partners, communities and governments. Substantial Growth with Internal Stability Hyundai E&C's capabilities are becoming more prominent with a glow in the era of recession. We have achieved new orders worth KRW 21,713.6 billion (consolidated) despite a decline in overseas order quantity in 2017 and a contraction in the domestic construction market. We have secured solid capability of receiving domestic and overseas orders, including the Redevelopment of the 1st Banpo LH Apartment Complex, which is the largest reconstruction project in the country and the Korea University Anam Advanced Convergence Hospital, Women's Hospital Safety Improvement Project in Qatar, and Tuas Terminal Phase 2 (Finger 3) in Singapore. Moreover, there have been great achievements in strengthening our substantiality. Last year, Hyundai E&C has achieved an operating profit of KRW 986.1 billion by improving its financial structure, focusing on profitability and operating balanced business portfolios. We have been maintaining top profitability in the industry by securing high-quality orders through continuous competitiveness enhancement of technology as well as profitability. DJSI Industry Leader for the Five Consecutive Years In 2017, Hyundai E&C was honored the Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the five consecutive years since 2013, achieving listed in the DJSI World Index for the eighth consecutive years as first in the domestic construction industry. We believe it is the result of the efforts that each one of our employees made to become the best in their field with a sense of calling, as a member of a global leader company. We will continue to strive to become a global leader in sustainability management. We will do our best to establish a new milestone in sustainable management through transparent corporate management, environment-friendly business operation, and shared growth management with our suppliers. Thank you. President & CEO of Hyundai E&C Park Dong-Wook 02 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX COMPANY OVERVIEW Company Profile Key Financial Performance in 2017 HDEC Organization Hyundai E&C has opened a new era of the global integrated engineering around the globe with its advanced technology and business execution ability widely proven. Based on solid business foundations in the Middle East and Asia that has Order Backlog KRW 66,758.0 billion CEO been established since our first overseas project in 1965, we have taken a substantial leap as a promising and competitive company expanding the business into emerging markets in Latin America, Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Revenue KRW 16,887.1billion Infrastructure Works Global Marketing Procurement Planning Division Division Division Division As of APR 2018, total 8,863 employees are working at 160 domestic and 68 overseas sites centered on 2 domestic branches as well as 25 overseas branches and offices. Operating Income KRW 986.1billion Building Works Division R&D Division Finance and Economy Division Audit Division Credit Rating* AA Plant Works Division Management Support Division * Credit rating from Korea Ratings Corporation, NICE Information Service, and Korea Investors Service MAY 1947 NOV 1965 JUL 1970 APR 1982 APR 2010 APR 2011 NOV 2013 MAY 2017 Foundation of Hyundai E&C Received the order of Completed Gyeongbu Achieved USD 10 billion Received the order Became an affiliate Achieved USD 100 billion The 70th anniversary Pattani-Narathiwat Highway, Expressway, Korea in accumulative of Nuclear Power Plant, UAE of Hyundai Motor Group in accumulative of foundation Thailand overseas orders overseas orders CORPORATE HISTORY INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS BUILDING WORKS PLANT WORKS Hyundai E&C will open up Hyundai E&C will challenge Hyundai E&C will realize a future space Hyundai E&C will lead the global plant market a new era in the construction industry. the infinite possibility in the world. that is at the forefront of the era. with the accumulated technology and experiences. Since its foundation in 1947, Hyundai E&C has been leading the With the top-notch technology and abundant experiences The Building Works Division is turning imaginary cutting-edge space Based on performances accumulated in overseas markets and development of the country and economic development as a driving accumulated for the past 71 years, the Infrastructure Works where the humankind, information, the environment, and technology advanced technology capability, the Plant Works Division has force of the Korea’s growth history centered on its Infrastructure, Division has significantly contributed to the national basic coexist in the reality through its immense creativity and imagination. been recognized as top level of project execution in the world in Building and Plant Works. In addition, we have been the first Korean industries and the economic development of diverse nations As we construct representative landmarks in various countries, the areas of building global petrochemical, gas, refinery plants, construction company to enter the overseas market and have made by successfully executing land development, port, railway, road, our outstanding technology and business execution ability have and power & energy. the world to recognize the technology-driven superiority of Korea. bridge, and water environment & treatment. been highly valued. We are leading the building paradigm including In order to lead the global plant and energy market continuously, Hyundai E&C is now driving the paradigm shift in the construction We will continue to develop into a Core Infra Solution Leader who environment-friendly green building, high-rise building and complex we will penetrate into new high value-added markets by securindustry by creating top-shelf synergies in convergence and diversiprovides the global core infrastructure construction based on the development project. We will persistently grow into a Constructor & ing core technologies and establish Future-oriented Portfolio by fication amongst relevant industry sectors including automobile and advanced technology. Developer that leads the construction culture by expanding business expanding new growth businesses. steel of Hyundai Motor Group. areas including mega projects and CM businesses. 04 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX MANAGEMENT Overview The spirit and vision of Hyundai E&C is a source of distinctive competitiveness and a driving force for PHILOSOPHY & VISION sustainable growth. In addition, Hyundai E&C has internalized the management philosophy and core values of the Hyundai Motor Group and further has strengthened its future competitiveness through organic cooperation with related industries in Group including automobile and steel. TOGETHER FOR A BETTER FUTURE WE BUILD TOMORROW Group Vision Hyundai E&C Spirit Vision of Hyundai Motor Group, Together for a Better Future is a firm commitment to deliver the best satisfaction Hyundai E&C is ahead of its era with a Hyundai E&C spirit that does not fear change. to customers beyond the external growth of the company. Synergy created by the Hyundai Motor Group is realizing We pursue creative perspective based on future-oriented thinking, pioneer the future new values through innovation in various parts of our lives. with positive thinking, and move toward Global Top Tier through its unwavering drives. Group Core Values Hyundai E&C Vision For accomplishing the Group's vision, Hyundai E&C internalizes the five core values of Group. The five core values are standards As a global leading provider of high-value engineering solutions, of our action and decision making to reinforce the creative corporate culture that respects customers and employees, accomplish Hyundai E&C will create the foundation for a better life through cross-business synergy challenges and cooperation, and strengthen our capability for global business. and convergence with future technologies. 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 As a Global Leading Through Cross-business Convergence with Future Create the Foundation Customer Challenge Collaboration People Globality Provider of High-value Synergy Technologies for a Better Life Engineering Solutions We promote a customerWe refuse to be complacent, We create synergy through We believe the future of our We respect the diversity of Provide integrated construction Enhance partnership with Ensure that individual technologies Value ‘people’ as a top priority driven corporate culture by embrace every opportunity a sense of ‘togetherness’ organization lied in the hearts cultures and customs, aspire services and diversify the type relevant industries to developed in separate sectors and create a better foundation providing best quality and for greater challenge, and that is fostered by mutual and capabilities of individual to be the world’s best at what of overseas contracts expand business areas are integrated and utilized in new for life by having a shared impeccable service with are confident in achieving communication and members, and will help them we do, and strive to become areas to create new growth drivers mindset with customers all values centered on our our goals with unwavering cooperation within the develop their potential by a respected global corporate customers. passion and ingenious company and with our creating a corporate culture citizen. Establish an optimized Build a base for green growth Fulfill the role as a catalyst of new Grow together with all stakeholders thinking. business partners. that respects talent. management infrastructure business areas and contribute to the society Group Management Philosophy Hyundai E&C's Three Strategic Directions Based on the Group's management philosophy, to realize the dream of humanity by creating a new future through creative thinking Striving to realize the future vision, Hyundai E&C has defined the three strategic directions of 'enhancement of business and endless challenges, Hyundai E&C leading sustainable development of global construction industry structure,' 'advancing into new growth field' and 'globalization of management infrastructure.' Globalization of Management Unlimited Sense of Responsibility Realization of Possibilities Respect for Mankind Enhancement of Business Structure Advancing into New Growth Field Infrastructure Our unlimited sense of responsibility for the We always move forward to the next goal We offer value, better products and better Business portfolio enhancement Selecting new growth power businesses Building an effective global organization safety and happiness of the customer is realized after each success, and create a bigger services that help people to live more High value-added business model Advancing into new markets Training global talents in our quality management, which leads to the future with an entrepreneurial spirit to take conveniently, and make their lives more Maximizing the synergies effect with affiliates Establishing global cost price & quality control creation of unlimited value for our society. the risk of failure. affluent. system 06 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07 HDEC VALUE CREATION Hyundai E&C's great leap has become a history of constructing a sustainable world, beyond Korea. With differentiated competitiveness of the three major business divisions, Hyundai E&C are pioneering challenges, imagination, and the future as a vanguard in value creation for corporate growth and human prosperity. Infrastructure Works CHALLENGE VALUE CREATION FUTURE IMAGINATION Plant Works Building Works The Lusail Expressway, Qatar INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Infrastructure Works CHALLENGE The Infrastructure Works are continuously challenging to the environment for better life generating fruits from nothing. The Infrastructure Works Division of Hyundai E&C, which has added technology and imagination to its passion and efforts to make the impossible possible, has been bringing new value to the earth by building core infrastructures that enrich human life. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 09 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure UN SDG 06 Clean Water and Sanitation Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmed Al Sabah Causeway, Kuwait Competence New Growth High Value HDEC HDEC Competence Business Values Approach The First The Biggest The Most The world's first cable-stayed The largest oil storage cavern The world's most construction suspension bridge in Southeast Asia records of caissons The Third Bosporus Bridge, Turkey Jurong Rock Cavern Proposed Reclamation The world's first hybrid bridge combined Phase 1 Project, Singapore at Tuas Finger One, Singapore with cable-stayed and suspension Southeast Asia's largest crude oil storage of Unrivaled accumulative records of 901 caissons 10 9.8 million barrels INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Infrastructure Works CHALLENGE The Infrastructure Works are continuously challenging to the environment for better life generating fruits from nothing. The Infrastructure Works Division of Hyundai E&C, which has added technology and imagination to its passion and efforts to make the impossible possible, has been bringing new value to the earth by building core infrastructures that enrich human life. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 09 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure UN SDG 06 Clean Water and Sanitation Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmed Al Sabah Causeway, Kuwait Competence New Growth High Value HDEC HDEC Outlooks Social Values Maritime Port, Underground Living Space, Approach Offshore Wind Power, Population Increase Urbanization Expansion Water Scarcity Underground Space, Floating-type Structure, Hydroelectric Power Long Span Bridge Overseas PPPs, Etc. World population 60% of world population 39% increase Strengthening technology competitiveness Securing capability Excavating & promoting future new surpassing 8.5 billion (in 2035) living in cities (in 2030) in Water shortage population (in 2030) and production cost competitiveness for to expand new business business, and expanding high valueUN Population Division UN Population Division 2030 Water Resource Group major business added business area 11 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Building Works IMAGINATION Through imagination considering the humankind first, the Building Works have created whole new spaces that will go down in the history. Hyundai E&C, which has been leading the cutting-edge space building coexisting with people, information, environment and technology, presents the value of building for tomorrow beyond the existing architecture areas. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 07 Affordable and Clean Energy UN SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang, Korea Competence New Technology Emerging Business HDEC HDEC Competence Business Values Approach The First The First The Best The first building in Korea realized The world's first 3D BIM application Honoured 27 times with large scale hanging floor for all process in the BCA Awards and mega truss (cumulative) Amorepacific Headquarters, Korea Qatar National Museum Gramercy Park, Singapore Aesthetics of space maximized New Construction Site, Qatar Merit in Construction Excellence Award (CEA) by the advanced engineering superiority A monumental state-of-the art architecture at the BCA Awards 2018 12 inspired by the “desert rose” INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Building Works IMAGINATION Through imagination considering the humankind first, the Building Works have created whole new spaces that will go down in the history. Hyundai E&C, which has been leading the cutting-edge space building coexisting with people, information, environment and technology, presents the value of building for tomorrow beyond the existing architecture areas. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 07 Affordable and Clean Energy UN SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang, Korea Competence New Technology Emerging Business HDEC HDEC Outlooks Social Values Enhancing Labor Saving & Overseas Investment Approach Smart City, Urban Population Surge Technical Progress Energy Demands Increase Engineering Management Development, Construction Smart Construction Capability Responsible-type CM, Etc. 44% increase in urban population Widespread expansion 33% increase in world’s primary Strengthening EPC Excavating and applying Establishing technical (in 2030) of ICT technology (in 2030) energy demands (in 2030) competitiveness future new technologies foundation for new business UN Population Division Kerr IEA 13 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Plant Works FUTURE The Plant Works are performing the composite art which establishes an abundant future by realizing dreams for joyful life of the humankind. The Plant Works Division of Hyundai E&C, which has brought enrichment of energy to humankind with its world-class technology and abundant experience, has been expanding its value with sustainable energy that can be used for a long time. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 09 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure UN SDG 07 Affordable and Clean Energy Barakah Nuclear Power Plant, UAE Competence New Growth High Value HDEC HDEC Competence Business Values Approach Diversification The Shortest Period Turn-key Contractor Proven competitiveness Produced products in the shortest Implementing 'Turn-key' projects in industrial equipment plants time among large-scale plants covering Engineering, Procurement in the world and Construction (EPC) Ma’aden Alumina Refinery Project, South Pars Phase 4 & 5 Project, Iran Ras Laffan C IWPP Project, Qatar Saudi Arabia The largest single overseas plant order Generating 64% of total power plants and Carrying out all processes from engineering among domestic construction companies 34% of water desalination in Qatar 14 to construction by 3D modeling (smart plant) INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE CREATION Plant Works FUTURE The Plant Works are performing the composite art which establishes an abundant future by realizing dreams for joyful life of the humankind. The Plant Works Division of Hyundai E&C, which has brought enrichment of energy to humankind with its world-class technology and abundant experience, has been expanding its value with sustainable energy that can be used for a long time. UN SDG Implementation UN SDG 09 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure UN SDG 07 Affordable and Clean Energy Barakah Nuclear Power Plant, UAE Competence New Growth High Value HDEC HDEC Outlooks Social Values Strengthening Electric Power Transfers, Approach Hydrogen Industry, Energy Shortage Climate Change Acceleration Material Resource Scarcity Oil & Gas Business Nuclear Decommissioning & Renewable Energy Competitiveness Aged Power Plant Improvements 33% increase in world’s primary 20% increase Resource extraction scale Establishing bid engineering capabilities Diversifying overseas market Excavating and promoting future energy demands (in 2030) in GHG emissions (in 2030) increase to 83 billion tons (in 2030) and strengthening execution & securing capability to new business, and expanding IEA IEA KPMG competitiveness advance into new business area high value-added business area 15 HDEC Fortifying Global Competitiveness VALUE Empowerment 1 EMPOWERMENT Securing Core Technology Empowerment 2 Hyundai E&C has been leading the global construction industry by providing innovative solutions to prior missions of the era with its unwavering challenge. Now, Hyundai E&C starts new challenges to maximize corporate, environmental and social values Responding Climate Changes Empowerment 3 by establishing and fostering the seven value empowerment strategies. Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure Empowerment 4 Cultivating Innovative Talents Empowerment 5 Enhancing Value Chain Capability Empowerment 6 Advancing Strategic Social Contributions Empowerment 7 STATS ChipPAC Korea, Korea http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/Global.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX HDEC VALUE EMPOWERMENT Strategy & Performance Driving Strategy Driving Approach Implementing Strategy 2017 Performance Sustainability Management Goal Key Sustainability Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Target / Estimation) Revenues (KRW in 100 millions, consolidated) 192,332 188,250 168,871 176,000 Hyundai E&C has been fortifying 1. Creating global economic values · Achieved KRW 21,713.6 billion in receiving new orders Increasing the proportion of sales of Fortifying its global competitiveness in the environment-friendly products to more Revenues (KRW in 100 millions, separate) 107,163 110,411 101,680 108,000 2. Strengthening global business competitiveness · Ranked 1st in Korea (14th in the world) of ENR Int'l 250 Global world beyond Korea based on 3. Expanding future-oriented portfolios · Secured order backlog of KRW 66,758.0 billion than 45% against total revenues its leading business model and Proportion of total environment-friendly products (%) 39.15 40.39 39.93 41.62 Competitiveness proven business capabilities. 4. Providing future-oriented total services · Achieved 39.93% of environment-friendly business sales by 2020 Customer satisfaction index (points) 85.0 84.8 85.3 85.5 · Invested KRW 23.5 billion for R&D Hyundai E&C has been striving to R&D investment (KRW in 100 millions) 234 226 222 235 1. Innovating R&D strategy · Contributed KRW 159.7 billion of technology-based profitability Investing KRW 118.8 billion in improve the future sustainability and receiving orders Securing Core of humankind and business by 2. Enhancing R&D infrastructure securing core environment-friendly R&D human resource (persons) 181 178 165 141 · Promoted 25 cooperative R&D organizations worldwide Technology developing source technologies and strengthening the business 3. Strengthening core technology networks · Obtained the Environmental Technology Verification (ETV) technology and high-efficient technologies Patent applications (cases) 83 71 68 72 4. Creating economic values through R&D by 2020 creating foothold. from the Ministry of Environment for technology converting sludge Technology-based contributions of profitability and receiving orders (KRW in 100 millions) 1,642 1,942 1,564 1,597 sewage into energy through thermal hydrolysis 1. Promoting environment & energy Hyundai E&C has been improving · Selected as a member of CDP Carbon Management Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 20,043 12,812 19,439 18,253 management policy its environmental value through Honors Club for 4 consecutive years 2. Implementing integrated environment & Reducing GHG emissions by 2.1% per Responding various strategies to improve efficiency of environmental energy energy management · Reduced GHG emissions of 95,679.23 tCO2-e year compared to baseline year 2015 Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 53,885 61,362 52,444 49,245 Climate Changes management recognizing the 3. Expanding environment & · Reduced energy consumptions of 91.45 TJ until 2020 Total reduction of GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 74,149 93,711 95,679 97,688 importance of responding climate energy management activities · Applied for a patent on the System for Predicting GHG change. Emissions and Warning Overuse Energy consumption (TJ) 1,399 1,451 1,359 1,276 4. Advancing carbon management 1. Improving safety management infrastructure Hyundai E&C has been (safety management strategy, organization, On-site safety inspection (cases) 3,833 3,742 3,028 3,330 · Achieved the accident rate of 0.31% systematically minimizing Establishing Safety safety accidents and reducing performance management system, inspections and training) · Increased safety activities (inspection, training, information) by 178.5% Decreasing the Lost Time Incident Accident rate (%) 0.21 0.28 0.31 0.15 & Environment environmental impacts through 2. L eading environment-friendly construction · Reduced 66,967.1 tons of wastes Rate (LTIR) by 40% until 2018 a safety management system Waste generation (ton) 635,939 422,877 355,910 352,350 Infrastructure and an environment-friendly process (environment-friendly engineering, · Environmental protection expenditure and investment compared to the level of 2014 construction process. procurement, transportation, demolition and cost of KRW 59.8 billion Water usage (thousand ton) 940.2 717.0 781.9 774.0 operation) Recruitment (persons) 364 281 183 171 Hyundai E&C has been cultivating 1. Selecting talents without discrimination · Achieved 4.51 points in educational satisfaction (out of 5 points) Strengthening capability of talents Cultivating innovative talents who can improve organizational efficiency 2. Developing capability of talents · Increased job capability evaluation score by 8 points and cultivating global construction Percentage of women among total employees (%) 6.13 5.76 5.46 6.00 Innovative Talents and executive ability while 3. Advancing innovative organization · Increased 16 hours of training time per full-time employee experts Training satisfaction (points) 4.40 4.50 4.51 4.50 creating new values. 4. Pursuing employees' happiness · Increased 7.1 times in male employees using paid parental leave Job capability evaluation (points) 81 81 89 90 Hyundai E&C has been Number of benefitting suppliers of Overseas 1. Enhancing shared growth cooperation · Generated sales of KRW 136 billion through Overseas 122 75 53 53 promoting the improvement of Expansion Training Program (suppliers) Expansion Training Program Enhancing suppliers' business capability with suppliers (supporting training, finance, Improving sustainability management Revenue generation due to Overseas Expansion 1,312 446 1,360 1,360 and management stability while technology and communication for suppliers) · Increased KRW 7.1 billion in financial support for suppliers Training Program (KRW in 100 millions) Value Chain promoting the competitiveness 2. M anaging sustainable supply chain · Concluded agreement to promote sustainable management evaluation and risk management Amount of Shared Growth Fund 173.0 148.0 180.0 250.0 Capability of the value chain effectively by (sustainable supply chain policy, management between Hyundai E&C and its suppliers system (KRW in 100 millions) providing sustainable value chain strategy and evaluation) Supplier satisfaction level of operation (points) 81.5 82.5 82.4 83.0 management system. · Identified risks from 0.88% of suppliers and took corrective action Hyundai E&C has been promoting Donations at headquarters (KRW in 100 millions) 37.3 26.0 48.5 49.6 1. Strengthening social contribution system · Increased donations at headquarters by KRW 2.25 billion strategic social contribution Expanding global social contribution Scale of Overseas Social Contribution Projects Advancing Strategic projects based on industrial 2. Expanding global social contribution · Invested KRW 750 million in overseas social contribution and implementing the UN (KRW in 100 millions) 5.0 7.0 7.5 10.0 Social Contributions characteristics to improve social value in overseas countries where 3. Implementing UN Sustainable Development · Increased 12 overseas social contribution projects Sustainable Development Goals Overseas social contribution countries (countries) 15 15 18 18 Goals through social contribution · Achieved 10.7 points of social contribution mileage (out of 10) it operates business. Annual corporate-wide goal of employees' volunteer mileage program (mile per person) 10.0 10.8 10.7 11.0 18 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Strategy 1 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Business/InfraWork.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Fortifying Global Creating Global Economic Values Proven Stability in Global Growths Hyundai E&C has been demonstrating stable growth capabilities in the entire world far beyond the boundary of Korea Competitiveness Sales Ranks in Global Construction Industry (As of 2017 / Official Announcement by the ENR) through its solid business model and corporate competitiveness highly recognized. Since the first overseas project in 1965 to construct Pattani-Narathiwat Highway in Thailand, Hyundai E&C has been writing a new history of the global Value Empowering Story construction renewing the first and best records for about past 50 years; in 2010, we won overseas orders worth 7 The world is an open stage where Hyundai E&C follows more than USD 10 billion for the first among domestic construction companies. Following the achievement to receive th Rank Sales in South America overseas orders of which the total amount accumulated exceeded USD 100 billion in 2013, we also achieved a record its dreams and it is a land of infinite possibilities. Proving Solid Capability of Receiving Orders of receiving overseas orders worth more than USD 10 billion in 2014 again for three consecutive years. Despite Based on our leading business model and Hyundai E&C has achieved new orders of KRW 21,713.6 billion (consolidated), 7 the business environment in the domestic and overseas worsened due to global low-growth, low oil prices, and which is higher than the previous year despite difficulties such as a decline in th Rank Sales in Asia proven business capabilities, we have been a decline in the real estate market, we have achieved an operating profit of KRW 986.1 billion through profitabilityorder quantity due to the continuation of low oil prices in 2017 and contraction in oriented financial structure and a well-balanced business portfolio. fortifying our global competitiveness in the world the domestic construction market. It is the result of proving the solid capability of receiving orders for domestic housing including redevelopment of the 1st Banpo beyond Korea. Diversifying Global Markets LH Apartment Complex, the largest reconstruction project in the country, and In addition, we have been strengthening large-scale overseas projects such as Matabari Coal Fired Power Plant Port Engineering News-Records (ENR, United States), the worldwide renowned engineering and construction magazine, Offshore in Bangladesh and Al-bustan Street in Qatar. Hyundai E&C, which has nominated Hyundai E&C for the 14th on 'Top 250 International Contractors 2017'; it is also the highest rank among our global value chain to provide achieved an international reputation as the first Korean construction company to domestic construction companies. Hyundai E&C is ranked among the top 10 construction companies in sales future-oriented integrated services in all areas achieve overseas accumulative orders of USD 100 billion, is improving its economic performance in Latin America and Asia as outstanding as other global preeminent companies. value by accelerating to receive overseas orders as order quantity in the Middle of the value chain and create a new history of East region, which is traditionally its strong region, is expected to increase in 2018. Expanding into Global Markets the Value Creator. Increase of Receiving New Orders In order to cope with the rapidly changing global market environment flexibly, Hyundai Engineering and Construction has operated 25 overseas branches and offices worldwide, accelerating its expansion. In particular, we have 2017 21,713.6 2016 21,229.5 endeavored to expand our target markets in emerging countries defining Latin America, Sub-Saharan Africa, and 2015 19,814.5 Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) as major emerging markets with an aim to apply our business experience (Unit: KRW billion, consolidated) all over the world. In addition, The PRM Strategy Office is centered on a pre-assessment system for legal, accounting, labor and regional backgrounds in order to proactively minimize and prevent business risks that can occur while Performance in Receiving Overseas Orders entering new markets. 100 USD in billions 10 USD in billions Landfill in the West of the Tuas Area, Singapore Despite the difficulties including low oil prices in the Middle East in 2017, we received orders including Matabari Coal Fired Power Plant Port Offshore of 1,200 MW in Bangladesh worth of USD 598 billion, Landfill in the West Achieved USD 100 billion in accumulative Annual overseas receiving orders overseas orders for the first time as domestic exceeded USD 10 billion of the Tuas Area in Singapore worth of USD 161 million, and Renovation Works of Transmission System of 230kV construction company (in 2013) for three consecutive years (in 2014) Myanmar worth of USD 84 million. In 2018, we will focus on promising target countries among emerging markets and countries without our branch having high growth potential. In addition, we will strengthen our project finance and investment development businesses by enhancing partnerships and development & financial marketing organization's capabilities. Furthermore, in order to respond to changes in the market environment and the competitive environment, Raising Reputation of Korean Construction Value Empowering Strategy we plan to increase our technical sales competencies and expand cultivation of local talents. in Emerging Markets Hyundai E&C has expanded its global construction territory since 2011 by entering Regional Strategies for Overseas Markets Status of Hyundai E&C's Overseas Creating Global Economic Values into emerging markets including 11 new countries in CIS, Latin America, and Entry Records (As of MAY 2018, accumulative ) · Diversifying global markets sub-Saharan Africa based on its accumulated construction technology and 6 · Expanding into global markets experience in the Middle East and Asia. In particular, we have entered Uzbekistan Continents for the first time by winning orders for the construction of the Talimarjan Combined Strengthening Global Business Competitiveness Cycle Power Plant worth of USD 819 million in 2013 and we have completed in 2017. Therefore, a bridgehead for expanding into emerging markets was built 59 · Expanding global value chain organization Countries · Enhancing global procurement management successfully. We will continue to develop optimized strategies for each country and expand economic value in the world by entering emerging markets. Expanding Future-oriented Portfolios · Enhancing competitiveness of technology sector in the short term 831 Projects · E xpanding business areas and shaping up future industry in the midto long-term Middle East & Africa Asia CIS Americas Providing Future-oriented Total Services ·Establishing pre-partnerships to participate · Promoting strategic agreements with trading, · Collaborating with Russian oil major · Establishing win-win relationship with · Providing total services in all areas of construction industry in oil & gas construction centered on Saudi technical, and main equipment companies companies and promoting preemptive sales Spanish companies that have high market value chain to respond to changes in global construction Arabia and UAE and promoting re-entry into for Japan International Cooperation activities in preparation for development in share in Latin America and financial Iran and Iraq market Agency (JICA)-funded transmission and Far East weakness market environment ·E xpanding sales on Multilateral Development transformation of electric power projects ·Advancing into the power grid modernization ·Looking for ways to cooperate with Bank (MDB) financing construction in Africa · E xpanding loan projects including JICA, business utilizing the strengths and records of European & Chinese companies to Talimarjan Combined Cycle Power Plant, Uzbekistan and entering new markets in cooperation with Economic Development Cooperation Fund other construction type in Uzbekistan promote project finance domestic and Japanese trading companies (EDCF) 20 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Strategy 1 Fortifying Global Competitiveness INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Strengthening Increasing Cost Competitiveness Providing In the construction market environment around the globe swiftly changes, Total Service Provider is becoming more competitive to provide the future-oriented integrated service throughout the entire value chain of the construction Global Business Hyundai Engineering & Construction is stepping up its cost competitiveness with the aim of generating profits through Future-oriented industry, including business planning, financing, engineering, procurement, construction, and operation & maximizing the value added. To achieve this aim, Hyundai E&C defined core construction projects by each business Competitiveness Total Services maintenance. Accordingly, we have met needs of customers by advancing the business model through our division and set a target of 10% cost reduction in 2018. We are also implementing customised strategies to increase differentiated technology and abundant business experiences accumulated in 71 years. We have been penetrating cost competitiveness and lead to higher quality orders. into high value-added businesses and have been growing into a global company that creates various added value. Furthermore, we are constantly preparing cost reduction measures by presenting alternative bidding, improving the construction method, identifying production cost reduction cases, and building database for projects while HDEC Business Model applying and verifying reduction plans, and securing excellent practices of leading companies. Besides, we are increasing production cost competitiveness by improving business management and execution method. Operation & Planning & Expanding Global Value Chain Organization Maintenance 06 01 Marketing Hyundai E&C's 25 overseas branches offices around the world have been taking significant roles to convey management infrastructure to sites and efficiently connect the headquarters and sites for the successful execution of global business. In order to increase competitiveness in receiving overseas orders and execution, the overseas branches are functioning as the main drivers in identifying local suppliers, managing the pool of overseas suppliers, and managing sites. Construction 05 VALUE CREATOR 02 Financing In 2018, we plan to strengthen our business portfolio effectively by establishing a dedicated organization to strengthen overseas investment development business and project finance. At the same time, we will increase the proportion of local talents in existing branches and enhance the efficiency of business operations by utilizing the global network of Group affiliates. Design & Procurement 04 03 Engineering Enhancing Global Procurement Management Based on the advanced material and subcontract management system (e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System), Hyundai E&C have been managing the integrated procurement information about bidding, transport, financing as well as supplier assessment, contract and payment. In addition, we have been operating the unit price contract program 01 Planning & Marketing 02 Financing 03 Design & Engineering and simplified local payment system at overseas sites and branches to improve the procurement work efficiently. Hyundai E&C establishes the best integrated During the financing phase, Hyundai E&C We provide optimized design and engineering In addition, we have been contributing to reduce costs and increase sales of local suppliers by assigning responsible solutions within the budget, such as analyzes risks of all business processes solutions by predicting all stages from the early procurement personnel to Singapore, Dubai, Kuwait, and Doha branches and purchasing materials and goods guaranteeing the highest quality, observing thoroughly, and presents a financial structure designing stage to construction and operation required for international business and operating branches. Moreover, we have sent out newsletters in English to our the construction schedule, and securing and conditions. In addition, we support to stages based on our balanced business the safety, through the cost minimization and secure finances based on the stable credibility portfolio and experiences accumulated for 71 overseas suppliers to build the closer partnership. profit maximization by conducting a strict of the company. years. review. Moreover, the best values are being generated by Hyundai E&C throughout the entire life cycle of the construction industry. Expanding Business Portfolio Strategy Future-oriented Hyundai E&C has been implementing a business portfolio strategy based on competency analysis by business 04 Procurement 05 Construction 06 Operation & Maintenance division, market characteristics and future market prospects. By entering various business fields in both domestic Portfolios Hyundai E&C has established the global The impeccable construction is the most Hyundai E&C have accumulated business and overseas markets, we operate a balanced business portfolio by region and type of business. In the midto longprocurement system and found appropriate crucial factor of a successful business. experiences in various areas such as complex term, we have been expanding our business portfolio by excavating future new businesses. Hyundai E&C's balanced local suppliers while signing partnerships Through the constant technology development building, transportational infrastructure, with material and equipment suppliers and and cultivation of talents, Hyundai E&C environmental plant, and power plant while business portfolio strategy is a driving force for stable growth in the external environment changes such as falling oil acquiring procurement experts. Consequently, provides the best quality to its customers striving to offer the Operating and Maintenance prices and exchange rate fluctuations. the efficiency in the procurement have been applying solutions optimized for on-site (O&M) service of the world's best level maximized. condition. in the areas. Hi-oT (Hillstate IoT Smart Home System) Excavating Future New Business Hyundai E&C is excavating and promoting future new business, a fostering business that can lead the future, to effectively respond to changes in the construction industry environment and create new revenue sources. We conducts a detailed market analysis centered on the Strategic Planning Group and constant monitoring on market Establishing Synergy Foundation for Successful Leaps to Become a Developer trends to excavate business opportunities considering social and economic changes of megatrends including the oil Hyundai E&C has been actively pursuing complex development projects that utilize the idle land of the government, local price fluctuation, global warming, and aging phenomenon. Based on this, we promote business strategy stage by governments, and the private sector in order to overcome the market environment including the real estate market polarization stage to create substantial results for each business division. in the capital area and the local and the decrease in the volume of public housing. In April 2018, in order to establish synergy In response to the global construction trend, which is rapidly transforming into the 4th Industrial Revolution, we plan to foundation for successful leap to be a developer*, we have concluded a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the complex enhance our profitability by expanding high-value-added business areas in 2018, including Smart City based on EPC development projects with the Korea Asset Management Institute (KAMI), a leader in domestic real estate consulting. Hyundai (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) capabilities that combine IoT, big data, and artificial intelligence. In addition, E&C and the KAMI agreed on various matters related to excavating and implementing projects for complex development we will continue to explore areas that can be commercialized in the midto long-term, such as underground living MOU for Promoting Complex Development projects, promoting and providing marketing support for projects, planning & consulting and advisory services. We plan to Project, Hyundai E&C and Korea Asset space, modular housing, and the hydrogen industry. Management Institute actively cooperate in excavating and promoting excellent business sites. It is expected that our opportunities for complex development projects will expand through cooperation between Hyundai E&C, * D eveloper: A company that performs all the processes of real estate development including which secures the best experience in construction technology, financial soundness and experience with self-development real estate site purchase, planning, engineering, projects through large-scale projects, and KAMI, which has excellent development planning consulting capability and network. construction, marketing, and post management 22 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 Strategy 2 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/InnoTech/InnoRnd.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Securing Core Innovating R&D Strategy Hyundai E&C, in order to lead the market as a global construction leader, has defined 2015 as the starting point of the R&D innovation. In addition, Hyundai E&C has been striving to acquire the core technology capability by Technology setting R&D strategy based on the analysis of the megatrends that are closely related to the construction industry: urbanization, energy & fuel, resource depletion, water scarcity & pollution. In 2017, we have strengthened our technical Value Empowering Story competitiveness in existing businesses and implemented 2-track technology strategies to secure new business technologies for the future. We have provided differentiated solutions by business division, secured smart construction Technology is the basis to realize the future of Hyundai E&C, and smart city technology, and promoted the commercialization of technology infrastructure for new and renewable and it is a solution to solve the problems that the Earth Creating Economic Values with Technology Superiority energy as well as promoted commercialization of environmental restoration, water, and renewable energy. In 2018, is confronted. Hyundai E&C is devoting its best to secure Hyundai E&C has been developing its cutting-edge construction technology and we will maximize our business capabilities by establishing and implementing eight strategies for three R&D targets: applying it to construction sites to enhance its competitiveness in receiving orders enhancing competitiveness in receiving orders, improving competitiveness in executing projects, identifying and core technology through R&D investment, convergence promoting future new growth businesses. and executing projects. In 2017, HDEC R&D Division has contributed to KRW 31.6 technology development based on the Group synergy billion in profitability improvement by preventing the increase of construction costs 2018 R&D Strategy and replacing specialized suppliers as well as KRW 124.8 billion in increasing the and global R&D cooperation network. competitiveness of receiving orders. Enhancing Competitiveness Improving Competitiveness Identifying and Promoting Future in Executing Projects in Receiving Orders New Growth Businesses Thus, we are striving to improve the future Contributions for Improving Profitability · Resolving current business issues and · S  ecuring differentiated technology · Leading the development of core sustainability of humankind and business Target improving productivity solutions and utilizing those at new technology for future new business 2017 114.0 · Supporting GBC* construction to be bidding · Strengthening the link newly by developing source technologies and 2016 82.4 executed successfully · Applying customized technology for developed technology to the business 2015 41.8 clients preemptively divisions strengthening our business creating foothold. (Unit: KRW in billions, 3 year cumulative) Contributions for Receiving Orders Technical supporting for Utilizing the excellent technologies Securing core technologies for future the prioritized site preemptively from domestic and overseas new business 2017 262.8 (developing technology package) ·E  stablishing technological · Securing global top-notch process 2016 138.0 · Harbors, bridges, concrete, noise & differentiation plan by major F/log technology based on R&D vibration, welding & corrosion · Advancing into domestic and 2015 61.2 (Unit: KRW in billions, 3 year cumulative)) overseas market by utilizing domestic Strengthening preemptive demonstration business Expanding the application of smart technology marketing · Promoting EPC and O&M business Implementing construction technologies at sites · Promoting technology to clients at · Developing customized technology Strategy · Improving productivity through ICT pre-bidding stage for overseas clients preemptively Opening a New Chapter in Environment-friendly and modularization Developing convergence technology Bio Energy Technology Developing productivity improvement for smart city Pre-verifying and internalizing technologies for major construction · Establishing partnerships for A technology converting sludge sewage into energy through thermal hydrolysis high-rise technologies types receiving orders, participating in Value Empowering Strategy developed by Hyundai E&C has proved its performance and stability for · Leading R&D TFT, GBC design and · Identifying productivity improvement items urban revitalization, identifying construction council · Supporting for new items in 2018 actively demonstration project commercialization technological expertise by obtaining the Environmental Innovating R&D Strategy Technology Verification (ETV) from the Ministry of Environment. It is another * GBC: Global Business Center · Analyzing construction industry and megatrend of remarkable result following the new technology certification in 2014. The construction market technology is top-notch environment-friendly bio energy technology that a few global leading companies have secured. In addition, it is an innovative technology · Enhancing competitiveness in executing projects, Enhancing Improving Competitveness of R&D Organization improving competitiveness in receiving orders, and that increases the production of biogas by 50% and reduces the amount of identifying and promoting future new business sludge waste by 30% by thermally hydrolyzing the sewage sludge, which is R&D Infrastructure Under the goal of 'Securing Technologies to become a Global Construction Leader Based on Engineering,' we the waste generated during sewage treatment, at high temperature and high reorganized and expanded the research institute to the 'Research and Development (R&D) Division' in 2011. Since then, R&D Human Resource (Unit: persons) Enhancing R&D Infrastructure pressure. We will continue to lead the investment and development type of new we have continuously innovated our R&D organization strengthening our future growth capability based on technology. · Transforming to speedy and performance-oriented business in the sludge field with this verification. 165 In addition, we are persistently establishing plans to hire overseas outstanding human resources. The number of technology innovation by reorganizing to be employees working in the HDEC R&D Division as of December 2017 is 165, increased by 85.4% compared to the figure Technology Effects of Converting Sludge Sewage into Energy Through Thermal Hydrolysis 89 function-oriented R&D organization of 2011 (89 employees). In 2018, in order to transforming to speedy and performance-oriented technology innovation, we reorganized R&D organization centered on division (infrastructure, building, energy & environment) to focus on 50 30 3,000 60 · E xpanding R&D Investments % % kcal/kg % function (technical support, future identification, commercialization, task implementation). Furthermore, we established Strengthening Core Technology Networks department for technology commercialization and exclusively responsible department for convergence technology. Reducing energy · Developing convergence technology based on Producing alternative 2011 2017 Increasing biogas Reducing 30% of consumption by 60% fuel for coal power plant the synergy of Group affiliates production by 50% sludge waste (about 3,000kcal/kg) compared to drying R&D Investment (Unit: KRW billon) Expanding R&D Investments technology · E xpanding global R&D cooperation Since 2011, in order to secure the top-notch future technology in the world, Hyundai E&C has continued to expand · Expanding Hyundai E&C Technical Forum 23.5 the investment in securing the R&D facility and thus enhanced the R&D infrastructure by diverse efforts such as Creating Economic Values Through R&D 22.6 establishing new research & demonstration facilities, enlarging laboratories, and changing equipment. We have three 22.2 test laboratory: structural test laboratory, environmental test laboratory, and Green Smart Innovation Center as well · Creating business through technology application as have operated eight additional demonstration centers. In particular, in 2017, Green Smart Innovation Center have · Contributing to improving profitability and receiving orders acquired the first grade of BEMS installation verification for the first time in Korea. Furthermore, we have tried to receive through technological support 2016 2017 2018 (Plan) research services and orders based on contaminated soil remediation demonstration facilities operated at Singapore. The Sludge Sewage Demonstration Plant, Hyundai E&C In 2018, we plan to raise our R&D investments to KRW 23.5 billion from KRW 22.2 billion in the previous year. 24 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Strategy 2 Securing Core Technology INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Enhancing Creating R&D-driven Business Values Expanding Core Enhancing Technology Competitiveness Based on Global R&D Cooperation R&D Infrastructure Hyundai E&C is accelerating business value creations by securing technical competitiveness through demonstration of Technology Networks In order to secure top-class future core technology, we have established a R&D network with world's leading core technology based on R&D infrastructure. In particular, our self-developed contaminated & dredged soil remediation agencies and companies and promoted global joint researches. Furthermore, we are engaging in strategic alliances MOU, Hyundai E&C and 3M and recycling technology will be applied to Singapore's contaminated soil remediation project and the environment with global advanced companies to create new business opportunities through technical commercialization and purification project for returning US bases after the demonstration phase. In addition, wastewater reusing technology is expansion of the value chain. expected to be used as core technology for wastewater reuse construction project of Hyundai Steel. In 2017, Hyundai E&C In 2017, we conducted localized joint research in Singapore including contaminated soil remediation at the NTUhave expanded technology territories by applying for 56 patents, registering 68 patents, and acquiring 2 new technologies. Hyundai Urban System Centre, established with Nanyang technical University (NTU), a prestigious university in Singapore. Based on this efforts, we have worked closely with Government agencies such as JTC and A*STAR R&D-driven Business Values Creation Process to receive new orders in Singapore. In addition, we entered into an agreement with the Norwegian Geotechnical R&D Stage Demonstration Stage Commercialization stage Institute (NGI), a specialized offshore wind power company, and signed technology agreements with the Atlantis Resources Limited (ARL) to strengthen technical competitiveness in the renewable energy market. Furthermore, we Soil ·D evelopment of Contaminated & ·J TC Pilot Plant Phase 2 for · Remediation Works in Kampong Bugis, Number of Cooperative R&D Organizations Remediation Dredged Soil Remediation and the Treatment of Land Based Singapore (ordered in 19 APR 2018) Worldwide have concluded agreements with leading companies such as XtreeE and Lafarge Holcim to collaborate on cutting Recycling Technology (18 patents, Contaminated Materials (28 MAR 2018) ·Contaminated Soil Remediation Project, (Unit: organizations) edge materials and 3D printing related technology, and discussed for joint research. In 2018. in order to cope 2 new technologies) Singapore (scheduled for 2019) ·Environment Purification Project for 25 with the rapidly changing market due to the 4th Industrial Revolution, we will take the lead in maximizing technical Returning US Bases (scheduled for 2019) synergy and enhancing competitiveness based on technology convergence with other industries beyond the Wastewater ·D evelopment of Wastewater ·N on-discharge Wastewater Treatment ·Starting to Construct Wastewater 19 construction industry. Reusing Reusing Technology (6 patents) Demonstration of Hyundai Steel Reusing Commercial Facility of (2016~2019) Hyundai Steel (scheduled for 2020) Expanding Hyundai E&C Technical Forum Hyundai E&C excavates innovative technologies and ideas in the construction field by holding the 'Hyundai E&C 2015 2017 Technical Forum'; the Forum is the only technology competition held by a domestic construction company. In 2017, Expanding Core Developing Convergence Technology Based on Group Synergies the Forum have expanded the university sector, which had been limited to domestic, to Singapore, and invited 1 team Technology Networks Based on strengths of Group affiliates, Hyundai E&C has been promoted the development of convergence technology of the 9 award winning teams to Korea. We received 77 applies in university sector and 48 applies in corporate sector in diverse fields such as transportation, environment, energy and smart city by joint researches that can create in 2017. Six award-winning companies are registering as our suppliers and six teams of award-winning university synergies. Through the Connectivity Subcommittee under the Hyundai Motor Group R&D Strategy Committee, we students will receive incentives if they apply to enter Hyundai E&C. consolidated the R&D cooperation with Group affiliates while operating thirteen consultative groups. In 2017, we developed 'Smart Home & Car' technology that connects cars and smart homes with the effort of Cooperative R&D Network Worldwide the Connectivity Subcommittee. In particular, we received great attention by presenting 'Connected Mobility' for the first time as a construction company with Hyundai Motor Company at the Customer Electronic Show (CES) exhibition held in Las Vegas, USA. In addition, in cooperation with Hyundai Steel, we are promoting 5 Finland 7 China commercialization of wastewater recycling system that can secure the quantity and quality of industrial water stably through reuse of wastewater after development and demonstration. Furthermore, in cooperation with Hyundai 6 Norway 8 Thailand Motor Company, we have lead the environment-friendly construction by developing 'Semi-transparent BIPV* 1 U.K 9 Singapore 12 U.S.A commercialization technology for automobile & building convergence system.' In 2018, we established Group 10 Indonesia smart city strategy jointly by participating Group Smart City Council and implementation tasks that planned for 4 Germany strengthening internal capabilities and securing track-record are underway. In addition, along with Hyundai Motor 2 France and Hyundai AutoEver, we plan to develop commercialization models to expand hydrogen energy consumption 11 Australia 3 Spain and promote demonstration of C-ITS** in connection with the service of autonomous driving support roads. * BIPV: Building Integrated Photovoltaic System **C-ITS: Cooperative Intelligent Transport System (unlike ITS technology, which provides information mainly by the center, it is a system that enables quick and active response to unexpected situations such as sudden stop and falling object through real-time information Europe Asia & Oceania America sharing between vehicles and vehicles, and between vehicles and roads) Technology Development Through Group Synergies Hyundai Motor Group ITS Working Group Hyundai Motor Company Hyundai Engineering Machine & Pipe Research Council 1 U.K. 3 Spain 5 Finland 7 China 10 Indonesia 12 USA R&D Strategy Committee Developing autonomous driving related 1 11 Reviewing measures to ensure reliability technology Hyundai AutoEver and economic feasibility HR Wallingford SENER Valmet Winsun UI LBNL · Connectivity Subcommittee 11 Ocean, Port Concentrated Solar Power Biomass & Municipal Solid 3D printing business for Creating Shared Value (CSV)* Green smart building* 1 Group Smart City Council Corporate-wide BIM Consultative (CSP) Waste (MSW) Gasficatication construction Beltran Consultative Groups Promoting hydrogen infrastructure and 2 10 Group power* Biomass & Municipal Solid 2 10 ITS joint project Enhancing BIM activation and application Waste (MSW) gasficatication · ITS Working Group 2 France 4 Germany 6 Norway 8 Thailand 11 Australia power · Group Smart City Council Nuclear Decommissioning Business TFT Bouygues Siemens NGI ARL CSIRO AECOM · Nuclear Decommissioning Business TFT Technical cooperating to enter nuclear 3 3 decommissioning business Technology cooperation Coal gasification plant Offshore wind power & Tidal stream generation* Carbon Capture and Storage Nuclear decommissioning · Analytical Technology Exchange Meeting INSA Lyon VOITH suction-foundation (CCS) USNC (Indoor Air Quality Council) Analytical Technology Exchange Steel Consultative Group Separated foundation Tidal power station NTNU Concentrated Solar Power Ultra high temperature reactor · Technology Interpretation Exchange Meeting Meeting (Indoor Air Quality Council) Producing, manufacturing, designing, Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) (CSP) Sharing and improving indoor air quality 4 4 9 9 verifying, and applying high-rise, highTerrasol Herrenknecht 9 Singapore 3M · Robot Technology Consultative Group analysis technology performance and high-strength steel and etc. Separated foundation Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM)* Monash Univ. Advanced building material NTU · Hyundai E&C and Hyundai Steel Consultative Group Lafrage Holcim Floating type structure Technology Interpretation Exchange Joint Research on Recycling Joint research · Joint Research on Recycling Wastewater of steel Meeting Wastewater of Steel UHPC (Ultra High Performance 5 5 8 8 Prefab Tech Noise & vibration analysis technology Demonstrating the development of Concrete) & concrete* · Steel Consultative Group exchange wastewater non-discharge system Prefabricated Prefinished 6 7 3D printing for construction* · Corporate-wide BIM Consultative Group Volumetric Construction Robot Technology Consultative Hyundai E&C and Hyundai Steel XtreeE · Machine & Pipe Research Council Group Consultative Group (PPVC) Discussing application of wearable 6 7 Identifying activation plan on slag for 3D printing for construction* * New · Solar Power Generation Hyundai Rotem technology Hyundai Steel concrete 26 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 Strategy 3 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Responding Climate Promoting Environment & Energy Management Aiming to accomplish the environment & energy management vision of 'Global Green One Pioneer,' Hyundai E&C has established the long-term environmental management roadmap and promoted various environment & energy policies. Changes Hence, we have established environmental management system for all business stages: technology development, Policy procurement, transportation, construction, and deconstruction. In addition, we have managed environment & energy Value Empowering Story policies and targets for corporate-wide and each site according to detailed implementation plan. In 2018, In order to maximize the efficiency of environment & energy management, we plan to establish 'Realizing Sustainable Company Responding climate changes is a challenge for a sustainable Through Environment & Energy Management' and 'Establishing Environment-friendly and Energy-friendly Culture' as planet and a future growth engine creating new businesses. Included in CDP Carbon Management Honors Club for our environment & energy policy. Four Consecutive Years Recognizing the importance of responding climate changes, Environment & Energy In October 2017, Hyundai E&C was selected as a member of 'Carbon Management Management Roadmap VISION Global Green One Pioneer Hyundai E&C has been improving its environmental Honors Club' for four consecutive years which is an award given to outstanding value through various strategies to enhance efficiency of companies and 'Carbon Management Sector Winners' in the industrial material sector for six consecutive years, from Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the most environmental energy management. reliable sustainability management index in the world with Dow Jones Sustainability In addition, we have consolidated our foothold Index and Bloomberg Indexes. It annually evaluates, analyzes, and reports the 2018 Environment & Energy Management climate change action of key listed companies. Policy & Goals STEP 01. STEP 02. STEP 03. STEP 04. as a global environment-friendly In this evaluation, Hyundai E&C accomplished the 'Leadership A' for high score in Environment & Energy Establishment of Green Consolidation of Leadership Global Green construction company by leading climate change response strategy, GHG reduction efforts, and GHG management. Management Policy Management Infrastructure Green Management in Green Management Company We will continue to contribute to the empowerment of environmental value by carbon management linked to national · Realizing Sustainable Company Through · Establishing GHG Inventory · Establishing strategy for green · E xecuting GHG & Energy Target · Responding to Cap and Trade promoting active GHG reduction strategy. growth Management Scheme Scheme Environment & Energy Management · Setting GHG emission targets greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals. · Providing green education to · Entering renewable energy and · Strengthening the position of global · Establishing Environment-friendly and · Enhancing R&D of new green Energy-friendly Culture growth engine employees; cultivating talents new green markets leading green company · Operating HSE Management · Managing divisional targets and · Increasing green technology and · Enhancing profitability based on Environment & Energy Committee performances industry exports core technology of HDEC and Management Goals global green market · ZERO Environmental Penalties 2010 2015 2016 2017 2030 · 5% GHG Reduction Environment & Energy Organization BoD Transparent Management Committee Organization 2017 CDP Korea Carbon Management Honors Club Award Steering Director Meeting Organization Value Empowering Strategy Creating Value Through Carbon Management Activities Group Environment Environment Regular Meeting Promoting Environment & Energy Management Council Carbon management activities of Hyundai E&C have generated actual values. Management Policy Through the Green Campaign, the representative GHG reduction campaign, · Establishing long-term environment-friendly roadmap by 2030 we are striving to reduce GHG emissions while saving costs not only at the Environment & Energy Branches ·Establishing corporate-wide and site environment & energy headquarters but also at all sites. In particular, reduction items that can be Department of GHG Department of Department of Department of Department of policies and targets annually immediately applied to works are being constantly excavated for a lower energy Department of Energy & Energy Target Environment Environmental Accident Environment & Energy Integrated Environmental & GHG Management Management Scheme Management Evaluation Management System Performance Management consumption at sites where most energy are consumed. At the headquarters, Response & Inspection Prevention & Support Operation System Operation Implementing Integrated Environment & daily reduction activities are being promoted including maintaining the proper Energy Management indoor temperature, saving electricity for lights, air conditioners, and heaters, ·Operating integrated environment & energy system and changing elevators. In 2017, Hyundai E&C's annual GHG reductions are in accordance with international standards 69,610.44tCO2-e, and the cost reductions are about KRW 32.657 billion*. Implementing Integrated Improving Integrated Environment & Energy System ·Integrating environmental performance management Headquarters Vehicle Site Environment & Energy Since 2013, Hyundai E&C has been operating an integrated environment system for efficient environmental & energy management including its performances. In 2017, we applied the ISO 14001: 2015 standard and simplified the system Expanding Environment & · Maintaining optimal indoor ·Using hybrid cars for the ·Using steam at existing factories Management temperature corporate fleet when curing concrete in order to maximize the site availability of the integrated system and improve the environment & energy management Energy Management Activities ·Turning off lights and cooling ·Using public transportation · Using automatic lighting control system system in accordance with the improved international standards. In addition, we have established 1 environmental & ·Enhancing environment & energy management inspection & heating equipments or commuter buses for ·Installing remote mobile control device ·Using stairs and reducing the commuting to/from work for tower cranes energy management manual, 14 internal regulations and 4 processes for smooth operation of environment & energy ·E xpanding customized environmental training number of elevator use · Implementing car-sharing management system. ·Shutting down computers or · Checking vehicles regularly Advancing Carbon Management setting them to sleep mode ·Prohibiting sudden acceleration, ·Implementing midto long-term carbon management strategy ·Using personal mugs instead sudden braking, and idling within sites Integrated Environmental Performance Integrating Environmental Performance Management of paper cups and encouraging Management System ·Managing GHG emissions targets ·Adjusting tire pressure of construction the use of scrap papers In 2017, we have completed the development of the Hyundai-Project Management System (H-PMS), an IT-based equipment to improve fuel efficiency H-PMS ·Innovating integrated GHG management system · Encouraging use of bicycles within Integrated Environmental Performance Management System. H-PMS manages environmental performance of ·Reducing GHG emissions activities sites · GHG Management · ISO 14001 all Hyundai E&C sites, including energy consumption, GHG emissions, waste generation, water usage, emission ·Leading carbon management in construction industry · Waste Management Management allowance (BOD, COD, SS, scattered dust, etc.) in an efficient manner by integrating the management of various · ISO 50001 * The number indicates the cost saved by GHG emissions reduction activities only. · ERP Interworking systems such as ISO 14001 (environment management system), ISO 50001 (energy management system), and Please refer to CDP (https://www.cdp.net) for details. Management Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). We have been managing all environmental pollutants including water, energy, GHG, waste, air pollutants (scattered dust) that are generated during our construction work. 28 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 Strategy 3 Responding Climate Changes INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Implementing Integrated Enhancing Environmental & Energy Inspections Advancing Carbon Carbon Management Strategy VISION Global Green One Pioneer Environment & Energy Hyundai E&C conducts regular inspections for all domestic and overseas sites on an annual basis in order to reinforce Management the capability in the environment & energy management. The inspection results are reflected in KPIs including the Management evaluation of the completion, and we are raising awareness and interest in environment & energy management by expanding the assessment and establishing task improvement plans for vulnerable sectors. In 2017, we have TARGET ACTIVITY inspected 46 sites in domestic and overseas. In addition, in order to respond to Comprehensive Measures for Fine Dust established by the Ministry of Environment, we have carried out a special inspection of scattered dust at 55 sites Reducing GHG emissions by 5.9% until 2030 Reducing Energy Consumption and on a sudden basis and have been informed of the improvement measures to the pointed factors. Moreover, we have (Domestic Scope 1, 2) GHG Emissions improved efficiency of environmental system evaluation by conducting it at the headquarters through IT system. In 2018, in order to reflect the importance of seasonal environmental issues to the inspection, we plan to carry out a Green System Green Project Management Green R&D special inspection by environmental themes that focuses on scattered dusts in spring and autumn, and soil erosion and water quality management during the rainy season in summer. Establishing Environmental Management System Creating Environment-friendly Sites Expanding Environment-friendly Technologies 1 Building the foundation for the environmental 4 Systematically reducing GHG emissions 7 Securing core environment-friendly Process of Special Inspection on Scattered Dust management system 5 E xpanding environment-friendly outsourcing technologies 2 Improving image as an environment-friendly 6 Operating sites in an environment-friendly 8 Dominating environment-friendly source Sending Information company manner technology in advance Notifying Scattered Post Support for Sites Official Paper for On-site Scattered Dust 3 Operating the Environmental Management Dust Control Measures Violated the Clean STEP 01. Special Inspections STEP 02. and Reviewing SelfInspection on a Sudden STEP 03. Air Conservation Act Committee of Scattered Dust Basis, and Training inspection Checklist (continued) and Its Manual Activities for Reducing GHG Emissions Expanding Customized Environmental Training and Responding Environmental Accidents GHG reduction activities of Hyundai E&C are conducted in three areas: optimizing GHG reduction items, Green Campaign, and Through systematic environmental training programs, we have been promoting the understanding of employees about training on the GHG management. Through these efforts, we have been effectively excavating and applying GHG emissions the environment as well as encouraging the participation of employees into the related activities. In 2017, we implemented reduction items to sites and headquarters while raising the employees' awareness of GHG emissions and energy use. trainings for employees relevant to the on-site environment management, such as site managers, administrators, and technicians. We also developed curriculums customized for each duty to accomplish qualitative improvement. GHG Management Training Optimizing GHG Reduction Items Green Campaign for Employees In addition, each site provide environmental training autonomously twice a year to ensure on-site environment ·E xcavating GHG reduction items (replacing ·Applying the items to reduce GHG emissions ·Delivering the GHG & Energy Target management capabilities. Hyundai E&C provided dedicated environmental trainings for business divisions and skill offce lightings with LED lights, high-efficiency generated during construction stages (site) Management Scheme groups in 2017. In 2018, we will select on-site environment managers and create mandatory special training to enhance boilers, improving air compressors at office ·GHG reduction activities in daily business ·Distributing the GHG & Energy Reduction buildings, etc.) integrated environment management capacity and knowledge. Hyundai E&C has been operating a system to respond (headquarters) Guideline ·Applying the GHG reduction items to to environment and energy accidents based on international standards. In compliance with the system, all sites should construction sites through the analysis of the execute emergency drills twice a year (once every six months) or more. In case of an environmental accident, all sites are economic feasibility and effectiveness. supposed to report and respond in accordance with environmental accident prevention and response guidelines. Leading Carbon Management in the Construction Industry Advancing Carbon Implementing Midto Long-term Carbon Management Strategy Hyundai E&C has been opening a new page of the carbon management by joining the Climate Disclosure Standard Management For achieving the vision of 'Global Green One Pioneer' and contributing to the national GHG reduction target, we Board (CDSB) Working Group in 2012. Moreover, we have significantly contributed to setting the GHG management have actively promoted the carbon management strategy aiming to reduce the emissions by 5.9% until 2030 and guideline for the construction industry as an advisory member of the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme's by 52.5% until 2040 compared to the emissions of 2015 (domestic scope 1, 2). It is to proactively cooperate with the council. In 2014, we have participated in the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme pilot project conducted by Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) for Korea determined by the Conference Of the Parties (COP21) in the Korea Infrastructure Safety & Technology Corporation and revised the 'Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) December 2015, which is to reduce the GHG emissions by 37% compared to the Business As Usual (BAU) until 2030. Manual of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry.' In 2015, we have actively delivered the GHG & Energy Target In responding to this proactively, Hyundai E&C selected representative sites by business units and analyzed the GHG Management Scheme of the Government. In 2018, we plan to participate in the revision project to add GHG reduction reduction potential of each site in 2013. Based on the analysis, the corporate-wide strategy was set to deal with items in the 'GHG Reduction Manual.' the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme in 2014. Additionally, we plan to reduce GHG emissions by 52.5% (domestic and overseas scope 1, 2 and 3) until 2040 compared to the emissions of 2015, and respond to climate change preemptively. Furthermore, we have linked our GHG reduction performance to KPI of headquarters and director in charge to reduce GHG emissions more efficiently. Presenting the Future of Integrated GHG Management System Established the GHG inventory system in 2010, Hyundai E&C has been implementing the pacesetting carbon management GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2-e) Managing GHG Emissions Targets through various ways such as introducing and applying ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) certification to sites in 2012 Hyundai E&C, which is subject to the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme according to the Framework Act Direct GHG Emissions for the first among all construction companies around the world. Annually, we have been reviewing the energy consumption On Low Carbon, Green Growth, has been endeavoring to reduce the GHG emissions by voluntarily managing the 20,043 13,473 19,439 of all construction stages, and conducting monthly inspections for the energy reduction targets. Furthermore, the energy overseas emissions and comprehensive Scope 3 as well as Scope 1 and 2 beyond the government requirement for Indirect GHG Emissions management at site has become more efficient because the GHG management system has been managed in the H-PMS, 53,885 60,626 52,444 construction companies. an integrated site management system, operated since 2014; every energy data including GHG emissions and the energy Other Indirect GHG Emissions* In 2015, the GHG emissions data from 2011 to 2014 was recalculated as the 'Monitoring, Reporting and Verification consumption by energy sources is gathered and analyzed at sites in real time. In 2017, in particular, we applied for a patent Annual Prediction Modeling for Site GHG 357,942 332,941 251,090 (MRV) Guideline of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry' was enacted. We have used the recalculated data to on the 'System for Predicting GHG Emissions and Warning Overuse' based on deep learning and big data. Thereby, we Emission Progress Based on Deep Learning 2015 2016 2017 establish the estimation model of GHG emissions as a means of reducing GHG. Furthermore, in order to check the and Big Data have minimized GHG emissions and strengthened compliance with the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme through * O ther indirect GHG emissions are of the GHG emissions status, we have been calculating the corporate-wide emissions on an annual basis and conducting precise prediction and monitor of GHG emissions. Hyundai E&C will continue to advance the GHG management system and supplier's construction equipment Government assigned third-party verification for the GHG emissions data and management. In 2018, we will revise the lead the GHG management standard in global construction industry. GHG reduction manual and add more GHG reduction items available at sites. 30 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 Strategy 4 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Establishing Safety & Environment Improving Safety Management Propelling Safety Management Strategy With the safety management as the first goal of the corporate management, Hyundai E&C has been strategically Infrastructure Infrastructure creating a safety culture and operating a safety management system according to international standards by obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification, the international safety and health standard. In 2015, we have established comprehensive Value Empowering Story safety management plan and midto long-term goals and strategies to decrease the LTIR* by 40% until 2018 Safety & environment infrastructure is prerequisites and compared to the level of 2014 and we have set safety management target annually. In 2017, in order to strengthen our active and self-regulated safety system, we focused on maximizing the internalization of HDEC 12 Safety Golden essential elements for the sustainability Strengthening Executives-driven Safety Management Rules, enacted in 2016, by linking safety systems, education and inspection. of our employees and business. In order to maintain sustainable business, Hyundai E&C has been promoting the * LTIR : Lost Time Incident Rate internalization of safety consciousness and carrying out safety inspection by the HDEC 12 Safety Golden Rules Poster Midto Long-term Safety Management Strategy Hyundai E&C has been systematically minimizing leadership. In 2017, a total of 1,533 executives conducted domestic and overseas Accomplishing a target to decrease LTIR by 40% until 2018 safety inpections. In the Safety Leadership Education for the second half of 2017, safety accidents and reducing environmental impact Midto Long-term Target compared to the level of 2014 attended by over 200 executives including the CEO and team leaders, we raised our Achieving the Global Best LTIR in 2018 by operating a safety management system safety awareness by reminding that safety issues are highlighting as a key risk that according to international standards and our shakes the foundations of management. In particular, since the second half of 2017, Hyundai E&C has been taking the lead in strengthening on-site safety management Establishing HDEC's own safety culture with 「SAFETY」 as the top priority Midto Long-term Strategy environment-friendly construction process that through on-site inspections with by executives of headquarters and suppliers while We Build Safe Tommorrow Together covers the entire construction stages. using new IT technology to realize real-time control of risk factors on the sites. Innovating Safety Awareness Key Tasks · Enacting HDEC Safety Fundamentals ·Promoting corporate-wide campaign to advance safety awareness based on HDEC Safety Fundamentals Establishing Safety & Health System of Global Top Level · Establishing advanced integrated Safety & Health System · Improving IT-based Safety & Health System Safety Leadership Traning for the Second Half of 2017 Safety Systems Safety Training Safety Inspection Developing standard promotion draft, Linking special safety education for violation of standard multilingual instruction Evaluating the level of safety standards Honored the Platinum in Quality Excellence Award safety rules and discontinuing work system to (9 languages), and training and Implementing patrol inspection HDEC 12 Safety Golden Rules for Three Consecutive Years at the BCA* Awards employees & workers Hyundai E&C became the first Korean construction company to receive the Platinum in Quality Excellence Award for three consecutive years and Merit in Safety Management Organization Strengthening Safety Management Organization Construction Excellence Award for two consecutive years at 2018 Singapore BCA Awards held by the Singaporean government; Singapore BCA Awards Hyundai E&C identifies safety risks in advance by operating the Safety Team for each business division, which are Management Support Division is the most authoritative construction-related award that evaluates projects dedicated for the safety management. For a efficient management of sites, we have been operating a safety & health completed or being executed in the country in various areas including integrated management system since 2012. In addition, we are encouraging the establishment of a self-regulated Safety Support Group safety & health system by mandating suppliers to assign safety managers. In 2017, we have established a technical construction, environment-friendliness, engineering, safety and quality. Since 1997, Hyundai E&C has won total 27 awards including BCA Green Mark safety organization to serve as a control tower for technical safety work and expanded the number of technology Awards with its outstanding construction capability. These achievements Safety Planning Team Safety Support Team employees in each sector, and hired more safety experts to strengthen management of construction equipment. Value Empowering Strategy prove that our differentiated technology and construction capability are highly · Safety system · Safety check & valued in the world, which will lead us to dominate an advantageous position planning, system education Advancing Safety Performance Management System Improving Safety Management Infrastructure in receiving overseas orders. · E xternal & ·Technical Safety & governmental tasks equipment Hyundai E&C has been promoting the participation of all employees in safety control by applying the safety * BCA : Building and Construction Authority · Propelling safety management strategy · Personnel ·Statistics & follow-up management KPIs not only to on-site employees but also to the headquarters. In 2017, in order to strengthen the management of management · Strengthening safety management organization precautionary safety prevention system in addition to the post evaluation of accident rate, we implemented the safety employees responsible · Safety management · Advancing safety performance management system for safety tasks costs management mileage system to link evaluation and compensation about individual safety management activities. As a · Implementing safety inspections · Overseas bidding result, safety activities such as inspection, education and information activities increased by 178.5% from the previous support · Enhancing safety & health training year. Our LTIR in 2017 was 0.31%, decreased by 20.5% from the previous year. Leading Environment-friendly Construction Process LTIR (Unit: %) Safety Management Activities (Unit: cases) · Expanding environment-friendly engineering · Executing environment-friendly procurement 2017* 169,942 66,428 820 Total 237,190 · Promoting environment-friendly transportation 0.39 0.31 · Advancing environment-friendly construction system 2016 38,440 46,251 491 Total 85,182 · Complying with environment-friendly demolition guidelines Inspection Education Information Activities Activities Activities · Promoting environment-friendly operation 2018 BCA Awards 2016 2017 * Implemented the safety management mileage system 32 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 Strategy 4 Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Expanding Safety Implementing Safety Inspections Environment-friendly By establishing the environment-friendly process, Hyundai E&C has been focusing all its capabilities on minimizing the environmental impact during all construction all stages: engineering, procurement, transportation, construction, Management Activities In order to monitor the safety management at domestic and overseas sites and to prevent accidents, we have been Construction Process deconstruction and operation. reinforcing the safety inspection. In 2017, total 1,533 cases of safety inspections for the executives including the top management were conducted. Prior to Construction Stage Construction Stage Post Construction Stage In addition, we continuously conducted 'Monthly Safety Campaign' at all sites around the world with the top management attending. At the campaign, Hyundai E&C not simply inspects the on-site safety management but also Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly 01 03 05 Engineering Transportation Demolition increases the awareness of the accident prevention and encourages active participation delivering its strong will to realize the zero-accident. Investment and Expenditure on Developing environment-friendly engineering Minimizing environmental impacts caused by Reducing construction waste Developing environmental remediation transportation Establishing environment-friendly Environmental Protection (Unit: KRW in billions) engineering technology Maximizing the energy efficiency deconstruction standards Monthly Safety Campaign Major Cases of CEO Site Safety Inspection in 2017 ·Acquiring environment-friendly efficiency · Increasing efficiency through the ·Operating the Integrated Waste Management 59.8 facility and management technology Environment-friendly Vehicles Guideline System Sites Inspection Points ·E xpanding the environment-friendly · Operating environment-friendly ·Observing the Environment-friendly 44.3 2017 construction and engineering checklist work vehicles Deconstruction Standards Proposed Reclamation · Identifying access classification for workers and vehicle ·Identifying the installation of opening cover ·Applying more environment-friendly ·Turning waste into resource with thorough at Tuas Finger One, · Identifying whether signal man is arranged at at the working section 2016 technologies p.35-36 p.36 management p.37 Singapore equipment section ·Identifying control of the surroundings and safety measures when salvaging heavy objects Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly 02 04 06 30.07% 24.42% Procurement Construction Operation Energy from Waste · Inspecting worker access control status during test · Inspecting the installation condition of various machinery Project, Singapore period and equipment LOTO* Increasing environment-friendly procurement Minimizing environmental impacts caused by Increasing environment-friendly certifications 2017 Establishing environment-friendly supply chain construction Realizing sustainable construction Maximizing resource efficiency Land Reclamation · Inspecting the status of workers' fall · Inspecting the status of securing worker's moving lines 14.73% ·Operating the environment-friendly ·Establishing and operating the Integrated ·E xpanding application of green items in at Changi East, prevention measures · Inspecting the status of arranging signal man and taking 23.75% Singapore · Inspecting the status of barge safety installation measures of preventing worker collision * Others 7.03% procurement process HSE System building ·Evaluating environment-friendliness of ·Monitoring and reducing energy use at all · Increasing environment-friendly building materials stages for reductions certification Proposed Cecil Street · Inspecting winches for lifting (wire ropes, · Identifying lifting plan (equipment, signal man, etc.) Air Quality Soil (Waste) ·Publishing Environmental Standard for Office Building (Frasers safety devices, etc.) · Inspecting the prevention of falling accidents Water Quality Noise & Vibration p.36 Overseas Countries p.36-37 p.26-27 Top Managements-driven Tower), Singapore · Inspecting the buckling the safety belt up Safety Inspections in 2017 and the control of lower part 1,533 Amorepacific New Cases As of 2017 · Inspecting the winch for glass lifting (chain block, etc.) · Inspecting the fixed condition of pre-installed glass Headquarters, Korea · Inspecting the buckling the safety belt up and he thorough control of lower part · Securing moving lines according to complex process · Inspecting the fire prevention considering use of fire Environment-friendly Expanding Environment-friendly Engineering * LOTO: Lock Out Tag Out Engineering & Hyundai E&C has defined energy reduction, water saving, consideration for the ecosystem, and comfortable living environment as the four factors of the environment-friendly engineering and applied them from the engineering stage. Procurement In addition, centered on the Green Smart Innovation Center, established in 2014, we have expanded the high-efficiency Cultivating Safety Awareness by Top Managements environment-friendly engineering to build the 100% energy-saving house by applying renewable energy, energy storage Centered on top management, Hyundai E&C have been striving to establish a management culture that focuses on systems, and indoor air quality improvement technology. In FEB 2017, we acquired the first grade of Building Energy safety first. We hold the Safety Check Meeting for the top executives on a quarterly basis analyzing the corporate-wide Management System (BEMS) installation confirmation which is the core technology of zero energy building era for the Performance in BEMS Technology Research safety performance, preparing measures, and establishing corporate-wide key safety plans. In addition, we conduct first time in Korea. In addition, we responded preemptively to the mandatory installation of the BEMS scheme for public Awarded by the Minister of Land, safety leadership training half-yearly to raise awareness of safety management continuously. institutions that began in 2017. Furthermore, in order to expand the scope of zero energy realization from buildings to Infrastructure and Transport (JUL 2017, Korea Federation of cities, we are upgrading environment-friendly engineering from aspect of smart city. There are a total of 25 projects that Construction Contractors) will be applied to environment-friendly engineering in 2018. Safety Check Meeting Safety Leadership Training Monthly Monthly Safety Campaign Quarterly for the Top Executives Half-yearly by Top Managements Considerations Factors for Environment-friendly Engineering Category Design Factors Under Consideration Key Technology Improving the Permit to Work (PTW) System Efficiency: Thermal insulation methods, thermal-insulating materials, ·Building Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) system that energy-efficient windows and doors, waste heat recovery ventilation ensures visibility The Permit to Work (PTW), an accident prevention system of Hyundai E&C, requires to obtain a permit to work in advance system, high-efficiency system, etc. ·Hyundai Energy Recovery Ventilation (HERV) Energy Renewable energy generation: Photovoltaic solar, tidal, wind, geothermal, ·Control & operation technology for micro energy grid by establishing a safety measure for all possible risk factors of every work executed at sites. If a work did not receive the Reduction biogas, hydrogen fuel cell, etc. ·Smart Building Energy Management System (BEMS) PTW or execute safety measures as stated in the PTW document, it is subject to restrictions such as an immediate halt. Conservation: Water-efficient toilets, greywater recycling systems, ·Rainwater harvesting system In 2016, we added the daily check function of PTW document in mobile HSE applications to enhance the efficiency of the rainwater harvesting systems, decompression valves, etc. ·Wastewater reuse system PTW. In 2018, we plan to develop a PTW daily monitoring system (e-mail service) to increase its effectiveness. Water Reuse: High-pressure filters, reuse of wastewater, ammonia stripping, Saving collection of high-concentration liquid compound fertilizers, etc. Topography: Fertile soil yard, contaminated soil washing technology, · Clearing technology for contaminated soil Satisfaction Rate of Safety Job Training Enhancing Safety & Health Training prevention of land subsidence, etc. · Environment-friendly construction and soil dredging Operation in 2017 Water quality: Installation of water shield, treatment of water contaminated technology We are implementing regular safety & health trainings for all employees and subcontractors with an aim to advance Consideration 93.7 for the from washing processes, treatment of organic wastewater, etc. · Restoration technology for river ecosystem % the awareness of the safety & health. In 2017, we provided safety training for a total of 3,030 employees, increased by Ecosystem Natural habitat: Recycling of damaged plants and trees, creation of escape paths, ecological wetlands, island of artificial plants, river ecosystem, etc. 30.7% compared to the figure of previous year (2,319 employees). In addition, in order to enhance the safety education for foreign workers, we developed a virtual safety experience Indoor air quality: Functional materials, composite sensors, · Household Total Energy & Environment Management energy·environment management system, etc. System (TEEMS) program for the 6 major risky tasks and 10 types of special safety education standard textbooks. We translated the Ventilation: Nature-friendly arrangements, topographic consideration, · Harmful substance absorbable functional wallpaper textbooks into 9 languages and provided to the sites. In addition, we have enhanced the safety and health education Comfortable wind-resistant structure evaluation, etc. · Technology for reducing floor shock noise Thermal insulation: Thermal-insulating compound materials, external heat by establishing an education network on monthly excellent & failure cases through the introduction of training system Living insulation systems, lining thermal insulation, etc. Environment by site managers. In 2017, the satisfaction rate of safety job training operation was 93.7%. Noise: Acknowledge floor structure development, noise control, window, noise shield capability predicting technology, etc. 34 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Strategy 4 Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Environment-friendly Responding Environment-friendly Building Certifications Environment-friendly Inspecting & Managing for Environment-friendly Construction Engineering & Being operated, buildings consume more energy after the construction than during the construction period, Transportation & Hyundai E&C annually conducts independent external inspections (the 3rd party inspection) and internal inspections which means that high-efficient buildings directly contributes to reducing the operational cost of customers by experts for all domestic and overseas sites while managing sites systemically by identifying risks and opportunities Procurement Construction and environmental impacts. Hyundai E&C is leading the engineering of high-efficiency buildings by reflecting by sites. In addition, we have strived to minimize the environmental impacts incurred at sites by categorizing them into the requirements of the certification system from the engineering stage in response to the environment-friendly environmental elements: air, water quality, soil, and noise & vibration. Besides, we reduce the pollution through the strict certification, which is being reinforced by the global expansion of energy regulations. There are a total of 12 completed On-site Management of management of the quality of wastewater by operating the wastewater purification facility and conducting the constant Environmental Factors construction buildings that have been certified as environment-friendly in 2017. water quality check for wastewater generation sites. In 2017, we have carefully managed a total of 65 sites including Air Quality sites requested environmental management initially and and sites managing scattered dust intensively through onExecuting Environment-friendly Procurement ·E  stablish air pollutant emissions and site support. In addition, considering the fact that domestic environmental risk factors such as establishment of abatement facility installation standards Comprehensive Measures for Fine Dust are continuously increasing, environmental risk grade evaluation will be Hyundai E&C has evaluated the environment-friendliness of materials during the selection stage since 1997 to put · Install dust barriers and automatic sprinklers conducted for all domestic sites to differentiate management standards and focus on key sites in 2018. a priority on the procurement of environment-friendly materials, which can help minimizing environmental impacts of Water Quality using materials. Likewise, we support the environmental management of suppliers for encouraging the development and production of environment-friendly materials. We also devote for producing and procuring environment-friendly products ·Operate wastewater treatment facilities such Protecting the Ecosystem as retaining walls, tunnels, and batch plants through the continuous enhancement of the environment-friendly procurement process by signing the 'Voluntary ·Conduct regular audit of wastewater Climate change and environmental pollution are expected to reduce global biodiversity by as much as 17% by 2030. Agreement on Environment-friendly Procurement' with the Ministry of Environment. management facilities and water quality Therefore, complying with the Nagoya Protocol in a faithful manner, Hyundai E&C has applied strict standards to protect ·Install diversion channels and grit chambers; With the Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard (HEGS) established in 2010, we have been stimulated the procurement Strictly manage oil facilities the biodiversity around sites. In particular, we proactively analyze possible impacts on the environment from the planning of environment-friendly products and materials at the corporate-wide level while operating a system to gather and stage as well as develop and apply engineering and construction methods that can help to maintain the biodiversity and Soil (Waste) manage the relevant data. All environment-friendly materials procured by Hyundai E&C are classified into eight codes topographic changes. (HEGS 1~8); a HEGS code of a material to be purchased is entered into the Environment-friendly Procurement System ·Prohibit any equipment repair & maintenance work and oil change work within sites Ecosystem Protection Activities when charging or ordering. Furthermore, we encourage the environment-friendly procurement by managing the data of ·Develop contaminated soil washing technology · Transplant trees and plants · Build escape paths and escapeeach code as individual performance of site & procurement managers. In addition, Hyundai E&C is making every effort to (Environmental Technology Verification No. 92) ·Create ecological wetlands by settling Install leading fences for small animals Consider · Change the construction location ·Six patents and two utility models related to Replace Protection · Apply low-vibration construction minimize the environmental impact of using materials by encouraging environment-friendly material purchases for MRO* Habitat basins Devices and · Install pathways that utilize silt Alternative methods remediation of contaminated soil · Install an island of “artificial” plants Engineering Pathways protectors, blocking paths, roadside items. For a case when a material is classified as a highly harmful material, we try to minimize environmental impacts by ·Develop natural streams and green areas trees, and other on-site structures · Downscale bridge foundations providing environmental harmfulness reduction training and excavating alternative materials or elements. Noise & Vibration Protected Species Around Sites * Maintenance, Repair and Operation ·Install sound-proof and vibration-proof facilities Incheon New Port Han River Restoration Haman Jinju Section of Changwon Busan Icheon Mungyeong Assessment of Materials' ·Use low-noise equipment Container Project, Section 6 Gyeongjeon Line Highway Railway Environment-friendliness Environment-friendly Procurement Process ·Operate vehicles at low speed within sites Oystercatcher, Saunders' Polygonatum stenophyllum Kestrel Terrapin, Wildcat, Buzzard, Copper-winged bat Harmfulness 1. E valuate Environment3. M  onitor Record of Environment·Install sound-proof walls around sites gull, Far Eastern Curlew, max, Aster altaicus Willd. var. Kite, Hen harrier 2. Request and Order Materials 4. Goals (newly protected) friendliness of Material friendly Procurement ·Establish standards for emissions of air polluting Kestrel, Spoonbill uchiyamai (Nakai) Kitamura, materials and install restraining facilities Mongolian racerunner · Poisonous · Destruction of ecosystem · Non-degradable · Evaluate harmfulness of · Input the HEGS* code of a given · Monitor each site ·Promote minimization of materials according to three material through the Environmentenvironmental impact from Infringement of regulations standards of harmfulness, infringement of regulations, and friendly Procurement System material use Environment-friendly Complying with Environment-friendly Demolition Guidelines · Encourage the use of · Fire services act · Toxic chemicals control act usage amount environment-friendly products Demolition To minimize environmental impacts and deterioration of workers' health incurred during deconstruction and demolition · Wastes control act processes, we have established and complied Waste Management Guidelines, Chemical Substance Management HEGS-1 Environmental mark-certified goods HEGS-4 Energy savings mark-certified goods HEGS-7 GMS*** certified companies' goods Guidelines and Air Quality Management Guidelines. In particular, we have been setting targets for the waste Usage volume HEGS-2 GR** mark-certified goods HEGS-5 Foreign environment mark-certified goods HEGS-8 Carbon labelling certified goods disposal and material recycling by sites where generate a significant amount of waste or are subject to the special · Average usage amount of all sites HEGS-3 1st rated energy efficiency goods HEGS-6 Clean production goods management. In addition, we sold recyclable wastes to recycling plants for the resource utilization and put priority on * HEGS: Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard **GR : Good Recycled *** GMS: Green Management System purchasing recycled materials and cyclic aggregate. Furthermore, complying with the Chemical Substance Management Guidelines, the head of the site establishes a plan to prevent damage from chemical substances and supervises the implementation and the environmental manager identifies the types of chemical substances and establishes precautions for use and storage standards while Environment-friendly Promoting Environment-friendly Transportation training employees and inspecting management status. Especially, we check the possible containment of harmful Transportation & Hyundai E&C is reducing the GHG emissions generated during transporting materials and operating heavy equipment substances such as asbestos in advance of the deconstruction so that our employees are not directly exposed to by operating environment-friendly vehicles. In particular, we have established the vehicles guideline in 2010 and Construction danger. If the asbestos containment exceeds the standards of Occupational Safety and Health Act and Asbestos defined total 11 items and the detailed guideline for the economic driving of work vehicles. Hyundai E&C complies with Safety Management Act, we treat it safely by entrusting to a specialized company of asbestos removal and waste. the guideline when operating vehicles and heavy equipment at the headquarters and all sites. In addition, we have contributed to the domestic and overseas efforts toward the GHG reduction by replacing existing work vehicles with Waste Generations (Unit: ton) Upgrading the Waste Management System energy-efficient hybrid cars since 2012 in order to reduce GHG emissions. Since 2012, Hyundai E&C has delivered an effective waste management through the Waste Management System 635,939 that connects 'Allbaro System,' a waste management system of the Ministry of Environment and Hyundai-Project Water Usages (Unit: thousand ton) Advancing Environment-friendly Construction System 422,876 Management System (H-PMS), and Integrated Environmental Performance Management System. Therefore, we 940.2 With the Building Information Modeling (BIM), a cutting-edge construction information system, we are realizing have been able to prevent the violation against regulations and gather the data about total waste amount and 355,909 the environment-friendly construction through efficient resource management by preventing the unnecessary use cost by business units, processes & work types, companies, and waste types in real time; the data collected is 781.9 717.0 of materials through the exact calculation of volume and cost required for the construction. In addition, in order to used as a reference for receiving of order, bidding, and budget compilation. The waste management system was reduce the water consumption at site, we have installed rainwater storages and de-watering equipment that uses further segmented to clarify the tasks of each department to improve the efficiency of waste management and 2015 2016 2017 underground water. Instead of a water tank car to prevent dust, in addition, we use sprinklers to consume less water the appropriateness of disposal in 2016. In 2018, we plan to strengthen the capacity of waste statistics management during the construction. and analysis by upgrading the waste management system to improve the stability and usability of linked database (DB). 2015 2016 2017 Waste generation in 2017 were 355,909 tons, decreased 15.8% from the previous year. 36 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 Strategy 5 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Recruit/ConsPersonnel.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Cultivating Innovative Innovative Talents Strategy The Ideal Employee of Hyundai E&C In order to lead the global construction market, it is important to secure talented people who can demonstrate Talents challenging spirit and creativity, create synergies within the organization, and play an active role in the world with a global mindset. Value Empowering Story We have been enthusiastically hiring and managing human resources who are suitable for our ideal employee: Innovative talents are essential assets and 'to create unrivaled value, the talents we want achieve what many think is impossible and strive to be the best in unexplored areas.' Based on the challenge spirit, creativity and communication competency, employees of Hyundai driving forces for Hyundai E&C to strengthen Raising International Competitiveness by Fostering E&C are stepping forward to becoming global talents that create innovative values. Excellent Foreign Employees its competitiveness. Hyundai E&C has been raising its international competitiveness by expanding INNOVATIVE CHALLENGER Hyundai E&C recruits excellent domestic and overseas the cultivation of local foreign employees to cope with the global business To create unrivaled value, the talents we want achieve what many think is impossible and environment in which fierce competition is taking place. In particular, the 'Global strive to be the best in unexplored areas talents, conducts systemic appraisal and talent Talent Program,' which has been holding annually since 2015, offers a variety of development programs, and enhances smart working Value Creator Synergy Builder Global Developer courses to enhance understanding and loyalty to the company through selection environment. Hence, we foster core talents of excellent foreign employees. In the 2017 program, a total of 20 employees attended, we have gained a good response from our employees by expanding who can improve organizational efficiency sessions to identify our technical capabilities such as job training, business division and execution while creating new values. meetings visiting R&D Division and Hyundai Motor Company Asan Plant. A talent who creates new value by A talent who creates synergy through A talent who can realize their potential meeting challenges head-on, not cooperation and communication with on the global stage, driven by a resting on their laurels, and utilizing diverse stakeholders global perspective, openness and their creativity understanding of diversity Fostering Self-completed Talents Hyundai E&C has been accelerating the cultivation of self-completed talents in order to secure human competitiveness 2017 Global Talent Program and enhance business execution capability. We define self-completed talents as outstanding individuals who has the highest level of business knowledge in responsible area and accomplishes tasks with utmost efforts while voluntarily Hyundai E&C has great potential. Because acquiring task related knowledge such has laws, contracts and technologies and pursuing personal competitiveness. Hyundai E&C also regards us foreign workers as a In addition, they have to do their best to accomplish their mission by taking full advantage of their own capabilities and part of the company. utilizing internal and external networks. Furthermore, they should have the courage to recognize their own faults and Mohammad Aslam Asadullah Shaikh mistakes and spirit not to repeat such situations. In this way, Hyundai E&C will be able to demonstrate its capabilities SARB offshore crude oil and gas treatment facility to the top level in the world by leading the corporate culture centered on self-completed talents. construction site, UAE Recruiting Talents Conducting Fair Employment Enhancing Communications with the Next Leader Board without Discrimination Hyundai E&C recruits talents in a fair and transparent manner. In 2017, we recruited 67 new employees and 116 Value Empowering Strategy The Next Leader Board is a representative organization of employees to lead experienced employees. Besides, considering characteristics of the construction industry, we hire contract workers the management innovation and improve the corporate culture. In 2016, we changed and treat them equally according to relevant regulations. Recruiting Talents without Discrimination the name of the Junior Board, which has operated since 1990, to Next Leader Status of Recruitment in 2017 (Unit: persons) · Conducting fair employment Board, and it has been playing an important role in fostering core talents and creating Securing Human Diversity · Securing human diversity a trust-based corporate culture. In particular, it has been taking a pivotal role for Hyundai E&C have recognized human diversity as the basis for enhancing competitiveness and realizing communication within the organization at management meeting by spreading 67 Cultivating the Capability of Innovative Talents Total social responsibility and have made effort to recruit females, foreign workers, persons of national merit, and the management philosophy and policy, and employees' opinions and suggestions 183 the handicapped. As a part of these sincere efforts, we have been requiring every new domestic sites to recruit at least · Enhancing the capability of innovative talents throughout the company. In addition, it has been taking educational programs one individual with disabilities since 2014. Besides, we have been hiring more local talents at overseas sites to execute · Maximizing talent capacity through appraisal and compensation including excavating future business items and discovering excellent corporate 116 Experienced cultures, training for capacity building, internal & external seminars, and participating employees projects successfully and secure global advanced technologies. Moreover, we further expanded the local recruitment New employees Advancing Innovative Organization in volunteer activities and major events in the company. Through these activities, for manager positions through a newly-established Global Human Resources Management System in 2015. · Improving organizational efficiency members of the board are cultivating their qualities that young leaders are supposed to possess. In 2017, newly-elected 20 members of Next Leader Board, increased Status of Employees in 2017 (As of 31 DEC 2017) (Unit: persons) · Expanding employee communications the proportion of female employees and selected foreign employees for the first time, Proportion of Proportion of 2017 Public Employment Notice Category Total Male Female Status of Social Minorities Total Pursuing Employees' Happiness are making effort to listen attentively to more various voices. for the Handicapped Female Social Minorities · Expanding benefit program Full-time Foreigners at headquarters 18 0.35% 4,424 4,159 265 5.99% · Supporting healthcare By employees By Contract The Handicapped 104 2.01% · Reducing childcare burden Type Type Contract · Building trust between labor and management 760 742 18 2.37% workers Persons of national merit 83 1.60% Total of Employees 5,184 4,901 283 5.46% Total of Social Minorities 205 3.95% Next Leader Board 38 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Strategy 5 Cultivating Innovative Talents INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Enhancing Cultivating Global Leaders Maximizing Talent Appraisal the Capability For the successful execution of overseas projects, Hyundai E&C is striving for enhancing the global capability of Capacity through Since introduced a HR system based on the Management by Objective (MBO) in 2012, Hyundai E&C has been employees through language education. In particular, we put emphasis on employees to learn foreign language by developing capabilities of employees in aspect of performance achieved, strength, and improvement. We have been of Innovative Appraisal and operating language classes of Spanish and special English educations. In addition, we help our employees grow into providing a performance management training to key relevant personnel for the fair appraisal as well. Moreover, we Talents global leaders through global job training, overseas workers training, leadership training and global leading company Compensation have established an environment of the accurate appraisal by advancing performance management processes such training program. In 2017, we have conducted global ethics awareness building course in accordance with global as 'goal-setting,' 'mid-term check,' and 'final evaluation.' In addition, the fairness of appraisal has been strengthened by standards and newly developed video education course. Employees who have taken the trainings in 2017 was a total introducing a Fact Gathering, which is used by the appraiser every month to appraise the performance and capabilities of 9,502. In 2018, we plan to support the training of foreign workers on a regular basis at overseas sites by developing of appraisee. In 2017, we have established a confirmation procedure for the 1:1 interview between the first appraiser Full-time Employee Training Performance Average Traning Expenditures video job training courses and lecture materials for foreign employees. and the appraisee during the goal setting to improve the acceptance of the goal-setting. In 2018, we plan to strengthen the performance-oriented personnel management system by expanding quantitative results of site manager. (Unit: KRW in 10 thousands) Group Integrated Training 80 83 Compensation Course Name General & Core Values Leadership Task Hyundai E&C has been promoting the development of its employees' capabilities through compensation system based New Employees, Experienced on performance evaluation. We have been implementing Promotion Point System so that employees can promote fairly Trainee Executive, Team Leader Promoted Employees employees, Promoted Executives in terms of achievement and capability. In addition, we have been motivating our employees by increasing the amount 2016 2017 of incentives in accordance with evaluation results and expanding division performances to incentives. Besides, we Nurturing Construction Experts guarantee the gender equality; the individual wage may vary depending on one's position and working condition. Average Training Hours per Person (Unit: hours) We are cultivating the world's best construction experts by establishing the advanced education system and 104 providing mandatory training programs by jobs and positions contributing to the enhancement of the basic skills and Pursuing Employees' Expanding Benefit Programs 88 execution specialty throughout the project. Besides, we have endeavored to develop our employees into in-house Happiness We have been expanding our benefit system to help employees realize a happy. Our employee benefit point system lecturers sharing the expertise acquired from the works. In 2017, we have carried out a total of 150 training courses is being operated for all employees while they can choose diverse benefits according to their needs, such as health for employees. We focused on enhancing our competencies in process, claims, CM, and investment development in management, self-development, and culture & leisure programs. Furthermore, we opened an online Employee Benefit order to diversify our business and strengthen human capacity for new business expenditures. In addition, we have Mall and thus increased convenience for employees to use their benefit points at online. In 2017, we increased cyber 2016 2017 developed 72 video training courses for employees working at overseas sites, and have established a regular training money for the Mall from KRW 100,000 to KRW 150,000 to enable employee to buy more gifts at the online mall and system for strengthening job competencies overseas sites. In 2018, we will further develop new courses in the case, introduced a mobile gift request service so that employees' family can request for gifts conveniently on behalf of process, and design areas to implement balanced job training and expand specialized training programs such as their employees. In addition, through the agreement with Kangwon Land, we developed a residual recreation site intensive training for process, claim and investment development staffs. Furthermore, we plan to develop additional application system so that our employees can enjoy the resort inexpensively without purchasing memberships. technology-specific curriculum to continuously respond to future technology changes and strengthen our project management capabilities. Supporting Medical Check-up Supporting Healthcare for Employee & Spouse (As of 2017) Hyundai E&C conducts regular health checkup for employees, and operates an in-house medical center where Advancing Innovative 6,092 Improving Organizational Efficiency persons Beneficiaries professional nurses reside to ensure that employees can check their health status immediately. In 2017, we have Organization Hyundai E&C enhances the efficiency of the company by creating the efficient working environment and supports added two centers for health check-ups and have improved benefits for staff and assistant manager who work at employees to achieve a balance of work and life by improving the work engagement. In 2017, we have established and overseas sites where there is a shortage of medical facilities by providing comprehensive health checkup every two Market Intelligence System (MIS) operated a Market Intelligence System (MIS) to help employees recognize and respond to the latest overseas trends. In addition, we have promoted the use of BizPhone, a self-developed application that enables users to easily search for 1.99 KRW in billions Support expenditures years. Furthermore, we have conducted a campaign to provide colorectal cancer self-diagnostic kits to promote prevention of colorectal cancer and improvement of eating habits of employees. contact number as well as make and get a call from headquarters and domestic & overseas sites. At the same time, we have enhanced our work efficiency by improving the system efficiency, including the process of dispatching external official Status of Male Employees Reducing Childcare Burdens Used Paid Parental Leaves (Unit: persons) document using electronic approval, and automatic notification mailing when department of employees are changed. The social demands for reducing the burden of childcare are increasing. Hyundai E&C supports financial supports to In 2018, to maximize business efficiency, we eliminated business practices that had been practiced as formalities, and 214 married couple having difficulty to get pregnant, childbirth, parental leave, and school expenses so that its employees restructured job performance system centering on businesses that are highly relevant to value creation. In addition, we can raise their children happily throughout their life cycle. Since 2015, Hyundai E&C has provided financial supports encourage our employees to operate their time and resources efficiently with a sense of ownership. Furthermore, in to 74 employees having difficulty to get pregnant so that 30 employees could enjoy the joy of childbirth. In 2017, 17 order to prevent the loss of work efficiency and loss risk due to delays in decision making, we simplified reporting and female employees used the 90-day parental leave and 9 employees returned to work after the leave, the returning approval, raised efficiency of meetings and conventions including the implementation of 'No-meeting day' and abolition of 30 rate was 53%. In addition, through internal encouragement, the number of male employees using paid parental customary protocols. 2016 2017 leave increased by 7.1 times from the previous year to 214. In addition, we support Hyundai Dasom Daycare Center, a company daycare center for children, to help women work and care their children. Through the childbirth grant H · Dudrim Expanding Employee Communications program, we support school expenses of KRW 100,000 per child in middle school monthly, KRW 467,000 won per Based on the creative, human-centered corporate culture that prioritizes the communication and trust, Hyundai child in high school and KRW 4,000,000 per child in university quarterly. E&C has been supporting to resolve grievances and enhancing emotional competencies of employees implements systematic activities to by expanding the communication within the company. In particular, through the annual TwoBuilding Trust Between Labor and Management day Workshop for all employees at the headquarters, we identify improvement points intensively and gathering diverse We have devoted for the corporate culture that considers harmony and trust between labor and management as one opinions and thus endeavor to create happier workplace. Besides, we have been operating an Employee Assistance of top priorities. Thus, we guarantees an employee's right to join or withdrawal freely from the Labor Union based on Program (EAP), an on & offline counseling center for employees Since 2015, and E-Suggestion, a communication Article 5 of the Collective Agreement in the Labor Union Act. It is a compulsory principle to immediately give notice channel in the company's intranet in order to gather and support employees' difficulties and suggestions in 2017. https://dudrim.hdec.co.kr/Partner/Intro.aspx?g=c to the labor union in advance regarding significant changes in the business such as organizational restructuring. As In 2018, we plan to manage employees' grievances more effectively through H · Dudrim, an integrated internal and of DEC 2017, the number of employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement is 3,888, who is below the external complaint settlement window. rank of the general manager and 87.9% of the full-time employees. The number of employees who are protected by 40 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT collective bargaining rights by joining the Labor Union is 783. The figure counts 17.7% of the full-time employees. 41 Strategy 6 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/WinWin.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Enhancing Value Chain Enhancing Shared Growth Cooperation Hyundai E&C has been pursuing shared growth with suppliers through various supports. Supporting education and finance, cooperating technology development have been leading to the enhancement of suppliers' competitiveness, Capability and close and systematic communication program has been building constructive partnership. Thanks to diverse with Suppliers efforts, Hyundai E&C has achieved an award from the Minister of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs at the 'Awards Value Empowering Story for the Promotion of the Construction Industry's Cooperation 2012, the highest rating at the 'Evaluation of Joint Cooperation among Construction Companies 2013' for two consecutive years, and the 'Awards for the Promotion of Suppliers are the key partners and the foundation for the Construction Industry's Cooperation 2015.' sustainable growth of Hyundai E&C. We have been Leading the Global Market with Suppliers Activities for Shared Growth Management promoting the improvement of suppliers' business Hyundai E&C has been opening the way to overseas expansion with suppliers and strengthening its capability to lead global construction. In particular, since 2009, Realizing Shared Growth Through Cooperation capability and management stability by we have selected suppliers with excellent construction capabilities every year and supporting training, technology development, operate Overseas Sites Trip Program for Suppliers. Through this, we provide knowTraining Support Finance Support Technology Support Communication Support how of overseas sites operation and hold briefing session to help enter the relevant financing, and strengthening communication. country, and support the understanding local construction market trends. In 2017, In addition, by operating sustainable supply chain we have conducted Overseas Site Trips for 17 suppliers in Indonesia and Singapore, contributing to generate suppliers' new overseas sales of KRW 103.2 billion. management system, we have been providing · F  ostering on-site global · Arranging Shared Growth Fund · Delivering shared growth through · Bidding, contract, payment and Sales Increase of Suppliers taken Overseas Expansion Training construction technology talents by · Providing fund directly technology transfer and share guarantee tasks on-line through sustainability standards to suppliers and operating construction technical · Supporting research fund and information system for cooperation education institute · S  hortening the payment date 2017 311.8 human resources · Establishing annual shared growth evaluating them in order to promote · Training on Health, Safety & · 50% exemption of contract deposit plan through supplier satisfaction 2016 175.8 for outstanding suppliers (planning · S upporting patent application, Environment (HSE) and quality for survey the competitiveness of the value chain 2015 131.2 suppliers 100% exemption in 2018) applying for joint patent (Unit: KRW in billions, 3 year cumulative) · A  dopting new technology and · Assisting suppliers to settle ethical · O  perating welfare programs for effectively. · Supporting entering overseas suppliers' employees making a related subcontracting management system and gathering market training and Overseas Site contract opinions Number of Benefiting Suppliers of Overseas Expansion Training Trip Program 2017 250 2016 197 2018 H Leaders Regular General Meeting Supporting Training for Suppliers 2015 122 and Management Seminar (Unit: suppliers, 3 year cumulative) For assisting the substantial growth of suppliers, Hyundai E&C provides various practical training programs such as quality, construction, and Health, Safety & Environment (HSE). In addition, we have been fostering site-friendly global construction technology talents through the Hyundai Technical Education Institute, the only construction Taking a Leap forward into the Global Construction Top Tier technology specialized training center in the construction industry. Furthermore, we provide various trainings required with Suppliers for the entering overseas markets, such as taxation, finance, and overseas sites trip program by countries. In 2017, we provided training for a total of 1,178 suppliers In particular, nine of the partner companies participated in In MAR 2018, Hyundai E&C held the H Leaders Regular General Meeting and the Training for Overseas Advancement generated KRW 136 billion in new overseas sales. Besides, we contributed to Management Seminar in Jeju Island. Having been progressing every year since lighten the burden of talent training of suppliers thanks to 125 graduates of Hyundai Technical Education Institute were 2011, the H Leaders Regular General Meeting was more meaningful in 2018 with participation of eleven engineering partner companies, and 161 suppliers which employeed by our suppliers. was increased 6 compared to from last year. At the welcome reception, suppliers Overseas Sites Trip Program for Suppliers Supporting Training for Suppliers in 2017 have commented for improvements and requirements with open-mindness and the occasion was filled with full of events such as regular general meeting, excellent Course Name Contents Number of Training Benefitting Suppliers (cases) (suppliers) supplier award, special lecture, and membership strengthening event. · Special lecture on procurement policy in 2017 In particular, Park Dong-Wook, the CEO of Hyundai E&C has raised the fervent Suppliers' Council General ·Special lecture on change of construction industry environment 1 152 Meeting and Management Seminar response of participants by expressing his firm will about shared growth with three and safety management plans to enhance the added value and competitiveness of suppliers in his greetings. Procurement H Members Meeting · Strengthening communication with suppliers 2 49 by Department · Listening suggestions & difficulties and deriving improvements Plans to Enhance the Added Value and Competitiveness of Suppliers Value Empowering Strategy Procurement H Members Meeting · Strengthening communication with suppliers 2 84 by Construction Type · Listening suggestions & difficulties and deriving improvements · Paying 100% in cash (within 10 days from the billing statement) for outstanding Outsourcing H Members Meeting ·E  nhancing communication including gathering VOC of suppliers Enhancing Shared Growth Cooperation with Suppliers suppliers starting from JUL 2018 by Department · Sharing industry trends by department 4 101 · Supporting training for suppliers · Establishing integrated complaints window Outsourcing H Members Meeting · Notice for H Members 15 233 · Supporting finance for suppliers by Construction Type · Listening to suggestions & difficulties from suppliers · Realizing ZERO serious disaster (employing 100% of safety managers as · Supporting technology development for suppliers H Leaders Overseas Sites · Trip to major sites in Indonesia and Singapore permanent position) Trip Program · Holding overseas expansion briefing session 1 17 · Supporting communication for suppliers Shared Growth Seminar · Presenting status of actions for VOC 3 338 for Outsourcing Suppliers · Guidance and special lecture on our shared growth program Managing Sustainable Supply Chain This H Leaders Regular General Meeting and · Introducing our outsourcing service system Shared Growth Seminar · Propelling supply chain management policy for sustainability Management Seminar was a time to confirm ·Enhancing communication including guidance of our shared 8 138 for Technical Service Suppliers growth program · Managing supply chain strategically the solid camaraderie between Hyundai E&C · Providing training specialized in Saudi Arabia and Vietnam · Assessing supply chain sustainability and Namwoong Construction. Overseas Expansion Training ·Overseas system, accounting, customs clearance and mobilization 2 66 for Outsourcing Suppliers Hwang Woong (CEO) manpower, etc. Best Supplier, Namwoong Construction Total 38 1,178 42 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 Strategy 6 Enhancing Value Chain Capability INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Enhancing Shared Supporting Finance for Suppliers Managing Sustainable Supply Chain Management Policy for Sustainability Growth Cooperation Hyundai E&C has been reducing the financial burden on suppliers by providing various financial supports since Supply Chain For the first among domestic construction companies, Hyundai E&C has enacted the 'HDEC Supplier Sustainability signed the 'Joint Cooperation and Fair Trade Agreement' with suppliers in 2010. We have made payment to Charter' in October 2014 for the systematic and sustainable supply chain management. In MAY 2017, we revised with Suppliers subcontracts within 13 days, have helped financial institutions provide financial institutions with loans that are the guideline to strengthen human rights management in the domestic and overseas supply chains in accordance lower than the standard interest rate for their financial institutions by managing network loan, and have helped our HDEC Supplier Sustainability Charter with the 'HDEC Human Rights Policy.' The charter consists of three chapters: responsibility for sustainable business, Finance Support for Suppliers (Unit: KRW in billions) suppliers overcome financial difficulties by creating and operating Shared Growth Fund with commercial banks. responsibility for environment, and responsibility for stakeholders. Covering 67 items in 14 areas, it defines standards Furthermore, we provide health check-ups and funeral support services to suppliers' employees to contribute to http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/HDEC_Supplier_ of the sustainability management which Hyundai E&C requires from suppliers. 21.9 reducing welfare benefit costs of suppliers. We are strengthening the overall sustainability by monitoring whether Sustainability_Charter.pdf 14.8 payments paid to the primary suppliers are paid to the secondary suppliers within a reasonable days. Supply Chain Management Strategy In 2017, we greatly expanded the amount of financial support for our suppliers. We raised KRW 30 billion in Shared In JUN 2018, Hyundai E&C concluded a sustainability management agreement with its supplier to fulfill Growth Fund with KRW 10 billion increase from the previous year, and loaned KRW 18 billion. In addition, we newly the compliance and implementation of HDEC Supplier Sustainability Charter while improving the overall created KRW 30 billion of direct funds and loaned KRW 3.8 billion. In addition, we donated KRW 70 million to competitiveness and minimizing risks of the overall supply chain. Furthermore, we have been encouraging suppliers the Shared Growth Guarantee Fund to support suppliers' loans or payment guarantees. In 2018, we will raise 2016 2017 to participate in promoting sustainability management by selecting environmental safety and health compliance as the ratio of reduction of contract deposit for outstanding suppliers to 100% from 50%. a contract prerequisite when selecting suppliers. Hyundai E&C's suppliers are divided largely into material delivery suppliers and construction suppliers. Among these, we are maximizing the efficiency of supply chain management by Hyundai E&C Technical Forum Supporting Technology Development for Suppliers regularly selecting and supporting high quality suppliers that meet strict evaluation and auditing standards including Hyundai E&C has been promoting joint technology development with its suppliers or suppliers' own technology financial stability, quality capability and safety & health level. development and strengthening mutual competitiveness through technology transfer. In particular, we hold Hyundai Spend Analysis of Supply Chain (As of 31 DEC 2017) E&C Technical Forum every year to offer a platform supporting the technology development in an 'Open Innovation' way. Number of Suppliers Proportion of Proportion of Number of Critical It is the only technology competition for the shared growth in domestic construction companies. Winning suppliers are Supplier Category (companies) Suppliers (%) Purchase (%) Suppliers (companies) awarded R&D funds and incentives to be registered as our new suppliers. In 2017, we provided KRW 500 million in R&D Materials suppliers 2,457 78.80 49.61 946 funds to its our suppliers and implemented a benefit sharing program. In addition, we adopted 27 new technologies and Tier 1 Suppliers Construction contractors 661 21.20 50.39 115 concluded subcontracting contracts, and shared 27 patents that we own to our suppliers free of charge. Non-tier 1 Suppliers 0 0.0 0.0 0 Total 3,118 100.0 100.0 1,061 Supporting Communication for Suppliers Hyundai E&C has been making efforts to create a greater synergy generated through efficient partnerships and a strong sympathy with suppliers. The Suppliers' Council is a regular consultative group to communicate with Supply Chain Sustainability Assessment suppliers and composed of five subcommittees. It is responsible for improving supplier system by communicating In order to apply the 'HDEC Supplier Sustainability Charter' to actual tasks effectively, we developed the 'Supplier with suppliers on a regular basis. Moreover, we conduct the shared growth seminar for all suppliers and carefully Sustainability Assessment Framework' and have been evaluating and managing the economic, environmental and listen to their opinions through separate brief meetings by construction types and visiting suppliers. In addition, social aspects of our primary suppliers in a comprehensive manner annually since 2014. From an economic aspects, we are strengthening our bond with suppliers by sending Newsletter for Suppliers quarterly, including news from we assess the general status of business sites, quality capability, and credit rating. In regard of the environmental Hyundai E&C and exciting issues at domestic and overseas. Furthermore, we operate a Shared Growth Support aspects, we evaluate compliance with environmental regulations and the level of pollutant management, and Center within the 'Hi-Partner' portal for gathering grievances and suggestions of suppliers. acquisition of ISO 14001 certification to measure the level of environmental management. In terms of social aspects, Supplier Communication Channel we evaluate the level of safety and health management, acquisition of ISO 18001, OSHAS and KOSHA certification, and delayed payment of employee's wage. In addition, we have been regularly improving the assessment indicators by · Reviewing complaints and suggestions from · Improving systems related to suppliers based on the Supplier Council reflecting the global trends from consultation with external experts to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the assessment. suppliers through regular communication results of review Shared Growth · Holding Shared Growth Seminars by Results of Supplier Assessment and Corrective Actions (As of 31 DEC 2017) · Holding brief meetings by work types for all suppliers Seminar work types for all subcontractors Risk Category Risk Assessment Risk Identification Risk Mitigaiton Identification Corrective Actions / Supplier Satisfaction · Fortifying communications with suppliers and · Developing corporate-wide measures to respond to Category Key Risk Factors Risk Level Scope % % % Results Termination Survey ascertain suppliers' requests in a timely manner suppliers' requests in a timely manner Violation of the principle of ethics and anti-corruption High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Satisfaction Level of Suppliers (Unit: points) Shared Growth · Requesting for and respond to supplier · Collecting suppliers' grievances and suggestions Ethical breaches and collusion High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Support Center satisfaction survey (half-yearly) Satisfaction Delay in payments to tier 2 suppliers High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Level of 82.4 82.5 81.6 82.5 82.4 Operation Economic Financial structure deterioration including credit rating Medium-high 3,118 100% 6 0.19% 6 0.19% Promoting Supplier Satisfaction Survey Risks Refusal of credit rating renewal Medium-high 3,118 100% 1 0.03% 1 0.03% We have been pursuing the shared growth management by regularly conducting the supplier satisfaction survey Lack of suppliers' capability High 3,118 100% 11 0.35% 11 0.35% since 2009 to gather suppliers' requests and apply them to the management. Hyundai E&C developed its own Other economic risks Medium-high 3,118 100% 1 0.03% 1 0.03% survey system using VOC and IPA methods and optimized it to respond suppliers' actual needs and difficulties. Violation of environmental regulations High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Satisfaction The supplier satisfaction survey is carried out on a half-yearly basis; each supplier evaluates and gives opinions Level of 79.1 79.6 77.7 Environmental 76.0 77.3 about Hyundai E&C according to provided indicators which cover from the selection phase to the payment phase; Occurrence of environmental accident during construction High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Support & Risks Cultivation in the first half of 2017, the satisfaction level of the operation for suppliers rose to 82.4 points, 0.8 point up from the Other environmental risks Medium-high 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% last first half of the year. Satisfaction level of support & cultivation for suppliers increased to 77.7 points, 0.4 points Occurrence of disputes and litigation Medium-high 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% up from the last first half of the year. Hyundai E&C has been improving system for shared growth management Social Risks Violation of labor and safety regulations High 3,118 100% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% systemically through analysis of satisfaction survey result; classifying priority improvement targets, progressive Other social risks Medium-high 3,118 100% 5 0.16% 5 0.16% First Half of 2015 First Half of 2016 First Half of 2017 improvement targets, and continuation of current status targets. Second Half of 2015 Second Half of 2016 Total 3,118 24 0.77% 24 0.77% 44 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 Strategy 7 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/ShareIntro.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Advancing Strategic Social Expanding Global Social Contributions Hyundai E&C has been continuously expanding its overseas social contribution to realize its social responsibility as a global construction company. Starting from the establishment of a community center for the low income class in Contributions Philippines in 2011, Hyundai E&C has actively promoted 35 social contribution activities in 18 countries. Also, we NEXT MOVE (H-CONTECH Corps gradually increased the budget for the overseas social contribution activities which reached KRW 750 million in 2017 Technology Exchange Activity) Value Empowering Story from KRW 320 million in 2013. Our activities include health hygiene, scholarships, cultural exchange, and relief for the poor in developing countries including Iran, Indonesia, Philippines, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka. Local community is the business foundation and the key In particular, we have taken social contribution to higher level by launching H CONTECH, the first overseas technology stakeholder group of Hyundai E&C. As a global leading Leading CSV in the Global Construction Industry type volunteer group in the domestic construction industry. H CONTECH has hold a technical seminar in connection construction company, we have been promoting Since 2015, we have developed the local community and cultivated construction with major engineering universities and national institutions in overseas developing countries, has excavated appropriate talents simultaneously by providing not only equipment for practices but also technology items and has established public facilities. In 2018, we plan to reflect mandatory social contribution strategic social contribution projects based on industrial budgets obligatory within the order budget at sites in the developing countries, and implementation of on-site social safety and piping & welding experts' professional education based on the Vietnam characteristics to improve social values in overseas Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center, the first CSV* project in the construction industry. contribution activities in the division KPI within 1 year after the start of construction. In addition, we continue to operate In addition, it has led to the creation of group synergy by cooperating with Hyundai overseas social contribution activities in consideration of the characteristics of the region in which we have received countries where we operate business. Motor Company to foster construction safety and automobile maintenance experts opinions from international development NGOs and departments related overseas countries such as Bangladesh, In particular, our global creating shared value at the university. Vietnam, Myanmar and Uzbekistan. * CSV: Creating Shared Value Scale of Overseas Social Contribution Projects projects present sustainable community (Unit: KRW in 100 millions) Major Overseas Social Contribution Projects (2011~2017) support models for the construction industry 2017 Performance ASIA SDG 1, 4, 6, 7 10.0 Residential environment, living support, medical care, We have completed a total of 2,100 hours of plant piping and construction welding education, hygiene, energy supply by providing local infrastructures while 7.5 training course based on the Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center 2nd Campus, which 7.0 improving our business competitiveness. was opened in Vietnam in the Construction Department of Vietnam Construction 1 Vietnam Education and living support by improving of residential environment and establishing facilities Department in 2017. In addition, we have conducted special lectures on technology for the Vietnam Ministry of Construction and construction college students, and Improvement of sanitation facilities, villages & 2 Indonesia school facility renovation, technology exchange in received favorable comment that it was excellent examples of technical cooperation 2016 2017 2018 connection with industry and academia from Hyundai and Korea from Vice Minister of Ministry of Construction. We will 7 Bangladesh 3 East Timor Improvement of water and sanitation continue to create new values to contribute for the company and the society to 5 Myanmar grow further together by identifying global CSV projects specialized in construction. 1 Vietnam Support of solar generator and solar lantern, 8 Sri Lanka 4 Philippines water treatment facility, and vocational training 4 Philippines center construction 6 Singapore Solar generator and solar lantern support, water 2 Indonesia 5 Myanmar purification facility support and vocational training center construction 3 East Timor 6 Singapore Support for BCA scholarship university students 7 Bangladesh Middle school construction and medical & living support DREAM MOVE (Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center 2nd Campus) 8 Sri Lanka Establishment of child education center and school building Completion and Employment Status of Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center Vietnam Proportion of students Proportion of students who Average monthly income of CIS, MIDDLE EAST SDG 1, 4, 10, 14 AFRICA SDG 4, LATIN AMERICA SDG 1, 4 who completed the training were employed within six graduates Value Empowering Strategy (Unit: %) months after the completion (Unit: USD) Welfare, residential Education, 6 Residential environment, of training environment, education, ecosystem hygiene earthquake damage recovery, education (Unit: %) Strengthening Social Contribution System 95 240 70 55.7 160 16 Colombia · Establishing three sharing activities 15 Uganda 9 Kazakhstan 14 Kenya Ecuador · Improving group connectivity of social contribution 35 18 10 Uzbekistan · Promoting social contribution performance management 12 Iran 13 Mozambique Expanding Global Social Contribution Vietnam Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center Other Universities (As of MAY 2017) Kuwait 11 17 Chile · Expanding scale of overseas social contributions · Leading CSV in the global construction industry We have developed the intensive plant piping and · Launching technology exchange type overseas volunteer corps welding training course for the new curriculum of 9 Kazakhstan 13 Mozambique 16 Colombia Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center 2nd Campus, Establishment of Welfare center Support of elementary & middle school Physical education scholarship Project, housing Implementing UN Sustainable Development and have educated about 20 professors of local construction projects improvement, establishment of a child education center Goals Through Social Contribution construction college. They were so enthusiastic 10 Uzbekistan 14 Kenya 17 Chile Housing improvement for the poor Drinking water development and sanitation project Housing improvement for the poor · Implementing the UN Sustainable Development Goals that we felt the training and the theory and and IT classroom support in refugee area through three sharing activities practice hours short. We hope that the synergy 11 Kuwait 15 Uganda 18 Ecuador · Linking regions of global social contributions to between Hyundai E&C and the faculty will cultivate Ecosystem protection campaign Support of elementary & middle school Group joint relief fund for earthquake damage construction projects Earthquake damage facility restoration project the UN Sustainable Goals great construction talents in Vietnam. 12 Iran Kang Na-Kyung (Assistant Manager) Educational environment Hyundai Technical Education Institue improvement (opened IT classroom) 46 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 Strategy 7 Advancing Strategic Social Contributions INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Strengthening Social Social Contribution System Social Contribution Hyundai E&C has been systemically contributed to local communities through its three sharing activities to fulfill the corporate social responsibility. In addition to the launch of a Community Service Corps for the first in the construction Contribution System Launched the Community Service Corps in 2009 where employees and employee families participate altogether, Strategy industry in 2009, the sharing activities are being executed in three key areas: 'Love Builder' to advance the social we have actively implemented systematic social contribution activities in Korea and in foreign countries where we welfare and to improve the living environment in the overseas developing countries, 'Hope Builder' to support operate business. In addition, Hyundai E&C has been promoting social contribution projects in the six MOVE activities underfed children and education of young people by mentoring talent donation, and 'Culture Builder' to introduce the of Hyundai Motor Group to make a better world with customers and society. Moreover, we consolidated a social Korean history and culture and support art business. contribution system in accordance with the KPIs established for each Hyundai Motor Group's affiliate. Furthermore, we plan to reorganize our existing three social contribution strategies into six MOVE themes to strengthen Group Hyundai E&C's Three Sharing Activities connectivity and expand our social contribution areas of safety, environment and mobility from 2018. Hyundai Motor Group Social Contribution System Love Builder Hope Builder Culture Builder Based on the characteristics of the construction In addition to providing support for scholarships for Based on the capacity of the construction industry, Group Social Group Social industry, Hyundai E&C has been supporting childeren of construction disaster victims, Hyundai Hyundai E&C has signed the 'One Keeper for Every Contribution Contribution Vision Slogan the public infrastructure of local and overseas E&C has been expanding its scope of support Cultural Asset' agreement with the Culture Heritage Moving the World Together underdeveloped countries and contributing to the to children and adolescents who need help for Administration to support the preservation of major strengthening of the local community by fostering nutrition, education and emotional support both at facilities in Changdeok Palace annually, and contribute local construction talents and technology exchange. domestic and overseas. to the protection of natural heritage and improvement of the scenery of Bukchon village. Group Six Generating Conducting social Improving Promoting Encouraging Protecting MOVE Activities jobs to assist contribution mobility of the safe traffic and employee environment and independence business using underprivileged society and customer responding to Support for Social Welfare Support for Education & Scholarship Protection of Cultural Assets corporate in social & traffic engagement climate change and the Overseas Developing Countries capability aspects · Support of underfed children in local communities · Restoration work for cultural assets · Social contribution activities in developing countries · Mentoring activity by talent donation for local · Establishment of volunteer centers in national Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Committee Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Organization ·Improvement of facilities and education in developing community · Improvement of scenery in Bukchon village countries and exchanging technology overseas Hyundai Motor Group Social Contribution Consultative Group (2~3 times a year) volunteer corps · Collecting Coins of Love campaign · Social Contribution Information, Education amd Exchange · Sharing Group affiliates' status and direction · Lecture by external experts SDG 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities SDG 04. Quality Education SDG 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Making sustainable cities and human Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Promote peaceful and inclusive societies Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Committee Social Contribution Part of General Affairs Team settlements by ensuring access to housing, education and promote lifelong learning and institutions for sustainable (launched on JUL 2018) improving transport systems, opportunities for all by 2030 development by 2030 · Planning and operating social contribution projects · Collecting social contribution advisory opinions and reflecting them and enhancing urbanization by 2030 · Managing social contribution performance in social contribution improvement · Increasing transparency in donation H-CONTECH Hillstate Activities for Cultural Asset & Improvement of Social Contribution Performance Management Overseas Volunteer Corps Dream Mentoring Corps Scenery in Bukchon Village In order to strengthen the employee's participation and systemicity Hyundai E&C has executed the volunteer mileage program and reflected the performance to divisional KPIs since 2010. In 2016, points given by the KPI evaluation further increased to 2 to 4 points from 1 point and thus inspire more employees to volunteer. Moreover, we achieved the corporate average of 10.7 miles exceeding the annual goal of average 10 miles in 2017. In 2018, we will continue to conduct a split evaluation twice a year in the first and the second half of the year to implement corporate-wide social contribution activities evenly. Breakdown of Donations in 2017 (Unit: %) Employees' Social Contribution Activities in 2017 Title of Activity Term Contents 65.8 Keeper for Cultural Asset MAR~JUN (First half), ·Old building repair and environmental cleanup activities (14 times in 2017, 440 In 2017, Hyundai E&C launched 'H-CONTECH', the first 'Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps' was launched in 2014 In 2017, Hyundai E&C has conducted volunteer SEP~NOV (Second half) employees participated) technology exchange type overseas volunteer corps for as a volunteering group which is run by the cooperation activities at Changdeok Palace, a world heritage in 14 0.8 100% Lunchboxes of Hope JUL~SEP (Summer) · Support underfed children every vacation in local community (119 employees the first in the domestic construction industry. of Hyundai E&C and science and engineering times, 435 employees and their families participate 4.2 DEC~JAN (Winter) participated in 2017, supported 42 underfed children in 22 households) 3.1 The 1st H-CONTECH Volunteer Corps contributed major college students for the frst in the domestic in the improvement, repair, and clean-up activities in ·Delivery of lunch to children of low-income family in Jongno-gu, Seodaemun5.7 5.8 gu and Jung-gu to the enhancement of technological exchanges by construction industry. Hyundai E&C collaborates with the palace. Furthermore, we executed a restoration 14.6 Hillstate Dream OCT 2016~JUL 2017 ·Academic mentoring and career counseling for teenagers of holding construction technology seminars on the theme college students and teenagers composing one team construction of Geumcheongyo, a bridge within the Mentoring Corps low-income family of 'Energy and Smart City' in connection with the of a mentee, a mentor, and an employee mentor to Changdeok Palace and provided automatic ticket Social Welfare ·Annual Activities (20 high school students, 20 university students and 20 International Aid national universities of Indonesia, one of the developing providing long-term mentoring programs. machines and electric trains for emergency patients. employees participated, 940 times and 1,880 hours of learning and career Emergency and Disaster Relief mentoring activities) countries that Hyundai E&C has entered into. In In particular, the 4th Volunteer Corps, which was Besides, we have been further developing the Education and Research Environmental Protection Baking Service of Love MAR~DEC · Social contribution activities by department (4th Thursday) addition, the corps implemented construction of local launched following the 3rd Volunteer Corps ended in 'Improvement of Scenery in Bukchon Village' project ·Baking and packing at Jongno-gu and Jung-gu Red Cross Community Center Culture, Art and Sport village amenities and science education in local school. JUL 2017, expanded the number of group members by various activities: setting up Bukchon Tourist Map (made 4,000 breads in 2017) Others (supporting shared growth, etc.) Furthermore, we will consider the feasibility and by 2 employees, 3 college students, and 3 high school in front of the Gye-dong Hyundai E&C building in ·Family can participate in the 3rd Saturday Improvement of Scenery in APR, OCT ·Installed tour guide map availability of appropriate technology items derived from students from the existing three-person group system. connection with tourist business department of Seoul, Bukchon Village Project ·Painted wall murals behind Daedong Taxation High School in Gahoe-dong exchanging opinions with local university students to to explore careers and experience activities in various painting murals on the alleyway of Gahoe-dong. Blood Donation Campaign Once a quarter (MAR, JUN, SEP and NOV) · Blood Donation Campaign for employees at the headquarters (150 persons solve community issues. ways. participated each time) 48 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 HDEC VALUE PRINCIPLE In order to fulfill responsibilities as a global leading construction company, Hyundai E&C has not stopped thinking of sustainable tomorrow through the era of change and innovation. Our five value principles are the basis for pursuing a management strategy that considers business values and socio-environmental values in a balanced manner. Propelling Securing Internalizing Managing Protecting Corporate-wide Sound Ethics & Risks Proactively Human Rights Sustainability Governance Compliance in Value Chain Management Management Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Karan Gas Treatment Facility, Saudi Arabia Principle 1 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/Global.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Propelling Corporate-wide Sustainability Management Management Principle Hyundai E&C has been implementing corporate-wide sustainability management as a core foundation Global Sustainability Leader DJSI Sustainability Award Logo for maximizing the value of stakeholders business. Hyundai E&C has established the system based on In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most authoritative sustainability index in the world, Hyundai E&C the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model and set long-term sustainability management goals and Key was honored to be selected as the Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering Industry in 2017. It is the first Sustainability Indicators for 2020 to secure the effectiveness. In addition, we analyze sustainability in the global construction industry for a company to become the Industry Leader for five consecutive years. This management issues and gather opinions through diverse communication channels for each stakeholder meaningful achievement is proving that the future value of Hyundai E&C as the global No. 1 construction company group and reflect them in our management policies. has been highly recognized. The DJSI is the investment index developed by Dow Jones, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss assessment company. It annually evaluates the economic, environmental, and social HYUNDAI E&C HYUNDAI E&C Sustainability Strategy sustainability of the top 2,500 companies in market capitalization by industries and thus announces the evaluation result. The DJSI, therefore, has demonstrated the competitiveness of Hyundai E&C is substantially competitive Sustainability Humankind faces crisis due to global changes that are a combination of global climate change, change of world in the industry. It is expected to contribute to securing the liquidity and penetrating into new markets. In addition, demographics, urbanization, water scarcity, environmental pollution, and intensifying energy & resource depletion. Management Hyundai E&C, which has lead the industry by developing implementation model for UN Sustainable Development As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C aims to provide future solutions for sustainable future through Goals and Creating Shared Value strategy for the first time as a global construction company, will continue to exert its sustainable construction products and environment-friendly construction technology with the sustainability a positive influence as a global sustainability leader. management vision of 'Sustainable Habitat for Human.' In May 2014, therefore, we have established the sustainability management system based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model for the first in the global construction industry. Furthermore, we have been promoting corporate-wide sustainability management centered on seven driving strategies in the five sustainability areas: and sustainability management targets. Stakeholder Engagement It is essential to understand and communicate with stakeholders in order to maximize the value of stakeholders and realize the sustainable growth and development. Accordingly, we have defined the six major stakeholder groups who can influence the company either directly or indirectly while operating various communications channels for gathering opinions. Likewise, we are generating shared values by distributing economic outcomes to stakeholders in a fair Increasing Securing Core manner. the Proportion of Environment-friendly Reducing GHG Long-term Sustainability Targets Distribution of Stakeholder Interests Environmentand High-efficiency Emissions (Unit: KRW in billions) Communication Channels friendly Products Technologies Government Government, Media Employee Customer Corporate tax payments and Association Five Sustainability Areas Strategic Environmental Technology Talent Social 183.27 Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Management Management Management Management Management · Public Hearings ·Intranet, HDEC Newsletter, SNS, Blog · Call Center, Customer Center (web), · Press Release · Next Leader Board, Discussion with CEO SNS, Blog Employees · Association Activities · Employee Engagement Survey · Customer Satisfaction Survey Establishing Total annual compensations · Hillstate Styler Fortifying Responding Cultivating Enhancing Advancing · H·Dudrim Securing Core Safety & · H·Dudrim Seven Driving Strategies Global CompetClimate Innovative Value Chain Strategic Social Technology Environment 508.38 itiveness Changes Talents Capability Contributions Infrastructure Engagement Policies Engagement Policies Engagement Policies ·Participate in the government's policy and ·Provide fair appraisal and compensation ·Maximize customer satisfaction through Suppliers comply with regulations technologies ·Support innovative capability Procurement and subcontracting expenses ·Transparently disclose via media ·Increase customers' trust and improve ·Pursue work and life balance ·Build a constructive relationship with communication Long-term Sustainability Target Indicator Link to UN SDGs 6,216.38 relevant associations ·Construct a comfortable residential environment Increasing the proportion of sales of environment-friendly products to more than 45% Local Communities Increasing against total revenues by 2020 Social contribution expenditures the Proportion of Proportion of total environment-friendly products (%) 45.0 Environment-friendly Proportion of environment-friendly in Infrastructure Works Division (%) 2.0 Goal 11, 12, 13 4.86 HYUNDAI E&C Proportion of environment-friendly products in Building Works Division (%) 29.0 Communication Channels Products Proportion of environment-friendly products in Plant Works Division (%) 14.0 Shareholders & Investors Dividends and interests Investing KRW 118.8 billion in securing core environment-friendly and high-effciency technologies by 2020 132.55 Securing Core Supplier Society Shareholder and Investor Environment-friendly R&D investments (KRW in billions) 24 R&D human resources (persons) 185 Goal 6, 9, 12 and High-efficiency Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Technologies Patent applications (cases) 80 · Hi-partner System · Social contribution activities · General shareholders' meeting Contribution to improving profitability and to receiving orders (KRW in billions) 166.2 ·Joint Cooperation Committee, Win-win · Community meeting · Investment presentation Growth Support Center · Public disclosure · Supplier satisfaction survey Reducing GHG emissions by 2.1% per year compared to baseline year 2015 by 2020 · H·Dudrim Reducing Total GHG emissions reduction (tCO2-e) 101,834.49 Engagement Policies Engagement Policies Engagement Policies Goal 12, 13 GHG Emissions GHG emissions reduction by energy efficiency (tCO2-e) 100,897.45 ·Establish fair and transparent business ·Protect the environment around sites · Establish a sound governance GHG emissions reduction by energy saving campaigns (tCO2-e) 926.94 relations ·Enhance three major social contribution ·Continuously enhance the corporate GHG emissions reduction by operating environment-friendly vehicles (tCO2-e) 10.10 ·Share information and technologies activities competitiveness ·Realize the shared growth and win-win ·Actively communicate with local ·Maximize the value of shareholders and management communities investors ※ Definition of environment-friendly products: Energy plants, products of green business, green buildings, and high-effciency buildings ※ Definition of R&D investments: Investments in operation of R&D human resources, R&D expenses, and acquisition of R&D assets 52 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 Principle 1 Propelling Corporate-wide Sustainability Management INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Key Sustainability Issues Hyundai E&C selects and reports key sustainability issues affecting the corporate sustainability management in Materiality Analysis Matrix External Interest General Issues to Report Material Issues to Report Core Issues to Report 1 accordance with the international standards for sustainability reporting, GRI Standards. Additionally, we reflected principles of the inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness which AA 1000 standard requires for the accountability 3 of the issue selection process and evaluation result. 6 8 2 Materiality Test Process 7 10 5 4 11 12 STEP 01. STEP 02. STEP 03. 15 Identification Prioritization Validation 13 14 9 16 Identifying sustainability issues Identifying key issues through Verifying validity of key issues 23 19 30 through analysis of internal and stakeholder engagement and 18 Core Issues to Report: 28 external environment and other impact assessment Issues that interest and influence of the 31 24 20 32 29 construction companies' issues entire stakeholder group are extremely high 17 21 26 Material Issues to Report: 22 27 25 Identification of Sustainability Issues through Internal and External Environment Analysis Issues that interest of external stakeholders STEP 01. or influence of employees are high 33 PRINCIPLE: Inclusiveness General Issues to Report: Hyundai E&C created the sustainability management issue-pool (includes total 332 construction sector issues) Identification Other sustainability issues that are included through the benchmarking of global guidelines, review on the domestic and global construction industry, media in Hyundai E&C's management activities 35 34 Internal Interest research, and review on the internal management data. As a result, we identified total 35 sustainability issues that have a high relevance to the managerial activities of Hyundai E&C. Material Issues STRATEGY AGENDA 01 AGENDA 02 Benchmarking of Global Standards Conduct benchmarking on key sustainability management trends by analysis on Sustainability Management Strategic Management Environmental Management GRI Standards, ISO 26000, UNGC and DJSI GRI G4 Aspect GRI G4 Aspect GRI G4 Aspect Reviews on Domestic and Global Construction Industry Strategy*, Organizational Profile*, Governance*, Ethics and Integrity*, Economic Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Identify material issues in relevant industry by analyzing sustainability issues that domestic and Identified Material Aspects and Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts Emissions, Effluents and Waste overseas construction companies report oundaries*, Stakeholder Engagement* Media Research Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Analyze total 5,325 articles that the domestic press reported in 2017 1 Creating economic performance and value 5 Establishing sustainability management system 19 Promoting environmental management and in order to understand the society's expectation for Hyundai E&C reducing environmental impact at sites 3 Fostering and excavating new growth 6 Managing risk preemptively businesses 23 Expanding waste management and recycling 7 Promoting ethics & compliance management Reviews on Internal Management Data and Interview 8 Improving production cost competitiveness and 28 Managing energy and reducing its use Review the internal management data and interview responsible personnel 10 Securing soundness and transparency of improving profitability governance structure 29 Reducing use of materials and resources in order to reflect internally material issues about the managerial environment 18 D  iversifying overseas business and expanding 11 Internalizing fair competition and fair trade 30 Reducing water management and its use global market 27 Engaging and communicating with stakeholders 31 Managing GHG and reducing its emission Prioritization of Issues Identified through the Materiality Test 21 Maximizing stakeholders' value added 32 Responding and mitigating climate change STEP 02. 24 C  ompliance of national laws and regulations we PRINCIPLE: Materiality operate 35 Protecting biodiversity in projects Hyundai E&C analyzed the materiality of each issue in aspects of external interest and internal impact by conducting Prioritization the online survey about the Hyundai E&C sustainability issues, which total 2,565 internal and external stakeholders AGENDA 03 AGENDA 04 AGENDA 05 participated in. Technology Management Talent Management Social Management Stakeholder Survey GRI G4 Aspect GRI G4 Aspect GRI G4 Aspect · Purpose: To identify major interests and expectations of various stakeholders Products and Services, Marketing and Employment, Labor & Management Relations, Suppliers, Local Communities · Period: 25 APR 2018~9 MAY 2018 (total 15 days) Labeling, Customer Privacy Occupational Health and Safety, Training and · Utilization: Establishment of long-term sustainability goals; review on the sustainability management approach; Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, development of the Sustainability Report Equal Remuneration by Gender Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Validation of Material Issues 2 Securing core technology competitiveness 4 C  ultivating excellent talents and developing 14 S  upporting suppliers and pursuing mutual STEP 03. their capabilities growth 9 Improving customer satisfaction and value PRINCIPLE: Responsiveness 13 Managing domestic and overseas safety and 15 Improving supply chain sustainability 12 E  nvironment-friendly R&D, engineering and Hyundai E&C thoroughly reviewed whether the issues identified have an important influence on the company. health thoroughly Validation construction technology 25 Enhancing supplier assessment and capabiliity Comprehensively considering the validity of issues and their connection to management strategies, we subdivided 20 Managing brand and leading market 16 Protecting human rights and preventing its 33 P  romoting strategic social contribution abuse at project issues into three categories: 20 core sustainability issues, 30 material issues, and general issues. 26 Creating social value through product & service activities innovation 17 Respecting diversity of employees and 34 Local community contribution and investment In planning this report, we focused mainly on the 20 core sustainability issues that have the highest importance. Also, pursuing their self-realization we endeavored to guarantee our stakeholders' right to know by including material and general issues. 22 Pursuing mutual benefit between labor and * General Disclosure of the GRI Standards management 54 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Principle 2 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/IR/Management.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Securing Sound Governance Management Principle Hyundai E&C applies the principles of checks and balances and international standards to ensure Board Composition and Guarantee of Independence Attendance Rate of External Directors the soundness of corporate governance, which is the foundation for rational decision-making and Hyundai E&C operates the Board of Directors (BoD) that is composed of total seven members: three internal directors, 97 a successful business environment. Furthermore, we are contributing to creating values and trust % As of 2017 four external directors. Moreover, it is chaired by the CEO because of the characteristic of the construction industry of shareholders and stakeholders by intensifying the expertise and transparency of the Board of Directors. that requires a prompt decision making for sites located around the globe. In addition to this, the majority of the board consists of external directors while one independent lead director is appointed; as a consequence, the independence of the Board has been further secured. External directors are independent from corporate subject to relevant laws including the commercial law. The independent lead director takes a responsibility for monitoring managerial activities of the CEO, mediating Governance Principle Hyundai E&C's corporate governance is managed under the supervision of an independent Board of Directors conflicts between executive and external directors, and proposing opinions of external directors. External directors (BoD). It is based on a sound corporate governance structure that creates shareholder value through value creation fulfills their duties as faithful advisers and assistors in the management of the company by reinforcing the transparency Corporate Governance Reports management, global future management, and sustainability management and emphasizes the interests of internal and fairness of the corporate management, providing advices and expert knowledge to contribute to making and external stakeholders in a balanced manner. important decisions of the company, and performing objective monitoring and supervision of management activities. http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20180604800580 In order to realize this, we have adopted the recommendation of corporate governance best criterion in line with Hyundai E&C has designated a complete charge department to support the efficient execution of external directors' international standards, and have established a transparent governance system centered on a professional duties and provide work-related information required. manager system and independent BoD. Furthermore, we are making efforts to raise transparency by voluntarily Supporting External Directors disclosing corporate governance reports that contain the principles and status of Hyundai E&C's governance in Providing information and Providing information when required Paying for the consultation of external Supporting to visit domestic 2016. explanation about the proposed for tasks, enabling to interview with experts if necessary, following and overseas sites to enhance agenda one week before the board manager of sites independently the appropriate procedure understanding of company business meeting without top management Board of Directors Function of the Board of Directors (BoD) The Board of Directors is the key body which makes decisions for the company and resolves issues articulated on regulations and the Articles of Incorporation as well as issues related to the business execution. It also monitors Criteria for Nominating Board Directors the execution of directors and the executive's duties while striving to maximize the corporate value and build trust Directors are nominated at the general shareholders' meeting by the recommendation of the External Director of stakeholders. Nominating Committee in accordance with Hyundai E&C's standards to nominate directors specified in the Articles of Incorporation. In recommending nominating external directors, Hyundai E&C observes qualifications articulated Financial Supervisory Service's Data Information such as Articles of Incorporation, key roles of the BoD, and resolutions are available on Hyundai E&C's Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System on related regulations such as the Commercial Act. Recommended by the External Director Nominating Committee, (DART) website. In addition, we regularly disclose the BoD-related information that we have a legal duty to publicly report we nominate candidates who possess expertise and experience in fields such as the law, finance & accounting, through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service. In addition, in and construction regarding the BoD diversity and the complementarity of skills. Detailed policies for Nominating order to create a sound corporate governance structure that creates shareholder value and emphasizes balanced http://dart.fss.or.kr the directors are specified in the '2.5 Nomination of Directors' of HDEC Corporate Governance Charter. interests of internal and external stakeholders, we are continuously improving our corporate governance structure by establishing HDEC Corporate Governance Charter. Policy for Director Nominating HDEC Corporate Governance Charter HDEC Corporate Governance Charter BoD Complementarity of Skills Balance BoD Diversity Securing the complementarity for the duties of Enhancing the diversity of the BoD based Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 http://www.hdec.kr/KR/IR/Governance0100.aspx the BoD based on duty indicators on diversity indicators Shareholders Board of Directors Audit Organization Stakeholders Disclosure Industry Educational Skill Expertise Gender Race Nationality Age Experience Background 3 articles, 9 articles, 2 articles, 1 articles, 1 articles, 8 clauses 42 clauses 9 clauses 3 clauses 3 clauses Basis: '2.5 Director Nominating' of HDEC Corporate Governance Charter Current Status of Executive director Executive director Executive director External director External director External director External director Park Lee Yun Shin Suh Park Kim the Board of Directors Dong-Wook Won-Woo Yeo-Sung Hyun-Yoon Chee-Ho Sung-Duck Young-Kee (As of 30 JUN 2018) Sex Male Sex Male Sex Male Sex Male Sex Male Sex Male Sex Male * As of JUN 2018, the average Birth FEB 1962 Birth FEB 1954 Birth FEB 1961 Birth JUL 1955 Birth AUG 1953 Birth NOV 1952 Birth SEP 1956 service duration of Hyundai E&C First Appointment MAR 2018 First Appointment MAR 2018 First Appointment MAR 2018 First Appointment MAR 2011 First Appointment MAR 2011 First Appointment MAR 2014 First Appointment MAR 2016 board directors is 3.2 years Work Experience Construction & Engineering Work Experience Construction & Engineering Work Experience Construction & Engineering Work Experience Law Work Experience Construction & Engineering Work Experience Law Work Experience Finance & Accounting Board Chairman / CEO Current Vice-president, Hyundai E&C Current Managing Director, Hyundai E&C Chairman of the Audit Committee Current Professor of Architectural Engineering, Current Lawyer, Lee International Current President, Tax&People Current President, Hyundai E&C Former Vice-president, Hyundai Engineering Former Managing Director, Hyundai Mobis (independent lead director) KonKuk Univ. Former Inspection Commissioner, Former Director, Research Bureau of Former M  anaging Director, Master of Construction Project Management, Bachelor of Business Administration, Current Professor of Law School at Yonsei Univ. Former Chairman, Architecture Institute of Korea the Board of Audit and Inspection of National Tax Service Hyundai Motor Company University of Ulsan Graduate School, Korea Yonsei University, Korea Former Vice-president, Education and Doctor of Architectural Engineering, Korea Master, Chung-Ang University Bachelor of Business Administration, Scholarship at Yonsei Univ. Hanyang University, Korea Bachelor of Law, Seoul National University, Korea Graduate School of Public Administration, Korea Sogang University, Korea Doctor of Law, University of Freiburg, Germany Doctor of Law, Wonkwang University, Korea 56 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 Principle 2 Securing Sound Governance INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Operation of the Board of Directors Audit Committee Board of Directors Regulations The Board of Directors (BoD) is operated as a regular board meeting once a quarter and a temporary board meeting The Audit Committee is a committee within the BoD, which is responsible for auditing the legitimacy of directors and as necessary. In order to ensure efficient operation of the BoD, we have established Board of Directors Regulations executives in order to enhance corporate value, and is independent from management and certain shareholders. http://www.hdec.kr/KR/IR/Governance0301.aspx and have maintained minutes at each meeting. The resolution of the BoD is determined by the attendance of a It is mainly audits the accounting, tasks and financial status of the company. Currently, four external directors are majority of the directors and the affirmative vote of the majority of the directors present, except in cases where there appointed to ensure transparency and independence. In addition, it conducts audits efficiently while communicating is a difference in the laws and regulations. In 2017, the BoD has held nine times of meeting to resolve a total of 29 with external auditor about the audit plan and results of financial statement. agendas including approval of transactions with affiliates. External Director Nominating Committee Operation Status of the BoD The External Director Nominating Committee is a committee within the BoD, which is established to recommend Round Date Contents candidates for external directors in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. It is responsible for confirming 1 26 JAN 2017 7 agendas including approval of 67th Financial Statement the background of the appointment of directors, the interests of the company including transactions over the past 2 22 FEB 2017 3 agendas including convocation of the 67th regular general meeting of shareholders, approval of agenda three years, and legal qualifications. Currently, it is composed of one internal director and four external directors, discussion which are more stringent than legal standards requiring majority of external directors. 3 17 MAR 2017 3 agendas including appointment of member of External Director Nominating Committee 4 27 APR 2017 3 agendas including revision of ethics regulations Transparent Management Committee 5 17 JUN 2017 2 agendas including approval of moving Chile Santiago branch The Transparent Management Committee is a committee within the BoD, which is established to review transparency 6 27 JUL 2017 3 agendas including approval of transactions with the company of our largest shareholder and ethical management of the company's internal transactions and to protect the rights and interests of shareholders. 7 27 OCT 2017 4 agendas including approval of financial transaction by financial company of affiliates following provision Through the resolution of the BoD on 29 MAR 2018, we have enhanced the independence and transparency of 8 2 DEC 2017 Approval of Songdo B2 block residential complex new construction project, the committee by switching the name from the existing 'Ethical Management Committee' to 'Transparent Management credit offering due to business expense loan agreement Committee,' expanding the scope and functions of the deliberations, and changing the composition of the committee, 9 28 DEC 2017 3 agendas including approval of transaction between affiliates which had included internal directors, to total four external directors. Committees Composition of Committees Evaluation and Remuneration of directors includes the severance pay and is provided within the limit that is approved at the general Under the BoD Hyundai E&C is currently operating Audit Committee, External Director Nominating Committee, and Transparent Remuneration of shareholders' meeting on an annual basis; details are entrusted to BoD the remuneration status of all directors and Management Committee under the BoD for the Board's efficient operation, execution of its duty, and promotion the committee of inspection has been disclosed on quarterly, biannual and annual business reports. Remuneration of of sustainability management activity. Each committee is entrusted with part of the authority of the BoD, except Directors the CEO is paid in accordance with the provisions of executives human resources affairs and treatment considering as stipulated by the related laws or the Articles of Incorporation. Operation and authority of the committee are the rank, position, ability, etc. within the limits determined by the general shareholders' meeting. In particular, the subject to the rules stipulated by the board. The Articles of Incorporation and regulations of the Board clarify that amount paid and methodology of personal remuneration are publicly reported in a clear and transparent manner the key committees established by Articles of Incorporation shall consist mainly of external directors. Thus, we have when the total amount exceeds KRW 500 million. In addition, in order to improve the company's long-term growth guaranteed the independence of the committees. and governance structure, a fair evaluation can be conducted based on the activities of the BoD. Current Status of Committees under the BoD Committee Requirements of Functions Authorities Operation Protecting As the owners of Hyundai E&C, shareholders have a right to attend the general shareholders' meeting and vote, right Composition to share in the profit, and right to receive management information as stated on legislations including the Commercial Shareholder Rights Audit Committee ·Directors of three and over ·Auditing the legality of business activities carried out ·Regular evaluating external ·Holding a meeting more than once a quarter, Act. We observe a principle to preserve shareholders' rights in any cases when a significant change to the existence of by the BoD and the management auditors' audit activities, preliminary temporary audit committee as necessary ·Two-thirds of external the company or shareholder rights, such as adjustment of the Articles of Incorporation, merger or split off, and changes approving management diagnosis directors and over ·Reviewing the integrity and feasibility of the company's ·Being able to request employee attendance related to activities Disclosure of Shareholders' Status in capital; decisions in these circumstances are made at the general shareholders' meeting. In addition, Hyundai E&C financial activities meeting ·One accounting or financial ·Confirming corrective actions for guarantees the shareholders' right to be informed by disclosing management information in an explicit and prompt manner specialists and over ·Reviewing and controlling the internal audit, appoint external ·Being able to request expert consultation internal and external audits auditor at the company's expense http://www.hdec.kr/KR/IR/Stock0200.aspx through various channels: the corporate disclosure system, business report, website, and general shareholders' meeting. · Regarding amendment ·Reviewing the accuracy of financial reporting ·Reviewing compliance with the company's compliance of the operating regulations standards is from a compliance officer appointed by Major Shareholders (As of 31 DEC 2017) ·Reviewing the feasibility of the significant changes in of the Audit Committee the board of directors. accounting processing standards and estimation ·Being able to utilize the personnel of the Audit Office Number of Shares Proportion of Shares ·Reporting general shareholders' meeting on subjects related to be assisted in the duties to appointment and dismissal of external auditors Hyundai Motor Company 23,327,400 21.0 % · Mediating communication between external auditor and BoD 17.5% 20.9% Hyundai 9,719,750 8.7 % Hyundai Mobis External Director ·Directors of two and over · Recommending candidates for external directors ·Reviewing compliance with legal · Being able to hold committee as necessary Motor Group Nominating requirements related to ·Half of external directors and KIA Motors 5,831,850 5.2 % Committee the appointment of external over directors and their independence 100% 8.7% National Pension Service 12,481,292 11.2 % 28.7% 5.2% Domestic  Other Institutions Transparent ·Directors of three and over · Ensuring the execution of Compliance Program ·Supervising transactions between ·Holding a meeting more than once a quarter, Institutions  sset Management Companies A 8,631,151 7.8 % 11.2% and Management special relationship prescribed by temporary transparent management committee ·Two-thirds of external ·Deliberating and resolve major policies related to the ethical 7.8% Committee the Monopoly Regulation and Fair as necessary Foreigners 31,867,439 28.6 % directors and over management and social contribution Trade Act and Commercial Act ·Being able to appoint advisory with expert knowledge ·Enacting and revise ethical regulations such as code of ethics ·Matters concerning the protection up to 2 Others 19,496,883 17.5 % and evaluate the compliance of shareholders' rights · Selecting the sustainability vision and strategic tasks Total 111,355,765 100 % 58 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 Principle 3 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/EhticConduct.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Internalizing Ethics & Compliance Management Management Principle Ethics & compliance management is the basis for Hyundai E&C's value judgement and preventing regulatory Expanding Ethics Improving Effectiveness of Ethics & Compliance Management Training risks and building trust with stakeholders. We regularly check the status of ethics & compliance management & Compliance Hyundai E&C is constantly strengthening ethics & compliance management education and campaign activities to and reflect the necessary improvements in the ethics & compliance management system, so that we can enhance the corporate-wide internalization of ethics & compliance management. Therefore, we have implemented internalize ethics & compliance, and our business activities lead to fair value creation. Management the complementary ethics & compliance management training for all employees including the CEO and the top management. In addition, we operate an ethics management practice Q&A in the Online Ethics & Compliance Consulting Center on groupware to help employees make ethical decisions in work. In 2017, we have published a compliance monthly newsletter and developed an ethics and compliance counselling window to actively support the resolution of employees' concerns related to ethics and compliance. Furthermore, we have changed the format Strengthening Ethics Hyundai E&C recognizes that the importance of ethics and compliance is increasing, and is continuing to strengthen of the existing electronic signature practice pledge to deliver ethics management by directly inputting words to its ethical and compliance management system. In 2017, we have established corporate-wide compliance promote employee awareness. In 2018, we established a system of ethics and compliance education to ensure & Compliance that all employees to take ethical management training obligatorily and improved the effectiveness of education by organization and designated compliance officers by divisions and compliance leaders by departments following Management System establishment of Compliance Support Team in 2016. In addition, Hyundai E&C has revised its the Code of Conduct to establishing customized compliance training for each job. improve its systemicity, apply domestic and international compliance guidelines related to corruption prevention acts, Performance of Ethics & Compliance Training in 2017 and promote employees to understand and utilize The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act guidebook we developed. Type Course Trainee Participants In 2018, we will hold compliance consultative group meeting, which has been hold every three months before, on Corporate-wide Online ethics management training All employees 1,686 persons a monthly basis to reinforce ethical management promotion and inspection. In addition, we will continue to raise Traning Team seminar ethics training All employees 1,427 persons awareness of ethics & compliance and identifying improvement points through the development of individual and Training Ethics management training New and experienced employees hired 162 persons departmental checklists and regular self-examination. by Group Ethics management training All executives, site managers, team leaders 350 persons Overseas sites ethics training Employees at overseas sites 595 persons Ethics Management System The Improper Solicitation and Employees of sales department and 313 persons Moral Pride in HDEC Graft Act training other related departments Hyundai E&C in Which All of Customers, Employees, and Suppliers Take Pride Specialized training by group Promoted employees, PJT and etc. 1,387 persons Training Transparent ethics training Sales organization team leaders or 851 suppliers 3 Practical Elements Code of Conduct / Supervisory Body / Ethics Training for Suppliers higher rank of suppliers · Establish a transparent management system on a global scale · Build infrastructures for ethical management 5 Areas of · Carry out an in-depth training on 'Clean Company' · Enhance win-win cooperation system Implementation · Expand and improve management evaluation tasks Ethics Management Survey Results Ethics Management Survey (Unit: points / out of 5 points) Since 2015, Hyundai E&C has implemented an annual ethics management survey for all employees aiming to assess Ethics Charter 3.82 3.82 the corporate awareness of the ethical management and to establish appropriate directions. The survey is conducted Hyundai E&C pursues ethical value first to realize the company creating tomorrow together 3.79 for 4 sections: general ethics management, standards of ethics and practice guidelines, report of unethical behavior, and ethics training & campaign. Based on the survey results, we have been identifying specific implications such as As a responsible corporate Hyundai E&C people As a representative of Hyundai E&C people are citizen, Hyundai E&C cooperate with all the company, Hyundai committed to sustainable systematization of ethics regulations and strengthening ethics management at overseas sites with high risk exposure. takes the lead in creating stakeholders based on E&C people establish an development as a member Our awareness of ethical management in 2018 was 3.82 points (out of 5 points). a transparent corporate the spirit of mutual autonomous and creative of the nation and society environment by observing respect and builds trust organizational culture 2016 2017 2018 laws and principles relationship Operating Cyber Audit Office By operating the Cyber Audit Office, we receive reports about corruption, unfair transactions and requests to improve Standards of Ethics the system; reports and requests submitted to the Cyber Audit Office are being processed in a transparent manner. Code of Ethics To ensure smooth reporting, we assure that the identity of the informant is confidential while operating the English Ethics for Shareholders Cyber Audit Office 1 Basic Ethics of Employees 2 and Investors 3 Ethics for Customers ​​ Cyber Audit Office and the international hotline 24 hours a day. In addition, we have posted a Cyber Audit Office popCompliance with Responsibility Responsibility up on our cooperation system to collect more available reports and have sent out guide e-mails to our domestic and 4 5 6 Market Economy Order to Employees for the State and Society http://enaudit.hdec.kr/ overseas purchasing and outsourcing staffs of suppliers. Practice Guidelines Intensifying Autonomous Hyundai E&C operates Autonomous Compliance Program for Fair Trade in order to create a transparent and fair trading culture and uses it as an internal control standard. We regularly hold an Autonomous Compliance Conference Fair Job Performance Ethical Job Performance Report and Action Compliance Program for and share issues related to internal and external fair trade risks for the systematic operation of the Autonomous Fair Trade Compliance Program for Fair Trade. In addition, we are strengthening our minds to comply with fair trade laws and win-win partnerships with our suppliers through customized fair trade prevention training for each department, Corporate-wide Compliance Organization System visiting subcontractors training at each domestic and overseas key sites, signing a pledge to practice fair trade for all Compliance Support Compliance Officers by Compliance Leaders by employees, and holding a shared growth resolution conference. CEO Team of Legal Affairs Divisions Departments, Sites Division and Branches Seven Key Components of Compliance Program for Fair Trade ·Creating ethics and compliance culture at headquarters ·Monitoring status of ethics 1.  2.  3.  4.  5.  6.  7.  and compliance inspection CEO's Appointment of Establishment Training Monitoring & Autonomous Establishment ·Establishing and executing ·Managing status of · Performing departmental Commitment Supervisors for & Amendment System Supervisory Regulations of Documencorporate-wide compliance compliance leaders compliance activities Autonomous of Autonomous System on Violation tation System policies ·Cooperating with Compliance (autonomous inspection with Compliance Compliance · Operating consultative group Support Team checklist, etc.) Handbook 60 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 Principle 4 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Managing Risks Proactively Management Principle Hyundai E&C is continuously enhancing preemptive risk management to improve the capability to identify Intensifying Risk Reorganizing Department for Integrated Risk Management potential risks and prevent crisis. In particular, we have been systematically enhancing our business stability Management Hyundai E&C has operated the Project Risk Management (PRM) Strategy Office to stably respond to the domestic and and further strengthening our competitiveness by identifying new business opportunities based on long-term overseas construction environment risk from 2016 to 2017. The PRM Strategy Office, as a control tower for enterprise strategic risk analysis. Infrastructure risk, has inspected risks of the entire project life cycle from receiving orders to executing projects. In 2018, we plan to carry out more integrated and efficient risk management by transferring the overall risk management tasks to the Operating Direction of Department for Integrated Risk Management in 2018 Finance and Economy Division for organic identification and articulated management of risks and production costs. Department for Integrated Risk Management Advancing IT-based Integrated Risk Management System Defining Risks Enterprise Risks Through the operation of IT-based risk management system, we are efficiently dealing with key information created Integrated Production Enterprise risks are comprehensive risks that is not directly related to the project, and can affect corporate Risks during the series of processes: risk identification, analysis, evaluation, and response. Following the development of Management Costs management goals and strategic direction. Enterprise risks are subdivided into country risks and company & market the receiving of order management system in 2014, we have completed establishment of integrated risk management risks. Country risks include political, sociocultural, and environmental risks that can occur from domestic and overseas system that encompasses risk management functions at the implementation phase in 2016. In 2017, we have external changes and are managed at the corporate level. On the other hand, company & market risks include usual upgraded the system to realize a risk information portal function that enables integrated search of risk information for market, business, and financial risks. each business unit, and establish a real-time confirmation and support system for headquarters on each site's issues. Establishment of risk management plan Hyundai E&C is strengthening risk management based on the risk information we have acquired through In 2018, we plan to expand the existing overseas project screening database to domestic & investment project and Establishment of articulated management the integrated risk management system established in 2016. In addition, considering the scope, nature, and overseas investment projects and develop a system to automate the screening process. In addition, we plan to plan of risks and production costs management techniques of enterprise risk linked to the company's midto long-term direction are different from strengthen the initial risk management by making a risk checklist for the person in charge of the execution phase and Risk assessment project risks, we plan to manage risks and strategies exclusively in a management planning office from 2018. by developing a management function for managing delays of the headquarters' supporting activities. Risk monitoring and control Multi-layered Risk Filtering System Project Risks Improving Risk Analysis and Assessment System at Phases of Receiving Orders Project risks refers to material risks affecting the achievement of project targets during receiving or executing order. Hyundai E&C has distributed a checklist by project types for all projects since 2013 while conducting a risk assessment Phase 3 Hyundai E&C has established and operated a consistent and efficient project risk management system throughout by experts for the systematic analysis and management of risk. Assessment results are utilized as basic materials Main Screening the project lifecycle to prevent project risks preemptively. to establish management strategies and make decisions for similar projects. In 2014, we have strengthened the risk From 2014, we have been cutting off risky project orders through our multi-layered risk filtering system at receiving analysis and evaluation activities of employees by introducing a working group screening system. In 2016, we have Phase 2 Working Group Screening phase. Through this process, projects selected and received are focused on identifying high-risks from the initial phase improved risk management methods in the phase of receiving order and execution in the form of risk registers for and we ensure appropriate risk responses by separating the risks that can be handled by sites and need support from continuous risk management. In 2017, we have established Sensing, Assessing, Tracking, and Feed-back modules Phase 1 the head office. In addition, we are responding to the risk of lower profitability due to compensation for damages caused within the integrated risk management system to improve our risk analysis and assessment system. In 2018, we plan to Headquarters Screening by construction period delays and additional costs by supporting for the extension claim of the construction period. hold sharing session of head office, on-site training and risk assessment results in order to activate the module utilization. In addition, we established risk management regulations and implemented relevant training continuously to improve Risk Analysis and Assessment Module the project risk management capabilities of our employees. In 2018, we plan to build an construction period delay management system at the initial phase of the project to strengthen preemptive risk management capabilities. Sensing Assessing Tracking Feedback Prompt identifying on-site Supporting failure prevention Tracking site and headquarters Long-term Strategic Risks risks based on information Supporting on-site risk risk management activity by providing site management of on-site sales, collection of grading and task prioritization failure cases and similar record Long-term strategic risks are material risks which may significantly influence the future sustainability of Hyundai E&C. We money, and process rate experienced worker's have identified urbanization, water scarcity & environmental pollution, energy & fuel scarcity, and resource depletion as the key megatrends of the construction industry in a long term perspective. Hyundai E&C has devoted its efforts to defining risk & opportunity factors through the future analysis against 2030 for each megatrend and to respond effectively. Risk Reporting System Improving Efficiency of Risk Monitoring and Reporting System Hyundai E&C has defined 15 Key Risk Indicators and monitored through monthly risk analysis and regular scenario Construction Industry Megatrends Analysis against 2030 Board of Directors High-level Risk mapping. In addition, we have developed response manuals for each relevant organization to react to unusual Urbanization Water Scarcity & Energy & Fuel Resource Depletion signs immediately. Furthermore, we have a risk reporting system for effective response in advance by quantitatively Environmental Pollution ·The CRO directly reports to the BoD and analyzing the seriousness, possibility, and impacts as well as by proactively defining the reporting process and targets undertake the investigation of a given risk 44% increase in urban population 53% increase in water intake, 33% increase in world 55% increase in resource consumption, according to risk steps. In 2018, we will further strengthen our monitoring and reporting system by classifying key risks increase, 60% of world's 39% increase in primary energy demand, industrial resource extraction scale and the responsible personnel population living in cities water shortage population 20% increase in GHG emissions increase to 83 billion tons ·Establish a risk mitigation strategy, regular at the execution phase and enabling executives and employees in charge to search the status of each risk through <UN Population Division> <2030 Water Resource Group / WEF> <IEA> <SERI / KPMG> monitoring system, and countermeasures to a crisis situation the dashboard. Risk Factor Risk Factor Risk Factor Risk Factor Intensified socio-economic problems in Water crisis due to water supply Advent of severe crises on energy Weakening economic growth potential CEO Hyundai E&C's 15 Key Risks urban areas due to population growth shortage shortage caused by demand increase due to difficulty in acquiring resources Mid-level Risk for energy 01 02 03 04 05 Rise of Raw Currency Intensified Failure to Accomplish Failure of Opportunity Factor Opportunity Factor Opportunity Factor Opportunity Factor · The CRO directly reports to the CEO Materials Prices Volatility Competition Management Targets New Projects Provision of large & smart infrastructure Expansion of demand for water Response to energy scarcity with Expansion of business value in resource ·If a given risk is considered to be urgent in accordance with expansion treatment and environmental restoration renewable energy and low-carbon highrecycling and alternative materials and to have a significant effect on project(s), of the urban areas technology efficiency technologies development report to both the CEO and the BoD and 06 Inability to Qualify 07 08 09 10 make a prompt decision with the Global QC Changes in the Global Stagnant Domestic Political Uncertainties Standards Liquidity Crisis Economy Construction Industry in Foreign Countries Counter-measure Counter-measure Counter-measure Counter-measure CRO Development of state-of-the-art building Development of water treatment and Development of renewable energy and Development of waste recycling technology to supply large & smart environmental restoration technology to low-carbon, high-efficiency technology technology and substitute materials to Low-level Risk 11 12 13 14 15 infrastructure overcome environmental risk to cope with energy depletion prepare for resource shortages Vulnerability in HR Non-compliance Occupational Information and Long span bridge construction Seawater desalination, wastewater Environment-friendly bio energy, Contaminated soil restoration · Reported to the Chief Risk Offcer (CRO) Inadequate SCM Management with Laws Accidents Technology Leak technology, zero energy building, treatment and water reuse offshore wind power, tidal current technology intelligent transportation system generation, solar energy 62 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 Principle 5 http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/EhticConduct.aspx INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Protecting Human Rights in Value Chain Management Principle As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C has established the 'HDEC Human Rights Policy' to fulfill its Protecting Human Rights On-site Human Rights Checklist Evaluation social responsibilities and take the lead in protecting and promoting human rights through business. To this and Due Diligences In order to prevent any human rights violations that may arise in the global construction sites, Hyundai E&C have end, we have been minimizing negative impacts of human rights by analyzing the level of risk exposure to developed the 'On-site Human Rights Checklist' for the first time as a construction company in Korea in May 2017, human rights at all domestic and overseas projects and implementing systematic human rights assessment and have conducted detailed evaluations and inspections for each site. The 'On-site Human Rights Checklist' consists and corrective action based on the 'On-site Human Rights Checklist' developed for the first time in domestic of 30 indicators in four areas: basic human rights respect, labor rights protection, workplace safety assurance, and construction companies. welfare benefits. We utilize the checklist to identify and prioritize human rights risks at global construction sites where multinational workers work. In 2017, all 14,473 foreign workers of 31 overseas sites in 9 countries were assessed. The evaluation process Human Rights Policy We have been making effort to carry out its social responsibility and role of global corporate citizen in all countries include site self-inspections, on-site verification by branches, and employee interviews. As a result of the evaluation in which we operate as a global construction company. To this end, We have established the 'HDEC Human Rights in 2017, the implementation rate of the human rights checklist on the global site of Hyundai E&C was at 98%, Policy' in MAY 2017. Based on the policy, we have operated domestically and internationally under the principle of and we have been identifying and supporting the improvement needs of each site based on the final inspection UNGC Communication On Progress respect for human rights as a global responsible company and have publicly expressed our will to actively protect and results. In 2018, we will increase the monitoring of human rights at overseas sites from one to two, and will conduct promote human rights through business. Hyundai E&C have established the highest level of human rights respect and separate surveys on foreign employees. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/11559#cop protection responsibilities in all business activities. In addition, we firmly observe to the Constitution of the Republic of Korea and laws related to labor of the at all workplaces all over the world, and officially support international Implementation of Human Rights Monitoring in 2017 Key Improvements at Sites in 2017 human rights and labor standards based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor · Notification of counseling office at TBM* and safety training (Kuwait) Organization (ILO) Declaration. · Installation of operating suggestion box in new lodgings, maintenance of workers counseling office (UAE) Protecting Human Rights Hyundai E&C has been promoting construction projects around the world, and has been deeply recognizing it is · Installation of additional medical kits in lodgings and usage education (Saudi Arabia) possible that unintentional human rights violations may occur in the process of business operations due to cultural, and Due Diligences · Notification of operating suggestion box for workers at TBM and customary, religious, ethnic, and institutional differences in regions where Hyundai E&C operates. To minimize safety training (Qatar) negative human rights impacts, we identify issues that could cause human rights violations in the process of business Implementation Rates of the Human Rights Checklist in 2017 * TBM: Tool Box Meeting operation and the entire value chain as well as establish and implement process of organization, operation, monitoring, action and internal & external reporting in accordance with the due diligence process of human rights prescribed by Human Rights Checklist the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Implementation Rate 98% Hyundai E&C Human Rights Policy Human Rights Risk Assessment System Basic Human Rights (9 indicators) 93% Potential Human Rights Title Scope Vulnerable Group Subject http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/EhticConduct.aspx Issues Human Rights Risk Risk Corporate-wide Labour Rights (9 indicators) 100% Employees 100% of sales by country Exposure Assessment identification human rights risk Others Kuwait Saudi Arabia Indonesia On-site Human Rights Business Violation of human rights 100% of global sites (Sri Lanka, Venezuela, Uruguay) Employees, children Site Safety (6 indicators) 100% Checklist Assessment operation during company operation where generated sales 3 sites 4,562 persons 6 sites 1,741 persons 3 sites 210 persons 3 sites 755 persons Supply Chain Sustainability Supply chain human rights, Suppliers, Supply chain 100% of tier 1 suppliers Management Assessment labor and safety external contract workers UAE Qatar Singapore Welfare (6 indicators) 100% Violation of human rights 4 sites 4,493 persons 2 sites 1,336 persons 10 sites 1,376 persons Business Risk Assessment Project Local communities 100% of business in overseas projects Supply Chain Sustainability Management Human Rights Risk Exposure Assessment For the first among domestic construction companies, Hyundai E&C has enacted the 'HDEC Sustainability Hyundai E&C analyzes the exposure of human rights risks to all domestic and overseas projects every year by using Management Guideline for Suppliers' in OCT 2014 for the systematic and sustainable supply chain management. 'HDEC Human Rights Exposure Assessment Framework' since 2013. Based on it, we have been making effort to In MAY 2017, we revised the guideline to strengthen human rights management in the domestic and overseas minimizing potential human rights issues by establishing a HDEC Human Rights Policy and implementing appropriate supply chains in accordance with the 'Hyundai E&C Human Rights Policy.' Furthermore, in order to apply mitigation actions. In 2017, our sales were generated in 24 countries around the world, with 4.03% of the sales from the 'HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers' to actual tasks effectively, we developed the 'Supplier countries with high human rights risks including Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Sri Lanka. Considering human rights violations Sustainability Assessment Framework' and have been evaluating the Environment, Society and Governance (ESG) can occur in various areas depending on the characteristics of each country, we have been monitoring potential risks of our suppliers since 2014. This assessment includes indicators of supply chain human rights, labor and safety human rights risks in these countries to identify and respond risks preemptively. assessment that may occur in the supply chain. Details including the results of the 2017 evaluation can be found in the (As of 31 DEC 2017) Sustainable Supply Chain Management section of this report (p. 45). Status of High-risk Country Identification Basic Human Rights Labor Human Rights & Violation of Freedom Proportion of Sales Country Dispute Risk Business Risk Assessment Risks Child Labor Risks of Expression (of Total Sales) When entering a new market or a foreign country, potential human rights risks may arise due to economic, social Iraq High-risk Medium-risk 1.74% and cultural differences. It may result in negative impact on your business such as business delays or cancellations, Saudi Arabia Medium-risk High-risk 1.22% complaints in local community, and difficulties in canceling or acquiring License to Operate (LTO), etc. Hyundai E&C Sri Lanka High-risk High-risk High-risk Medium-risk 0.39% has conducted 'Key Business Risk Monitoring' for successful business promotion and has established and operated Uganda High-risk High-risk 0.18% procedures to identify risks before business operations. We assess the violation of laws and regulations related to Total 4.03% human rights risks including safety, the political unrest in the entered country, labor management, and the status of suppliers at 'Business Core Risk Monitoring.' Thanks to these efforts, Hyundai E&C incurred neither restrictions nor accusations in regard to human rights in 2017. 64 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Financial Performance APPENDIX (Unit: KRW 100 million) [Condensed] Consolidated Description 2015 2016 2017 Statement of Income Sales 192,332 188,250 168,871 Cost of Sales 175,081 168,953 151,081 Gross Profit 17,250 19,297 17,790 67 Financial Performance Operating Income 10,893 11,590 9,861 68 Key Sustainability Indicators Income before Income Tax Expense 8,981 9,815 5,548 71 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Net Income 6,638 7,317 3,716 72 Third Party Assurance Report 74 GRI Standards Index (Unit: KRW 100 million) 78 Global Sustainability Leadership [Condensed] Consolidated Description 2015 2016 2017 Statement of Financial Position 79 Major Awards and Accolades / Memberships Current Assets 142,284 149,379 132,498 Non-current Assets 51,217 49,355 51,821 Total Assets 193,501 198,734 184,319 Current Liabilities 85,753 87,496 72,190 Non-current Liabilities 33,842 29,992 27,399 Total Liabilities 119,595 117,488 99,590 Capital Stock 73,906 81,246 84,729 Other Contributed Capital 10,354 10,354 10,282 Components of Other Capital 404 1,145 690 Retained Earnings 40,872 46,218 48,132 Total Equity 73,906 81,246 84,729 (Unit: %) Consolidated Financial Description 2015 2016 2017 Stability Current Ratio 165.9 170.7 183.5 Debt Ratio 161.8 144.6 117.5 Net Worth Ratio 38.2 40.9 46.0 Compliance Hyundai E&C strictly complies with tax laws and related regulations in all 59 countries where it operates business. In order to support the business operation and customer services more effectively, Hyundai E&C strives to pay tax efficiently within the legal limits by optimizing its domestic and overseas business structures. Hyundai E&C maintains an honest and positive relationship with the tax authorities of each country such as a National Tax Service, pays its tax faithfully in accordance with each country's tax laws every year, and focuses on transparently disclosing all tax-related data. Every year, we specify the information of the corporate tax, deferred corporate tax, and effective tax rate on the audit report and disclose the information through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (dart.fss.or.kr). In addition, Hyundai E&C paid penalties of KRW 21.7 billion in 2017 for case of the collusion act in the bidding process of Wonju-Gangneung railway roadbed facility construction. Hyundai E&C will endeavor to prevent the reoccurrence not to impede the order of the free market as well as communicate with stakeholders in a transparent manner. 67 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Key Sustainability Indicators Value Empowerment Responding Climate Changes Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Diesel TJ 68.18 209.54 69.07 79.96 Steel ton 811,000 670,000 661,000 631,000 3 Gasoline TJ 14.57 14.78 12.35 26.10 Ready-Cixed Concrete m 2,431,544 2,274,586 2,932,846 3,369,507 Kerosene TJ 32.78 20.29 45.73 80.02 Cement ton 81,706 137,332 128,696 70,611 Material Usage Subtotal TJ 115.53 244.61 127.15 186.07 Sand m3 8,894,000 1,129,893 5,650,396 672,752 LNG TJ 62.85 44.18 51.99 44.12 Aggregate m3 7,660,000 7,566,771 999,519 2,343,503 LPG TJ 3.77 4.20 5.85 1.43 Asphalt Concrete ton 354,972 423,703 366,528 604,610 Energy Consumption Subtotal TJ 66.62 48.38 57.84 45.55 Cultivating Innovative Talents (As of 31 DEC 2017) (by energy source) Lump Coal (brown coal) TJ 26.40 10.53 16.80 44.62 Total Male Female % of Female Ignition Coal (wood coal) TJ 0.46 0.27 0.45 2.54 Total Management 2,965 2,865 100 3.37% Hot Water (district heating) TJ 0.00 0.01 0.52 2.68 Top management 107 107 0 0.00% Electric Power TJ 1,072.97 1,095.48 1,247.92 1,077.77 Status of By Rank*** Senior management 1,105 1,098 7 0.63% Management Subtotal TJ 1,099.83 1,106.30 1,265.69 1,127.60 Junior management 1,753 1,660 93 5.31% Total TJ 1,281.99 1,399.29 1,450.67 1,359.23 Management in Sales & 124 111 13 10.48% Marketing Departments Non-renewable Fuels MWh 21,772.50 31,645.21 21,066.33 29,039.89 Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Non-renewable Electricity Purchased MWh 111,767.80 114,112.76 129,991.57 111,967.06 Employee Employee Engagement Survey points 83.0 83.3 83.5 83.5 Satisfaction Steam / Heating / Cooling and Other MWh 1.25 53.81 278.92 Energy Purchased Collective Bargaining Agreement Labor Union Energy Consumption Unit Full-time Employees Applied Employees**** Members (by type) Total Non-renewable Energy MWh 133,540.30 145,759.22 151,111.71 141,285.86 Consumption Number of Employees persons 4,424 3,888 783 Status of Collective Renewable Energy Purchased or Bargaining Agreement MWh 191.27 Application Proportion % 100.0% 87.9% 17.7% Generated Total Costs of Energy Consumption KRW in millions 19,693.10 22,557.25 19,998.45 20,613.08 Advancing Strategic Social Contributions (As of 31 DEC 2017) Establishing Safety & Environment Infrastructure Administrative Unit Cash Donation Hours Donation in Kind Expenditure Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Expenditure of Social KRW in millions 9,292.0 1,129.3 290.0 461.4 Social Contribution Contribution Activities Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Activity Expenditure 1 million man hours 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Proportion of Social employees % 83.2% 10.1% 2.6% 4.1% Contribution Activities Safety Management Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 1 million man hours 0.96 0.72 1.29 0.97 Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Indicators* suppliers Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Political Donation KRW in millions 0 0 0 0 1 million man hours 0.02 0.04 0.02 0.03 employees Total KRW in millions 2,100.3 2,134.4 1,955.8 1,656.5 Tap Water 1000m3 396.77 378.84 265.49 266.70 Industry Promotion KRW in millions 572.9 606.0 560.2 641.7 Surface Water (including lake, river) 1000m3 281.76 166.37 105.33 386.21 Water Usage Policy Support (by water source) Overseas Business Promotion KRW in millions 300.0 300.0 388.6 396.7 Underground Water 1000m3 121.11 390.28 260.37 107.07 Expenses Association Sponsorship KRW in millions 1,177.5 1,189.3 964.5 583.3 Others 1000m3 3.60 4.76 85.84 21.95 Academia Sponsorship KRW in millions 50.0 39.0 42.5 34.8 Wastewater Wastewater ton 1,093,787 990,315 2,742,827 4,298,930** The Largest Organizations donated in 2017 (Top 5) * The safety management indicators are being measured based on the standard of Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency. 1. Construction Association of Korea (KRW 539.4 million, 32.58%): The Korean representative construction association conducting activities related construction industry including laws, systems, policy research, statistical survey ** Increase in wastewater generation due to increase of tunnel site (using wastewater treatment facility) in 2017 and management analysis. 2. International Contractors Association of Korea (KRW 396.7 million, 23.96%): A construction association operating for the purpose of supporting overseas business through collection, analysis and *** Top management: executives / senior management: general managers / junior management: deputy general managers & managers dissemination of overseas construction information 3. Korea Federation of Construction Contractors (KRW 104.0 million, 6.28%): A construction association operating for the purpose of studying policies & systems for development **** Number of employees who can join labor union (full-time employees of promotable general manager and below) of construction business and improvement of international competitiveness for domestic construction companies. 4. Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KRW 91.2 million, 5.51%): A private economic organizations for the purpose of promoting the Korean commerce and industry through mutual cooperation with domestic and overseas economic organizations. 5. Korea Atomic Industrial Forum (75.0%, 4.53%): A juridical foundation established to 68 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT promote the peaceful use and industrialization of nuclear energy. 69 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Key Sustainability Indicators Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Value Principle Securing Sound Governance (As of 31 DEC 2017) Number of Directors Total Remuneration Average Remuneration Unit (persons) (KRW in millions) (KRW in millions) Introduction Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter 'KFQ') has been engaged in Hyundai Engineering & Construction (hereinafter 'the Company') Registered Directors* 3 828 276.00 to independently verify its 2017 Report on the quantity of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from entire places of business nationwide (hereinafter Board of Directors 'Inventory Report'). External Directors 4 210 52.50 Remuneration of Directors and Verification KFQ's verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources domestic and foreign (direct emission and indirect emission) Employees Employees 6,797 508,379 74.79 Scope controlled by the Company. Directors and Employees (excluding 6,801 508,589 74.78 Registered Directors) Verification The verification process was based on 'Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme (Notification No. 2016-255 of Ministry Type Total (KRW in millions) Calculation Standard and Method Criteria of Environment)'(hereinafter 'the Scheme') and 'ISO14064-3' for every applicable part. The indirect emissions(electricity) factor of foreign sites by country was based on IEA composite electricity/heat factor. In accordance with the 'Management Personnel and Treatment Rules', which takes into Base Salary 694.0 consideration the rank, position and ability and payment limits set by the general shareholders' meeting, KRW 57.8 million was paid every month from January to December. Remuneration Verification The Verification has been planned and conducted by the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme , and to reach limited of Executives in In accordance with the 'Management Personnel and Treatment Rules', which takes into Procedure level of assurance. Furthermore, the entire verification process underwent internal review to ensure its methodology and effectiveness. 2017 (including Incentive 134.0 consideration the rank, position and ability and payment limits set by the general shareholders' compensation norms) meeting, KRW 134 million was paid in installments during the disclosure period. Total 828.0 Verification In order to confirm the data and information provided by the Company, sampling method was applied in the Verification Plan. For verification * Breakdown from disclosure of 2017 business report (p. 363~365) Limitation of foreign sites, the only document review was implemented. Therefore, KFQ acknowledged the data and information from Company as it is. * The average remuneration for registered directors in 2017 is 3.69 times the average remuneration for employees. Internalizing Ethics & Compliance Management (As of 31 DEC 2017) Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Conclusion Based on verification process according to the Scheme, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to derive following conclusion on the greenhouse & Opinion gas emission data in the Inventory Report. Disciplinary Dismissal cases 8 3 1 1 Ethical Management 1) The Company's 2017 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Violation Cases and Suspension cases 7 5 0 0 Target Management Scheme run by the government. Measures 2) According to materiality assessment on the quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company's places of business nationwide Total cases 15 8 1 1 in 2017, material discrepancy is less than the criteria of 5.0% for an organization that emits under 500,000 tCO2-e in accordance with * We excluded salary reduction, reprimands, and warnings from personal violations. Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme 3) Please note that the Scheme does not concern Scope 3 emissions. The verification accuracy of Scope 3 emissions may be limited as it Sarisfying Customers (As of 31 DEC 2017) was conducted with the data calculated by the Company Guidelines. (Unit : tCO2-e) Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Company Site Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 3 Customer Satisfaction points 96.3 85.0 84.8 85.3 Domestic 19,439 52,444 71,880 251,090 * Customer satisfaction survey scheme has been refurbished in 2015. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Overseas 411,001 148,256 559,258 171,063 Protecting Human Rights in Value Chain (As of 31 DEC 2017) * The total amount of emissions was trimmed to the below of the decimal point in the sum of Scope 1 and 2. Assessment Identification Mitigation Assessment Title 4) Thus, KFQ conclude that the Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption of Hyundai Engineering & Construction in 2017 is Objects Proportion Identified Proportion Details Proportion correctly calculated and stated in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme . Establishing and disclosing Human Rights Exposure KRW 10,001,679 million KRW 409,845 million human rights policies, 100% 4.03% 100% Assessment (100% of sales, seperated) (sales from high-risk countries) mitigating risk through business risk assessment 31 1 Operating counseling office On-site Human Rights Results of Human (100% of global sites 100% (sites lack of grievance 3.23% and meeting to improve worker 100% Checklist Assessment Rights Risk where generated sales) settlement system for workers) grievance system Assessment and Mitigation Results Encouraging improvement, in 2017 Supplier Sustainability 3,118 24 100% 0.77% cancelling registration in case of 100% Assessment (100% of Tier 1 suppliers) (high-risk suppliers) 18 MAY 2018 non-improvement CEO Daehyun Nam Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) Devising plans to reduce and Business Risk Assessment 100% of business 100% 100% 100% 100% avoid risk 70 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX Third Party Assurance Report To the Management of The management of Hyundai E&C (hereinafter 'the Company') engaged us to conduct an independent third-party assurance on On the basis of our review and in accordance with the terms of reference for our work we provide the following conclusions on the 2018 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report (hereinafter the Report ). The objective of this assurance is to provide an external Conclusions the Report. Our conclusions should be read in conjunction with the above section on Assurance Process and Assurance Hyundai E&C verification that statements and data presented in the Report are free from material errors or prejudice, based on accurate and Limitations appropriate data collection systems and data reported reflect actual performance. The Report was structured and prepared by Completeness: the management of the Company, who retains responsibility for the contents and data presented in the Report. Does the Report fully reﬂect the Company's operations and external impacts? How does the Report respond to stakeholder concerns and information needs? · We consider that the information contained in the Report sufficiently covers relevant aspects of the Company's business activities, sustainability management and performance according to the Company's specific business and operations The Assurance Provider's assurance work has been planned and performed in accordance with international assurance Assurance · We are not aware of any additional issues of stakeholder interest that are not currently included in the Report's scope and content guidelines of AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) and GRI Standards. The Report and its contents have been evaluated Methodology against the following criteria: Materiality: Has the Company provided a balanced presentation of material issues concerning the Company's sustainability performance in its operations · Completeness: completeness of information in relation to the Company's operations and business interests? · Materiality: materiality of Report contents in relation to internal and external impacts of the Company's business activities · The Company regularly conducts materiality test, by which the Company internally and externally measures the materiality of its sustainability related issues and challenges. We have reviewed internal materiality evaluation processes and external stakeholder· Reliability: reliability and correctness of the information and data presented in the Report related information and stakeholder engagement process, and consider that the information presented in the Report responds to most stakeholder information needs and requests The Auditor's assurance engagement covers the following: · We are not aware of any material aspects concerning the Company's sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. Assurance Scope · Provision of assurance on whether information related to policies and management systems presented · Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company's management has not applied its processes for in the Report are reﬂected adequately determining material issues to be included in the Report, as described in Assurance Methodology · Provision of assurance on whether non-financial data in the Report is presented in full, and free from material errors or prejudice. Reliability: The review covers the following data sets: environmental data, health & safety data, as well as social data. Are the contents and the data presented in the Report correct and free from material errors or misstatements? Verification of non-financial data was conducted based on samples at corporate and site level · Review of whether financial data has been derived adequately and correctly from the financial statements audited by · We have reviewed internal policies, processes and management systems, and verified data samples both on site level and corporate an external third-party auditor level. Nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Report contents and data presented in the Report has not been properly collected, consolidated and reported from information reported at operations level. The scope of the work undertaken and verification of reported performance (qualitative and quantitative) represents · We have reviewed data collection systems and verified samples of the presented non-financial data. Nothing has come to our reasonable assurance level according to international recognised assurance categorization. attention that causes us to believe that health, safety or environmental data are not free from material errors or misstatements In order to provide reliable assurance to interested stakeholders on the information presented in the Report, the Auditor The following issues do not affect our conclusions, but represent recommendation for further improvements to the Company's Assurance Process undertook the following procedures during the assurance engagement: Further Consideration sustainability performance and reporting there of: · Reviewed the Company' processes for determining material issues and adequacy of results of this process · Develop group-level sustainability performance targets for the Company's sustainability management and describe yearly progress · Reviewed the Company stakeholder engagement processes and results against these targets in the report · Reviewed relevant policies, guidelines and management systems at corporate and site level · Developing measurement systems to quantify the monetary and nonfinancial value of sustainability management activities · Conducted interviews with operational managers of relevant business units to determine the adequacy of the reported content · Further develop systems to quantify and pro-active management of sustainability risks and opportunities throughout the value chain to extend win-win co-operations with suppliers · Reviewed the Company approach to, and monitoring systems of, data collection and data management at corporate level · Review of underlying reference data on key economic, environmental and social performance With the exception of this work, we have provided no other services relating to collection, preparation and presentation of · Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report Our independence the Subject Matters and the Report. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of · Review of the Report's compliance against GRI Standards reporting guidelines Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The scope of this assurance engagement is limited to the Company headquarter visited in Korea. The Auditor did not conduct Assurance Limitations any visits to overseas facilities or projects in which the Company holds interests. Our review of data processes and data reliability included the following data sets: environmental data, health & safety data, as well as social data. Verification of non-financial data was conducted based on samples at corporate level, i.e. site-level data has not been verified individually. 25 JUN 2018 Our review of the data processes at operations level was limited to the Company-operated businesses visited. The level of work undertaken leads to reasonable assurance according to internationally recognized assurance categorizations. Sungwon Koo CEO, Nstein Co., Ltd. The auditor reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and the data presented within. On the basis of Findings the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to would suggest that the Report does not adequately reﬂect the Nstein Co., Ltd. As the Auditor for this assurance, Nstein Co., Ltd. has developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise Company's non-financial performance. in the areas of sustainability management, environmental management, business ethics and CSR since 2013. 72 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX GRI Standards Index GRI GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs GRI GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Universal Standards (GRI 100) Universal Standards (GRI 100) GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 4 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 53 GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4-5, 08-15 GRI 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 41 SDG 8 GRI 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters 4, Cover GRI 102: Stakeholder GRI 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 53-54 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to Engagement GRI 102-4 4, 21, 47, 65 GRI 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 53-54 the sustainability issues covered in the report GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 4, 89 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key GRI 102-44 53-55 topics and concerns, including through its reporting GRI 102-6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) 4, 21 a. List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents GRI 102-45 67 GRI 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization 4-5, 39, 67 b. Whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report GRI 102: a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Organizational Profile b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender GRI 102-46 54-55 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender GRI 102-8 d. Total workforce by region and gender 39, 69 e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization's work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by GRI 102-47 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 55 individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) GRI 102-48 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements About this report GRI 102-9 Describe the organization's supply chain 45 GRI 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A GRI 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain About this report GRI 102-50 Reporting period About this report GRI 102-11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 45, 65 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2017년 7월 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or GRI 102: Identified GRI 102-12 30-31, 49, 65 endorses Material Aspects & Boundaries GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 1년 GRI 102-13 Memberships in associations 79 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2-3 GRI 102: Strategy GRI 102-54 'In accordance' option the organization has chosen 74-77 GRI 102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10-15, 62 GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index for the chosen option 74-77 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social GRI 102-16 60 SDG 16 performance and the status of their implementation GRI 102: Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it 72-73 61 SDG 16 is not a requirement to be 'in accordance' with the Guidelines Ethics & Integrity such as helplines or advice lines. GRI 102-17 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to 61, 70 SDG 16 organizational integrity GRI 102-56 a. Organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the organization 56-57 provided 72-73 c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report GRI 102-19 52, 57 executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and GRI 102-20 58-59 GRI 103: GRI 103-1 a. Why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Management GRI 103-2 b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 54-55 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If Approach GRI 103-3 c. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 102-21 56-57 SDG 16 consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body GRI 102-22 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 56-59 SDG 5, 16 Top-specific Standards (GRI 200, 300, 400) Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization's GRI 102-23 57 SDG 16 management and the reasons for this arrangement) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 200) Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating GRI 102-24 57 SDG 5, 16 and selecting highest governance body members Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers GRI 201-1 21, 53 SDG 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of of capital, payments to government GRI 102-25 56 SDG 16 interest are disclosed to stakeholders Report the highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 30-31 SDG 13 GRI 102-26 56-57 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. GRI 201: Economic Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest overnance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and Performance Operating retirement pension GRI 102-27 57 social topics. GRI 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations plans (defined-benefit & Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental defined-contribution type) GRI 102-28 59 and social topics GRI 102: Governance Report the highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government GRI 102-29 58-59 SDG 16 N/A opportunities. Include the highest governance body's role in the implementation of due diligence processes Report the highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, GRI 102-30 58-59 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation N/A environmental and social topics. GRI 202: Market Presence GRI 102-31 Report the frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 58-59 GRI 202-2 Propertion fo senior management hired from the local community at significat locations of operation N/A Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all GRI 102-32 58-59 GRI 203: GRI 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 46-49 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9 material Aspects are covered. Indirect Economic GRI 102-33 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 58-59 Impacts GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 53 SDG 8, 10, 17 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) GRI 102-34 40, 58 GRI 204: Procurement used to address and resolve them. GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 43-44 SDG 12 Practices GRI 102-35 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 59, 70 GRI 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 45, 63, 65 SDG 16 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and GRI 102-36 59, 70 whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. GRI 205: AntiGRI 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 60-61 SDG 16 corruption GRI 102-37 Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 59 SDG 16 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 70 SDG 16 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the GRI 102-38 70 median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. GRI 206: AntiReport the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of GRI 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 67 GRI 102-39 70 competitive Behavior significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. 74 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 INTRO VALUE CREATION VALUE EMPOWERMENT VALUE PRINCIPLE APPENDIX GRI Standards Index GRI GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs GRI GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (GRI 300) SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (GRI 400) GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 69 GRI 401-1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 39 SDG 5, 8 GRI 401: GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 40-41 SDG 8 Employment GRI 301: Materials GRI 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 37 GRI 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 41 SDG 5, 8 GRI 301-3 Percnetage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 36 SDG 8, 12 GRI 402: Labor/ Management GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 41 SDG 8 Relations GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 68 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on GRI 403-1 33 SDG 8 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 68 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 occupational health and safety programs GRI 403: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and GRI 403-2 33, 68 SDG 3, 8 Occupational Health by gender GRI 302: Energy GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 68 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 and Safety GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 33-34 SDG 3, 8 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 28, 68 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 65 SDG 7, 8, 11, 12, GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 40 SDG 8 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 28, 68 13 GRI 404: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing GRI 404-2 40 SDG 8 Training & Education career endings GRI 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 36, 68 SDG 6 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 41 SDG 5, 8 GRI 303: Water GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 36, 68 SDG 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership GRI 405: Diversity GRI 405-1 40 SDG 5, 8 and other indicators of diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 68 SDG 6, 8, 12 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 41 SDG 8, 10 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected GRI 406: NonGRI 304-1 37 GRI 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 65, 70 areas discrimination GRI 407: Freedom Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at GRI 304-2 37 of Association and GRI 407-1 45, 65, 70 SDG 8 outside protected areas significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights GRI 304: Collective Bargaing Biodiversity GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 37 SDG 6, 14, 15 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 408-1 45, 65, 70 SDG 8, 16 abolition of child labor Total number of IUCN RED list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of GRI 409: Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the GRI 304-4 37 GRI 409-1 45, 65, 70 SDG 8 extinction risk Compulsory Labor elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor SDG 3, 12, 13, GRI 410: Security GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 30 GRI 410-1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations 64 SDG 16 14, 15 Practices GRI 411: SDG 3, 12, 13, Rights of Indigenous GRI 411-1 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 64-65, 70 GRI 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 30 14, 15 Peoples SDG 3, 12, 13, GRI 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 45, 65, 70 GRI 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 30 14, 15 GRI 412: Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, GRI 305: Emissions GRI 412-2 64 Human Rights including the percentage of employees trained GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 30 SDG 13, 14, 15 Assessments Total number and percentage of significant invesetment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses of that underwent GRI 412-3 64, 70 human rights screening GRI 305-5 Reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 28, 31 SDG 13, 14, 15 GRI 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 45, 65, 70 GRI 413: Local GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N/A SDG 3, 12 Communities GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 47, 49 SDG 3, 12, 14, GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions N/A GRI 414: GRI 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 45, 70 SDG 5, 8, 16 15 Supplier and Social Assessment GRI 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 45, 70 SDG 8, 16 GRI 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination 68 GRI 415: Public GRI 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 48, 69 SDG 16 Policy GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 37 SDG 3, 6, 12 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of GRI 416-1 33-34 GRI 416: significant products and services categories subject to such procedures GRI 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A SDG 3, 6, 12, 14 Customer Health and GRI 306: Safety Effluents & Waste Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of GRI 416-2 N/A products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Weight of trnasported, imiported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the BASEL Convention Annex I, II, III, GRI 306-4 N/A AND VIII, and percentage of transported wasted shipped internationally Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, GRI 417-1 N/A SDG 12 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements GRI 306-5 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's 37 discharges of water and runoff GRI 417: Marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and GRI 417-2 N/A SDG 16 and Labeling labeling, by type of outcomes GRI 307: Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 417-3 N/A Environmental GRI 307-1 N/A SDG 8, 16 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes regulations Compliance GRI 418: GRI 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data N/A Customer Privacy GRI 308: GRI 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enivronmental criteria 45, 70 Supplier GRI 419: Environmental Socioeconomic GRI 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 67 SDG 16 Assessment GRI 308-2 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45, 70 SDG 15 Compliance * SDG https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?menu=1300 76 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 Global Sustainability Leadership Major Awards and Accolades 2018 Major Awards Memberships Sustainable Value The Society of Air-conditioning and Refrigerating Award Description Host / Provider Korean Society of Civil Engineers Engineers of Korea Industry leader of DJSI* for Five Consecutive Years Platinum (Quality Excellence Award) Korean Institute of BIM Korea Plant Industries Association BCA Awards 2018 BCA * Dow Jones Sustainability Index Merit (Construction Excellence Award) 2018 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize (MOLIT* Minister's Prize) Money Today The Korea Railway Association Korea Society of Geothermal Energy Engineers Hyundai E&C has been assessing its internal and external sustainability management capabilities and promoting internal improvement activities by participating in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). By 2018 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards Smart Home category Asia Economy Construction Association of Korea Korea Federation of Construction Contractors joining DJSI Korea in 2009 and joining DJSI World in 2010 for the first time, and continuing institutional 2018 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Engineering & Design category Money Today Architectural Institute of Korea buildingSMART Korea improvement and sustainable management activities, Hyundai E&C was honored to be selected as the 2017 DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER 2018 Hall of Fame Housing Brand Grand Prize Grand Prize (Quality category) Newsway Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering Industry in 2017, following 2016, 2015, 2014 and Honored the Industry Leader International Contractors Association of Korea Korea Management Association 2013. It is the first in the global construction industry for a company to become the Industry Leader for five for five consecutive years (2013~17) 2018 Well-being Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Customer Satisfaction) Hankyung Business * Partial list: 75 business or academic memberships in total consecutive years. This meaningful achievement is proving that Hyundai E&C has been highly recognized 2011 DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER * MOLIT: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Honored the Industry Leader for the first time as the global leader of construction industry. The DJSI is the investment index developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss assessment company. 2010 DJSI WORLD Listed the Index for the first time It annually evaluates the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of top 2,500 companies in 2009 DJSI KOREA 2017 Major Awards market capitalization by industries and announces the evaluation result. Listed the Index for the first time Award Description Host / Provider Acknowledgement 2017 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Industry Leader, Construction & Engineering Industry Dow Jones Indices, RobecoSAM Sustainability Management Steering Group Business Value BCA Awards 2017 Platinum (Quality Excellence Award category) BCA 2017 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize (MOLIT Minister's Prize) Money Today Kim Heung-Keun Business Innovation Quality Excellence Award for Three Consecutive Years 2017 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards High-class category Asia Economy Comprehensive Oh Jeong-Hun Team at Singapore BCA* Awards 2017 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Engineering & Design category Money Today Procurement Planning * BCA : Building and Construction Authority Kang Myung-Jun 2017 Hall of Fame Housing Brand Grand Prize Grand Prize (Safety category) Newsway Team Economic Compliance 2017 Korea's Representative Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Housing Value category) Hankook Economy TV Jung Hoe-Kyung Management & Administration Team 2017 HanKyung Business Well-being Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Space Innovation Caregory) HanKyung Business Kang Young-Min Green Environment Team Platinum in Quality Excellence Award (QEA) 2017 Hyundai E&C enhanced its position as a global construction company by becoming the first Korean 2017 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Flat Surface Innovation) HanKyung Environmental for three consecutive years Park Joon-Yong R&D Planning Team construction company to receive the Platinum in Quality Excellence Award for three consecutive years 2017 Korea Joongang Daily JoinsLand MOLIT Minister's Prize Joongang Daily Platinum in Quality Excellence Award 2015 Eco-friendly Construction Industry Awards at 2018 Singapore BCA Awards held by the Singaporean government; Singapore BCA Awards is the (QEA) Human Resources Kim Hyo-Jung most authoritative construction-related award that evaluates projects completed or being executed in 2017 Korea High-efficiency, Planning Team MOE* Minister's Prize Energy Economic News Platinum and Merit in Construction 2015 Eco-friendly Housing and Building Material Awards Excellence Award (CEA) the country in various areas including construction, environment-friendliness, engineering, safety, and Social Kim Se-Won General Affairs Team 2017 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Best of Best Money Today 2014 quality. Since 1997, Hyundai E&C has won total 27 awards including BCA Green Mark Awards with its Awarded for the First Time as a Korean Company Construction Productivity Award (CPA) outstanding construction capability. 12nd Asia Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Win-win Cooperation & Management Support category) Asia Economy Hong Se-Hwa Safety Planning Team Favorite Brand for Sale 1st Place Doctor Apartment Brand Reputation 1st Place Korea Corporate Research Institute Relevant Teams Environmental & Social Value THE PROUD 2017 Korean Masterpiece (Environment-friendly Housing) Korea Management Association Kwon Sung-Jun General Affairs Team Lee Kyu-Heon General Affairs Team 2017 Etoday Smart Building Grand Prize Overall Grand Prize Etoday CDP* Carbon Management Honors Club 2017 Aju Economy Construction Awards Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) Aju Economy Kwon Young-Pil RM Team Lee Yo-Soo Business Strategy Team for Four Consecutive years 2017 Asia Today Green Construction Awards MOLIT Minister's Prize (Grand Prize, Housing Business category) Asia Today Kwon Jeong-Jin CS Center Lee Joong-Jae Human Resources Supporting Team * Carbon Disclosure Project 6th eDaily Construction Industry Awards Overall Grand Prize (Housing category) eDaily Kim Dae-Wang Business Policy Team Jang Eun-Jong Investor Relations Team 2017 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Brand category) HanKyung 2017 Selected as a Member of CDP Carbon Management Raw Material Building Works Honors Club for Four consecutive Years (1st place Kim Sung-Hoon Jung Joon 2017 Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Overall Grand Prize Herald Economy Procurement Team Design 2 Team In 2017, Hyundai E&C was selected as a member of 'Carbon Management Honors Club' which is an overall), Carbon Management Sector Sector Winners Global Marketing award given to outstanding companies for four consecutive years following 2016, 2015 and 2014 and for six consecutive Years (No. 1 in the industry) 10th Green Housing Awards Premium Housing Grand Prize Hankook Daily Kim Su-Jung Culture PR Team Jung Hak-Pyung Management & Administration Team 'Carbon Management Sector Winners' in the industrial material sector for six consecutive years, from 2014 Selected as a Member of CDP Carbon Management The 8th Green Construction Award Civil Grand Prize The Seoul Shinmun Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the most authoritative environmental index of the world; the CDP Index is Honors Club (1st place overall), Carbon Management Kim Yoon-Tae Quality Management Hwang Seon-Young Culture PR Team Sector Sector Winners (No. 1 in the industry) 13th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Planning Team Overall Grand Prize (Civil category) Maeil Business News Korea one of the most reliable sustainability management index in the world. It annually evaluates, analyzes, and Awards 2012 Selected as a Member of Carbon Disclosure Sector New Market reports the climate change action of key listed companies. In this evaluation, Hyundai E&C accomplished 2017 Korea Construction Award Overall Grand Prize The Dong-A Ilbo Moon Ji-Young (Industrial material) Leaders Development Team the 'Leadership A' for high score in climate change response strategy, GHG reduction efforts, and GHG 2011 Received Special Award of Carbon Management for * MOE: Ministry of Environment management. New Participation 78 2018 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTERGRATED REPORTING INTEGRATED REPORTING Hyundai E&C has been publishing its annual sustainability report in an integrated format since 2011 to disclose the economic, environmental, and social values to the stakeholders in faithful and balanced manner; the integrated reporting refers to a method of sustainability reporting that covers both fnancial and non-financial performances. It is a way to improve the understanding of stakeholders about the interrelationship of economic, environmental and social aspects. Hyundai E&C has participated in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and has lead the global sustainability management. INTERGRATED REPORTING FRAMEWORK Strategy th 1. ow Va Gr ble lue Risks & ina Opportunities Cr ea sta INTEGRATED tio Su REPORTING n Future Resource 2. Outlook Distruction Performance Management NonFinancials 3. Integrated Value financials 01. Value Creation · Hyundai E&C’s value creation process · Future outlook based on the analysis of megatrends · Strategies on a new growth business and new market entrance 02. Sustainable Growth · Establishment of midto long-term strategies on sustainability management · Activities and accomplishments in economic, environmental, and social sectors · Catalogue of sustainability management targets and KPIs 03. Integrated Value · Connection between financial information and non-financial information · Analysis on the efficiency of sustainability management activities · Report of the sales increase and cost reduction cases due to sustainability management Contact Us The Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report is also available on our website (http://en.hdec.kr). Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to contact us via the contact information below. We appreciate your feedback. Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai E&C Bldg., 75 Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 03058 Tel: 02-746-6315 Fax: 02-746-4856 E-mail: sustainability@hdec.co.kr Published: JUL 2018 Publisher: Park Dong-Wook Publishing Entity: Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai E&C This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink. Design: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink.
