bitzer electronics a/S Social Responsibility Report on social responsibility 2019 BITZER Electronics at a glance 115 No. of employees on date of 2012 Date of signing the UN Global issue of this report. Compact: 13 March 2012. 11 No. 11 on the Great Place to 1.070 Tonnes of CO2 per employee in Work® Institute’s list of the 2018. best workplaces in Denmark 2018. Contents 1. Management statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 2. BITZER Electronics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 3. BITZER Electronics and social responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 4. UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 5. Environmental responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 6. BITZER Electronics’ energy-efficient products. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 7. Heat pump controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 8. Ventilation controller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 9. Remote caretaking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 10. BITZER Electronics customized Star Cool Controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 11. Supplier responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 12. Supplier code of conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 13. People responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 14. Anti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 15. Final words and facts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 2 Report on social responsibility 2019 1. Management statement We are pleased to present the 2019 BITZER Electronics joined the UN Globedition of our report on social responal Compact initiative in 2012, and we sibility. Since last year, our name has will continue to support the UN Global changed to BITZER Electronics, but the Compact and its ten principles on seriousness about social responsibility human rights, labour, the environment remains the same. This report gives an and anti-corruption. These principles overview of our internal and external reflect our continued commitment to social responsibility activities from running our business in a responsible October 2018 to October 2019. The aim and serious way. When we celebrated is to provide our customers, employees our 50 years anniversary in October and other stakeholders with insight into 2018, it was with a special focus on the BITZER Electronics work with social UN Global Goals and what we can do, responsibility as well as our ambitions to make the world an even better place to contribute to social responsibility. to live. People responsibility is important to In April 2019 BITZER Electronic joined Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen us, and we keep measuring employee a UN Global Goal festival in Sønderborg Managing Director well-being via the Danish “Great Place Denmark. In cooperation with other to Work” employee survey, organized UN Global Goal focused companies we by the Great Place to Work® Institute. taught students from public schools In November 2018, we ranked as no. about responsible consumption and 11 in the category of medium-sized production and how industry, innovacompanies on the Best Workplaces in tion and infrastructure can ensure zero Denmark list. It is a great achievement, hunger as well as how we can make an that we have been able to remain in energy efficient future. the absolute top of this list, throughout the last 10 years. This shows that the culture and the internal procedures have been managed and optimized in BITZER Electronics Management, the best possible way. For BITZER Electronics, the past period has been characterized by adapting our Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, organizational approaches and strateManaging Director gies to meet the requirements from our partners. With a name change follows Henning Højberg Kristensen Managing Director a lot of strategical and internal efforts. In regard to this, we have focused on establishing the continued direction of the company, as well as communicating this to all our employees and extend Henning Højberg Kristensen, Managing Director “The aim is to provide our partners and customers. customers, employees In 2019 BITZER Electronics enters a partnership with the humanitarian and other stakeholders organization Plan Børnefonden in order with insights into BITZER to contribute to advancing broader Electronics’ work with societal goals such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We hope, that social responsibility.” our contribution will make a difference for the organization. Report on social responsibility 2019 3 4 Report on social responsibility 2019 2. BITZER Electronics BITZER Electronics possesses Mission extensive knowledge and know-how Energy efficiency through intelligent about developing, producing and controls. implementing innovative and efficient electronic climate control solutions. Our mission is to be a global player BITZER Electronics’ most important within intelligent electronics for asset is its staff in the form of more HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective than 110 dedicated employees, who and high-quality solutions, enabling work either at our modern facilities our customers to consistently at the headquarters in Sønderborg, outperform their peers in usability, Denmark or at our branch office in serviceability and energy efficiency. Aarhus, Denmark. BITZER Electronics is a member of Vision the BITZER Group, one of the largest Our vision is to be the preferred groups in the global refrigeration and company of our customers and air-conditioning compressor industry. employees Employee satisfaction is important // BITZER Electronics wants to in order to preserve an inspiring and continuously grow through creative environment, as well as the innovative solutions. commitment needed to secure the future development of innovative and // BITZER Electronics wants to energy-efficient solutions. improve customer satisfaction, as BITZER Electronics in BITZER Electronics’ control solutions measured in our annual surveys, short are important and reliable integrated by having a Net Promoter Score // Danish company owned parts of our partners’ total systems – (NPS) exceeding 25. by the German company and help create a perfect climate for // BITZER Electronics wants to be BITZER. humans as well as optimised storage one of the best places to work conditions for foods and other // BITZER Electronics in Denmark with a trust index of commodities. produces electronic 95% as measured by the Great Today, BITZER Electronics’ innovative control devices for OEM Place to Work® Institute. climate control solutions are used all products within the over the world, for instance in the HVAC&R* industry. following areas: // Products are developed // OEM solutions for heat pump and in-house and produced air handling units by global partners. // Compressor electronics // Our export share is about 75%. // Frequency converters for air-conditioning and refrigeration *Heating, Ventilation, Air compressors Conditioning & Refrigeration // Transport refrigeration for sea and land transport. Report on social responsibility 2019 5 3. BITZER Electronics and social responsibility The Global Goals how important it is for us to work important that everyone take action together if we are to succeed in in the areas they are able too. If we The world needs strong, collective delivering change. all do that, we are one step closer action in the face of complex to securing a more sustainable world sustainability challenges such as Climate change is one of the for both companies, people, animals climate change, access to resources most pressing issues of our time. and the nature. and public health concerns. Addressing it requires a transition to a low-carbon economy. As stated The UN’s Sustainable Development in the Paris Agreement on climate Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate change, business has a key role to Agreement are helping to accelerate play. change, deepening the commitment of governments, civil society and BITZER Electronics is committed to businesses globally. They highlight support the 17 global goals. It is 6 Report on social responsibility 2019 festival for the global goals In April 2019 BITZER Electronics participate in games and compeensures a responsible consumption took part in UN Global Goals titions based on UN Global Goals. and production. Festival in Sønderborg. Together BITZER Electronics employees In the case story on page 26, you with Sustainable Now and Søndershowed and learned more than five can read more about how Mango borg Kommune BITZER Electronics hundred school students how using farmers benefit from the Star Cool invited thousands of school children a Star Cool CA controlled reefer container. from Sønderborg Kommune to container minimizes hunger and Report on social responsibility 2019 7 Looking outwards One of Maersk Container Industry’s areas and organizations that support sustainability targets is to reduce the local communities in which we As an international company we energy consumption, which is one of do business. also look outwards when it comes the reasons why they have chosen to human rights and social responBITZER Electronics also supports BITZER Electronics’ energy-efficient sibility. BITZER Electronics are right a number of local clubs and assocooling control solutions for their now establishing a new cooperation ciations, e.g. sports clubs in which reefer containers. with Plan Børnefonden. The goal is our employees or their children are to develop the electrician sector in In 2011 Maersk Container Industry active. The employees can apply for Benin, Africa. The focus is going to invited BITZER Electronics to take sponsorships once a year. be on education of young people, part in its Responsible Procurement which normally do not have the program, and in November 2015 Human rights possiblity to take an education. The they asked BITZER Electronics to goal is that the young apprentices participate in a sustainability status // UN Global Compact, www. will learn about traditional electrician interview in order to learn about unglobalcompact.org tasks but also solar energy and BITZER Electronics’ experiences. // Engineers Without Borders cooling techniques. Good education These are some of BITZER Electron(Ingeniører uden grænser), is important and by supporting such ics’ experiences from participating in www.iug.dk projects we hope that the young Maersk Container Industry’s responpeople can help develop the local sible procurement program: traditional society in Benin. Environment “Maersk Container Industry’s request In 2015, BITZER Electronics entered // Project Zero, www.projectzero. was the opportunity to look at our into a three-year partnership with dk work with Corporate Social ResponsiEngineers Without Borders Denmark bility (CSR) from a strategic point of (Ingeniører Uden Grænser (IUG), Local cultural branding view. At the time, we were already which is part of Engineers Without following the principles behind social Borders International, www.iug. // Cultural and sports sponsorresponsibility but hadn’t formalised dk. IUG is a technical humanitarian ships: “Kultur i Syd”, Sønderborg it. organization that, through the vision Hus, SønderjyskE Elite Sport and “a life after survival”, aims to restore It made good sense for BITZER Dybbølhallerne lifesaving services for people in Electronics to take this step. Not only because we have business worldwide // Sponsorships for local clubs and need. They work in disaster-affected areas to ensure access to safe but also because it was during associations in which BITZER drinking water, proper sanitation and a phase when we were growing Electronics employees are active emergency shelter, as quickly as possubstantially – doubling our number sible. IUG also provides assistance of employees. Employer branding and attracand support to projects in developing The program was an essential trigger tion countries where their members’ techto put focus on our CSR work and nical knowledge can help alleviate // Great Place to Work® Institute, we also decided to join the United suffering and fight poverty. www.greatplacetowork.dk Nations Global Compact as a natural step of this process.” // Work Live Stay, www.work-liveParticipating in a customer’s stay.dk responsible procurement proBITZER Electronics’ social // Career in Denmark, www. gram responsibility partnerships and careerindenmark.com BITZER Electronics supplies Maersk networks Container Industry with controllers, // Dansk HR, www. danskhr.dk (in BITZER Electronics is member of which are used in the refrigerating Danish) a number of networks, supporting units Star Cool and has been doing social responsibility activities togeth// Cabi, www.cabiweb.dk (in so since the launch of the unit in er with other companies and organiDanish) 2006. zations. The list below shows BITZER // Cleantech.talentattractiondenElectronics’ commitment to human rights, environmental innovation mark.com 8 Report on social responsibility 2019 Education Power Electronics Test Lab”, supported by e.g. Green Labs dk // Cooperation agreements with University of Southern Denmark // SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk and Aalborg University // Delta – EMC Klub, www.emck// Energy sponsor programme at lubben.dk (in Danish) Aalborg university // Delta – Wireless Klubben, www. // The panel of employer reprewirelessklubben.dk (in Danish sentatives at the University of // Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, Southern Denmark, www.sdu.dk www.fgk.de (in German) // Guest lectures in eg. technology // ASERCOM Association of Euro& innovation, sales & marketing pean Refrigeration Component and CSR Manufacturers, www.asercom. org Innovation and technology // TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk Industrial cooperation // CLEAN, Danish cleantech cluster, // Confederation of Danish Industry www.cleancluster.com (Dansk Industri, DI), www.di.dk // Member of Mechatronics Cluster // Member of DI’s CSR network and Denmark, www.mechatronicsConflict Minerals network, www. cluster.com (in Danish) di.dk // Member of Dansk Ventilation, // Industrigruppen Sønderborg www.danskventilation.dk (in // Member of Sønderborg Vækstråd Danish) // Partner in local project “Green Results goals and actions (October 2018 October 2019) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of BITZER Electronics’ social responsibility activities and policies among BITZER Electronics employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Result: 98% of all BITZER Electronics employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the Danish Great Place to Work 2018 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. New goals and actions (October 2019 October 2020) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of BITZER Electronics’ social responsibility activities and policies among BITZER Electronics employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 98%. Report on social responsibility 2019 9 10 Report on social responsibility 2019 4. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic The ten principles of the United Nations Global policy initiative for businesses that are committed Compact: to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Human rights rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 1. Businesses should support and respect the Overall, the Global Compact pursues two complemenprotection of internationally proclaimed human tary objectives: rights; and 1. Mainstreaming the ten principles in business 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human activities around the world rights abuses. 2. Catalysing actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. Labour The UN Global Compact incorporates a transparency 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associand accountability policy known as the Communicaation and the effective recognition of the right to tion on Progress (COP) policy. The annual posting of a collective bargaining; COP is an important demonstration of a participant’s 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulcommitment to the UN Global Compact and its sory labour; principles. Participating companies are required to comply with this policy. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and In summary, the UN Global Compact exists to assist 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of the private sector in managing increasingly complex employment and occupation. risks and opportunities in the environmental, social and governance realms, seeking to embed markets Environment and societies with universal principles and values for the benefit of all. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environset of core values in the areas of human rights, labour mental responsibility; and standards, the environment and anticorruption: 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Source: www.unglobalcompact.org Report on social responsibility 2019 11 12 Report on social responsibility 2019 Case: BITZER Electronics helps educating disabled in Kenema Together with IUG BITZER gets a brighter future,” says Anne around Kenema City. This means Electronics are focusing on Vibeke Madsen, HR Consultant at that the supply is periodically stable building opportunities for the BITZER Electronics. in the rain season (from May to world’s poorest. The goal is October), but in fact not available The OTC is a training center which to create a better and more in the dry season which stretches ensures that disabled individuals are over 6 months. The establishing of a sustainable future in their local getting an education and a brighter E-power station is therefore vital in environments. future without poverty. Disability is the future developments in Kenema. a major issue in Kenema, where 2,4 Torben Jandorf, IUG Denmark % of the population are disabled. IUG are now working closely to(Engineers Without Borders InterThe country has had major issues gether with OTC on establishing a national) is looking at the sun rising with the polio disease and is, besides stable energy supply and creating a in Kenema this morning. During the that, still suffering from different new IT-Learning Dept., a solar cell next two weeks he will investigate horrendous methods used during the system and the best possible internet whether a financial help can lift Civil war 20 years ago. connection to open a new world for the Opportunity Training Center in many disabled in Kenema. Kenema to a higher level. 61 people are today a part of the OTC. They are doing different BITZER Electronics entered into a activities within tailoring, electronics, partnership with IUG in 2015. The metal, hairdressing and IT-learning. aim was to support a project which They are also engaged in creating focus on sustainability and assistance sustainable solar systems for the supplementary to ongoing efforts in future. One big issue must be solved the local environment. before further development – The “We are proud of doing a difference lack of electricity. through the OTC in Kenema. It’s an Electric supply to the OTC comes example of sustainable help where from primarily Water Power Plants individuals throughout education Report on social responsibility 2019 13 5. Environmental responsibility BITZER Electronics takes an enviare sited near our main customers. ronmentally responsible approach Furthermore, BITZER Electronics to the running of our business, and is working on finding qualified sub we focus on the areas where we suppliers, which are located near the can minimise our impact on the manufacturers. All in all, transport environment the most. One area and logistics are minimised, saving is our products that reduce energy money, time and energy. consumption for end-users, ref page In the past period we have focused 18. We also require that our supplion reducing air transport as this is ers take care of the environment, ref. not only the most expensive but also our Supplier Code of Conduct pages the most energy-intensive mode 30-31. of transport. We have specifically In-house we look at optimisation at focused on monitoring and reducing our facilities. We keep a list of ideas our use of air transport of product for environmental improvements. parts and components. Furthermore, The list is available to all employees, we have looked into and evaluated who may also add ideas to the list. potential sub suppliers, which are The ideas are evaluated at regular located near the manufacturers. In CSR meetings, where it is decided particular we have been looking for which ideas to look further into or sub suppliers of heavy components, implement. Many of the ideas have which have the greatest impact already been implemented, and during air transport. there are still being added new ideas The result has been a considerable to the list. fall in use of air transport, and in The ideas that have been implementgeneral a decrease in sea and land ed since the last report range from transport. insulation of a building to serving tap We will continue the project and our water to guests instead of bottled focus onwards will be on anchoring water (which makes perfectly sense the processes in the long term. in Denmark, as we have some of the cleanest tap water in the world). Refurbished spare parts These are some of the areas we BITZER Electronics has finalized a also focus on: pilot project, which involves looking into introducing refurbished spare Localisation parts. Localisation is about streamlining Apart from following the comprelogistics, increasing transport hensive national legislation on the efficiency and manufacturing our recycling of electronic waste, we products close to the markets investigated whether spare parts for for which they are destined. Our one of our products could be refurstrategy is an efficient logistics bished and to what extent. The pilot approach, which we call “in the area, project was a success, and after the for the area”. The purpose of BITZER customer’s evaluation it was included Electronics’ localisation project is in our regular scope of supply to the to ensure that our manufacturers customer. 14 Report on social responsibility 2019 Based on the experiences from the Electronics estimates that it will be of view. However, we have concludpilot project, we are now considering a good idea according to our overall ed, that initiating new activities will extending the concept to other strategies. be too expensive as our present customers as well. We see a considplans are only to keep the pavilions erable potential in the long run. Air and heating for just a few more years. Apart from the obvious environBITZER Electronics’ main building is Ventilation systems are installed in mental benefits, our aim is for the heated by water-borne floor heating. all buildings (except the pavilions). refurbishing of spare parts to bring The heat comes from (ground-toThese are very energy-friendly considerable advantages in terms of water) heat pumps, which we have solutions, which also improve the cost-efficiency and quality. developed and produced ourselves. indoor climate. From January 2016 When the temperature drops below all ventilation systems are once Environmental certification freezing point, we supplement this again controlled by week programs heating solution with natural gas. We (active on working days from 6 am BITZER Electronics has looked into till 6 pm). The week programs have have seasonal control of our heating the process of an ISO 14001 certifibeen switched off for some time to ensure a more homogeneous cation in terms of scope, costs, risk due to internal test purposes in indoor temperature and save energy. analysis and strategy, and we have our development department (the an overall overview of the extent BITZER Electronics has rented a set ventilation systems are controlled of a detailed stepwise plan for a of pavilions, which we use as extra by BITZER Electronics software), so certification process. We will make meeting rooms. However, these we expect to see an effect on our the actual plan and a certification pavilions are heated by electricity, energy savings in the consumption process will be initiated either on which is not ideal, neither from a figures below, next year. request of a customer or if BITZER cost nor from an environmental point Report on social responsibility 2019 15 Energy consumption The table below shows our energy consumption for the past years relative to floor area and number of employees. 2010 2011 2012 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 kWh per m2 152 127 122 142 137 143 147 150 155 Hereof kWh per 29 20 18 15 14 14 16 m2, product testing kWh per employee 6802 5485 4649 5301 4649 4648 4283 4546 4601 Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with approx. 1,000 In 2014, the low figures are partly due to a very mild sq m. During the period of construction, our ground-towinter and partly to the insulation of the building water heating system was switched off. acquired in 2013. In 2012, we split the measuring of energy consumption In 2017 we made an agreement with Ørsted about into energy used for product testing and energy for our 100% removal of biological gas. This shows in the ordinary facilities and activities in order to monitor how numbers, which is the lowest we have had in the last energy is used. 10 years. In 2013, we extended our facilities with a new 396 sq We expanded our facilities with 170m2 in 2018. The m building. This building was not as well-insulated as numbers are slightly higher than 2017, but satisfying in the other buildings, and thus more energy was used regard to the numbers from 2010 up until now. during the winter period in 2013. Below it shows our CO2 emissions for the past years, also relative to floor area and number of employees. 2010 2011 2012 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tonnes of 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 0.043 0.038 0.038 0.036 0.039 CO2 per m2 Tonnes of 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 1.448 1.180 1.276 1.171 1.070 CO2 per employee Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates to natural emission calculations. The above CO2 calculations are gas, which is weighted more highly in the CO2 made using a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. 16 Report on social responsibility 2019 Environmental inspection Printed matter The Danish local authorities inspect the local All printed matter, including this report, is printed companies to ensure that they comply with environusing environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified mental regulations governing the minimisation of paper. We always print a limited number of copies. pollution. Due to the nature of BITZER Electronics’ Our current supplier of printed matter is located business, inspections are only carried out about very close to BITZER Electronics, which saves every three years. energy for transport. November 2008: 1 remark See www.fsc.org. (paper sorting handled incorrectly). March 2012: 0 remarks The next inspection is expected to take place in 2019 (it has not yet taken place at the time of release of this report). Results, goals and actions (October 2019 October 2020) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Result: BITZER Electronics has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. In the past period, we have pointed and insulated all the windows in one of our buildings, we have started serving tap water to guests instead of bottled water and we have run a “print on both sides” campaign. The list is available to all BITZER Electronics employees at the intranet. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture the products close to the markets for which they are destined. We will especially monitor our use of air transport. Result: The result so far has been a considerable fall in use of air transport, and in general a decrease in sea and land transport as well. New goals and actions (October 2019 October 2020) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture the products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. Report on social responsibility 2019 17 6. BITZER Electronics’ energy-efficient products BITZER Electronics develops innoas anti-legionella control of domestic vative control solutions for heating, hot water. The controllers can be ventilation and refrigeration systems. used in both domestic and industrial Today, the solutions are used all heat pumps. over the world, for instance in the following areas: Air-handling units BITZER Electronics air-handling OEM solutions control solutions are key to creating // Heat pumps perfect comfort and climate for people – e.g. in homes, industrial // Ventilation systems buildings and schools. // Others Frequency converters Compressor electronics BITZER Electronics’ converter // Compressor protection and solution electronically controls compressor capacity to match actual “Innovative control monitoring cooling demands by changing the solutions used all // Frequency converters compressor speed. The result is better part-load performance, thus over the world.” Transport saving energy and cutting CO2 emissions. // Reefer application // Truck & Trailer units Accessories Multiple accessories are available Monitoring & Control solutions for all BITZER Electronics controllers // Energy optimization to add extra value to the solutions: innovative and user-friendly user // Remote monitoring panels with colour displays, remote communication devices, sensors // Indoor climate and data loggers, web modules and Windows-based multi-tools for Heat pumps communicating with the controllers. BITZER Electronics heat pump controllers ensure COP (coefficient of performance) optimisation of individual systems and add knowledge about additional aspects such 18 Report on social responsibility 2019 7. Heat pump controller Intelligent heat pump solutions Hot water in the taps and comfortable indoor climate are things we take for granted. And with BITZER Electronics’ heat pump How does the BITZER Electronics controllers there is no reason not to. Our advanced control heat pump controller save energy solutions are designed to take perfect control of hot water and heating applications – to reduce energy consumption and save compared to other products? money. Naturally, without compromising comfort. // The unit cuts energy consumption BITZER Electronics has provided control solutions for heat and costs through intelligent pumps since the 1980s and has built up and continuously decapacity control via the frequency veloped an extensive knowledge of both domestic and industrial inverter. heat pump systems. The application knowledge also includes // It includes intelligent defrost the combination of ventilation and heat pumps to provide the best, most economical comfort. scheduling, which saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. Our heat pump controller can be used in all heat pump applications for heating and hot water, including: // Pre-programmed outside temperature compensation curves adapt to // Brine/Water Heat Pumps the fastest control/better comfort. // Air/Water Heat Pumps // The controller can be used for // Water/Water Heat Pumps heat pumps with air or water/ brine as source. Supplementary // Domestic Hot Water Heat Pumps heat sourcing from solar panels or With a BITZER Electronics controller solution you will have electric heaters is possible. complete control over the entire system. And, for fast access to often-used parameters, you can also tailor your control panels to your exact needs and situations. Report on social responsibility 2019 19 8. Ventilation controller A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption With BITZER Electronics’ the air quality by reducing the air-handling controller, a amount of common pollutants, How does the BITZER Elecperfect climate can be created such as: dust, mold, pollen, tronics ventilation controller everywhere with minimum smoke, radon and other chemsave energy compared to energy consumption due to icals emanating from carpets, demand-driven ventilation. The furniture, paints and cleaning other products? air-handling controller operates liquids. // The air-handling controller in both household and industricontrols the supply and An air conditioning system is al units. exhaust air with energyonly as strong as its weakest The supply of fresh, filtered air link. BITZER Electronics’ can saving EC fans or AC fans to maintain air quality is key help create a stronger, smarter with inverters to an optimised indoor climate system that can be monitored // The controller ensures deand comfort. As air handling from off-site devices. So you costs energy, the goal is to always have total control over mand-driven ventilation with ensure optimised comfort using your installations. CO2 and humidity sensors; if as little energy as possible. the humidity and CO2 values With a BITZER Electronics’ BITZER Electronics’ air-handling rise above a stipulated level, controller solution you will have unit has a number of features the ventilation will increase, complete control over the entire that contribute to that goal. and as soon as the humidity system. And, for fast access Some of the features include and CO2 values are acceptto often-used parameters, you remote access, which allows able, the ventilation will be can also tailor your control for support and service from lowered again. In this way, panels to your exact needs and the office, as well as advanced situations. only an absolute minimum status alarms, which relieves of energy is consumed to the fault finding. maintain a given level of A modern air conditioning or comfort ventilation system does not only increase air flow and help // The air handling can be to keep the indoor temperature adjusted according to at a comfortable level, it also outside temperature and helps to significantly improve day-and-night or weekly requirements. 20 Report on social responsibility 2019 9. Remote caretaking A perfect indoor climate at all hours The BITZER Electronics Remote blocks and one restaurant in Caretaking helps generating a Southern Denmark. Remote Added value using perfect indoor climate, while Caretaking allows you to easily Remote Caretaking reducing the energy consumption monitor if the units are running, and service costs to a minimum. get alarm notifications and watch // Optimal indoor climate real-time data etc. It is even BITZER Electronics’ Remote // Preventive maintenance & possible to see how well the units Caretaking service provide monfaster service respond operate. The newest available itoring of actual operation data feature allows the building ad// Emergency stop of all units and enabling configuration of all ministrator to, remotely, turn off ventilation systems in a building in case of emergencies ventilation units individual or an or individual apartment from entire apartment building easily, // Faster and better scheduled a central location. The service and avoid smoke contaminated service in each apartment – includes access to a webpage, or air from external sources to enter save time an app installed on the building the apartments. administrators mobile phone / // Reduce visits to each housiPad or tablet. ing association via remote The Remote Caretaking setup has monitoring been added to several of existing // Faster troubleshooting by air handling units, in apartment viewing historical data Report on social responsibility 2019 21 Remote caretaking provides optimum indoor climate in FSB buildings 124 students live behind the green alarm has been tested successfully,” Data log to ensure a perfect glass at Engbakken College at Nørtells Rune Bossen, Caretaker at overview rebro. Each student has an apartEngbakken. Remote Caretaking provides ment with both kitchen and bath. The installation Remote Caretaking Rune Bossen, with the correct On the roof of the building there has created greater focus on filter information about the operation of are seven Exhausto air handling replacement at Engbakken. The the air handling units. “If I receive units, which ensure a healthy indoor building is located right next to a enquires about problems with the climate for each student. road with a lot of traffic and thereair handling units, I go through the “The monitoring system, Remote fore it is important to secure that data log on my mobile phone. This Caretaking, makes sure that the the filters are changed regular. This makes it very easy and simple to ventilation is operating as planned. to ensure that the tenants always identify the problems,” tells Rune I get notified in case of any have the optimal indoor climate. Bossen. The Data log function is problems, when filters need to be available on both Mobile phone, replaced and when the weekly fire Tablet and PC. 22 Report on social responsibility 2019 Creating the perfect overview Poul Thrane has for more than “With the installation of Remote the structure in the system quickly 20 years kept track of technical Caretaking we have minimized our made it very easy to use,” tells Poul installations in more than 13.000 many check-up procedures. The app Thrane. apartments and houses. He works makes it easy to have an overview Poul Thrane and his colleagues have as an energy consultant for FSB, of the air handling units. Both me had and still have the possibility to which is the biggest social housing and the caretaker of the building contact Lodam employees in case association in Copenhagen. get notifications on our mobile of any questions regarding Remote phones in the event of a fault on “All our apartments need ventilaCaretaking. the system,” explains Poul Thrane. tion. This to secure that we always “Remote Caretaking ensures that have the optimal indoor climate,” Easy implementation we use the full potential of our air tells Poul Thrane. handling units in terms of energy Remote Caretaking was installed Installation and implementation of and economical reasons. The in a chosen number of buildings Remote Caretaking at Engbakken system also creates a great overin 2018 and the monitoring sysCollege has been easy. “During a view for our caretakers on a busy tem has secured FSB an energy couple of hours, Lodam employees work-day.” efficient solution and a much more installed Remote Caretaking on the simple way to support the technical air handling units. My colleagues installations. had an instruction of the app and Report on social responsibility 2019 23 10. BITZER Electronics customized Star Cool Controller When BITZER Electronics teamed Cool controller, developed specially up with Maersk Container Industry for the demanding conditions StarCool benefits at a glance (MCI) to develop the next-genencountered at sea and based on eration reefer technology it was decades of experience with cooling // Low operational costs Energy with a clear ambition: To reduce applications. savings of up to 30%. energy costs in reefers while never By perfectly matching the compres// Optimal environmental compromising reliability. The result sor speed to the required heat load, control Accurate temperature is Star Cool – a unique solution the controller keeps the environment offering the industry’s lowest energy control minimizes cargo inside the container optimized at all consumption and extremely accurate dehydration and weight-loss. times to preserve premium cargo temperature control. quality. // Low noise level. According to Maersk Container // User-friendly Easy-to-use Industry energy savings exceeding A complete box build 30% are not uncommon. symbol-based MMI graphical The Star Cool controller is part of user interface. Optimum cargo quality is the primaa box build solution, complete with ry objective in the reefer industry // Designed for reliability controller, power measurements, with energy costs as a close second. contactors, display and wire harness. Built-in pre-trip inspection. Offering significant energy savings BITZER Electronics delivers the box Automatic components and unmatched temperature control, build ready for installation in the control. Advanced diagnosthe Star Cool technology will enable reefers at Maersk’s factories – to tics systems. Comprehensive you to meet both requirements to save Maersk time and ensure a data-logging features. improve your competitiveness and premium quality solution. BITZER financial viability. Electronics has also set up test BITZER Electronics has contributed facilities at the factories to enable to the unique solution with the Star Maersk to test the performance of the Star Cool. 24 Report on social responsibility 2019 Report on social responsibility 2019 25 1 Revolution of the mango trade Farmers in Ivory Coast struggle with “I think there is a new business opCostly air transport can be a mango harvest season that is as portunity for farmers whose excess avoided: short as the fruit is sweet. “For a fruit never makes it to the market in “While the vast majority of mangoes 4-6 week period in April and May, time,” Mathew Shed says. globally are transported by ocean the country is flooded with good Anders G. Holm from Maersk Conrather than air, the proportion of mangos, but it ends abruptly when tainer Industry, the maker of Star mangoes exported from West Africa the rainy season starts. From then Cool CA, is delighted. “Combined by air is relatively high (~40%). on, the mango just starts decaying,” competences along the logistics On the surface, this would suggest explains Mathew Shed, container chain can save food and open up that impediments to ocean transport manager in the specialist shipping business,” says Holm. “I’ll even go of mangoes out of countries like company Africa Express Line (AEL). so far as to say this could become a Senegal or Ivory Coast may be “We were approached in April mango revolution.” restricting the full export potential of by Eolis, a CF logistics company, those markets. With large quantities who asked for some kind of smart Why the reefer test was a of mangoes produced in that region solution that would keep the fruit success: for local consumption, it seems likely delicious and marketable for a that the export potential from some longer time,” he adds. The solution Five Star Cool CA containers were of these markets is much greater turned out to be special reefer loaded in May 2014 and then than what we see today.” (Quote: containers. With quick help from opened one by one over a period of Derek Brand, maritime advisor at a container leasing company and four to nine weeks. Each time, the the Seabury Group transportation a container depot in Antwerp, fruit generally turned out to be in consultancy). Belgium, Star Cool containers were the same condition as when it was upgraded to work with controlled loaded. (Source: Africa Express Line. Star Cool Controlled Atmosatmosphere, in short known as CA, See photos below) phere CA: and sent to Ivory Coast. Only 3 percent of world mango After five years on the market, more Star Cool CA reefers adjust O2 and production is exported: than 25.000 Star Cool refrigeration CO2 levels, which in turn keep the containers are now equipped with fruit’s respiration and ripening under Global production of mangos has CA. The technology is also used for control. “We knew how Star Cool CA doubled in the last 30 years to more bananas and avocados extending extends the storage life of bananas than 35 million tonnes, but only the potential travel time from 20 and avocados. Mangos have similar about 3 percent is traded internadays to 45. respiration rates so the success of tionally. Fragility is one reason why the mango test is really not a big most mangos are still consumed surprise,” says Mathew Shed. close to the place of production. (Source: UNCTAD) 1 Case from https://www.mcicontainers.com/news/stories/mci-eyes-revolution-of-mango-trade 26 Report on social responsibility 2019 Report on social responsibility 2019 27 28 Report on social responsibility 2019 11. Supplier responsibility BITZER Electronics’ suppliers are include the use of solvents, disConflict minerals our close partners. They have been charge of waste water and disposal Conflict minerals are raw materials carefully selected based on quality, of waste in general at our suppliers’ that come from particular parts of innovation and flexibility. We strive to production facilities. For the time the world where conflicts occur and select suppliers that are committed being, these registrations are used affect the mining and trading of to maintaining high ethical standfor monitoring purposes only. those materials, e.g. tin, tungsten, ards in the same way that we are. For some of our suppliers we also tantalum and gold. These minerals Incorporating social responsibility in perform audits at their suppliers, are present in our electronic prodour supply chain is an ongoing proie. the next supplier level, using ucts through the components process, and we experience an overall the same supplier audit templates. cured for our solutions. At present, positive attitude and approach from This applies for selected, strategic we do not have the full picture of the our partners in this matter. suppliers, or suppliers where our origin of these materials, for which BITZER Electronics performs regular experience indicates that it would reason we have started requesting audits of our strategic suppliers, and be a good idea. The main purpose information on the origin of these our supplier audit templates include is to ensure the right quality of minerals from our suppliers. Due to environmental, health and safety the deliveries; however, the audits the complexity of our supply chain, issues, ISO 14001 certifications and includes the same environmental, this is an ongoing process. deviations, if any. The templates also health and safety issues. Results goals and actions (October 2018 October 2019) Goal: Introduce and implement BITZER Electronics’ social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Result: a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strategic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress. b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. New goals and actions (October 2019 October 2020) Goal: Introduce and implement BITZER Electronics’ social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Report on social responsibility 2019 29 12. Supplier code of conduct Preface BITZER Electronics strives to select // Child labour will provide competitive advantages suppliers who are committed to mainfor the benefit of BITZER Electronics // Forced labour taining high ethical standards. We and our suppliers. are a signatory to the United Nations’ // Health and safety This Code of Conduct applies to Global Compact, and we expect our // Environment suppliers doing business with BITZER suppliers to share the fundamental Electronics. Suppliers must comply principles of the UN Global Compact // Corruption and bribery with this code of conduct in all asinitiative, whether signatories or not. // Conflict minerals pects of their operations that relate to The Supplier Code of Conduct comtheir business with BITZER Electronprises the following specific areas: Furthermore, our suppliers are ics. Supplier companies must ensure required to comply with all relevant that their employees comply with // Remuneration and employment national legislation and regulations. this code of conduct in all activities conditions related to the suppliers’ business with The purpose of BITZER Electronics’ // Working hours Supplier Code of Conduct is to outline BITZER Electronics. in greater detail the standards we We expect our suppliers to ensure // Freedom of association and the expect our suppliers to adhere to. that their sub suppliers are aware right to collective bargaining BITZER Electronics views these reof and comply with the principles // Discrimination quirements as an integral part of our expressed in this code of conduct. business relationship with individual // Harassment and disciplinary suppliers. We believe that ethical, measures social and environmental standards 30 Report on social responsibility 2019 specific requirements Remuneration and employment grounds of race, colour, ancestry, Health and safety conditions religion, gender, gender identity We expect the supplier to provide or expression, sexual orientation, We expect the supplier to comply safe and healthy working conditions age, physical or mental disability, with all legislation and regulations and take appropriate precautionary health condition, pregnancy, political governing pay and working hours, measures to protect employees from opinion or affiliation, national, social including those pertaining to miniwork-related hazards and anticipated or ethnic origin, union membership, mum pay, overtime pay, sick leave, dangers in the workplace. marital status, citizenship status or piece rates and other compensatory The supplier must comply with veteran status. elements. all applicable local legislation and Harassment and disciplinary regulations to prevent accidents and Working hours injury to health arising out of, linked measures We expect the supplier not to require with, or occurring in the course of We expect the supplier not to use or work or as a result of the operation employees to work more than 60 permit the use of corporal punishof the employer’s facilities. hours per week including overtime, ment or other forms of mental or or more than the limits on regular We expect the supplier to continuphysical coercion, disciplinary actions and overtime hours permitted under ously improve working conditions or sexual harassment. local law, whichever is the lower. and reduce workplace-related risks Workers must be entitled to at least and hazards by e.g. setting targets one non-working day in every Child labour and conducting appropriate training. seven-day period. We expect the supplier to ensure Particular employees with unusual that no person is employed at an Environment working conditions may be exempted age younger than 15 (or 14 where We expect the supplier to meet all from this general requirement when the law of the country permits) or relevant local and national environcovered by specific national or younger than the age for completing mental regulations and to strive to international legislation; however, in compulsory education in the country minimise damaging effects to the the course of 12 weeks no employee of manufacture where such age is environment. must be required to work more than higher than 15. an average of 60 hours per week, The supplier must protect young including overtime. Corruption and bribery workers of legal working age, up to the age of 18, from any type of We expect the highest standards of Freedom of association and employment or work which, by its integrity in all business interactions. right to collective bargaining nature or the circumstances in which The supplier must not engage in any it is carried out, is likely to jeopardform of corrupt practices, including We expect the supplier not to extortion, fraud or bribery, whether ize their health, safety or moral. prevent employees and other direct or indirect. workers from associating freely with If a child is found working, the any lawful workers’ association or supplier must act in the best interest of the child, and any measures taken Conflict minerals collective bargaining association of their choice. must aim to improve and not worsen We expect the supplier to initiate a the child’s situation. process to ensure delivery of “conDiscrimination flict-free minerals” products and to Forced labour implement a conflict minerals policy We expect the supplier’s hiring and that prohibits the purchase and use employment practices (including Forced, bonded or indentured labour of conflict minerals. promotion, training and rewards) or involuntary prison labour is not to not to be discriminatory on the be used. Report on social responsibility 2019 31 13. People responsibility BITZER Electronics is still one of the Management and leadership One of our tools to work with very best workplaces in Denmark. cross-organizational collaboration We have improved the employees’ In 2018, our trust index was 94% is to make agreements on specific view of the management’s ability to and we are ranked as no. 11 among issues between two departments. manage and delegate. One of the medium-sized companies in DenOne example is an agreement basic things we have focused on is mark by the Great Place to Work between Sales and R&D on how to for the individual manager to reserve Institute®, which is an advancement have a closer relationship between more time to leadership. from the year before. Furthermore, the customer and R&D, where the we received the communication Another focus area has been to two departments have agreed to use award and were nominated for the increase the empowerment in the the same terms and definitions – to diversity award. organisation. That is to move the despeak the same language. Other cisiveness from the management into tools are accomplishing value stream In this report, we have chosen to the organisation. The management mapping projects and working with present some of the areas that we has worked with this at management a thorough project model to have a have focused on in particular, since seminars and also discussed the common basis for the collaboration. the last report in order to meet our theme with BITZER Electronics’ vision, which is to be one of the best Dialogue and communication are Advisory Board, which comprises places to work in Denmark with a thus very important. Receiving the both employees and managers. trust index of 95% as measured by communication award from the Great the Great Place to Work Institute®. From a top-level perspective, we Place to Work Institute® in 2015 have focused on setting the direction shows us that we are on the right of the company and communicating track, but we still have work to do. it. The strategy efforts are followed Cross-organization collaboration is up with focus on the leadership and very much supported by a strong co-operation guidelines. experience of team and family spirit, which is why we still work on Cross-organisational collaboraimproving this goal. tion In the years to come, improved Cooperation and knowledge sharing cross-organizational collaboration across the organization is decisive to through improved organizational succeed with complex development cohesion will remain a focus point. and production projects. We have worked to improve our abilities to match expectations including our dialogue competences in order to reach the planned goals. Trust index: Refers to the overall average result of the Trust Index® Employee Survey by the Great Place To Work® Institute. 32 Report on social responsibility 2019 Diversity / Inclusiveness Inclusiveness is one of our values. This value is multifaceted, but it also BITZER Electronics’ includes our responsibility to include values people in training and education Our values are the foundation of our to become strong members of the organisation. They help us to make workforce. These are examples of business decisions and influence all how we contribute: of our interactions within the com// Under an agreement with the pany – personal and professional. local university (SDU), we offer four student jobs every year for Professionalism engineer students Every year, We strive to be a competent, reliawe offer four internships for ble business partner. A partner that students of engineering. keeps its promises and consistently // We have four internships for delivers above the bar in terms of engineer students every year. quality, service and value. // Every year, we have two or three Inclusiveness students write their final thesis at BITZER Electronics every year. We believe in individualism with a respect for diversity and the many // We always have one PhD cultures that come together to work student. under our roof. We are driven by good attitudes, the mutual desire // We always have one apprentice. to achieve job satisfaction and our At the moment, we have two, preparedness for change. one of them being an apprentice from a new education (EUX) Good business acumen within electronics. We are driven by sound business // We take on new graduates, if practices in all daily decisions, both possible. internally and externally. All deci// We make room for employees sions should be ethical and to the benefit of the company as a whole. who need special employment conditions. Report on social responsibility 2019 33 People responsibility goals The indicators below relate to BITZand create new jobs. These numbers ured by the Great Place to Work® ER Electronics’ ability to maintain relate to our overall vision of being survey; however, the goals set out and improve employee well-being, one of the best places to work in below are specifically important to motivation and job satisfaction. Denmark with a trust index of 95% us. Furthermore, they give an idea of as measured by the Great Place to BITZER Electronics’ ability to retain Work® Institute. BITZER Electronics employees, recruit new employees wants to improve in all areas measTarget Description 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Comments 2019 No. of em91 (January 101 (January 103 (January 107 (January 113 (January 113 ployees 2015) 2016) 2017) 2017) 2018 Staff turnover 6.8% 11.9% 3.8% 7.6% 4.4% About 5% Measured as the number of resigned employees compared to the average number of employees. Sick leave 1.7% 1.66% 3.3% 3.2% 3.9% 1.5% Including long-term sick leave. (excl. long (excl. long (excl. long term sick term sick term sick leave: 1.7%) leave: 1.7%) leave: 1.8%) No. of physi1 0 0 0 1 0 BITZER Electronics cal injuries focuses on preventive activities No. of 0 1 case of 2 case of 1 case of 2 case of 0 BITZER Electronics psychological stress related stress related stress related stress related focuses on preventive injuries, e.g. sick leave. sick leave. sick leave. sick leave. activities. All managstress ers have attended a course on how to prevent and spot stress at an early stage, whether work related or personal matter. Agreed and 75% accom80% divided 90% divided 80% divided 51% divided Working The final 20% are accomplished plished and as follows: as follows: as follows: as follows: on 80% courses that cannot competence 12% scheduled 61% Accom70% accom65 % Accom42 % Accomduring be accomplished development (May 2015) plished plished, and plished and plished and 2020 for various reasons 19% Sched20% sched15% sched9% sched(cancelled by the uled (May uled (May uled (May uled (May organiser, postponed 2016) 2017) 2018) 2019) etc.) Notes: These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. 34 Report on social responsibility 2019 Report on social responsibility 2019 35 36 Report on social responsibility 2019 14. Anti-corruption BITZER Electronics strives to mainSupplier Code of Conduct (see pages we prefer to give gifts to a group of tain strong ethical standards and 30-31), which includes a paragraph people instead of just one person. to be a company of good standing on corruption and bribery. The gifts that BITZER Electronics and integrity. BITZER Electronics’ or a BITZER Electronics employee BITZER Electronics has an internal anti-corruption policy is based on may receive are accepted only if policy regarding gifts. Gifts to and the UN’s Convention against Corrupthey comply with the reasonability from external partners must respect tion as well as our obligations under principle; if not, they are returned. a reasonability principle, whereby the tenth principle of the UN Global Furthermore, all the gifts received they do not act as a means of Compact initiative: Businesses are donated to BITZER Electronics’ persuading someone to do someshould work against corruption in Christmas lottery, in which all thing which is dishonest, illegal or all its forms, including extortion and employees can participate. represents a breach of confidence. bribery. Our focus area has been and will Gifts from BITZER Electronics, Corruption is defined by Transparcontinue to be on awareness and including business partner care, ency International as “the abuse of understanding of this issue. The are also based on the reasonability entrusted power for private gain.” instruction held for all employees principle. We do not give individual includes information on grey areas Within our supply chain, we ensure Christmas gifts, but we may give between corruption and building that our partners work against gifts to show our appreciation of relationships and what the reasonacorruption as well, by asking special efforts, also based on the bility principle means. our suppliers to comply with our reasonability principle. Moreover, Results goals and actions (October 2018 October 2019) Goal: Continued communication of BITZER Electronics’ anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Result: a. An annual general instruction was held in 2018. The instruction is part of BITZER Electronics’ general internal training programme. b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts were held in 2018. Participation is registered. c. No incidents have been registered (as per 1 May 2019). New goals and actions (October 2019 October 2020) Goal: Continued communication of BITZER Electronics’ anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all new employees. b. Special annual instructions to new employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Report on social responsibility 2019 37 38 Report on social responsibility 2019 15. Final words and facts BITZER Electronics’ CSR report is one of five Facts accountings that BITZER Electronics accomplishes Date of issue of this communication on progress every year. The other four are our financial (COP): 17 October 2019 accountings, our quality assurance accountings, our customer satisfaction survey and the Great Place to Work® employee survey. These are the Company name and address: accounts where we measure ourselves in relation BITZER Electronics A/S to our targets and goals. Kærvej 77 DK-6400 Sønderborg The overall purpose of the CSR-report is to VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 perform continued, prioritized efforts within the framework of UN Global Compact, in order to show our social responsibility towards customers, Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 suppliers and employees. As a socially responsible company, BITZER ElecNo. of employees on date of issue: 113 tronics will continue to implement and incorporate the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Management: initiative into our strategies and our daily work. Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, Managing Director Henning H. Kristensen, Managing Director Board of Directors: Christian Wehrle Gianbattista Parlanti Rainer Große-Kracht Frank Hartmann Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2013 This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified paper in a limited number of copies. See www.fsc.org. Report on social responsibility 2019 39 BITZER Electronics A/S Kærvej 77 // 6400 Sønderborg // Denmark Tel +45 73 42 37 37 // Fax +45 73 42 37 30 info@bitzerdk.com // www.bitzerelectronics.com Subject to change // 10.2019
