Sustainability A sustainable business operation is the key to long-term success. NOTE works continuously on issues affecting the environment, social conditions and its human resources, human rights and anti corruption. This work is conducted with the aid of applicable legislation, standards and other regulations. NOTE’s connection to UN Global Sustainable Development Goals, page references in the Annual Report Social conditions and human Social conditions and human resources, page 16. resources, page 16. UN Global Compact, Principle 1, UN Global Compact, page 17. Principle 6, page 18. Human resources, page 20—21. Social conditions and human UN Global Compact, resources, page 16. Principle 6, page 18. UN Global Compact, Principles 1—6 Human resources, page 20—21. and 10, page 17—19. Share data and owners, page 24—25. Environmental policy and working UN Global Compact, methods, page 15. Principles 1—10, page 17—19. UN Global Compact, Principles 7—9, Human resources, page 20—21. page 18—19. Customer satisfaction survey, page 12. Timeline of NOTE’s sustainability work 1997 2002 2004 2006 2010 2011 The plant in Norrtälje, The plant in Torsby, The plant in Lund, Code of conduct The plants in UK and NOTE joins UN Global Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 produced. China ISO 14001 Compact. certification. certification. certification. certification. 14 Global Sustainable Development Goals Global heads of state and governments adopted 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals at the UN summit on 25 September 2015. The links between these goals and NOTE’s activities, targets and strategies are reported on the pages stated in the contents to the left. Sustainable production through close partnerships Working on an integrated footing on various sustainability issues is critical to the effectiveness of overall performance, and NOTE’s sustainability work involves operates, by developing sustainable 14001 environmental certification and all group companies. These issues cover initiatives in our business. The group’s are audited by internal and external everything from appropriate conduct shared values and policies are intended resources. In the fourth quarter 2018, towards the company’s stakeholders and to lead, influence and direct the group’s NOTE acquired a plant in Windsor, UK, helping customers choose components activities. NOTE complies with internawhich had already been working on with good environmental and quality tional standards and directives in the environmental issues pursuant to ISO performance, to locating manufacture sustainability segment. 14000 for many years, and is scheduled close to final markets, and limiting the for certification in 2019. NOTE was one environmental impact of transportation Environmental Policy and working of the earliest companies in the sector as far as possible. methods to receive ISO 14000 environmental Sustainability questions have been NOTE endeavours to achieve long-term, certification, back in 1997. included in the annual survey sent to sustainable development by manuDespite differences in environmental customers to identify the segments facturing with the minimum possible legislation between countries, NOTE has they think are important to focus on. In environmental impact. NOTE endeavours the constant ambition of all its plants foltandem with reducing its impact on the to comply with, or exceed, applicable lowing a consistent line of environmental environment and wider society, NOTE environmental legislation, and pursues work. Its manufacturing units exchange endeavours to achieve responsible concontinuous improvement in the environbest practice, best-in-class actions and duct on the markets where it operates. mental segment. proposals for improvement. NOTE’s environmental work complies Manufacturing units sort the waste NOTE’s sustainability objective with international ISO guidelines, under from consumables at source, and monitor The objective is to contribute to, and the ISO 14000 family of standards. The energy consumption continuously. NOTE improve, the societies where NOTE group’s manufacturing units hold ISO also applies environmental consideration 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 2018 The plant in Finland The plant in Estonia For the fifth consecutive The plant in Finland Equality policy produced. Privacy policy produced ISO 14001 certification. ISO 14001 certification. year, the plant in Estonia OHSAS 18001 The plant in Norrtälje, in order to handle perThe plant in Estonia OHSAS 18001 is awarded the Silver certification. Sweden, nominated for sonal data in accordance receives sustainability implemented at the plants Sustainable Business Samhall’s Visa vägen with GDPR. award from the Estonian in Estonia and China. Index Award by the (‘Show the Way’) award. Chamber of Commerce Human rights and Anti Responsible Business & Industry. corruption policies produced. Forum. 15 in other parts of its business, through In its transport, NOTE also coordinates its addition to responsibility for its own opechannels including discussions with its freight agreements to optimise transporrations, this also implies a responsibility customers on sourcing materials and tation, and thus limit energy consumption for respecting human rights in business production setups. and CO2 emissions. relations with the company’s stakeholElectronic scrap, glass and paper are NOTE conducts regular environmental ders. NOTE’s Human Rights Policy has recycled. NOTE conducts improvement audits of strategic suppliers. principles and standpoints that apply in projects to reduce waste, energy conlabour law and equal opportunities for sumption and CO2 emissions. Corrugated Social conditions and human example. board and combustible waste are comresources NOTE’s Code of Conduct formalises pacted to minimise the amount of waste NOTE endeavours to be an employer how the company expects its suppliers transports, which affect the environment. offering everyone equal opportunities to to conduct themselves within human work and develop. The group’s collective rights, labour law, child labour, corruption Gender division group competence is based on diversity, which and the environment. This is conveyed % helps bring dynamic and different through the supply chain, and monitored 100 perspectives to work. in supplier audits. NOTE is opposed to all forms of discriNOTE’s Anti Corruption Policy includes 75 mination. One tool for working on this and principles stating the group’s standpoint other issues is its whistleblower function, on corruption. The policy also reviews 50 which was improved in the year. NOTE segregation of duties, how internal implemented a Privacy Policy in 2018, controls are conducted, and stipulates a 25 which regulates the management of whistleblower procedure. personal data. This Policy was prepared Consistent with previous years, pursuant to the EU GDPR (General Data and within the auspices of its internal 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Protection Regulation). controls, NOTE has a documented All NOTE employees are entitled to process for evaluating risk and compliWomen Men collective bargaining agreements, and ance with policies. In 2019, NOTE intends to form and join trade unions. Collective to continue policy work and encourage bargaining agreements are in place at positive social progress in the locations Division between blue collar most NOTE plants. Three plants also where NOTE has a presence. and white collar workers use OHSAS 18001 to guide their work. Full versions of NOTE’s Code of 278 white collar 702 blue collar This far-reaching, global and verifiable Conduct, Human Rights, Equality and Anti workers workers standard in occupational health and Corruption Policies are available at www. safety involves with external auditing and note.eu. certification. For more information on NOTE’s NOTE conducts an annual employee business model and risk management, satisfaction survey, and in 2018, the see the operational review on pages 8 response frequency was 82% (75% in and 13. Gender division managers 2017). 35% women 65% men Respect for human rights and anti corruption NOTE respects human rights and its conduct prevents them being infringed. In 16 UN Global Compact In 2011, NOTE joined the Global Compact, which was started on a UN initiative. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as a guidance Global Compacts ten principles The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted suppfor their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable The Global Compact has formulated ten liers is approximately 55% (49 to 55% in 2017). NOTE standard in occupational health and safety, with external supported UNICEF, which operates in 190 countries, in auditing and certification. principles affecting human rights, labour activities to save the lives of children, defend their rights, law, the environment and anti corruption. and help them realise their potential, from early childhood RESULT 2018 through their teenage years. NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure Member companies have undertaken to compliance with its Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE comply with these principles. GOALS 2019 encouraged existing and new customers and suppliers to Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct join, or support, the UN Global Compact by communicating Each year, NOTE reports its COP and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN the importance of these issues. (Communication on Progress) to the Global Compact, or support its ten principles. ContinuNOTE signed agreements with another three strategic or ously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten contracted suppliers (four in 2017), who accepted NOTE’s UN. This is a framework that defines principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. NOTE how sustainability work is conducted Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and conducted follow-up audits on 35 suppliers (39 in 2017) contracted suppliers by two percentage points. Work that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct and within the group, and towards external to help children and uphold their rights, by supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The results of stakeholders. The COP reviews its development organisations. audits indicate that suppliers are complying with relevant laws and regulations. actions, approach and goals. In 2018, The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENSURE NOTE upgraded its involvement to Global THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN suppliers is approximately 55% (49 to 55% in 2017). In the year, NOTE continued its work on reducing the Compact Participant. RIGHTS ABUSES usage of conflict minerals. NOTE’s Code of Conduct is based on APPROACH GOALS 2019 the Global Compact’s ten principles and NOTE has been applying its Code of Conduct, which Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct, and the full version is available on its website. supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN Global since 2006. Compact, or support its ten principles. A summary of NOTE plants’ executed and NOTE’s Human Rights Policy has been implemented Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and forward-looking work on global compact in all plants’ business systems. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. principles follows. RESULT 2018 Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure comcontracted suppliers by two percentage points. pliance with its Code of Conduct internally. Internal HUMAN RIGHTS audits were conducted to ensure compliance with PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD relevant policies, laws and ordinances. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED In the year, NOTE experienced greater demand for AND COMPULSORY LABOUR materials analysis, and continued its work on reducing the usage of conflict minerals by helping customers PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND select materials, to avoid this type of material. APPROACH RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS 2019 supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, Continue to promote human rights internally and since 2006. towards the company’s stakeholders. As part of its business principles, NOTE and its APPROACH customers’ and suppliers’ employees should enter NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports employment and contracts of their own free will. LABOUR LAW the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as a guidance NOTE endeavours to develop business with companies for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifithat have the corresponding ethical rules on accountaable standard in occupational health and safety, with bility. external auditing and certification. NOTE’s Human Rights Policy stipulates that employRESULT 2018 PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ment with the company should always be voluntary. NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliFREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGAdditionally, work should always be conducted ance with its Code of Conduct. NITION OF THE RIGHTS TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING without compulsion or harassment, either physical or In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new psychological. customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact by communicating the significance of RESULT 2018 AND GOALS 2019 these issues. NOTE signed agreements with another APPROACH See principle 3. three strategic or contracted suppliers (four in 2017), NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports who accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. equivalent code. All NOTE employees are entitled to collective bargainNOTE conducted follow-up audits on 35 suppliers (39 ing, and to form, and join, trade unions. Collective bargainin 2017) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of ing agreements are in place in most NOTE plants. Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. NOTE’s Human Rights Policy states the group’s internal The form used for supplier audits included questions standpoints on this principle. regarding human rights. 17 PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOUR The results of audits indicate that suppliers are compown, equivalent code. lying with relevant laws and regulations. Follow-up audits were conducted on 35 suppliers The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted (39 in 2017) that had previously accepted NOTE’s APPROACH suppliers is approximately 55% (49 to 55% in 2017). Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which Global Compact. supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, GOALS 2019 The results of these audits demonstrate that supplisince 2006. Conduct a group-wide employee satisfaction survey ers are complying with relevant laws and ordinances. NOTE complies with relevant laws and ordnances on and use its results in business processes. The share of purchasing from strategic and contchild labour. NOTE does not employ children and does Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conracted suppliers is approximately 55% (49 to 55% in not collaborate with companies that use children as duct and encourage customers and suppliers to join 2017). part of their workforce. the UN Global Compact, or support its ten principles. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as a guidance Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct GOALS 2019 for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiand the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in Continued progress towards still more environmentally able standard in occupational health and safety, with supplier audits. friendly production and environmental transportation. external auditing and certification. Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and Continue to reduce waste volumes. The group’s standpoints on this principle are stated contracted suppliers by two percentage points. ISO 14001 certification of the Windsor plant. in NOTE’s Human Rights Policy. Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct and encourage customers and suppliers to join RESULT 2018 AND GOALS 2019 the UN Global Compact, or support its ten principles. See principle 3. ENVIRONMENT Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT contracted suppliers by two percentage points. OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE APPROACH since 2006. GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which NOTE believes in a workplace where all employees supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, APPROACH have equal opportunities to work and progress. NOTE since 2006. NOTE’s manufacturing units hold ISO NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which sees and benefits from all employees’ specific com14001 certification and undergo internal and external supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, petence and developmental opportunities, regardless audits. since 2006. of sex, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, age and NOTE’s plants run improvement projects in the NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification and social background. environmental segment, and measure a series of undergo internal and external audits. NOTE’s Equality Policy states the company’s environmental factors such as electronic scrap, energy The group works actively on developing guidelines principles governing equal opportunities and diversity, consumption and transport. All plants have environmeand methodologies designed to minimise the group’s which are encouraged in all parts of its business. The ntal targets, which are monitored regularly. negative environmental impact. Employees are encoucompany endeavours to achieve equal opportunities NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of raged to participate in this process. in terms of employment and working conditions, as sourcing from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of well as developmental opportunities. The company NOTE has a good understanding of these suppliers’ sourcing from strategic and contracted suppliers. pursues diversity on recruitment. Its working climate environmental work, and can help them to develop and NOTE has a good understanding of these suppliers’ should feature respect and tolerance. If any instances improve in this segment. environmental work and can help them to develop and of harassment or bullying are reported, the group will improve in this segment. take action immediately. RESULT 2018 Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as a guidance NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compRESULT 2018 AND GOALS 2019 for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiliance with its Code of Conduct. See principle 7. able standard in occupational health and safety, with NOTE’s plants work on the basis of individual tarexternal auditing and certification. gets and circumstances in the environmental segment. A variety of initiatives are ongoing, including work RESULT 2018 lights that have been wholly or partly replaced with NOTE conducted a group-wide employee satisfacLED equivalents at manufacturing units to save energy. tion survey in the year, whose results are utilised in Timers have been installed at certain plants to ensure NOTE’s forward planning and development work. NOTE lighting is not used unnecessarily. enhanced its Whistleblower Policy and procedures in Several selective soldering machines have been the year, and produced a Privacy Policy compliant with installed, reducing tin slag, and enabling a more envithe EU GDPR. ronmentally friendly process than previously. NOTE works continuously to ensure compliance with In the fourth quarter 2018, NOTE acquired a plant its Code of Conduct. in Windsor, UK, which had already been working on In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new environmental issues pursuant to ISO 14001 for many customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN years, and is scheduled for certification in 2019. Global Compact by communicating the significance of NOTE’s complete REACH-EU Regulation Policy, these issues. stipulating how NOTE works to comply with this EU NOTE signed agreements with another three regulation for handling chemicals, is available at its strategic or contracted suppliers (four in 2017), who website. accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, NOTE encouraged existing and new customers and equivalent code. suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact Follow-up audits were conducted on 35 suppliers by communicating the significance of these issues. (39 in 2017) that had previously accepted NOTE’s NOTE signed agreements with another three strateCode of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN gic or contracted suppliers (four in 2017), Global Compact. who accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their 18 PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT RESULT 2018 SHARE OF SOURCING FROM STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliFRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY ance with its Code of Conduct. % NOTE continued to enhance its internal control procesAPPROACH ses in the year. NOTE conducted internal follow-ups and 60 NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports audits of its Anti Corruption Policy, and verified that its the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. authorisation procedures are functional. No observations 50 NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification. were made in these audits. NOTE takes a positive view of developing environmental No instances of suspected corruption were reported 40 technology and actively supports new manufacturing through the whistleblower procedure. methods and components that are more environmentally In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new custofriendly. NOTE conducts environmental audits when mers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global 30 introducing new equipment, technology and logistics soCompact by communicating the significance of these lutions. Experience is shared between the group’s plants. issues. 20 An environmental perspective is considered jointly with NOTE signed agreements with another three strategic or customers when tailoring product manufacture. A datacontracted suppliers (four in 2017), who accepted NOTE’s 10 base for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict minerals in Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. components is being used. Follow-up audits were conducted on 35 suppliers (39 NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing in 2017) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of 0 from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work, The results of these audits demonstrate that suppliers and can help them to develop and improve in this are complying with relevant anti corruption laws and segment. ordinances. The share of purchasing from strategic and contracted RESULT 2018 AND GOALS 2019 suppliers was approximately 55% (49 to 55% in 2017). See principle 7. GOALS 2019 Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN ANTI CORRUPTION Global Compact, or support its ten principles. Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and contracted suppliers by two percentage points. PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY APPROACH NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. Our customers show a big interest in the environment. We’re NOTE has an Anti Corruption Policy, as well as a Whistleblower Policy and Procedure, which has been proud of our work with the UN Global Compact, and endeaimplemented in all plants’ business systems. NOTE encourages employees to resolutely counter all vouring to help improve the world around us. forms of corruption, extortion and bribery. Simultaneously, NOTE expects the corresponding attitudes from its Johannes Lind-Widestam, CEO and President customers and suppliers. NOTE does not accept any gifts, whether to customers or from suppliers, other than items of lesser value. NOTE’s Purchasing Policy prohibits of bribery and corruption, with sourcing managed according to ethical rules. NOTE has group-wide and local authorisation procedures expedient for its business. 19 Human resources NOTE’s business is built on solving customers’ complex problems every day. Apart from robust, industrial processes, it’s our people—with their ingenuity, commitment and drive to help customers—who create the strength of operations. NOTE possesses a global organisation downsized in the year to cope with qualified electronic assemblers. Several with operations in Sweden, Finland, demand fluctuations and to implement NOTE plants offer opportunities for the UK, Estonia and China. One of its rationalisation. Overall, the workforce was University and college students to write key missions is to develop the interac1,077 people at year-end. Staff turnover their masters’ dissertations. Partnerships tion between plants. This work is done was 17% in the group overall, of which 8% in the year included, for example, the through channels including a number of was in the European plants. University of Gävle and Örebro University functional forums, in segments including School of Business. quality, sourcing, accounting and sales. Training NOTE works continuously on harmonising To assure quality and competence in the Employee of the Month its working methods and monitoring electronics assembly process, several Achieving the goal of being the best coltools, as well as clarifying guidelines. Its NOTE plants maintain long-term collabolaboration partner in the sector, with leading improvement and development processes rations with external partners in soldering delivery precision and quality for a competitiinvolve many employees group wide. and electronics assembly training. ve overall cost, demands a lot from everyone NOTE continuously monitors businessUsually, these programmes involve involved. To recognise the people that have related key performance indicators such practical work and the certification of as ongoing central and local improvement projects. The workforce was upsized and Cay Chong Sieu Production leader, Lund The Production Leader’s role is very varied. Cay Jon Liu works in final assembly, which includes some QA Engineer, China testing and servicing. Morgan Bergkvist NOTE helps its employees to grow by offering “Working independently, taking sole opportunities for further training and good responsibility and solving challenges creatively Production Leader, Torsby career development. Jon thinks this is what are what I like most about my job. I like to give Morgan thinks that NOTE offers good devemakes NOTE a good employer. His work as a 100%, hope I can be a good resource for the lopmental opportunities, and his 14 years QA Engineer focuses on process and quality company, and be proud of what I’ve done in with the company have increased his thirst for development, and helping customers get their future,” says Cay. knowledge. needs satisfied. Skills from the electronics sector and “NOTE is a good employer, because it’s a In his eight years with the company, he’s experience from previous education programstimulating workplace that’s always moving served in different roles, making progress mes and jobs have helped Cay progress in his forward,” says Morgan. in different segments, one example being Apart from being a Production Leader professional role and as a manager in his four when he started working at the QA function, in Surface Mounting, he’s also Warehouse years at NOTE. and took IPC training. Jon emphasises the Manager. This means that staff responsibility is “NOTE is a good employer, because it’s importance of improving his skills, which a big part of Morgan’s working day. What he likes innovative, ready to invest and move forward. he achieves by studying and finding new most about his job are the challenges. The company invests in its people, helping them knowledge. “Although I work in a process that’s take new training programmes in technology “What I like most about my job is that I can basically constant, our unique products and electronics. This will enable the company learn new things from a good manager, while always present challenges. So I feel the drive to move forward, and become a large, growing also improving my English skills,” he explains. for improvement work, which a part of these business in the future,” concludes Cay. 20 processes,” he says. Average number of employees contributed something really special, NOTE Employee satisfaction survey has an Employee of the Month award. This might be someone who has ‘gone the extra mile,’ or been a great ambassador for NOTE. Another ambition of this award is to make As in previous years, an employee satisfaction survey was distributed to the group’s staff, who responded. It’s important that every employee feels that they can deliver 980 Average number of employees an extra contribution to a stronger feeling value-added to customers, understand how 350 by country of solidarity within the group and share real to achieve this, and why. Plans of activities, 300 examples of how our employees conduct with a schedule for execution, based on themselves when they perform at their best, responses was created. The results are 250 for customers or colleagues. also utilised for NOTE’s future planning and 200 A winner is selected each year, and in development work. 150 2018, the Employee of the Year was Niklas For more information on human resour100 Lithander from Norrtälje. Meet Niklas, and ces, refer to page 40 of the formal annual 50 some of the other monthly winners, below. accounts. 0 Sweden Finland UK Estonia China Niklas Lithander Technical project manager, Norrtälje, Siiri Habicht Sweden Sourcing Specialist, Estonia Despite working for NOTE for 17 years, Niklas is “What I like most about my job is it’s challenging still learning at work. and never boring. My colleagues are also Tracey Wright “There are so many processes, and the Key Account Manager, Stonehouse, customers and people I encounter are so important to me,” Siiri says. England different, which means there’s a lot to learn,” In 14 years with NOTE, she’s tried a lot Tracey started in sourcing, and her role has he says. of different positions, and is an ambassador evolved in her ten years with NOTE. She’s now a His professional role involves a lot of for NOTE’s values, because being proactive Key Account Manager, a varied role covering a customer contact, which he’s learned a is one of her strengths. “What makes NOTE a good employer is broad spectrum of duties. lot from. Niklas helps take products from “I don’t just deal with tenders or sourcing prototyping to batch production. His broad that we’re offered so many opportunities to develop,” she continues. material for customers, I’m also involved in the technology skills and ability to always match day-to-day management of key accounts,” she and exceed customer needs are one of the Siiri’s duties include sourcing materials and optimising materials pricing for new explains. reasons he is our Employee of the Year—with The best thing about her job is her his key qualities in his position as Technical and current business accounts. Her work involves a lot of supplier communication colleagues, because of the support they offer Project Manager. each other. “I learn so much about customer needs, and satisfying customer expectations, which is something that Siiri has really improved Although the team at Stonehouse is and these needs mean my duties really vary,” compact, Tracey knows they get help from he explains. during her time with NOTE. “Every customer’s unique, they all have other parts of the NOTE group if necessary. The variation of his work is something In combination with flexibility, and he really appreciates, as well as the feeling different expectations and standards, which means you need to be flexible and adapt encouragement to think for yourself and make of having helped customers achieve better your own decisions on projects, this is what products. accordingly,” she explains,” I knew nothing about electronics, or strategic sourcing, makes NOTE a good employer. The good atmosphere at work, and the “NOTE has been really flexible with my wealth of knowledge within the company thanks before I started at NOTE. I’ve learned to adapt.” working-hours over the years, and I’ve been to the variety of its assignments are what Niklas able to work from home regularly,” she thinks make NOTE a good employer. concludes. 21
