CR Report Corporate responsibility in PFA activities and results for 2018 PFA CR Report 2018 1 PFA’s charitable foundation, PFA Brug Livet Fonden, was founded in 2009 by PFA Pension with a contribution of DKK 3 million. The foundation helps others live life and supports dedicated volunteers who help others live life. Each year, the foundation selects the causes of the year and, in cooperation with PFA, the foundation raises awareness of the causes and the work they do. The allocation from the foundation is based on the return in the foundation plus an annual donation from PFA. PFA’s annual donation is determined based on fundraising at Folkemødet and the DHL Relay Race etc. In 2018, PFA’s donation to the foundation amounted to DKK 183,500. How the causes of the year are selected Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Nomination Voting Board Meeting Publication Online nomination of Nominated causes The 20 cases with The causes of the dedicated volunteers, are presented at the most votes will be preyear will be contactassociations and profoundation’s webpage, sented to the foundaed directly, and the jects that help others where everyone can tion’s board of direcselected causes will live life*. cast their votes for tors, which selects the be published on the two weeks. causes of the year. foundation’s Facebook page as well as on the webpages of the foundation and PFA. *Read more about how to nominate a cause at pfabruglivetfonden.dk (in Danish only) PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s board of directors In 2018, the foundation’s board consisted of the following members: • Torben Dalby Larsen, Chairman of PFA's Board of Directors, PFA, (chairman) • Bjørn Nørgaard, Professor and Sculptor • Allan Polack, Group CEO, PFA • Lone Engberg Thomsen, President, The Danish Association of Professional Technicians Corporate responsibility in PFA activities and results for 2018 Table of contents What we do today determines the life we live tomorrow ........................................................................ 5 PFA – 2018 figures and overview ............................................................................................................ 6 Status of the work with CR activities and targets in 2018 ....................................................................... 10 PFA’s CR activities for 2019 ...................................................................................................................... 12 Responsible value creation ...................................................................................................................... 14 Society ..................................................................................................................................................... 24 The Think Tank – The New 3rd Age released its 33 recommendations for the good senior life ............... 26 PFA Brug Livet Fonden ............................................................................................................................. 28 Customers ................................................................................................................................................ 31 Employees ............................................................................................................................................... 36 About this report ..................................................................................................................................... 38 CR key figures and data on PFA’s corporate responsibility ....................................................................... 44 Overview of the implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ................................... 48 Overview of the implementation of the Committee on Corporate Governance’s seven recommendations for active ownership ................................................................................................... 49 Responsible value creation ...................................................................................................................... 50 Society ..................................................................................................................................................... 54 Customers ................................................................................................................................................ 61 Employees ............................................................................................................................................... 62 The photos in this report The photos in this report show organisations and projects that have been elected as the 2019 causes and have received financial support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden. Photos by photographer Lars Bech. Photo on page 66 by photographer Jakob Dall. Front page: Arrangement at the association Klub Venner, which was selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about Klub Venner on page 29. TRANSLATION: This is a translation of PFA Holding’s Corporate Responsibility report 2018 in Danish. In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. 4 PFA CR Report 2018 What we do today determines the life we live tomorrow At PFA, we are aware that we play an important part in Danish society. With approximately 1.3 individual customers, we have a special responsibility, which we fully embrace. That is why we wish to take part in steering society in a more sustainable direction. Our actions affect the everyday life of many people, which is why we make an effort to act responsibly and with respect for our surroundings. In 2018, we strengthened our work with corporate responsibility within a number of areas. We have gathered the efforts in this report, which is a visible proof of our engagement in the development of society. Our customers entrust to us the task of helping them with responsible investments play a pivotal role. Both when it a number of fundamental issues in their lives. We help comes to the value we create for our customers and the them with health and insurance cover while they work. way we bring the means we administer in play with the And we ensure that they have the maximum possible purpose of making a positive difference in the world. In resources to live on when they are no longer working. This 2018, we in particular focused on responsible tax practice, is a responsibility that we take seriously. a plan of action for implementation of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and a method Right now, we live in a time where our young people can for climate screening of our equity portfolio. In addition, look forward to living longer than the generations which we have also worked with the other 15 focus areas in are currently leaving the labour market, and, at the same 2018. You can find more information in this report. time, the technological development is moving fast. Both areas have the effect that new needs arise, but also that it will be possible in future to meet the needs in a smartCorporate responsibility in PFA is rooted in the UN Global er and more efficient way than today. We are very aware Compact and other international conventions and princiof this development, and we are committed to seizing ples on which there is global consensus. All of these are the opportunities where it is relevant for PFA and our embedded in our policies, and we refer to them when we, customers. in our capacity as company, investor and business partner, are to communicate what we stand for and what we During the year, we, among other things, launched the expect from our cooperative relations. Think Tank – The New 3rd Age’s 33 recommendations for how the individual can ensure the best possible life In this report, you can also learn more about the initiatives as a senior citizen towards 2040. The recommendations we have chosen to give priority to in 2019. We are looking formed the basis of a public debate, in which we wantinto a new and exciting year, in which we will invite our ed to contribute with our knowledge and suggestions for customers, employees and other stakeholders to join a the development of new solutions to the societal chaldialogue on subjects such as responsible investments, clilenges we foresee in the future with an escalating number mate, health and the good life as a senior citizen. We do of senior citizens with new requirements. Moreover, we so to ensure that we assume co-responsibility for playing entered into more cooperations in the health area in 2018 a role in the development of a more sustainable sociein order to be able to prevent and handle stress and crety. Because, what we do today determines the life we live ate healthier digital habits. Initiatives which, unfortunately, tomorrow. are increasingly required in our everyday life. I hope you will enjoy reading and get inspired. Our work with corporate responsibility and our initiatives for 2018 all originate from PFA’s Corporate Responsibility Allan Polack strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’. As Group CEO our customers entrust us with their long-term savings, and we, consequently, are one of Denmark’s largest investors, PFA CR Report 2018 5 PFA – 2018 figures and overview 70,000 Pension consultations (consultations, by phone, online and seminars) 2.1 2017: 70,000 million 996 Visitors at My PFA Customers returned to work with Up by 400,000 our help Up by 686. The number includes both open and closed cases with PFA EarlyCare and Active Claims approximately § 1,3 million Individual customers 2017 approx. 1.2 million 198 518,000 Cases handled by the Calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Customer Representative Centre and Health Centre incl. proactive cases Up by approx. 32,000 calls Up by 60 8.8 Customer satisfaction Measured by approx. 227,000 calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre on a scale from 1-10 6 PFA CR Report 2018 5.9 223 tons Employee satisfaction Down by 0.1 on a scale from 1-7 Total waste Down by 9 tons 39 per cent Women in management Up by 3 per cent DKK 6.7 billion Total taxes paid by PFA 2017: DKK 9.4 billion 1,337 Employees (average number of full-time employees) Up by 41 DKK 37.4 billion Total payments DKK 2.9 billion 2017: DKK 34.0 billion Insurance payouts 2017: DKK 2.7 billion DKK 19.8 billion Pension payouts 2017: DKK 19.8 billion PFA CR Report 2018 7 Policy, goals and efforts in the work with corporate responsibility in 2018 In 2018, PFA has been working with the Corporate Responsibility (CR) efforts and goals that were defined in 2017 and accordingly described in the 2017 CR report. The activities linked to the strategy are divided among the four main areas that form the basis of PFA’s corporate responsibility policy. This way, the CR strategy, PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and the policy for responsible investments are linked to specific and measurable efforts. During the year, we have also been working to further develop PFA’s priorities and approaches to selected topics within the corporate responsibility area. This report describes the work with the activities and sets new goals for 2019. PFA acknowledges that our actions today – both as an Roles and responsibility in society investor and a company – will affect the life we and our PFA’s corporate responsibility policy creates the framecustomers live tomorrow. This is the reason why we work for how we at PFA, in our capacity as company, seek to contribute proactively to creating a sustainable investor and employer, make considerable efforts to society. In particular, we contribute through responsicreate a positive impact on society, just like we are ble investments and our wish to support the individual aware of limiting our negative impact. As an investor, we in creating a healthy working life. Our wish to contribute strive to invest responsibly in companies with sustainpositively to the development of society is manifestable business models and, if necessary, influence the ed in our policy for corporate responsibility and the CR companies we are investing in to pursue a more sustainstrategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’. able conduct for the benefit of society, human beings In continuation thereof, we wish to contribute to the and the environment. Being a supplier of health insurrealisation of selected UN Global Goals for sustainable ance, we are working for a healthier and safer basis development. The specific goals and efforts are always of life for our customers throughout all phases of life. defined and evaluated as we enter a new year. Finally, as a company, we endeavour to ensure that our employees are committed, use resources optimally and PFA bases corporate responsibility on international conventions and guidelines PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is built on international principles and conventions. The work is based on the desire for compliance with: • The UN Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible corporate behaviour focusing on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. PFA joined the principles in 2009. • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which were integrated in PFA’s corporate responsibility policy in 2016. • The Paris Agreement on global reduction of greenhouse gases. A wish to contribute to the realisation of the agreement was entered into PFA’s corporate responsibility policy in 2016. • The six UN-based principles for responsible investments which have formed part of PFA’s practice since 2009, also from 2013-2016, during which period PFA was not a member of the organisation Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). PFA re-entered in 2016. • The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) action plan, which aims at closing tax loopholes and preventing double taxation and double non-taxation. This was incorporated into PFA’s corporate responsibility policy in 2018. 8 PFA CR Report 2018 stay healthy and thrive at the workplace. Our surrounda special contribution as they fit naturally into our busiing society is constantly developing towards becoming ness operations. In 2020, we will prepare an overall more sustainable. It is this sustainable development that status of PFA’s contribution to goals 3, 7, 12, 13 and 17. PFA wants to support and help create. The table here on this page shows the five global goals PFA has given priority to five of the UN’s 17 Global Goals that PFA has given priority, and you can see how we link for sustainable development to which we want to make them to our business. 1. PFA has engaged in new initiatives for promoting good health and well-being in Denmark. This includes strategic health and PFA EarlyCare. We entered into a partnership, which is meant to help Good health and create healthier digital habits – both in the private sphere and at well-being the workplace. (UN Global Goal 3) 2. We cooperate with SUND Hub at the University of Copenhagen, where PFA is contributing to the development of new digital health solutions. Read more on page 31. 1. PFA has invested in renewable energy sources such as the world’s biggest offshore wind farm and is in this way contributing to the green transition. Affordable and clean energy and Climate 2. Climate screening of equity portfolio in order to underpin the action targets of the Paris Agreement. (UN Global Goals 7 & 13) 3. Development of a method for implementing the targets of the Paris Agreement into our Danish property portfolio. Read more on page 21. 1. When PFA invests, we focus on responsible consumption and production as well as on sustainability when we plan new property Responsible consumpinvestments or major renovations of existing properties. tion and production (UN Global Goal 12) 2. We also keep in focus that the companies which PFA invest in are based on long-term sustainable business models which consider both human rights, climate, environment and corporate governance. Read more on pages 14-16. 1. PFA has invested in the Investment Fund for Developing Countries’ new fund, Danish SDG Investment Fund. The fund is a public private cooperation with the purpose of investing in companies and projects which are to deal with the societal challenges that Partnerships for the stand out in the 17 Global Goals. goals (UN Global Goal 17) 2. We are a part of Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC), which is a cooperation engaged in dialogue with companies in the investment area. Our partnerships in the health area are described below. PFA CR Report 2018 9 Status of the work with CR activities and targets in 2018 Our corporate responsibility policy is divided into four strategy and the business operations together and set central themes: Responsible value creation, Customthe framework for the CR efforts and the annual report ers, Society and Employees. The themes link policy, on PFA’s corporate responsibility. Activity completed Activity continues CR activities broken down by area Status at end-2018 Responsible value creation PFA’s tax policy has been updated, and a section concern1. Revised tax policy for the PFA Group. ing responsible tax practice has been included in policy for responsible investments. Read more on pages 15 and 54. PFA has reviewed its approach to voting and has decidReview the work on voting at listed compa2. ed to prepare guidelines in 2019. Votings of the year are nies’ general meetings. described on pages 16 and 51. PFA has prepared a method and an objective for the cliPreparation of a method for implementation mate action in the Danish property portfolio. This is of the Paris Agreement in PFA’s property described on page 21. portfolio. 3. The renovation of PFA’s headquarters is made according Continued focus on climate and employee to a certification in order to ensure focus on environment, satisfaction during the renovation of PFA’s indoor climate and recycling of resources. Read more owner-occupied headquarters. about the renovation on page 36. Implementation of PFA’s climate screening PFA reports its climate screening of the listed companies model for listed companies and efforts in on page 17. On page 19, we describe our work with imple4. PFA’s action plan for incorporating the UN menting the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in the investment process. Rights in the investment process. Society PFA has entered into cooperation with the City of Copenhagen about a strategic capitalisation of a property unit A pilot project with focus on a more which is not to be used by PFA until later. Currently, the 5. resource-efficient use of properties. property has various small leases where the leaseholders have the possibility of testing their customer base in the neighbourhood. PFA entered into a partnership with a researcher about creating healthier digital habits – both in the private Strategic partnerships with the purpose of sphere and at the workplace. PFA cooperates with SUND 6. bringing PFA’s data and experience within Hub at the University of Copenhagen, where we contribute the health area into play. to the development of new digital health solutions. Read more on page 31. 10 PFA CR Report 2018 Launching and implementing the recomThe launch of the think tank’s recommendations and 7. mendations for the good life in the third age the subsequent initiatives aimed at senior citizens are from the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age. described on pages 26-27. Customers PFA’s work with Studie60+, which comprises two networks Helping companies and their seniors secure that put their effort into creating better conditions for the 8. a better transition from working life to transition from working life to retirement. Read more on retirement. page 32. PFA Health Forum was revitalised focusing on the causes Establishment of a private customer panel of stress and job dissatisfaction for the individual employto help create a better customer experience, 9. ee. The first focus area was digital workplace habits. The digital solutions and a revitalisation of PFA establishment of and experience with PFA Customer Panel Health Forum. are described on page 31. Employees Evaluation of internal guidelines to ensure PFA has initiated an internal mapping of how to incorpothat we comply with the standards of prerate the anti-corruption work in various areas. The work 10. venting and protecting employees against will be continued in 2019. PFA has a diversity policy which corruption and bribery and establishment of applies to the Board of Directors of PFA. However, PFA has a diversity policy. yet to implement a diversity policy for the employees. Strategic partnerships with organisations PFA continued its mentorship programme with Velkommen 11. that help groups of people where particular Hjem as described on page 55. employee competences are called on. Continuation of existing initiatives Responsible investments: holding a minimum PFA’s RI Board held 11 meetings. 12. of 10 RI Board meetings. The activities are described on page 14. PFA has a Code of Conduct for its suppliers. The work with the Code of Conduct forms part of the conclusion of a Working with PFA’s Code of Conduct in the contract described on page 21. PFA has a Code of Conduct 13. process of concluding contracts. for business partners and counterparts in the investment area. The application of the Code of Conduct forms part of the investment process and is described on page 16. Selection of the PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes of the year, cooperation with the PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s activities are described on pages 14. causes and coordination of the foundation’s 28-29. activities at Folkemødet. Dialogue and cooperation with NGOs and customers are Organised NGO and customer dialogue about 15. important contributions to creating partnerships for the prioritised corporate responsibility efforts. goals. A list of dialogue meetings is available on page 52. PFA CR Report 2018 11 PFA’s CR activities for 2019 Besides implementing the efforts listed in the CR stratework with these three areas is reflected in the overview of gy, we have, in 2018, also mapped out the special themes the 2019 activities below. that we would like to give priority to in our future CR activities. The specific activities and efforts will be finally We have also evaluated the CR activities of the year and defined in 2019. Our work resulted in a new CR position: identified new targets and activities for 2019. The new We care for the future. Under this headline, we will give activities are defined based on an evaluation of how priority to the three initiatives: increased focus on active PFA is able to contribute in the best possible way to ownership and investments in companies with sustainable the development of society. At the same time, we have business models, a healthier and better working life and, assessed the areas in which PFA may negatively affect finally, the good transition to the life in the third age. The the environment, human rights and society. CR strategy — Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020 14 specific focus areas for 2019 Responsible value creation 7. Revitalisation of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s selection of causes of the year. 1. Further development of the approach to voting at listed companies’ general meetings. 8. Particular effort to create long-term solutions for the good transition to life in the third age. 2. Implementation of the climate strategy for PFA’s Danish property portfolio and securing that PFA’s Customers carbon footprint from the equity portfolio will remain smaller than the world index footprint. 9. Development and implementation of an initiative in the work with responsible algorithms. 3. Development of a more user-friendly log of PFA’s active ownership dialogue with companies. 10. Strategic partnerships with focus on solutions for a healthier and better working life. 4. PFA has a Code of Conduct for the cooperation with suppliers, and we have formulated a Code of Con11. Transparency regarding PFA’s investments and their duct in relation to investment partners. The purpose positive impact on society. is to ensure that PFA’s desired responsible conduct in connection with our investments and coopera12. Initiation of a pilot scheme originating in Studie60+ tions will not be violated by the business partners for companies wanting to take part in testing soluthat PFA has selected. PFA will incorporate the work tions in practice. with the Code of Conduct as a central element when entering into cooperation with suppliers and investEmployees ment partners. 13. Incorporation of the work with the UN Global Goals Society within PFA. 5. Integration of the UN Global Goals into the invest14. Strategic empowerment of employees to become ment activities. better equipped for a balanced life in a digital world. 6. Cooperation with PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes, which focuses on children’s and young adults’ well-being. 12 PFA CR Report 2018 Børns Vilkår BørneTelefonen PFA CR Report 2018 13 Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about Børns Vilkår BørneTelefonen on page 29 Responsible value creation Investment funds DKK 574 billion Return on investments DKK -5.3 billion Excluded countries/excluded companies 3/36 Responsibility is one of PFA’s values. Creating value for our customers and society in a responsible manner is therefore a key focus. PFA thus also wants to be responsible as an investor when we manage the funds our customers entrust to us. Responsibility is a natural starting point for our investment processes. As an investor, PFA has the goal of earning the highest dialogue with companies regarding possible or confirmed possible return through active investment in companies breaches of PFA’s policies, principles and guidelines. with sustainable business models. We therefore carry out a number of due diligence processes to ensure that the In 2018, the RI Board defined guidelines for PFA’s implecompanies we invest in – in addition to having a good mentation of responsible tax practices in the investment return potential – also act in a way that is in line with process, performed the first climate screening of PFA’s PFA’s policies, principles and guidelines. investment portfolio based on our own model, and followed up on an action plan aimed at ensuring the inteThe desire to create value in a responsible manner is also gration of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and an element of our dialogue with suppliers when we enter Human Rights when we invest. This is further described into various co-operation agreements. This dialogue with on page 19. business partners is based on a Code of Conduct, which is integrated in the contracting process, and which we want The RI Board also held meetings during the year with a our suppliers to observe. number of organisations to discuss particular topics and ensure ongoing progress in the work with responsible Policy for responsible investments investments. There has been dialogue on issues such as PFA’s policy for responsible investments has been formuclimate and reporting, transparency, human rights and lated based on a desire to comply with international UN responsible tax practices. conventions and principles. The policy provides a framework for ensuring that the consideration of human rights, The RI Board held 11 meetings in 2018. labour rights, management-related matters, environment, climate and responsible tax practices are integrated Active ownership in 2018 in PFA’s investment processes, across asset classes and PFA intends to be an active owner of the companies types of investment. we invest in. Our work as an active owner is prioritised based on the risk of breaches of PFA’s policy for responIn 2018, it was underscored in the policy for responsible sible investments, the size of the investment and the investments that PFA wants to contribute to the realiasset class. Active ownership encompasses a number of sation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The activities such as screening investments, dialogue with section on responsible tax practices in connection with our companies, voting at general meetings, and the possible investments was also added. divestment and exclusion of certain companies. A number of the activities in 2018 are described below, and specifResponsible Investment Board ic data can be found in the data section of the report on PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board) sets goals page 50. for and prioritises PFA’s activities as a responsible investor. The RI Board monitors that PFA is acting in line with Screening and dialogue the stated policies, principles and guidelines. We want to PFA regularly screens the investment portfolio and engagbe active owners. The RI Board therefore regularly evales in dialogue with companies regarding compliance with uates progress in cases where PFA is engaging in critical the international conventions on which PFA’s policy for 14 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA’s screening and dialogue process PFA's screening and dialogue process Loss of trust PFA participates and the company If there is a in dialogue* is excluded Evaluation of breach of PFA’s whether PFA’s policy: Screening policy has been External RI Board Confidence in PFA’s shares* Evaluation of any supplier handles assesses the dialogue, by external breached is and bonds* active ownership dialogue the progress which continues supplier carried out by an external supplier dialogue is of the performed by an dialogue PFA handles external supplier Breach the dialogue in and PFA rectified collaboration with others *PFA publishes a list of companies at pfa.dk responsible investments is based. This includes whethengaged in critical dialogue with 56 companies in 2018. er the companies comply with the OECD’s action plan for PFA will publish a detailed description of the cases and responsible tax practices. Corporate shares and bonds their relationship to the sustainable development goals in are screened in collaboration with our consultant, Globspring 2019 in NEC’s annual report for 2018. al Engagement Services (GES). In 2018, GES evaluated 98 cases with indications of breaches of PFA’s policy among PFA performs tax screening for unlisted and property companies in PFA’s investment portfolio. investments. This is based on the policy for responsible investments, which PFA’s Board decided to update to In 2018, GES engaged in dialogue with 51 companies from include a section on responsible tax practices. In order to PFA’s portfolio. Of these companies, it was confirmed that embed the policy, the RI Board has formulated guidelines 19 had breached PFA’s policy for responsible investments. for the implementation of responsible tax practices. The During the year, 16 cases involving a confirmed or possitax screening includes an assessment of whether tax due ble breach of the policy were resolved by the companies diligence has been carried out and BEPS and General Antichanging their behaviour. Tax-Avoidance Rules have been drawn on, and whether the structure is deemed to be responsible in relation to PFA has been in direct dialogue with 13 companies in the law and tax practices. During the screening in 2018, 2018. The dialogue with two companies has ended, folPFA determined that all PFA’s investments in 2018 comlowing confirmation that the breach of our policy has plied with the guidelines. been rectified. Through our membership of the Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC), we have engaged PFA screens and analyses government bonds in accordance in dialogue with eight companies to investigate possible with PFA’s policy and guidelines for responsible investments breaches of our policy. Through NEC, we also engaged in in government bonds. During the year, we have focused on proactive dialogue with four companies in the textiles secthe situations in Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, and the RI tor, where no breach of PFA’s policy had been observed, Board has decided to put Saudi Arabia on PFA’s observation but with a focus on the importance of transparency in list. We do not engage in dialogue with countries, as this is relation to the supply chain in the sector. In total, PFA deemed to be a foreign policy matter. At the end of 2019, Active ownership dialogue with Danske Bank As investor in Danske Bank, PFA has closely monitored the case on money laundering in Danske Bank’s Estonian branch, and, since March 2017, we have actively led a critical dialogue with Danske Bank. From the beginning of this dialogue, we have made it clear that we wish for the bank to be transparent about its investigations and the results hereof. Furthermore, we have regularly inquired into the bank’s reviews of previous risky transactions as well as the specific allocation of resources to the bank’s anti-money laundering processes. The results of the bank’s internal report, which was published on 19 September 2018, established that the extent of the money laundering transactions was much greater and ran deeper than expected, which is something PFA has publicly criticised. PFA recognises that Danske Bank is going through a transformation, and we will continue to take part in developing Danske Bank in a more sustainable direction. Therefore, PFA has supported the adjustments made to the Board of Directors in Danske Bank in order to establish a new management team that can bring focus to the core business and the important relations with investors, customers and society. In that connection, PFA supported the bank’s largest shareholder, A.P. Møller Holding, in its efforts to elect a new chairmanship for the Board of Directors at the extraordinary general meeting which was held at the beginning of December 2018. PFA CR Report 2018 15 Extract of PFA’s guidelines for responsible tax practices In the area of unlisted investments, it is important to seek as much insight as possible into the tax structure behind the investment entity being invested in. In cases where PFA holds a major share of the investment, it is often possible to influence the tax structure that is established, and we actively seek to do so. In connection with unlisted investments, PFA has the following processes: • Carry out tax due diligence prior to entering into the investment. Draw on BEPS and Anti-Tax-Avoidance Rules. • Assess the structure’s legal and tax responsibility. • Assess the need for legal entities in the structure. • Exercise caution when using tax exemption agreements. • Exercise caution when using shareholder loans in countries with immature tax systems. • Exercise caution when selecting business partners and employ the necessary measures towards business partners. Read the guidelines in full at pfa.dk Active ownership dialogue with partner Macquarie PFA is also engaging in critical dialogue with the Australian investment bank, Macquarie, which PFA co-owns TDC with. This was initiated after it came to light in October and November 2018 that Macquarie had apparently been involved in collecting dividend tax refunds it was not entitled to. This is of course completely unacceptable, and something we deplore at PFA. Since becoming aware of the circumstances, we have engaged in critical dialogue with the management of Macquarie and demanded an account of their involvement as well as a clarification of the structural, procedural, cultural and management changes they have made to ensure that such behaviour cannot be repeated. Regarding our investment in TDC – as owners, we have an obligation to all our customers in PFA, employees at TDC and Danish society in general to protect this investment. At the time the purchase agreement was concluded, we entered into a binding agreement in the consortium behind the acquisition of TDC stipulating that all tax payments will be made in line with Danish tax rules. It has been vitally important to PFA from the outset to ensure that none of the investors in TDC are able to withdraw tax-exempt dividends without the approval of the Danish authorities. PFA will carry on its critical dialogue with Macquarie regarding the dividend tax case, and has decided not to collaborate with Macquarie in any new ventures before we have fully explored the exact facts of the case – and the outcome of this will determine whether we end up conducting new business with them in the future. PFA invested in government bonds in 85 countries. The list business partners we have chosen. Dialogue with priority of countries in which PFA has invested and a list of excludinvestment partners was initiated in 2018, and will be graded countries are available at pfa.dk. ually expanded to include new managers and investment partners in 2019. During 2018, we formalised our dialogue on responsibility with our investment partners, counterparties and exterVoting nal managers. The dialogue is based on a Code of Conduct PFA exercised its voting rights at the general meetings of we formulated in 2018 in order to put specific focus on the 21 Danish companies in 2018. The general meetings of behaviour we expect from our partners in the investment foreign companies are analysed based on a priority list of area. The aim is to ensure that PFA’s desire for responsicompanies that have special ESG (Environment, Social and ble practices when we invest is not violated through the Governance) issues and which PFA is already monitoring. 16 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA voted at the general meetings of 49 foreign compaWe use the TCFD recommendations as a framework for nies in 2018. These votes were related to governance, reporting and for our efforts to handle climate risk. We human rights, labour rights and the environment and expect that our reporting for 2019 will follow the TCFD climate. recommendations. Exclusion PFA excludes companies, countries and possibly partners, if deemed that they are breaching PFA’s policy for responFacts about TCFD sible investments and it is not possible to influence their TCFD prepares voluntary guidelines for companies behaviour through dialogue. and investors that want to work systematically with climate-related risks. In 2018, PFA excluded Larsen & Toubro, Bharat Electronics and United Technologies, because PFA was able to For investors, this entails a requirement to report verify that they are involved in the production of nuclear on the identification, assessment and handling weapons. PFA has also decided not to enter into any new of climate-related risks. The report must also partnerships with Macquarie, as long as we are engaged contain the strategy for identifying risks, the in critical dialogue with the banking group regarding its management of risks and a description of targets handling of and involvement in the dividend tax case. and measuring points. Due diligence and climate considerations in the investment process One of the goals for 2018 was to anchor PFA’s climate How PFA climate screens its equity portfolio screening model from 2017 in the equity portfolio and In 2018, PFA carried out an analysis of the CO2 emisthereby obtain CO2 data as an integral part of the evalsions for its equity portfolio. For the first time, it has been uation in the investment process. Based on this, we can possible to make our own 2-degree analysis. We have measure and compare the CO2 emissions of companies therefore been able to assess the consistency between and industries. The climate screening aims to ensure a the equity investments and a 2-degree scenario. Our analsystematic approach to the handling of climate risks in ysis also provides insight into data on equity investments the investment process and insight into the CO2 emissions and the expected energy mix if temperature increases are we have exposure to via our investments. The experito be limited to 2 degrees. In this way, we can take into ence gained from our work with the equity portfolio has account opportunities and risks linked to CO2 emissions also helped us to develop an approach to embedding the and estimates for the use of future energy sources. Paris Agreement in PFA’s property portfolio. This is further described on page 21. Equity portfolio CO2 emissions compared to the global index Reporting in line with the international climate In 2018, the companies in PFA’s equity portfolio had 21 recommendations tons less CO2 emissions per USD million invested than In 2018, PFA worked with the recommendations from the the world index, which is the reference index. As in 2017, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). the four sectors that primarily contribute to the portfoWe participated in the Global Climate Index 2018/Pension lio’s emissions are utilities, materials, energy and industry. Funds analysis, prepared by the Asset Owner Disclosure Data at company level shows that some investments in Project (AODP). As part of this, we described our climate the utilities and materials sectors had a large climate efforts within TCFD’s four main areas. Based on this expeimpact. We have therefore focused on dialogue with two rience, we also created a gap analysis to identify possible external managers. This is described in the text box. gaps in our climate reporting. Carbon emissions Total CO2 CO2 intensity PFA’s shares 124 tons CO2/USD million 1,989,000 tCO2 198 tCO2/USD million in revenue World index 145 tons CO2/USD million 2,323,000 tCO2 218 tCO2/USD million in revenue Source: PFA uses data at company level to estimate the derived CO2 emissions from the equity portfolio. The data has been rounded to the nearest thousand for ‘Total CO2’. PFA CR Report 2018 17 We will continue the analysis work in 2019, and expect Data from 2Degrees-Investing’s analysis shows that PFA’s emissions per USD invested to be lower in 2019 than in equity investments over the next five years are consist2018. ent with a 2-degree scenario for natural gas, renewable energy and coal. By analysing the extraction of fossil fuels, Special focus on CO2 emissions from oil and PFA can assess whether there is consistency between the utility companies energy extracted and the expected demand in a 2-degree Among the four sectors (utilities, materials, energy and world. industry), utilities is the sector in which PFA has its greatest direct impact on the climate. We therefore have a special focus on this sector. We evaluate the companies’ current situation and their future opportunities for and desire to participate in the green transition. In relation to the world index, which is the reference index, our CO2 analysis shows that PFA has chosen companies with a lower climate impact than their competitors. This can be seen by calculating the volume of CO2 emissions for Active ownership dialogue on the sector relative to the index. It shows that emissions in CO2 emissions PFA’s portfolio are 916 tons per USD million, compared to Based on the CO2 analysis, using our own model, 1,690 tons per USD million. This is a saving of nearly 46 PFA decided to initiate dialogue with two exterper cent relative to the reference index. nal managers who invest in Tata Power, Anhui Conch Cement and Grasim Industries on behalf of 2-degree scenario analysis PFA. These companies have high emissions – both The special focus on the utilities sector has also applied in absolute terms and relative to their respective to the 2-degree scenario analysis which 2Degrees-Investindustries. Both managers offered further informaing has carried out for our portfolio. It is based on the tion about the companies’ climate considerations International Energy Agency’s (IEA) transition scenario, that we were not aware of. Based on this, it was and aims to assess whether our equity investments meet deemed that there was no need for divestment, our objective of supporting the realisation of the Paris but that PFA will continue to monitor developments Agreement. in the companies. Based on our investments and available data, we focused PFA participates in Climate Action 100+, which is an primarily on our equity investments in the utilities secinternational association of investors that engagtor and the extraction of fossil fuels in energy companies, es in dialogue with the 100 companies in the world within a five-year perspective. By focusing on electricity that have the largest greenhouse gas emissions. production in our equity portfolio, we can evaluate whether there is consistency with a 2-degree scenario. CO2 emissions per sector PFA November 2018 World index November 2018 tCO2/USD million invested Utilities 916.1 1,690.4 Materials 785.0 851.8 Energy 332.0 398.5 Industry 198.2 104.9 Consumer goods 50.5 35.8 Consumables 46.0 47.2 Property 17.4 21.0 Information technology 10.7 13.1 Health care 7.3 8.3 Finance 4.2 9.8 Telecommunications services N/A N/A 18 PFA CR Report 2018 The energy distribution in PFA’s investments in oil and investments in them. The purpose of the heat map is to gas is consistent with a 2-to-4-degree scenario and a have a system where we continually compile relevant comless-than-2-degree scenario, respectively. This is mainly pany data in order to highlight the need for further due because the same companies extract both oil and gas. To diligence and risk assessment. monitor this risk, PFA will review the individual oil and gas companies’ own 2-degree analyses in future. Our heat map is based on data from three different sources: MSCI ESG, GES and Bloomberg. We have prioritised PFA’s 2-degree analysis, made using 2Degree-Investing's measuring points that indicate whether the company is tool, did not give rise to a change in the portfolio mix in breaching our policy, the company’s overall ESG score and 2018. However, PFA has discussed the scenario analyses score trend, the number of controversial events the comwith several companies and will continue to do so in 2019. pany has been involved in, and whether the company has a human rights policy. Data is available at company level Due diligence and respect for human rights and aggregated at sector level. By evaluating the sectors PFA focused in 2018 on developing and formalising our with the most confirmed and potential breaches of our due diligence in the investment process. This work has policy, we become aware of the need to carry out extra been done in line with the Danish Government’s latdue diligence when considering new investments in secest guidelines for responsible investments, which focus tors in which companies often have potential and actual on systematising and prioritising initiatives and reporting human rights violations. The data collected from 2018 on progress. Our three-year action plan for implementaindicates a need for special due diligence in the oil, gas tion of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human and mining sectors. Rights (UNGPs) in the investment process gave priority to We have already started on some of the initiatives set for a number of initiatives in 2018. 2019 in our action plan in some areas. This is the case for unlisted investments, where we have reviewed the interOne of these was to develop a heat map – intended to nal investment processes in this area. We have developed provide a simple overview of the companies and indusa new approach to due diligence in unlisted investments in tries for which there is a particular risk that we could order to give more consideration to ESG factors when evalviolate our policy for responsible investments through our uating new investment opportunities. Extract of PFA’s action plan for implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights PFA’s implementation of the UN guiding principles is divided into: Initiatives in 2018 • Climate screening for corporate shares and bonds, dialogue through Climate Action 100+ and compliance with the Paris Agreement in relation to the due diligence process described in PFA’s guidelines for supporting the realisation of the Paris Agreement. • Analysis of industries and areas carrying the greatest risks that PFA could be linked to negative impacts on society. This analysis will be done annually and discussed by PFA’s RI Board. • Follow-up on the analysis of investments with confirmed breaches of PFA’s policy for responsible investments and initiation of dialogue. • Internal guidelines for the integration of due diligence and Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) data in the investment analysis for equities and bonds. Initiatives in 2019-2020 • Evaluate initiatives in 2018 and adjust where necessary. • Carry out due diligence for alternative and property investments and develop a process for the ongoing evaluation. Read the entire action plan at pfa.dk. PFA CR Report 2018 19 Examples of investments that create green energy and employ sustainable solutions DK: Scandlines UK: Hornsea 1 Asia, Africa, Latin PFA decided to co-finance PFA decided to co-finance America: Danish SDG Scandlines in 2018, which has a Hornsea 1 in 2018. The offshore Investment Fund clear goal of making its ferry wind farm consists of 174 giant PFA decided to invest in the new operations green – and this will turbines, and will be the largest ‘Danish SDG Investment Fund’ be possible in a few years. This is in the world when it is comple(SDG Fund) for developing to be achieved using ted. Hornsea 1 is expected to be countries in 2018. This is a battery-powered ferries. The finished in 2020, and will be public-private partnership ferries on the Elsinore-Helsingcapable of producing enough through which the Danish borg route are already green electricity to supply one Government and pension battery-powered. PFA has million households when companies have joined forces to invested DKK 745 million in operational. PFA has provided a address a major challenge for Scandlines in the form of a loan. loan of around DKK 2 billion. society. The SDG Fund will invest share capital in companies in DK: Student housing Africa, Asia, Latin America and PFA began the construction of UK: Walney Extension parts of Europe. This will take housing for 300 students in PFA owns 25 per cent of Walney place in collaboration with Danish Odense in 2018. Extension, which opened in businesses with strong compeThis is one of four PFA student 2018. Since it opened, the wind tences, knowledge and technolohousing projects we took the turbines have produced green gies in a number of strategic initiative to undertake to mark energy corresponding to the sectors that support the our 100-year anniversary in annual energy consumption of realisation of the sustainable 2017. The student housing 600,000 households. During the development goals. PFA is facililty is being constructed using construction phase, the project investing DKK 400 million in the sustainable materials, and will be used the services of more than fund. shaped like a square figure 8. 50 local suppliers. A foundation The heart of the building will be was also established to promote set up to promote learning and interest in science and the will serve as a social gathering establishment of apprenticeships, point. PFA is investing over DKK to ensure future candidates will 300 million in the student be available for similar projects in housing project in Odense. the local area. 20 PFA CR Report 2018 when concluding a contract works in practice. The random checks showed that some suppliers have continued their focus on integrating social responsibility and creating sustainable solutions. In connection with PFA’s internal Example of using the heat map analysis of efforts to combat corruption, which is part of While considering a possible investment in a minthe UN Global Compact’s ten principles, there has also ing company, a search on the sector in our heat been focus on the contracting process. map showed that we needed to take a closer look at the sector. The mining sector is characterised Based on last year’s experience with formulating our Code by a particularly high risk of breaches of human of Conduct for business partners in the investment prorights and environmental standards. A review of cess, we will update our Code of Conduct for suppliers in sector-specific ESG characteristics for all relevant 2019. We will also continue our work with responsibility mining companies was therefore conducted. We and suppliers. then carried out more extensive due diligence for the ESG area, based on this review, before making Due diligence and climate action in the property an investment. The analysis also showed a posiportfolio tive correlation between ESG quality and growth Properties account for 30 per cent of total CO2 emisin the share price over the past 10 years. sions in Denmark. There are CO2 emissions when building materials are produced, when buildings are constructed and when buildings are in operation. There are various methods for calculating a property’s CO2 emissions. There are also various methods for calculating a buildTransparency and reporting ing owner’s share of a building’s consumption when it PFA has continued to work with transparency in relation is leased to several tenants including a common area. to our active ownership. PFA gives priority to openness, as PFA therefore held three workshops in 2018 to develfar as possible. In 2018, we published the list of our bond op a plan for integrating climate and sustainability factors investments, and an overview of the companies which more systematically in the property portfolio. PFA iniGES believes are breaching our policy. The overview also tially decided to focus on the Danish property portfolio, reports on the status of the dialogue with each company, and wants to initially map CO2 emissions here in order and who is coordinating this. The overview is a suppleto create an overview and measure the portfolio in relament to the log of companies we are engaged in dialogue tion to a defined benchmark. Measured over the life cycle with. We will work on developing our log in 2019 to make of a property, the majority of CO2 emissions occur durit easier to follow the dialogue we are pursuing with ing construction. As a developer who builds properties in selected companies. Denmark, PFA will therefore focus on sustainable materials and design in future when planning and constructing Responsible supplier management buildings. For properties in operation, our focus will be on PFA implemented a new Contract Management system in optimising property operation in an energy-efficient man2018. As part of this initiative, each executive managener. Experience will be evaluated at the end of 2019 and ment area has designated contract managers, contract provide the basis for specific targets. The guidelines, and owners, procedure coordinators and controllers. Each our approach to working with the Danish property portfoexecutive management area now has an up-to-date conlio, are available at pfa.dk tract overview, and can monitor how procedures for concluding contracts are being observed and ensure that relevant follow-up is being done with their respective suppliers. The new system also supports risk assessment in relation to each contract being concluded, where social responsibility and the work with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are important elements. The new system helps ensure that contract managers take ownership of the contractual obligations, including follow-up on data processor agreements, establishing contract annual cycles, and dialogue on PFA’s Code of Conduct and the associated self-evaluation form for suppliers. We conducted random checks for eight selected suppliers in 2018. These checks have given us insight into how the self-evaluation form that suppliers fill in PFA CR Report 2018 21 Børns Vilkår BørneTelefonen Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about Børns Vilkår BørneTelefonen on page 29 22 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA CR Report 2018 23 Society Throughout the more than 100 years of PFA’s existence as a company, investor and pension supplier, we have been aspiring to play an active part in the developments in society. It is our opinion that when society develops we must keep up and actively seek to contribute to the development. We do so because we are aware that the actions of today will affect the life we live tomorrow. * PFA wishes to take part in steering society in a more sustainable direction. This is the reason why we work proactively with contributing to the realisation of selected global goals for sustainable development, offering our competences and experience and finally by participating in the public debate. We strive to act openly, honestly and responsibly with the purpose of ensuring that our customers will be able to live their life – all their life. Pension reform with focus on the Bank on their management of the money laundering case in interplay issues the bank’s Estonian branch and with regard to the expectaIn 2018, new regulations for the pension area were tions we have had of the bank in our capacity as investor. agreed. The new rules mean that it has become more attractive to save up for retirement, and that the so-called During the year, we have also helped identify the dileminterplay issues have been addressed for the majority mas that exist, among others, in the work with ensuring a of people in Denmark. This includes both present retirresponsible tax practice in the investment process. We did ees and the savings accumulated for future retirees. PFA so by summarising and publishing our guidelines in this area contributed to the legislative work offering our opinion and by participating in two relevant debates at Folkemødet. and the message that the interplay issues ought to be addressed so that it will always be worthwhile to save PFA’s contribution to the historic political research up for one’s own retirement. Furthermore, PFA advoIn 2018, PFA was behind the publishing of the book Poul cates for making the pension system more transparent Schlüters tid 1982-1993, which is a political history book and easy-to-understand, so that customers can make an describing the governance period of the Danish former informed choice for their pension. Prime Minister, Poul Schlüter, the political climate during the period 1983-1993 and the societal challenges of 33 recommendations for a better life as a senior that time. The book forms part of the series De danske citizen ministerier – a series of books about the Danish minisIn 2018, the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age, which PFA is tries – which PFA has financed in celebration of each 25th behind, released 33 recommendations for how the society anniversary year. The book is part of the 5th volume in and the individual can ensure the good senior life towards the series and it was published in connection with PFA’s 2040. The Think Tank’s work turned out to be one of the 100th anniversary. The 5th volume consists of two books: most extensive mappings of the framework for senior life Anker Jørgensens tid 1972-1982, describing the governin Denmark. At the same time, the Think Tank presented ance period of the Danish former Prime Minister, Anker its recommendations for which future measures to take in Jørgensen, which was published in the autumn 2017, and order to counter the development. In the recommendations, then the latest book Poul Schlüters tid 1982-1993. The it is stressed that the development requires re-thinking of authors behind the 5th volume are Associate Professor the societal structures that concern working life, health and Niels Wium Olesen and Professor Thorsten Borring Olesen housing situation. You can learn more about the recommenfrom the University of Aarhus. dations and the Think Tank’s work on page 27. PFA student housing under construction Debate on and knowledge sharing about active In 2018, PFA cut the first turf for the construction of 300 ownership student housing units in Odense. The construction is one PFA wants to be an active owner of the companies in of four PFA student housing facilities, which we took steps which we are investing. At PFA, active ownership covers to build in celebration of our 100th anniversary in 2017. a number of different activities. As co-investor in, among The student housing facility will be constructed using susothers, Nykredit and the consortium behind the purchase tainable materials and be shaped as a quadratic figure of TDC, we have in 2018 been engaging in ownership of eight, where the centre of the building will be designed to companies that play an important role in Danish society. promote an inspiring study environment and is meant to At the same time, we have sought to be transparent in the be a social meeting place. PFA’s investment in the student ownership dialogue we have had with, among others, Danske housing facility in Odense exceeds DKK 300 million. 24 PFA CR Report 2018 For Lige Vilkår Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about For Lige Vilkår on page 29 PFA CR Report 2018 25 The Think Tank – The New 3rd Age released its 33 recommendations for the good senior life After one year’s work, the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age, released, in 2018, its overall recommendations for how society and the individual can ensure the good senior life towards 2040. In 2040, there will be significantly more elderly people in Denmark than is the case today. PFA was behind the Think Tank, which was established in connection with PFA’s 100th anniversary. The purpose of the Think Tank was to analyse, discuss and provide recommendations for how, in the future, the individual citizens in Denmark would make the most of their life in the third age. Both when it comes to housing, health and the transition from one type of working life to another or to the life as a retiree. The work with developing the recommendations was In 2019, we will continue our efforts and work towards based on the megatrends and scenarios for the future anchoring a number of the 33 recommendations in socithat are going to form the basis of the life of the peoety and in the development of society. ple in Denmark as longevity increases. The work is meant to give inspiration for how the individual, the institutions Members of the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age in the Danish society as well as companies can follow the development and, at the same time, provide an insight • Claus Kjeldsen, CEO of Copenhagen Institute for into how the technological development creates new posFutures Studies (Chairman) sibilities. Assisted by the Copenhagen Institute for Futures • Allan Polack, Group CEO, PFA (Vice-Chairman) Studies, the Think Tank mapped seven key challenges • Anne Skovbro, Director of Philanthropy CPO, which Denmark must meet and resolve in order to be able Realdania (formerly) to ensure the good senior life towards 2040. The Think • Aske Juul Lassen, PhD, Postdoc, Center for Healthy Tank has developed four scenarios for how Denmark may Aging, University of Copenhagen develop and, based on these, it has prepared 33 specific • Bente Sorgenfrey, Chairman, FTF – Confederation recommendations. of Professionals in Denmark • Bjarne Hastrup, CEO, Ældre Sagen (DaneAge Following the launch of the Think Tank’s recommendaAssociation) tions, we decided to give priority to a number of the • Ib Enevoldsen, Managing Director, Rambøll recommendations in our work. Based on PFA Senior• Inger-Lise Katballe, former health director, boligstandard™ (PFA’s concept of 46 specific demands Municipality of Ikast-Brande for senior-friendly housing), we initiated, in 2018, the • Jacob Holbraad, CEO, Confederation of Danish construction of several types of senior housing faciliEmployers (DA) ties in which we include various elements required by • Jesper Buch, entrepreneur and founder of Just-Eat, the future senior citizens. The future labour market is Miinto and Gomentor another area of our priority, where the emerging need • Jørgen Løkkegaard, Director, Health and Human for partial retirement is calling for new flexible solutions Interaction Technologies, the Danish Technological for the individual to be able to stay at work and, at the Institute. same time, retire on partial pension. This led to the pro• Knud Romer Jørgensen, author, debater, radio ject Studie60+, which we launched in dialogue with PFA’s presenter. Customer Board. The project is meant to help create a smooth transition from working life to life in retirement. Studie60+ is described on page 31. Moreover, the experience we gained from the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age was brought into the Danish Government’s think tank for good senior working life, in which PFA has a representative, and we have held a number of meetings with politicians and organisations in order to put the recommendations into focus. 26 PFA CR Report 2018 Brief summary of the activities of the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age: • 5 day-long workshops • The Think Tank – The New 3rd Age formed the basis of PFA’s programme and debates at Folkemødet in Bornholm, both in 2017 and 2018 • The preliminary recommendations were presented, challenged and qualified by researchers and politicians at the conference ‘Denmark towards 2040’ on 9 October 2017 at Dokk1 in Aarhus • A report with 33 specific recommendations for a good life in the third age towards 2040 was prepared • The recommendations were presented at Christiansborg on 2 February 2018 with the participation of relevant politicians, ministers and stakeholders in this field. The report is meant as a catalogue of inspiration to politicians, PFA and other stakeholders so that the recommendations can serve as a starting point of the continued development of the senior life basis in Denmark. 33 recommendations for a good senior life towards 2040 The transition from work to Housing and social relations Health and quality of life retirement A good working life in the third Attractive new housing models Prevention and better coordiage and flexible retirement which match people’s needs in nated healthcare initiatives • Flexible retirement framework different phases of their lives • More municipal health centres • Flexible part-time retirement • More senior cohousing • Technology to support health in models communities one’s own home • New housing models for senior • Better diagnosing and coordinaLabour market and working life citizens tion across illnesses • Prevention of mental illness • More inexpensive rental housing • Expansion of prioritisation • Partnerships for better wellfor senior citizens boards being • Housing advice • Targets for prevention of lifestyle diseases must be expanded Entrepreneurship and savings Urban development and • Control paradigm must have • Investment in entrepreneurship frameworks for communities greater focus on outcome • Attractive pension plans for • Senior citizens must be an eleself-employed persons ment in urban planning Volunteering, relations and • Cohousing and interestquality of life Education and skills based communities must be • Better opportunities to engage • Rethinking the educational strengthened in voluntary work system • Investigation of taxation chal• Healthcare professionals contri• Personal commitment to lifelong lenges for the sharing economy buting to reducing loneliness learning • Educational savings for a change Increased mobility to reduce Welfare technology and of career loneliness and strengthen the telemedicine • International knowledge-sharing economic basis • Better and faster dissemination networks • Mobility pool for senior citizens of welfare technology • Denmark must take the lead in • Supplementary technolothe introduction of self-driving gical training of healthcare cars professionals • More investments in the infra• Fast-track unit for deployment structure of the future of new technology • Partnerships to develop innovative platform-economic models Rising healthcare costs • Greater transparency in healthcare expenditure PFA CR Report 2018 27 Causes of the year 5 Information videos 3 Causes present at Folkemødet 12 Number of votes cast for the causes of the year 35,852 Followers on the foundation’s Facebook page 32,000+ PFA’s charitable foundation PFA Brug Livet Fonden – The causes brought up very important subjects turns the spotlight on the many dedicated volunteers who for discussion make a great effort to help vulnerable or marginalised The foundation also participated at Folkemødet 2018 in groups live life. Each year, the foundation selects some Bornholm and hosted six debates in PFA’s tent. The matcauses which the foundation, in cooperation with PFA, ters of debate were defined at a PFA workshop, where creates extra attention to during the year. representatives from 12 causes participated and worked together to prepare the debates. The debates were about The selection of the causes of the year focuses young adults’ behaviour on social media, investments on children and young adults in social efforts, the effect of the Danish gang packages At the end of 2018, the foundation selected five new on the homeless and socially vulnerable, etc. The panel causes, which received support. A total number of 72 participants were representatives from the causes, politicauses were nominated as causes of the year. Among the cians, civil servants and experts. causes were both local and national projects and associations which involve many dedicated volunteers. The Inspiration for senior citizens foundation’s board selected the causes of the year among When retirement is approaching and working hours are 20 causes which proceeded to the final as a result of the gradually reduced, many people find room for voluntary voting at the foundation’s website that attracted more work. For this reason, the foundation had a booth at the than 40,000 visitors during the two voting weeks. PFA Senior Day, which was held both in Jutland and in Zealand for PFA’s senior customers and their partners. At The chief purpose of many of the causes that proceeded the events, the foundation focused – together with the to the final were to help children and young adults, which causes Børnelungefonden, Børns Voksenvenner and Moris why the board chose to concentrate its support withgencafé for Hjemløse on voluntary work, and offered in this target group. In 2018, For Lige Vilkår, Klub Venner inspiration for the good life as a senior citizen. The two and SMILcamps were chosen as the causes of the year. All events attracted 700 and 900 participants, respectivethree causes feature new and small-scale initiatives, which ly. The foundation’s booth was well-attended, and the will each receive various assistance in order to become dialogues during the events were very constructive both more firmly rooted and reach its respective target group when it came to the foundation’s work and the activities even better. Selected as causes of the year were also the of the two causes. two long-standing organisations Børn, Unge & Sorg and BørneTelefonen, which will receive support in order to help the organisations to be able to help children and young adults when they are facing hardships. 28 PFA CR Report 2018 The 2019 causes For Lige Vilkår received DKK 25,000: For Lige Vilkår is a newly established association for parents and other relatives of children who have special needs due to a handicap or chronic illness. Klub Venner received DKK 25,000 for adventures: Klub Venner is a small association with the purpose of creating adventures and a sense of community for young adults with severe physical and mental handicaps. SMILcamps under SMILfonden received DKK 25,000: SMILcamps is a new initiative under SMILfonden, which invites seriously and chronically ill children and their families to summer camps. Børn, Unge & Sorg received DKK 50,000 for advice and guidance for children and young adults: Børn, Unge & Sorg helps children and young adults to move on in the event that a parent or sibling falls seriously ill or passes away. BørneTelefonen under Børns Vilkår received DKK 50,000: BørneTelefonen under Børns Vilkår is a children’s hotline with the purpose of offering advice, comfort or just a kind adult who has the time to listen and provide moral support. Close cooperation on video projects In 2018, the foundation and PFA joined forces in a cooperation on four cases which were voted causes of the year in 2017. We have produced videos about three of the causes: WutomiAgri, Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening and MusikBeRiget. The video projects were completed in close cooperation with the causes. The videos were shown at the causes’ own platforms, at the foundation’s website and its Facebook page. The videos reached more than 85,000 viewers on the foundation’s Facebook page, and got many shares, comments and likes. In addition, we collaborated with the cause Ordskælv on a new digital platform. View the videos featuring the causes of the year 2018 The videos about the 2018 causes can be viewed at the foundation’s website and at the websites of each of the respective causes: MusikBeRiget Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening WutomiAgri PFA CR Report 2018 29 Børn, Unge & Sorg Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about Børn, Unge & Sorg on page 29 30 PFA CR Report 2018 Customers As a customer-owned company, it is important to PFA that our customers experience that we are able to provide noticeable value for them. It is our objective to continuously meet the customers’ needs, and we strive to develop our products and services concurrently with the progress in society and the technological advances. In order to ensure that we know our customers’ specific needs, we hear our customers and receive feedback on our advisory services and the development of health products, initiatives and digital solutions. * At PFA, we want to create more value for our customers. As a consequence of this, we pass on the majority of the money we earn to our customers. We make an effort to provide advisory services based on the individual customer’s life situation, age and needs, and we make sure to intervene at an early stage when our customers fall ill. We seek to be in pole position when it comes to the development of new digital solutions, and we pick up on critical enquiries and complaints in a structured way in order to minimise unfortunate experiences in the future. Closer to the customer’s individual wishes input on their solutions. Our advice and guidance through PFA Customer Panel include mentoring about the market, information about In order to ensure that PFA develops relevant products health-related challenges and PFA’s insight fuelled by and services which make a difference in the customour data and experience, and much more. Furthermore, ers’ everyday life, we established PFA Customer Panel in the partnership implies that PFA will introduce the SUND 2018. The customer panel is PFA’s direct line to the priHub teams to challenges we are facing and seeking to vate customers, and, at the end of 2018, 250 customers resolve ourselves. had signed up for the panel. The customer panel allows PFA to quickly interview relevant customer profiles on a Companies and managers receive assistance to given service or product we are developing. deal with stress management In close cooperation with our corporate and organThis way, we gain better insight into the customers’ wishisational customers, PFA has developed new health es and needs. During the year, the involvement of the solutions, which can help prevent, shorten and reduce customer panel has led to more than 100 in-depth inter­ long-term sickness absence. views with customers, beta trials of new digital tools as well as preparation of major anthropological field studIn 2018, we focused determinedly on the underlyies which we plan to carry out in 2019. The themes which ing causes of job dissatisfaction and stress. We did so, we considered in cooperation with the customer panel among other things, through cooperation with a docwere, for example, qualification of PFA’s investment and tor and author about healthy digital habits and recovery insurance guides, better and more reliable self-service as well as through open management courses on stress solutions, such as digital transfer of pension deposits, prevention and management headed by a business and the way in which we can offer customers approaching psychologist. retirement even better advice about dissaving. During the year, more than 200 companies have parIn 2019, we will continue our focus on evaluation of the ticipated in open courses on stress prevention and products and services we develop in cooperation with management. The course evaluation shows that 89 per the customers. cent of the participants assess that, after having completed the course, they have become highly capable of New cooperation on development of health spotting symptoms of stress among the employees, and solutions that they know how to handle the situation. In 2018, PFA established a partnership with SUND Hub, which is an innovative entrepreneurial environment under the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at the Networks provide a better framework for the University of Copenhagen. The purpose of the partnertransition from working life to retirement ship is to contribute towards development and testing These years, the labour market is changing rapidly and of health solutions. PFA is making advice and guidance people retire later than they used to concurrently with available to the SUND Hub teams that wish to receive increased life expectancy. This results in a number of PFA CR Report 2018 31 challenges to both companies and employees in connecDealing with customer complaints tion with the planning of the individual employee’s late PFA handles the complaints we receive in the department career. for Complaints & Customer Satisfaction, which is part of our corporate legal unit. The department deals with the PFA established Studie60+ in 2018 consisting of two netspecific complaints and focuses on increasing the overworks originating from PFA’s Customer Board. The target all customer satisfaction. The objective is to localise and groups of the two networks are split between corporate proactively eliminate the factors that give occasion for discustomers, represented by HR managers, and organisatisfaction and which, eventually, make the customers sational customers, represented by chairpersons from complain. organisations. PFA received 417 complaints in 2018, which is an increase The networks under Studie60+ have analysed, discussed of 22 per cent compared to 2017 when PFA received 343 and evaluated how we can create new and better concomplaints. The activity in customer enquiries generalditions for “third age” employees and for the transition ly increased in 2018, and so did the number of legislative from working life to a life in retirement. initiatives which implied an intensified focus from our customers. This includes prevention of money laundering and PFA helps optimising pension terrorist financing as well as the new General Data ProDuring 2018, PFA developed a range of offers for sentection Regulation (GDPR). The number of customers who iors, who continue to become an increasingly large were accommodated in their complaint increased from 14 and important group of customers. For example, PFA per cent in 2017 to 17 per cent in 2018. upgraded the advisers’ dissaving tool so that it can also include a spouse or cohabiting partner’s data through Insurance and pension products can be quite complex. It PensionsInfo. ­This facilitates holistic advice to a greatapplies to some customer enquiries that a detailed explaer extent, which focuses on optimising the household’s nation of a product or problem can result in the customer entire financial situation, including taxes, pension savings, withdrawing the complaint. In the situations where a case available capital, public benefits etc. can be dealt with through dialogue, we close the complaint as ’accommodated’. PFA’s processing of praise and complaints If the customer has a bad customer experience or is dissatisfied with PFA's case processing or decision, the customer has a number of contact points for feedback and complaints. PFA’s Customer Representative PFA’s Customer Representative can help you after a bad experience if you want to talk to someone who can help you speed up the process or advise you on what the next step is. Feedback PFA’s Complaints Department Positive and negative feedback on PFA's Complaints Department an experience with PFA, which the handles formal complaints about a customer wants to bring to our decision, the case processing or a attention, can be given through reason given by PFA. pfa.dk Contact the specific Public authorities PFA department The Danish Insurance It is recommended to first contact Complaints Board the department with which the bad customer experience occurred, The Danish courts and make them aware of the issue. The EU Commission’s online dispute resolution 32 PFA CR Report 2018 Corporate and organisational customers: approx. 5,860 Customers: approx. 1.3 million Pension consultations: 69,642 Phone calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre: 226,973 Phone calls to PFA’s Health Centre: 291,112 Customers who were helped back to work 996 (PFA EarlyCare and Active Claims): Customer satisfaction 8.8 (calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre): Number of complaints: 417 Number of Customer Representative cases: 198 In 2018, we accommodated the customers in 160 of the 2019. In a few cases, the letters resulted in questions 417 complaints. This is positive to both PFA and the cusfrom the customers, but some customers also wanted tomers, and it gives us an opportunity to make out the to share a regretful experience with PFA so that PFA can customers’ focus and identify any issues of improvelearn from our mistakes. We make an effort to listen and ment in relation to our services, customer dialogue and understand the customer’s problem ­and to try to accomproducts. modate the customer by offering advice and guidance. By explaining the various facts and possibilities — and not The Customer Representative sees case adminleast by acknowledging irregularities — we solve the cusistration through the eyes of the customers tomers’ problems in the vast majority of cases. In 2018, PFA’s Customer Representative is the customers’ repthe Customer Representative accommodated the customresentative in PFA. The customers’ trust is essential ers in 142 out of the total of 198 enquiries. to us, and, therefore, we need a person who the customers can turn to when they have questions. The Cases presented to the Danish Insurance ComCustomer Representative cannot reverse decisions made plaints Board in cases of complaints, but will listen to the individuIn 2018, PFA handled 71 new cases from the Danal customer’s experience, help navigate through the ish Insurance Complaints’ Board. This is a decline of 23 pension environment in general and bring forward the per cent compared to 2017. During the year, the Danish customers’ experience throughout PFA. In this way, proInsurance Complaints Board processed and finalised 90 cesses and products can continuously become more complaints about PFA, whereas, in 2017, 58 complaints customer-oriented. were finalised. The number of cases that reaches the Danish Insurance Complaints Board is still low seen in relation In 2018, the Customer Representative reviewed 198 to PFA’s 1.3 million customers at the end of 2018. At the cases. This is 60 cases more than in 2017 – an increase same time, PFA was found in favour in 76 per cent of the of 44 per cent. The increase should be seen in the light cases and partly in favour in 4 per cent of the 90 finalised of PFA having welcomed more than 50,000 new private cases of complaint. The high percentage of cases in which customers in 2018 and having had a general high level of PFA was found in favour is consistent with PFA at any time activity involving several large-scale issuing of letters to endeavouring to be fair when making decisions that affect the customers dealing with changed assumptions of Cusour customers. tomerCapital and new forecast rates to take effect from PFA CR Report 2018 33 For Lige Vilkår Arrangement at the association For Lige Vilkår, which was selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about For Lige Vilkår on page 29 34 PFA CR Report 2018 Overview of the subjects of Customer Representative cases in 2018 Subject of the PFA’s improvement PFA’s challenge customer’s enquiry measures in 2018 PFA has introduced processes to make An increased level of activity has resultsimple case handling automatic in order Processing time ed in increased processing time for some to make resources available for more customers. complex cases. The customers must experience that we live up to the agreements we make. PFA has implemented several self-service Meeting deadlines This is why deadlines must be aligned options which help give the customer a and feedback with the individual customer, and it is better overview and a better customer important that the customer is referred experience. to the correct department and employee. Average interest rate plans with guarPFA has begun the integration of the Average interest anteed benefits are complex. Many average interest rate policies into My PFA. rate with guaranteed customers mistakenly believe that This will let the customers gain complete benefits they are covered by an interest rate insight into their plan – and boost the guarantee. customer experience. The offer to PFA’s customers of signing up on an interest list and get preference PFA is aware that the current renting to tenancies in PFA's rental properties is rules may pose a challenge in certain a success. However, it is not possible to situations. We have therefore initiatPFA Rental Housing be informed about status and position on ed a review of the rules and are working the interest list as lists of the interested towards launching our housing offers in a customers are not extracted until a tennew and simpler manner. ancy is available. PFA CR Report 2018 35 Employees When we invest in our employees and the conditions that we offer, we are creating a basis for job satisfaction and high performance. This allows us to increase our contribution to our customers and the society that we are part of. * PFA wants to offer a workplace which gives priority to the employees’ engagement and health. This is the reason why we involve our employees in the development of PFA’s new domicile, prioritise agile working and seek to inspire and offer good conditions and specific advice when it comes to healthy habits. Regular skills upgrade to create more value spread out on three different locations in Nordhavn until In 2018, PFA has been working determinedly with the the end of 2020. development of an environment which makes it easier and quicker for employees to put their own and others’ From the very beginning, the employees have taken part competences in play in an agile structure. During a periin planning the renovation and in testing new workplace od of 18 months, 25 per cent of PFA’s employees have settings. Meeting rooms, inflow of light, acoustics and adopted the agile way of working. This new working the interior layout have formed part of the test labs that structure prompts a simple and uncomplicated cooperthe employees have occupied as their office premises on ation across PFA in order to make the best solutions for a trial basis. The planning was made using the employour customers. In addition, the cross-professional agile ees’ feedback as the underlying basis. PFA has prioritised team setup also encourages acquiring new skills during that the renovation be made according to a sustainabilithe workday. ty certification under the Green Building Council Denmark (DGNB Sølv), where – in addition to the quality of the During 2018, we have also been working with change environment – focus will be on the quality of the process management. First round included 18 managers across and the social quality of the premises. This means that PFA. The programme is based on psychology, neurolochoice of material, design and the indoor climate for the gy and biology in order to make room for development, employees are the focus of attention. changes and results. The purpose was to boost the change management competences throughout PFA, In 2019, the first employees will be able to move into the ensure a common understanding of changes and clarififirst part of the domicile, while we will begin the renovacation of direction and priorities. tion of the next and final part, which is scheduled to be completed in 2020. PFA needs a strong workforce of skilled specialists in order to keep our leading position in the pension Health and a sustainable working life market. We have therefore, in 2018, initiated a new speAt the beginning of the year, we put a new health stratcialist programme which is dedicated to PFA’s priorities egy for PFA into operation. The strategy is based on of creating a strong coherence between what is reledifferent tracks such as exercise and activity, diet, menvant for PFA from an organisational and strategic point tal health and recovery. The purpose is to promote of view and the personal development and motivation initiatives to support a healthy lifestyle for employees to of the individual specialist. The programme involves 18 ensure that they can contribute to creating a healthy perspecialists and will be finalised mid-2019. formance culture in PFA while at the same time having a sustainable work life. The employees are involved in the creation of the new domicile Throughout the year, PFA’s employees have testAt the beginning of 2018, the employees were involved ed various initiatives and products in order to collect in the changes that are going to affect everybody durknowledge of and experience with exercise in everyday ing the renovation of PFA’s headquarters. Approximately life, healthy digital habits and mental strength. The initi50 per cent of the employees have been transferred atives are mentioned in the box on the following page. temporarily to neighbouring premises in Nordhavn until This way, our employees help test and evaluate new inithe new domicile is finished. This means that the employtiatives and products before they, if at all, are selected ees are situated close to the building site and must work to be part of PFA’s health offers to the customers. 36 PFA CR Report 2018 Number of employees: 1,337 (average number of full-time employees) Employee engagement: 5.9 Sickness absence: 3.2 pct. Women in management: 39 per cent PFA attained a total score of 5.9 on a scale of 1 to 7, where 7 is best. This is a decline of 0.1 as against last year, but still considerably higher than the general engagement in the Danish financial and insurance indusSelected activities from the implementation try, which ended up at 5.3 in 2018. of the health strategy in 2018 Mental­strength and stress prevention: All The highest scores in the annual survey in PFA were the employees with personnel responsibility completed employees’ engagement in their job, the backing from a master class in stress prevention, and more than colleagues and ideas to the improvement of the work200 employees have participated in workshops on place. To this can be added that the relation to one’s individual stress prevention resulting in specific and immediate superior and the possibility of using one’s simple healthy behavioural changes. strengths and working with challenging tasks still play an important part in the engagement. At the same time, Healthy digital habits: More than 300 employees the annual survey shows that irrespective of seniority participated in a lecture about healthy digital habits, the employees rate engagement and energy to be relawhich was followed by a screening of the particitively constant. pants’ own habits and behaviour. The result of the screening will form the basis of a number of initia39 per cent women in PFA’s management tives and recommendations to be presented in 2019 PFA’s target for the share of women in management for the support of healthy digital habits among the is 40 per cent. At the end of 2018, the share was 39 employees. per cent, which is just below target. In recent years, the share of women in management has been varyPhysical activity during the working day: PFA ing slightly from 41 per cent in 2016, to 36 in 2017 and established a health lounge to provide the setting for 39 in 2018. To reach the target of 40 per cent, PFA will, free yoga classes for the employees three times a among other things, continue prioritising that candiweek. The company sports club, PFA Idrætsforening, dates of both genders take part in the recruitment and also arranges other forms of functional training in the promotion processes during which the best candidate health lounge to help the employees maintain or build will be selected. up their physical health. When looking at the distribution of women at manager level, senior manager level and vice president level, the distribution at year-end 2018 was 46, 33 and 24 Employee survey shows a continued high enper cent respectively. In particular, the share of mangagement agers and vice presidents has increased compared to The annual engagement survey for 2018 showed that 2017 from 41 per cent and 21 per cent respectively. On PFA’s employees are very engaged in their daily work. the other hand, the share of female senior managers They take pride in their work, are backed by colleagues declined by one per cent. and want to contribute to the development of PFA as a workplace. PFA CR Report 2018 37 About this report This report collects the PFA Group’s activities and results from its work with corporate responsibility in 2018. Our corporate responsibility policy forms the basis of the work, and during 2018, PFA has updated the policy wishing to contribute more goal-oriented to the implementation of five selected global goals for sustainable development. The report includes a status of the work with the implementation of the CR strategy’s 15 specific activities for 2018, and with that, the report follows up on the efforts and targets which were stated in the 2017 report on PFA’s corporate responsibility. This report also describes 14 new activities which will be focal points for CR in 2019. This way, the report explains how PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is implemented in PFA. It also describes the work with implementing due diligence in our working processes and brings together the goals we have defined for our work with implementing the policy in future. The report covers the PFA Group. Together, PFA Holdinvestments. The work with the three areas is reflected ing’s annual report, this CR report and the CR pages in the summary of the 2019 activities on page 12. at pfa.dk comply with the Danish Financial Statements Act regarding the reporting of the company’s corporate responsibility and the recommendations of active ownership from the Danish Committee on Corporate High competition Governance. The mentioned reports also represent PFA’s Climate and environment Communication on Progress report (COP) to the UN, Children Sustainable worklife which deals with PFA’s implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. On page 48, we provide an Local overview which explains how PFA has been working durVulnerable community groups ing the year to comply with the principles of human rights, Health labour rights, climate, environment and anti-corruption. Page 49 provides an overview which explains how we comLow competition Digital ethics ply with the recommendations of active ownership from Financial Knowledge the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. responsibility sharing Assessment of materiality In 2018, we mapped the most important trends in the CR area together with external business partners. The mapping is included in a major analysis of the possible Low PFA engagement High PFA engagement order of priority of PFA’s corporate responsibility activities in future. We compared the results with feedback from internal and external stakeholders. The purpose Risk assessment and due diligence was to collect data for an evaluation of materiality PFA worked with implementing due diligence processwhich specifies possibilities and risk for PFA and thus es more extensively in the investment area during 2018 helps define a transparent CR position which supports – both in relation to climate screening and screening PFA’s business operations and position in society. PFA’s for violation of human rights. The experience we have contribution towards realising selected UN Global Goals gained regarding climate screenings has been included was included in the basis of the mapping. The analyses in the work with developing a climate screening methsingled out three areas of importance to PFA’s business od intended for the Danish property portfolio. Another operations where PFA, at the same time, has the posarea in which we are working with due diligence is the sibility of contributing to the development of society area of artificial intelligence (AI). Concurrently with PFA’s and of differentiating itself. This applies to the areas: integration of AI in solutions for the customers, we also responsible investments, a healthier and better workset goals to develop a strategy for responsible algoing life and the good transition to life in the third age. rithms. This report describes the activities of the year in Climate and environment was identified as an independthe work with due diligence and the areas where we are ent area, which will be incorporated under responsible planning a focused effort in 2019. 38 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA has still been working on a risk assessment of Contact concerning this CR report and PFA’s work with the CR efforts. This work formed part of the analyses corporate responsibility is: described above and of the dialogue with both customMette Vadstrup, Corporate Responsible Manager, Corpoers and stakeholders. The assessment is also included rate Communications & External Relations, mev@pfa.dk in the evaluation of the CR efforts. The purpose of the risk assessment is to ensure that the applied processes are solid. Also, it is to identify whether the prioritised efforts prevent the identified risks. Since last year’s assessment, the risk assessment has been updated with the section ‘Misapplication of customer data’. The table on page 38 lists the subjects of the risk assessment, and, based on our experience from 2018 and our targets for 2019, we have updated the assessment in relation to PFA’s possibilities and preventive efforts. The structure of this report This report begins with a description of the framework for corporate responsibility in PFA, a status of the implementation of the 15 CR strategy activities for 2018 and identification of the new activities for 2019. Subsequently, the report is structured around the four core elements in PFA’s corporate responsibility policy: Responsible value creation, Society, Customers and Employees. Each chapter accounts for the individual CR strategy activities and describe the context of which they form part. In the last part of the report, we have collected data and CR key figures. We describe how we have collected and calculated the figures and how the figures represent data that help describe PFA’s work with corporate responsibility. The figures in the data section are presented compared to last year in order to illustrate the development. PFA’s responsibility model is described on page 47 and helps ensure that the reader can more easily navigate in the data section of the report. The responsibility model is updated to the effect that it reflects the efforts for the year towards implementing our corporate responsibility policy. PFA’s green accounts are included in the data section which states the consumption of waste, paper and CO2. The figures stated in the data section of the report are 2018 figures which are compared with figures from the two preceding years. The text part of the report primarily includes figures from 2018 which are compared to the previous year. The figures will be included wherever relevant. PFA CR Report 2018 39 Outline of PFA’s risk assessment within corporate responsibility Risk PFA’s options Preventive measures Responsible value creation Climate considerations are included in Invest in green transition. the policy for responsible investments. Measure and communicate about PFA’s Explain PFA’s in-house efforts to reduce green accounts and climate screening Negative impact on environment and the environmental impact. model for the equity portfolio. climate. It is PFA’s objective to initiate an energy Reduce carbon emissions in PFA’s mapping of the Danish property portfolio properties and other portfolios. in 2019. Subsequently, PFA will be able to determine a CO2 target. Be open about PFA’s investment Report and publish texts and investment processes and the integration of the lists at pfa.dk. UN conventions. That PFA through its investments Increase data integration to monitor the Implement PFA’s action plan for intecontribute to illegal activities such as companies in PFA’s portfolio of listed gration of the UN Guiding Principles on violation of human rights. companies. Business and Human Rights. Increase the knowledge of PFA’s policies PFA screens companies and aims at inteand guidelines for the work with respongrating ESG data into the investment sible investments. processes. PFA has a tax policy on how PFA is to act in this area. PFA has a Code of Conduct describing Heighten the knowledge of PFA’s tax That PFA is linked to unethical tax PFA’s expectations of counterparts in the policy and guidelines for how responsible practice through its investments or investment area. This Code of Conduct is tax practice is dealt with in the investinvestment partners. described on page 16. PFA will work with ment process. the implementation in 2019. PFA screens listed and unlisted investments to comply with PFA’s tax policy. It is PFA’s objective to increase transparThat transparency on the dialogue with a Transparency permits the affected parency in the work with active ownership, company about active ownership results ties to be informed about progress of a but it is also necessary to find a balance in the company losing confidence in the dialogue. in relation to transparency and dialogue dialogue. with the company. PFA has a Code of Conduct and works Heighten the knowledge of the UN with responsible management of supThat suppliers and business partners Global Compact and the work with pliers. It is PFA’s objective to update its violate human rights. responsible corporate practice among Code of Conduct to ensure extensive suppliers. embedding in the process of concluding contracts in 2019. 40 PFA CR Report 2018 Society Cooperate with the industry and contribute with knowledge and experience PFA is a member of relevant trade organto raise awareness of pension, health isations, networks and governmental insurance and the work with responsible initiatives. investments. PFA contributes to the public debate Losing credibility by PFA not living up to Contribute to the public debate through contributions to the press and the expectations as a market leader that wherever relevant. by holding conferences, participating in contributes to developments in society. Folkemødet in Bornholm, etc. PFA has a customer board, a senior cusDialogue with customers and other tomer board, a customer panel and a stakeholders in order to identify the systematised dialogue with stakeholders expectations of PFA. to be able to incorporate knowledge and feedback in its work. Customers Increase the understanding of private PFA offers online advisory tools such as finances and pension conditions as a pension check-up and the Investment well as facilitate the customers’ access Guide. through digital solutions. PFA’s advisers all complete a certification at the Danish Insurance Academy in Train and certify PFA’s advisers. advisory services within pension and disIncorrect advice to customers or dissatissaving and in compliance with the MiFID fied customers. regulations. Pfa.dk includes an overview of the possibilities of complaint that the customers Dissatisfied customers have avenues have access to. for complaint and may contact PFA’s Customer Representative. PFA has collected and published its recommendations. PFA has implemented the General Data Protection Regulation, and, every year, Increase the knowledge of PFA’s work all employees complete an e-learning with data security and integration of the course on prevention of money launderregulations on personal data. ing and terrorist financing and a course on protection of personal data. Misapplication of customer data. Increase the knowledge of PFA’s efforts PFA has established an AI Center of in the area of responsible algorithms and Excellence in order to ensure a responsiensure that the work on artificial intellible approach to the work with data and gence (AI) is conducted responsibly. artificial intelligence. PFA has an objective of preparing a strategy for the work with responsible algorithms in 2019. PFA CR Report 2018 41 Employees PFA has initiated a mapping of the in-house processes to prevent that employees are involved in corruption and money laundering. Every year, all PFA employees complete That PFA’s employees or customers are Protect customers and employees an e-learning course on prevention of involved in corruption, bribery or money against involvement in illegal or money laundering and terrorist financing laundering. unethical practices. and a course on protection of personal data. PFA has a whistle blower scheme which gives employees, customers and business partners the opportunity to report cases. PFA EarlyCare focuses on preventive That employees are suddenly unable to measures. Both PFA Active Claims Handling and PFA work due to illness or other reasons. PFA Active Claims Handling helps customEarlyCare focus on preventive measures. ers/employees return to work. PFA has personnel policies and completes an annual satisfaction survey with follow-up dialogues in the departments. A health strategy has been prepared for That employees are discriminated Ensure that employees are committed, PFA. against or are not thriving at work. healthy and thriving at work. In addition, PFA prepares a compulsory workplace assessment with focus on the mental and physical working environment. 42 PFA CR Report 2018 Klub Venner Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about Klub Venner on page 29 PFA CR Report 2018 43 CR key figures and data on PFA’s corporate responsibility This part of the report comprises PFA’s key figures and corporate responsibility data. The figures are presented in the same order as the chapters in the report and together with figures from the preceding two years. The purpose is to provide an overview of how PFA’s corporate responsibility policy and the CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020' are complied with and to describe the development. This section can be read independently without having to consult the report for descriptions of specific activities. If the figures have changed considerably compared to 2017, or where a new calculation method has been introduced, we have made a short description in connection with the individual table. Behind the figures in the report The figures in this report are based on the figures that are collected, calculated and applied for the activities in the PFA Group. The selection of data has been prioritised in order to quantify the activities and goals that have been given priority in PFA’s work with responsibility in PFA. Figures collected and registered with PFA The figures we have collected and registered concern the total number of customers, customer enquiries, complaints and the application of products and satisfaction surveys in PFA. The calculation of the various categories is based on the method applied within the individual areas for calculating figures when it comes to number of consultations, e-mails, calls and processed cases. In addition to this, data regarding employees and employee conditions are collected and calculated internally in PFA. All figures are collected after the statement of the year and apply to the year 2018. CO2 and resource consumption in PFA Regarding the figures on CO2 and resource consumption in PFA, a range of suppliers of electricity, heating, paper and waste management, who have all supplied figures after the closing of 2018, are involved. The calculation method used for determining CO2 consumption is still the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. The green accounts for the year, on pages 58-60, are not comparable with previous years as we began the renovation of our domicile in April. The renovation implied that approximately 800 employees moved to other and smaller office premises. The consumption of electricity and heating in these office premises have been included in the 2018 green accounts in order to give a true and fair view of PFA’s consumption. Consequently, the electricity and heating figures cannot be compared, which means that the overall reduction in the emission of CO2 cannot be compared with the overall emission from previous years either. The other figures of consumption are comparable. CO2 mapping of the equity portfolio PFA has been working with mapping the CO2 consumption in the equity portfolio based on PFA’s screening model from 2017. The figures which we make public in the chapter Responsible value creation on pages 17-18 stand alone as no comparable figures are available from previous years. In 2019, we will be working on a mapping of the carbon emissions in the Danish property portfolio. Until more specific data is available, the investment area will not form part of PFA’s overall green accounts. The work with responsible investments The figures on company screenings and dialogues with companies are based on cooperation with an external supplier and log of the companies that PFA entered into dialogue with during the year. The data from votings at companies’ general meetings is based on our own log and the number of companies for which our business partner has provided their analyses and evaluations. 44 PFA CR Report 2018 Organisation chart of the PFA Group as at 15 May 2019 PFA-Fonden Other Shareholders PFA Brug Livet Fonden 47-49 % 51-53 % PFA Holding A/S PFA Bank A/S PFA Pension, PFA Asset forsikringsaktieselskab Management A/S 67-89 % PFA Europe Real PFA DK PFA DK Ejen20-24 % PFA DK Core PFA KapitalPFA Infrastruktur PFA U.S. PFA Barnaby P/S Estate High A/S Boliger Lav A/S domme Lav A/S Erhverv I K/S forening* Holding ApS Holding, LLC (incl. 5 subsidiaries) (incl. 34 subsidiaries) (incl. 2 subsidiaries) (incl. 11 subsidiaries) PFA Europe Real PFA DK PFA DK Anpartsselskabet PFA Investment PFA Barnaby Estate Medium A/S Boliger Høj A/S Ejendomme Høj A/S af Fund Komplementar (incl. 5 subsidiaries) 28. februar 2018 ApS GP PFA Europe Real PFA Sommerhuse PFA Kollegier Kapitalforeningen PFA Ophelia Estate Low A/S ApS ApS Bankpension Aktier Invest CO (incl. 9 subsidiaries) I 2018 K/S PFA US Real Kapitalforeningen PFA Ophelia Estate Medium P/S Bankpension Invest CO Emerging Markets I 2018 GP ApS Aktier KomplementarKapitalforeningen selskabet Bankpension PFA US Real Obligationer Estate Medium ApS Investeringsforeningen PFA Invest Ownership is 100 % unless otherwise stated *PFA Pension is not the sole investor in PFA Kapitalforening PFA’s history dates back to 1917. The share capital Ejendomsaktieselskabet BP, which PFA Pension of the parent company PFA Holding amounts to DKK assumed ownership of in connection with the merger 1 million, and the dividend distributable by the comwith Bankpension on 30 September 2016, was transpany is a maximum of 5 per cent of the share capital, ferred to PFA Ejendomme A/S as at 1 January 2017. corresponding to DKK 50,000. This way, the owner­ The company has changed its name to Dirch Passers ship structure supports PFA’s objective to create the Allé 27 A/S, which is the address of the property that greatest possible value for its customers. housed the previous headquarters of Bankpension, which is owned by the company. The shareholders of PFA Holding are PFA-Fonden and other shareholders, which primarily comprise the In 2017, PFA Pension founded an American subsifounding organisations from 1917, whose members diary, PFA U.S. REIT, Inc. as part of the investment and employees for the most part are customers with strategy for 2017 with the purpose of optimising PFA. In 2017, the PFA Group was adjusted as follows: property and infrastructure investments and similar The PFA Group’s property companies were reorganialternative investments in the USA. sed as at 1 January 2017. Hereinafter, the property companies are now organised under three parent Also, PFA Pension established a number of subproperty companies: PFA Ejendomme A/S, PFA Bolisidiaries for handling the company’s alternative ger A/S and PFA Property Investment A/S. investments: In 2017, the number of property companies in the • PFA U.S. Holding, LLC, with the purpose of owning PFA Group increased by 10 companies. This meinfrastructure investments in the USA ans that the PFA Group comprised 43 companies • PFA Infra Neptune Holding ApS including subsidiariat the end of the year, including 4 general partner es, whose purpose it is to invest (directly or indirecompanies. The increase in the number of property ctly) in infrastructure assets located in England • The companies High Leas PV Ltd, Alcor LSPV Ltd, companies is a result of a continued increase in the West End Farm PV Ltd, Pobail CIC, Woodhouse Farm number of property investments including corporate Solar PV, West End Farm PV CIC, all with the purpotransactions. se of building and operating solar farms PFA CR Report 2018 45 • PFA Barnaby P/S and associated general partner Our business model is based on the following companies with the purpose of investing in, owfour basic pillars: ning, managing and selling loans and loan portfolios, including undertaking of discounted assets and 1. We share the profit assets connected to these. PFA is an independent company with a business model which makes it possible for us to create more value for Finally, PFA Pension founded the company PFA Kollegiour customers. We were not established for the benefit er ApS, which will contain the student housing facilities of our owners’ wealth, and the greater part of the value that PFA is going to build as an offshoot of the 100 th we create will be returned to the customers. This is the anniversary. very core of our business model. This CR Report concerns the PFA Group and com2. Qualified recommendation prises the following companies/legal entities: For many people, there is a great difference between how important pension is, and how interesting they find • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) it. This makes our role particularly important. • PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab As the customers’ company, we take responsibility for • PFA Asset Management A/S finding the solution that suits the customers best. We • PFA Bank A/S do this by consequently transforming our knowledge • PFA Boliger A/S and subsidiaries and experience into qualified recommendations. This • PFA Ejendomme A/S and subsidiaries applies regardless of whether we interact with the cus• PFA Property Investment A/S and subsidiaries tomers at a consultation, over the phone or through our • PFA Kapitalforening digital channels. • PFA Investment Fund • PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab 3. Strong investment engine • PFA Infrastruktur Holding ApS and subsidiaries With more than DKK 600 billion under management, PFA • PFA U.S. REIT, Inc. is the largest customer-owned pension company in Den• PFA U.S. Holding, LLC mark – and ranks among the largest pension companies • PFA Barnaby P/S in Europe. Our size allows us to manage our customers’ • PFA Barnaby Komplementar ApS money in the best way possible. • PFA Kollegier ApS The customers’ investments are handled by possibly the • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Aktier best investment team in the sector. Therefore, we can • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Emerging Markets plan the right strategy, sign the best deals and keep Aktier expenses at a minimum. • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Obligationer. Finally, it is part of our DNA to be a responsible player in society. This means that our customers can rest assured Description of PFA and our business model that their savings are invested responsibly and contribPFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab was founded in ute to a positive development in society while growing. 1917 by a number of employers’ and employees’ organisations with the purpose of ensuring financial security 4. We are engaged in our customers’ health and for the employees and their families when they became quality of life too old to work, became unable to work or changed Our obligations to our customers reach beyond the jobs. This continues to be the objective today, and it is financial aspect. Over the years, we have acquired solid orchestrated through professional advisory services, experience and profound competences within the health active investments of the customers’ savings and insurarea, and we make these available to our customers ing the customers throughout their lives. PFA’s owners and the public debate. In our strategy for health at the have waived their share of the profit that we create workplace, we especially focus on preventive measures to ensure that as much as possible is returned to the and early intervention. We can see that our solutions customers. result in shorter courses of illness which benefits both the individual, the company and society. It is our ambition to ensure people in Denmark the freedom to live their lives. We do this by working to make However, we do not only care about our customers’ pension savings grow, but also by offering insurance cover, quality of life when they are part of the labour marsavings plans for private customers and various products ket. We also care when they retire. Therefore, we offer within health and housing, among other things. All of this health insurance plans, rental housing and IT support, is done in order to live up to our customer pledge: More among other things, to seniors who are customers with for you. PFA Pension. 46 PFA CR Report 2018 Incorporating the CR efforts in PFA with active ownership lies with PFA’s Responsible InvestThe framework for PFA’s work with responsibility is our ment Board (RI Board). As a minimum, the RI Board CR policy and the CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainameets 10 times a year, and its members are PFA’s CFO, ble society 2017-2020’, which both define the priorities management and employees of PFA Asset Management, of PFA’s contribution to the development of society and the Vice President and Head of Corporate Communicaindicate its direction. Add to this the compliance with tions & External Relations and the CR Manager. PFA’s PFA’s other policies and guidelines on CR. The strategy, CFO is Chairman of the RI Board. The terms of reference policies and guidelines can be found at pfa.dk. for the RI Board can be found at pfa.dk. PFA’s policies have been adopted by the Board of DirecPFA’s responsibility model tors of PFA, and the overall responsibility for CR in PFA PFA’s responsibility model is based on the four key lies with the Executive Board. PFA’s CR department elements that constitute PFA’s policy for corporate carries out the daily work with CR as well as the coorresponsibility: Responsible value creation, Society, Cusdination of activities and efforts in collaboration with tomers and Employees. The themes stated in the outer other departments and companies within the PFA Group. part of the wheel are the 2018 themes, which are dealt The CR department is a part of Corporate Communicawith in this report. The model can also be used to navitions & External Relations. Responsibility for complying gate through the entire report. with the policy on responsible investments and the work Climate & human rights PFA’s Code Due diligence of Conduct Responsible Network & Engagement value creation partnership Corporate PFA Health Employees Customers Customer responsibility Panel Employee Society Customer involvement trust PFA Brug Livet Fonden PFA student housing Think Tank PFA CR Report 2018 47 Overview of the implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact PFA’s framework for the work with corporate responsibility is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consequently, the activities and results described in this report also include the Ten Principles. The table below describes on which pages in the report the various principles are dealt with and to which extent PFA has been engaged in the subjects under each principle. Global Compact Page number in PFA activities Principles CR report Principles 1-10 • Corporate responsibility policy, Policy for responsible investments and 8-10 the CR strategy 'Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020' • Screening of PFA’s equity and bond portfolio 15-16 • Engagement dialogue with companies that violate PFA’s policy for 16-17 responsible investments • RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 14 • Code of Conduct and risk assessment of suppliers. 21 Principles 1-2 • Human rights due diligence in PFA’s work on implementing the UN 19 Human rights Guiding Principles (UNGP) on Business and Human Rights in the investment process. Subsequently, other business areas in PFA will follow • Development and incorporation of human rights heatmap 19 • Reporting on action plan for incorporation of the UNGP in the invest19-21 ment process. Principles 3-6 • Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and competence 36-37 Labour rights development. Principles 7-9 • Due diligence and the work with handling climate risks in the invest17-19 Climate and ment process environment • PFA reports on the exposure to CO2 emissions from the equity 17-18 portfolio • PFA has prepared guidelines and a method for the work with mapping 21 carbon emissions in the Danish property portfolio • PFA accounts for the company’s own environmental and energy im58-60 pact resulting from the company’s office premises and describes the sustainability measures which are part of the renovation of the PFA domicile. Principle 10 • An area which PFA focuses on when screening and engaging in dia50 Anti-corruption logue with companies and business partners • PFA has continued its focus on integrating processes and training all 53 employees with the PFA Group in prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing as well as in protection of personal data • PFA has initiated an internal mapping of how the anti-corruption work 53 is to be incorporated in various areas within PFA. 48 PFA CR Report 2018 Overview of the implementation of the Committee on Corporate Governance’s seven recommendations for active ownership Reason for partly adopting/ Recommendation Adopted not adopting recommendation: 1. Engagement policy PFA’s policy for responsible investments is pubIT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors should lished at pfa.dk together with the guidelines and publicly disclose an engagement policy with respect to Yes methods that PFA uses as a basis for its impleinvestments in shares in companies that are publicly mentation of the policy. listed in Denmark. PFA is in a continuous dialogue with the companies in which it invests, and PFA uses its right to vote at the general meetings. The procedure 2. Monitoring and dialogue depends on the size of the investment, equity IT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors monitor interest and the possibility of contacting the and engage in a dialogue with the companies in which Yes company directly. PFA’s dialogue with companies they invest, taking due account of the investment may, among other things, concern value creation, strategy and the principle of proportionality. corporate governance, strategy and corporate responsibility. PFA’s screening of companies is described on page 15. PFA’s policy allows PFA to: 3. Escalation • express its views at a general meeting IT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors as part of • hold meetings with the management the engagement policy determine how they may escalate Yes • cooperate with other investors their stewardship activities beyond regular monitoring • vote for or against proposals at general and dialogue. meetings • divest its position. PFA is, for instance through its IT membership of PRI and NEC, cooperating with other investors on 4. Collaboration with other investors active ownership. Read about PFA’s cooperative IT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors as part partners on page 15. The specification of the comof the engagement policy should describe how they will Yes panies in which a breach of PFA’s policy has been act collectively with other investors in order to achieve confirmed is published at pfa.dk. The specification greater effect and impact. also lists PFA’s cooperative partners with regard to the dialogue. 5. Voting policy PFA’s approach to voting at companies’ general IT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors as part meetings is described in the Policy for responsible of their engagement policy adopt a voting policy and are Yes investments. Learn more about voting on pages willing to publicly disclose whether and how they have 51-52. voted. It is PFA’s Responsible Investment Board which 6. Conflicts of interest assesses the progress in the dialogue with compaIT IS RECOMMENDED that the engagement policy contains Yes nies. Any conflicting interests among the emploa description of how conflicts of interest in relation to yees are covered by PFA’s guidelines for handling stewardship are identified and managed. conflicts of interest. 7. Reporting PFA reports annually on active ownership activitiIT IS RECOMMENDED that institutional investors at least es and results. See pages 14 and 50. Furthermore, Yes annually report on their stewardship activities, including PFA regularly updates its log of active ownership voting activity. dialogue at pfa.dk. PFA CR Report 2018 49 Responsible Climate & value creation human rights PFA’s Code Due diligence of Conduct Data for active ownership Responsible value creation Corporate responsibility Company screenings On behalf of PFA, Global Engagement Services (GES) is screening PFA’s investments and assesses the engagement dialogue with the companies. We also enter into our own engagement dialogues with a number of companies and are involved in ongoing dialogues with external managers on PFA’s policy on responsible investments. In 2018, 98 cases from PFA’s portfolio were evaluated by GES against 209 cases in 2017. The heavy decline in the number of cases with possible violation of PFA’s policy is, among other things, due to the work with reducing the number of companies in PFA’s total portfolio. Dialogue has been engaged with 51 companies which have either violated PFA’s policy or which have showed indications of a violation of PFA’s policy. This is 58 cases less than the year before. GES engagement dialogues broken down by cases 2018 2017 2016 Engagement dialogue with confirmed violation of PFA’s policy for 18 34 31 responsible investments Engagement dialogue with indications of violation of PFA’s policy for 33 75 60 responsible investments Total GES engagement dialogues broken down by cases 51 109 91 GES has closed 16 engagement dialogue cases with companies that fulfilled the audit criteria. However, in some cases, GES may still be in dialogue with the company on another case. GES engagement dialogues broken down by subjects Area Number Per cent of total Environment 11 22 Human rights 18 35 Labour rights 12 23 Corruption 10 20 Controversial weapons 0 0 Total 51 100 50 PFA CR Report 2018 Overview of PFA’s direct dialogue with companies 2018 2017 2016 Engagement dialogue with companies with confirmed violation of PFA’s 4 7 5 policy for responsible investments Engagement dialogue with companies with indications of violation of 9 6 8 PFA’s policy for responsible investments Total number of PFA’s direct engagement dialogue with companies 13 13 13 PFA has been in dialogue with Danske Bank, Shell, Total, Mærsk, Nestlé, JBS SA, Enbridge, Rio Tinto (2 cases), Nykredit, Macquarie, Freeport-McMoRan and Burberry. PFA has closed its dialogue with Freeport-McMoRan and Rio Tinto. The status of the dialogue with the companies is accessible at PFA’s log under active ownership at pfa.dk. Country screenings PFA makes its own screenings and analyses of investments in foreign government bonds. PFA’s country screening model is the basis of this work, and the assessment of countries is discussed by the RI Board. At the end of 2018, PFA invested in government bonds in 85 countries. The list of countries in which PFA has invested as well as a list of excluded countries are available at pfa.dk. Voting at companies’ general meetings In compliance with PFA’s guidelines for voting at companies’ general meetings, PFA gives priority to voting at Danish companies’ general meetings. As for general meetings of foreign companies, we cooperate with an external supplier, Manifest, which provides company-specific analyses. It is always PFA’s decision how to vote at a foreign company’s general meeting. During the year, we have evaluated the work with voting, including the number of foreign companies where we have given priority to voting at the general meeting. During 2018, PFA cast its vote at 21 general meetings of Danish companies. Foreign companies’ general meetings are analysed based on an observation list of companies with particular ESG-related issues that we already monitor. In 2018, invitations to 49 companies’ general meetings were analysed in order to assess whether any items on the agenda overlapped our focus on the company. The votings related to the subjects: management-related matters, human rights, labour rights as well as environment and climate. PFA voted at the following Danish companies’ general meetings: Danske Bank Jyske Bank Ørsted FL-Schmidt Lollands Bank Djurslands Bank Carlsberg DSV TDC Rockwool Pandora Tryg Lån & Spar Bank Novozymes Per Årsleff Vestas Wind Systems Novo Nordisk A. P. Møller-Mærsk NNIT Genmab Bavarian Nordic PFA CR Report 2018 51 PFA voted at the general meetings of the following foreign companies: 3M Company Inc. Groupe Danone Glencore plc Accenture plc Home Depot Inc. Siemens AG Aetna Inc. ING Groep NV State Street Alibaba Group Holding Ltd JPMorgan Chase & Co Synchrony Financial Allergan plc Koninklijke Philips NV Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Ally Financial Inc. LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE T-Mobile US Inc. Alphabet Inc. MasterCard Inc. Total SA Amazon.com, Inc. McDonald's Corp Unilever NV Apple Inc. Medtronic plc United Parcel Service Inc. Bayer AG Microsoft Corp Vodafone Group plc BP plc Nestlé SA Wells Fargo & Co British American Tobacco plc Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd WPP plc Chevron Corp Novartis AG Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc. Citigroup Inc. Pfizer Inc. ConocoPhillips Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CVS Health Corp Rio Tinto plc Exxon Mobil Corp Royal Dutch Shell plc GlaxoSmithKline plc S&P Global Inc. Exclusion In 2018, PFA excluded Larsen & Toubro, Bharat Electronics and United Technologies upon verification that they are involved in the production of nuclear weapons. At the same time, we decided not to enter into further cooperation with Macquarie as long as we are engaged in a critical dialogue with the bank group on its management and involvement in the dividend tax case. At pfa.dk, PFA publishes a list of the companies and countries in which we invest. A total exclusion list is also available. Dialogue and transparency on the work with responsible investments The priority of entering into a constructive dialogue on the work with responsible investments continued in 2018 at the same high level with various stakeholders. This contributed considerably to ensuring input for improvement of our processes and focus areas of responsible investments. PFA participated in dialogue with and as a speaker in connection with the following activities in 2018: • 8 bilateral meetings with the WWF, Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke (MS) – ActionAid and Ibis Oxfam • 3 meetings in Tax Dialogue • 5 debates on responsible investments at Folkemødet • 2 contributions to the debate on the Paris Agreement and the UN’s Global Goals for sustainable development respectively. 52 PFA CR Report 2018 Responsible corporate practice Whistleblower scheme in PFA The PFA Group has an overall whistleblower scheme, which is managed by Got Ethics A/S. The purpose of PFA’s whistleblower scheme is to provide employees, customers and business partners with the possibility of reacting – in a secure and confidential way – in any case of suspicion or knowledge about violation of legislation, fraud or other dishonest or unfair circumstances that conflicts with PFA’s policies and values. During 2018, PFA has prepared a new compulsory training programme for the PFA Group employees on how to use the whistleblower scheme. The purpose of the training programme is to heighten the knowledge of the scheme among the employees. Cases may be reported confidentially and anonymously to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and the Chief Compliance Officer or other members of the Group Audit Committee, who will examine the issues in further detail and report to the Board of Directors. In 2018, two cases where reported, which have been processed and completed. Prevention of corruption In 2018, we initiated an internal mapping of how the anti-corruption work is meant to be incorporated in various areas within PFA. The work will be continued in 2019. Furthermore, we have been working throughout 2018 with preventive measures against PFA being associated with corruption. This is an area on which we have been focusing particularly in relation to the companies in which investments are made. Please read more about this on page 50. PFA encourages all employees and external partners to report any improper business conduct. This reporting is possible through our whistleblower scheme. Money laundering, personal data and statutory requirements In 2018, PFA continued its focus on implementation of the changes in the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, MiFID II, the Insurance Distribution Directive, the General Data Protection Regulation and the first stage of the pension reform. Compliance with these statutory requirements presents a comprehensive process which implies considerable pressure on resources in PFA as it affects all employees with the Group and requires changes of business as well as working procedures and IT systems. In connection with the implementation of the new statutory requirements, we decided to optimise our processes and improve the customer experience. In addition to this, all employees of the PFA Group completed an e-learning course on prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and a course on protection of personal data. PFA CR Report 2018 53 Corporate responsibility Society Society PFA Brug Livet Fonden PFA student housing Think Tank Councils and networks to promote corporate responsibility PFA gives priority to participating in councils and networks for the purpose of exchanging knowledge and stepping up the work on corporate responsibility. Besides informal dialogues with a number of different players and stakeholders, PFA’s participation was as follows in 2018: • Member of the UN Global Compact • Member of Danish Green Building Council • Member of Dansif and Dansif’s board of directors • Member of the Danish Government’s think tank for a • Member of Global Compact Network Denmark good and long senior working life • Member of the organisation PRI • Member of Nordic Engagement Cooperation • Member of the SRI task force under Insurance & Pension • Member of Institutional Investors Group on Climate Denmark (IPD) Change • Member of the CSR network under the Danish Chamber • Participates in the project ‘Consider Copenhagen’ of Commerce • Member of ‘Velkommen Hjem’ • Member of Finance Denmark • Board member in Stockholm Environment Institute. Tax accounts for the PFA Group In 2018, PFA updated its tax policy in order for the policy to reflect PFA’s increasing focus on responsible tax practice in the investment area and generally. A similar paragraph has been included in the policy for responsible investments. The update must be viewed in the light of the considerable development in the tax area by means of more stringent measures against tax avoidance and rules to ensure increased transparency in the tax area. The tax policy goes beyond PFA’s role as an investor and also applies to PFA and PFA’s relationship with its business partners. This is why we have highlighted the tax policy in other situations as well, including in PFA’s dialogue with and advice to customers. The policy connects PFA’s practice in the area with PFA’s expectations of its business partners. With this policy, PFA wants to contribute to increased transparency in the tax area, which is why we have prepared a total statement of the taxes that we pay and collect each year. The statement forms part of the compliance with the PFA Group’s tax policy and describes a part of PFA’s contribution to society. Total taxes paid by PFA (DKK million) Paid by PFA 2018* 2017 2016 Corporation tax 0 10** 45** Payroll tax 131 139 126 Property tax 19 21 27 Non-life insurance tax 7 6 10 Other 1 4 9 Total 158 180** 217** * The figures are calculated as at 31 December 2018 and have been rounded off to the nearest whole figure. Changes to the figures will occur in connection with the final statement prior to the final report. ** Adjusted compared to previous announcement. 54 PFA CR Report 2018 Collected by PFA 2018* 2017 2016 Pension yield tax 841 3,861 3,379** Taxes according to the Danish Pension Taxation Act 616 618 607 Tax at source and labour market contribution (pensions) 4,546 4,319 4,052 Tax at source and labour market contribution (employees) 414 378 360 VAT 94 33 30 Total 6,511 9,209 8,428** * The figures are calculated as at 31 December 2018 and have been rounded off to the nearest whole figure. Changes to the figures will occur in connection with the final statement prior to the final report. ** Adjusted compared to previous announcement. Support for associations and voluntary work Throughout the year, PFA has cooperated with PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes to promote awareness of the causes and their activities. Furthermore, PFA has engaged the employees, who contributed by raising money to the foundation and increasing its visibility. Mentorship programme for war veterans Since January 2017, PFA has supported and cooperated with the organisation Velkommen Hjem. The cooperation began as PFA entered into four mentorships, and during 2018, further three mentors have volunteered. Thus, seven senior managers with PFA have accepted to make their competences and network available to selected returned veterans with the purpose of paving the way to a regular working life as a civilian, to education or to a continued career in Danish Defence. Besides supporting the individual veteran with identification of competences and networking options, this opportunity will also provide the mentors with the possibility of self-development as managers by meeting someone with a different work profile than PFA is used to. Altogether, PFA's mentors have helped nine veterans get a job/make a career change. For several PFA mentors, the mentorship has led to establishment of networks with other companies that are also supporting the organisation Velkommen Hjem. Partnerships regarding PFA Critical Illness PFA cooperates with the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish Heart Foundation, the Danish Stroke Association and the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society. The partnerships consist in PFA offering a one-year membership with one of the four organisations to customers who receive payouts from their critical illness insurance within one of the areas covered by the organisations. The purpose is to ensure that the customers are offered support and guidance from experts and patients’ associations. In 2018, 2,052 customers were offered a membership with one of the four organisations, and almost 7 per cent accepted. This is in line with 2017, when approximately 8 per cent accepted. The reason why the percentage is not higher is probably that we forward letters regarding rulings and settlements electronically to the customers’ e-Boks, compared to earlier when we forwarded these letters by ordinary mail. Democracy sponsor at Folkemødet For the fourth year in a row, PFA participated in Folkemødet in Bornholm with a view to raise central questions to the political Denmark in an informal manner. Based on PFA’s Think Tank – The New 3rd Age – 27 debates were held in PFA’s tent. We hosted 10 of the debates ourselves, and during the debates the thoughts and ideas from the Think Tank were put up for debate with focus on the transition from labour market to retirement, health, senior housing and technological development. In addition, we held debates on responsible investments. In our capacity as a responsible company of relevance to society, we want to discuss our positions on important subjects in society with politicians, business partners, customers, citizens and other stakeholders. This provides us with insights which we bring home from Bornholm and use in our product development etc. We also gave the scene to a selection of customers and to the PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes that, among other subjects, discussed pros and cons of including volunteers in social development work and in the social media culture of children and young adults. PFA’s media communication up to and during Folkemødet reached 10,565,955 readers, received a total PR score of +63 and achieved a message penetration of 87 per cent. We achieved a total social media reach of 394,000 (views) in connection with Folkemødet. PFA CR Report 2018 55 Outline of meeting activity at Folkemødet 2018 Meetings with Number Customers 29 Politicians 38 Public servants 13 Journalists 20 Organisations 44 NGOs 10 Other 3 Total 157 Contributions to political parties Through our dialogue with the political environment, we seek to stimulate the interest in and knowledge of relevant areas of material importance to the PFA Group and our customers. We do not contribute to political parties or individual candidates. Overall contribution to political parties during the last three years Year 2018 2017 2016 Amount DKK 0 DKK 0 DKK 0 Reputation During recent years, PFA has been working determinedly to consolidate its reputation with focus on the core values: professional, fair and accountable. This is also reflected in our approach to communication with customers, stakeholders and journalists. It has, among other things, led to a significant step-up when it comes to profiling substantial agendas where PFA, as a market-leading pension company, major investor, and with a customer portfolio of approximately 1.3 million individuals, wishes to be visible and contribute actively. This was a decisive factor when PFA received the award as the pension company and financial institution in Denmark with the best image in the 2018 rating carried out by Berlingske Business Guld Image. In the rating, we advanced as much as 17 positions from number 34 in 2017 to number 17 in 2018. A subject which attracted much mention in 2018 was the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age, which PFA is behind. In February, the Think Tank launched an important contribution to the public debate about the future Denmark and how we adjust our society best possible when allowing for the group of elderly and senior citizens which is going to increase markedly towards 2040. Throughout 2018, PFA has actively focused on stress and the impact that the digitalisation and mobile habits have on people in Denmark with reference to the overall health agenda. In the consumer economic area, we have been involved in important debates and issues related to the accumulation of pension savings and working life for people in Denmark. Also in the investment area, CR-related mentions are of increasing importance, and, in 2018, PFA played an important role in two of the most mentioned cases. Hereunder, the acquisition of TDC, where PFA was part of the consortium that acquired and delisted the company. With the acquisition, PFA wants to help develop and future-proof the Danish digital infrastructure. And, in connection with the money laundering case in Danske Bank, where PFA, as an active investor, clearly criticised the bank’s business conduct and played an active role in the replacement of the bank’s board of directors in order to help the bank get control of the situation and restore the customer confidence in Denmark. Finally, we have actively helped raise awareness of the UN Global Goals, and we have, among other things, taken part in the establishment of the Danish SDG Investment Fund. It is also worth mentioning that PFA brought 56 PFA CR Report 2018 focus to the green transition through its investment in two of the world’s biggest offshore wind farms, for example at the inauguration of Walney Extension Offshore Wind Farm in September. When considering media coverage only, 2018 showed notable progress in the number of mentions of PFA. Considering the media coverage for the four largest Danish commercial pension companies, PFA was behind 63 per cent of the total mentions according to Infomedia’s statistics. The media coverage has been predominantly positive with a very limited number of negative mentions. This has the effect that PFA’s PR score ranks in the top among the pension companies with most positive mentions. 2018 2017 2016 Mentions in the press 6,911 4,173 3,885 When it comes to corporate responsibility, media coverage mainly concerned subjects regarding the responsibility related to PFA’s investment of the customers’ savings. The subjects involved taxation, tobacco, environment and tax havens. PFA has taken an open and transparent approach, which means that we are contacted by many journalists. PFA Brug Livet Fonden was mentioned several times particularly in connection with the announcement of the causes of the year in December. W ­ hen the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age was established in January, PFA made an important contribution to public debate about the future of Denmark, and also challenged the notion of what it means to get older and having to retire from the labour market. This led to much media coverage and helped change the way in which we discuss what will define life as a senior and life in retirement in the future. We were also very engaged in the interplay issue which exists between public benefits and private pension plans. The problem implies that for many people in Denmark it will not be worthwhile saving up for retirement. PFA played a prominent part in the media in the efforts to make politicians create a more sustainable pension system. Prizes and awards PFA elected as best pension company in Berlingske Guld Image PFA was elected the pension company – and the company in the financial sector in general – with the best image. PFA advanced as much as 17 positions to number 17. This was a result of the study ‘Berlingske Guld Image’, which was carried out by the institute for opinion analysis IFO (Instituttet for Opinionsanalyse) and published in June. PFA maintains its top ranking within employee image For the second year in a row, PFA is No. 1 in an employee image survey conducted by FinansWatch and Wilke in the pension industry among 3,400 financial employees. This means that PFA was elected the most attractive place to be employed among the 10 largest pension companies in Denmark. PFA receives international honour for its alternative investments At the investment conference IPE Conference & Awards, which the leading European publication Investment & Pensions Europe is behind, PFA won the prize in December as the best company in the category Alternatives . PFA receives award for best digital customer solutions In April, PFA received an award for best digital customer solutions in the industry. The reason for the award is, among other things, PFA’s website, PFA’s social media approach, the personal page My PFA and PFA’s innovation­skills. The price is awarded by the Danish news media Finanswatch and the consultancy and analytics firm Wilke. Top performer in Infomedia’s CEO Superbrand 2018 analysis Allan Polack, PFA’s Group CEO, took the prize as top performer in Infomedia’s major media analysis, CEO Superbrands, in which he advanced from the position as No. 33 to No. 15. Infomedia amplifies that the progress is due to Allan Polack’s very prominent engagement in the public debate on subjects of relevance to pension. An engagement which has consolidated PFA’s brand. Report on IT inspection in PFA During the period August 2017 – September 2017, the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority (the Danish FSA) carried out an IT inspection in PFA. The report was published in April 2018. PFA CR Report 2018 57 According to the Danish FSA’s assessment, PFA focuses on control and minimisation of risks in the IT area and has, from a general perspective, demonstrated a high level of responsibility in a number of key areas within IT application. We have also implemented satisfactory management control in relation to IT operations and IT security. Over an extended period, we have been working on the establishment of reliable management of access control to PFA’s systems. The Danish FSA finds that PFA has demonstrated a general risk-based approach in the area and, furthermore, has established adequate administrative procedures and control of access to systems. However, the Danish FSA ordered that PFA further fortified part of its administration of internal access to PFA’s system­s. Also, the FSA ordered that PFA fortified its method for IT risk management including continued the implementation of the security measures that PFA presented to the Danish FSA. PFA’s green accounts for PFA’s office premises in Denmark1 CO2 emissions in PFA 2018 2017 2016 Total CO2 emissions (t) 1,503 1,894 1,604 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.12 1.46 1.26 CO2 emissions from electricity 2018 2017 2016 Electricity consumption kWh 1,665,067 1,979,658 2,040,301 CO2 consumption from electricity (t) 297 475 386* *The CO2 emissions decline in spite of a minor increase in the electricity consumption. This is due to a positive development in the fuel combination for one produced kWh of average electricity in Denmark. The number is published by Energinet and is included in the Carbon Calculator, which can be accessed on climatecompass.dk. CO2 emissions from district heating 2018 2017 2016 District heating consumption kWh 3,155,100 3,201,730 2,756,570 CO2 consumption from district heating 360 425 374 Paper consumption Paper (t) 2018 64 2017 62 2016 64 1. The total CO2 emission for 2018 cannot be compared to that of the preceding years. Learn more about this on page 44. 58 PFA CR Report 2018 CO2 emissions from cars Petrol-driven cars Number of cars Consumption in litres 2018 14 14,630 2017 1 5,127 2016 1 4,452 Diesel-driven cars Number of cars Consumption in litres 2018 101 130,066 2017 124 196,730 2016 130 179,803 Cars in total Number of cars CO2 (t) 2018 115 380 2017 125 544 2016 131 487 CO2 emissions derived from air travels Year Air travels Kilometres flown CO2 (t) 2018 866 660,391 131 2017 427 706,422 147 2016 993 567,293 62 CO2 consumption (t)* 2018 2017 2016 Electricity 297 475 386 District heating 360 425 374 Air travel 131 147 62 Petrol-driven cars 34 12 10 Diesel-driven cars 346 522 477 Paper and derivative effects 335 313 295 Total 1,503 1,894 1,604 *The figures have been calculated using the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. PFA CR Report 2018 59 Overview of CO2 emissions distributed on scope 1, 2 and 3 2018 Scope 1 380 CO2 (t) Scope 2 657 CO2 (t) Scope 3 466 CO2 (t) Total 1,503 CO2 (t) PFA leans against Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s method in which carbon reductions are calculated in scopes. Scope 1 = petrol and diesel consumption, Scope 2 = electricity and district heating consumption, Scope 3 = air travels, waste disposal and values deriving from Scope 1 and 2. Digitisation of documents 2018 2017 2016 Reduction due to letters sent through e-Boks 16,612 kg of paper 14,461 kg of paper 8,810 kg of paper Reduction due to letters available at the portal 506,038 kg of paper 683,783 kg of paper 403,980 kg of paper Total reduction in kilograms of paper 522,650 kg of paper 698,244 kg of paper 412,790 kg of paper Waste (t) 2018 2017 2016 Total waste1 223 232 2812 1) Waste includes the following types of waste: Waste deemed suitable for incineration, cardboard, paper, confidential paper, plastic film, iron and metal, food waste, glass, electronic waste and mixed waste to be sorted. 2) The increase is primarily due to an increase in the amount of building waste from major renovations in 2016. The amount in 2017 is back to 2015 level. 60 PFA CR Report 2018 Network & partnership Customers Corporate PFA responsibility Customers Customer Panel Customer trust PFA’s employees in different ways engage in daily dialogue with many customers about a wide range of subjects. The listing below is based on the dialogue and contact on specific subjects that are recorded by PFA. Customer enquiries and contact Phone calls to E-mails to PFA’s Phone calls to PFA’s Advisory Advisory Services PFA’s Health CenAdvisory services 1 Services Centre Centre tre2 Total 2018 69,642 226,973 NA 4 291,112 587,727 2017 70,016 229,112 89,311 256,229 644,668 2016 69,7373 208,618 68,121 271,140 617,616 1) The figures include customers who have received advisory services at a seminar, by phone, online and face-to-face pension consultations. 2) The figures include all calls from PFA’s customers to PFA Health Centre and Claims Centre and through Falck HealthCare. The figures are calculated according to a new method in 2017. Consequently, the figures for the other years have been adjusted. 3) The number of advisory activities is somewhat below the budgeted level, which is primarily due to a staff shortage of 6 FTE compared to the prescribed staffing. 4) In 2018, PFA’s Advisory Services Centre implemented a new e-mail system, and figures for 2018 cannot be retrieved. Settled complaints in the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Department broken down by outcome Outcome Partially in favour Rejected Accommodated Found in favour Lapsed (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) 2018 4 37 38 17 3 2017 4 46 27 14 3 2016 3 60 12 25 NA* *Registration of the category ’Lapsed’ was commenced in 2017 and refers to cases where the complainant drops the case. Enquiries and proactive Customer Representative cases Number Referred to of comFound in Partially in Complaints plaints Total Accommodated favour favour Rejected Pending Dept. Lapsed 2018 198 142 19 0 29 2 4 2 2017 138 81 9 2 31 1 8 6 2016 118 62 14 1 27 4 3 7 In 2014, PFA’s Customer Representative took up proactive case management. To provide an overview of the total number of cases, these have been included in the specification. The category ‘Lapsed’ comprises cases where the problem is solved during the normal process and the customer therefore says that no further action should be taken. PFA CR Report 2018 61 Engagement Employees Health Employees Corporate responsibility and working conditions Employee involvement Number of employees 2018 2017 2016 Number of employees, 1,337 1,296 1,276 (average number of full-time employees) Staff turnover in per cent 14.2 16.0 14.6 Seniority and age 2018 Seniority Age Men 7.3 43.7 Women 8.8 44.2 Employees (m/f) 8.1 44 Flex job employees 2018 2017 2016 Number of employees in flex jobs 8 9 9 Sickness absence 2018 2017 2016 Sickness absence (in per cent) 3.2 3.2 3.0 Occupational injuries 2018 2017 2016 Number of occupational injuries 8 7 6 PFA has a working environment organisation, whose purpose is to create a safe and healthy working environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA’s reports to the Danish Working Environment Authority. 62 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA engagement survey PFA engagement PFA engagement PFA engagement survey 2018 survey 2017 survey 2016 Employee engagement* 5.9 6.0 5.8 PFA compared to the financial and insurance 5.8 / 5.3 5.9 / 5.6 5.8 / 5.4 sector** Would recommend others to apply for a job with PFA 5.8 6.0 NA *PFA’s engagement survey ranges its scores on a scale of 1 to 7, where 7 is best. **PFA’s engagement survey is compared to Enalyzer’s sectoral benchmark of the Danish financial and insurance industry. In 2018, 19 out of the 31 questions in PFA’s employee engagement survey could be benchmarked against the industry, which is why only the score for these questions has been applied in the industry comparison. Number of women in management and on PFA’s customer boards 2018 2017 2016 PercenPercenPercenMen Women tage of Men Women tage of Men Women tage of women women women Level 1 13 4 24 15 4 34 14 4 22 Vice presidents Level 2 33 16 33 37 19 21 31 18 37 Senior managers Level 3 41 35 46 45 31 41 37 34 48 Other managers Total 87 55 39 97 54 36 82 56 41 PFA’s Executive Board • By year-end 2018, PFA’s Executive Board consists of four men. PFA’s Customer Board • PFA’s Customer Board comprises 77 members, of which 5 seats were vacant at the end of 2018 and 26 were occupied by women. This corresponds to a percentage of women of 34 per cent. PFA’s Senior Customer Board • PFA’s Senior Customer Board comprises 10 members, 5 of which are women. This corresponds to a percentage of women of 50 per cent. PFA CR Report 2018 63 PFA’s target figures and policy for gender distribution in boards of directors PFA’s latest update of target figures for the Board of Directors and the policy regarding the gender distribution in management was made in June 2017. The overall target for gender distribution within boards of directors with three members is 33.33/66.67 per cent; for boards of directors with four members the target is 25/75 per cent; and for boards of directors with more than four members the target is 40/60 per cent. The target for the gender distribution in management for PFA Holding and PFA Pension is 25/75 per cent. PFA Holding and PFA Pension’s Boards of Directors The Boards of Directors of PFA Holding and PFA Pension are identical. The Board of Directors consists of 14 members of which 3 are women. This is equivalent to a gender distribution of 21/79 per cent. PFA aims at a more equal distribution of men and women on the Board of Directors. PFA’s ownership structure and the resulting procedure for election of the members of PFA Holding’s Board of Directors only makes it possible to change the gender distribution gradually and over time. The process and the initiatives to reach the 2018 objective are described in the policy. As part of the work with targets and policy for the gender distribution in management, we can also point out nomination and election of board members with specific competences within areas identified by the board which can contribute to the efforts of translating PFA’s ambitions into reality. For the boards of directors of PFA Holding and PFA Pension, the target was not met at the end of 2018 as 21 per cent of the board, including board members elected by the employees, are represented by female board members. The reasons for the status on fulfilment of the target figure are stated above. Boards with 3 members For boards with three members, the target was met at the end of 2018 in the Group’s property companies as the gender distribution is 33.33/66.67 per cent in these companies. Boards with 4 members For boards with four members, which apply to the Board of Directors of PFA Bank, the target was met at the end of 2018 as the gender distribution is 25/75 per cent. Boards with more than four members For boards with more than four members, which apply to the Board of Directors of PFA Asset Management, the target was not met at the end of 2018 as the gender distribution is 0/100 per cent. In connection with a female board member’s exit from the board of directors of PFA Asset Management in 2017, the best qualified new candidate for the board was a man, which led to the present gender distribution of 100/0 per cent. Learn more about PFA’s targets and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender on boards and in managerial positions in PFA at pfa.dk. 64 PFA CR Report 2018 PFA CR Report 2018 65 SMILfonden SMILcamps Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes in 2018. Please read more about SMILcamps on page 29. BN6132 05.2019 PFA Pension Forsikringsaktieselskab CVR No.: 13 59 43 76 Sundkrogsgade 4 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel.: (+45) 39 17 50 00 pfa.dk
