Board Chairman’s Message “Guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, we will further implement the general requirements of Party building, accelerate the establishment of a globally competitive enterprise and contribute our best to realize the Two Centenary goals”. Li Qingkui, Board Chairman of CSG Looking back at Year 2017, under the decisive leadership of the CPC Central Committee with President Xi Jinping as the core, China Southern Power Grid has taken the unique a reduction of overall annual costs of electricity in the real macro economy through transmission and distribution tariff reforms, market-oriented transactions and tax and fee opportunity to deepen the study and implementation of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 19th CPC National reductions. Additionally, CSG continued, throughout Year 2017, to expand the scale of market-oriented transactions, the transaction volume in Guangdong accounted for 30.1% Congress. CSG actively fulfills its political, economic and social responsibilities, constantly pursuing the maximization of integrated economical, social and environmental values of the total electricity sold in the whole network. The Company also proactively promoted state-owned enterprise reform and completed the comprehensive system reform of 138 and strives, each day, to provide the best electric power support for sustainable and sound economic and social development throughout the five South China provinces. In Year subsidiary companies as well as advancing hybrid power market reforms in Shenzhen Qianhai (under a pilot program) and realized the practical operation of power supplies, 2017, the Company sold 890.2TWh of electricity, a year-on-year increase of 7.3% with a total revenue reaching RMB 494.6 billion, an increase of 4.5% and holds total assets market-oriented electricity sales and integrated power services. CSG has constantly deepened the reform of its institutions and systems and established a management and amounting to RMB 744.5 billion, an increase of 8%. In Year 2017, China Southern Power Grid was ranked 100th among Fortune 500 companies. control mode of headquarters focusing on planning, provincial companies focusing on businesses, local power supply bureaus focusing on strengthening power infrastructure, and competition-based companies focusing on dynamic development .CSG has made preliminary progress not only in power grid regulation, integrated energy and finance, The Company adheres to the principle of following the leadership of the Party and continuously enhances its implementation. It is a glorious tradition of statebut also in businesses located in countries along the Belt and Road and has continuously quickened the pace of transforming the entire organization into an integrated energy owned enterprises to adhere to the Party's overall leadership and strengthen Party building, which is also their root and soul . The Company has been firmly fostering the service corporation. four consciousness (consciousness of the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, uphold the leadership core, and keep in alignment) and four matters of confidence (confidence in China’s path, guiding theories, political system, and culture), decisively upholding the authority of the CPC Central Committee and its unified CSG has upheld green and low-carbon development and makes meaningful contributions to building a beautiful China. As a trusted and valued member of society, leadership while maintaining a high degree of ideological and political consistency with the Central Committee with President Xi Jinping as the core.For the past two years, the CSG realizes that clean water and lush mountains are invaluable natural assets, so as to continue to promote revolution in energy production and consumption which in Company has formulated the No. 1 document for CSG Party Committee to promote the effective implementation of key Party building tasks and to ensure that the Party's overall turn makes the sky bluer, the land greener and the water clearer. By implementing west-to-east power transmission strategies, CSG transmitted a record high 202.8TWh of leadership and Party building are always the fixed weather vane and ballast stone of our reform and development. The Company follows the concurrent establishment of power during Year 2017. In accordance with the trading model of plan + market , CSG used redundant power capabilities to carry out inter-provincial market transactions primary-level party organizations, business and administrative organizations with officials, systems and evaluation mechanism installed on both sides. CSG enhances the Party’s and improved the trading mechanisms for swapping hydropower and thermal power. Throughout Year 2017, the accumulated surplus of hydropower in Yunnan reached an role in corporate Party building, system, business and development and have fully completed the revision of articles on Party building and established the statutory footing of impressive 27.7TWh. The utilization rate of hydropower in Yunnan also reached 88%, exceeding targets set by the National Development and Reform Commission. In addition, Party organizations in the corporate governance structure.The Company has selected outstanding professional senior managers who have firm convictions, serve the people CSG vigorously promoted the deployment of clean energy and realized full consumption of new energy sources such as wind power, PV and nuclear power. In Year 2017, and date to take charge. These selected senior managers are diligent and pragmatic in government affairs. They are also honest and loyal to the Party. As a result, the “satisfaction non-fossil energy generation and installed capacities in the five South China provinces and regions accounted for 50.8% and 50.2% respectively, far surpassing the national and basic satisfaction rate”. The Company has persevered in putting disciplines and rules to the forefront and fights back against every corruption, taking appropriate steps averagelevel. CSG vigorously promoted electrification and deployed the development of 13 key fields such as electric boilers, shore-to-shore power, electric vehicles and others concerning any inappropriate official. As a market-leading organization, China Southern Power Grid has given full play to inspections and achieved positive results through four according to local conditions. The annual incremental power volume of electrification increased by 11.4 TWh. forms of discipline supervision and enforcement, including criticism, minor disciplinary penalties, severe punishment and demotion and possible legal and Party remedies which has discouraged, disabled and dispirited all forms of corruption. The company has followed the principle of shared benefits through consultations and common development and actively participated in the building of the Belt and Road Initiative. CSG has proactively served the Party and society by fully playing its part as an executive unit of the Chinese side in the Greater Mekong Subregion's The Company has adhered to the corporate mantra of best services for the people and has always been doing the utmost to meet people's ever-growing demands electricity cooperation and actively promoted grid interconnection with neighboring countries and electricity cooperation along the Belt and Road. CSG has achieved power for electricity for a better life. CSG has implemented the central government's strategy of stabilizing growth, restructuring and benefiting people's livelihood, focused on power grid interconnection with Vietnam, Laos, and Myanmar through 12 circuits of 110 kV and above. By the end of Year 2017, CSG’s electricity transaction reached a total of supply capacity upgrading, and completed a fixed asset investment of RMB 115.1 billion, a year-on-year increase of 12.6%. Some projects were placed into production ahead of (or 51.65TWh. The overall completion progress of Vinh Tan I Coal-Fired Power Plant BOT Project in Vietnam and of the Nam Tha 1 Hydropower Project in Laos were 90% and on) schedule such as the bipolar low-end and receiving-end supporting project of UHVDC transmission from power stations in northwest Yunnan to Guangdong; the expansion 94% respectively. These two projects were listed as key demonstration projects of the Belt and Road by the Chinese government. CSG also successfully acquired 27.8% of of Luxi back-to-back HVDC project; the first units of Hainan pumped storage project and Shenzhen pumped storage project. The Second Hainan Interconnection Project and Chilean stake owned by BIP in Transelec and 37% of Malaysian Edra Company's shares. The Company actively implemented the Belt and Road concept of justice and benefit other projects were also advanced of schedule. The macro electric grid structure became even stronger as the Company has invested RMB 34.1 billion in a new round of rural and vigorously promoted people-to-people connections. For example, a large number of local staff were recruited for overseas projects to support local economic and social grid upgrading to support rural rejuvenation. CSG has worked tirelessly in its participation in targeted poverty alleviation tasks as the Company has approved an investment of development. We paid special attention to resident resettlement, carried out charitable activities and aid relief and worked tirelessly to present a positive image for Chinese RMB 40.2 billion for poverty alleviation activities and an additional RMB350 million in fixed-point poverty alleviation, which directly assisted 280 poor villages and lifted 179,000 enterprises at large. CSG placed great emphasis on conducting people-to-people and cultural exchanges. Since Year 2010, 67 college undergraduates have been trained for people out of poverty. CSG has also successfully dealt with severe challenges presented by natural disasters, including typhoons Hato , Pakhar and Mawar by fully restoring Laos, Myanmar, Vietnam and Cambodia, and 10 post-graduate students have been trained for Cambodia. Senior managers attended the 7th Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao power supplies to impacted areas and providing streamlined power supplies to Macao in record time. These and other timely responses earned the praise of Party committees Power Industry Summit, the 4th Power Utility Summit and the 2nd CSG-KPX-TEPCO Summit which helped expand the Company’s circle of good friends and elevated its and government at all levels and all walks of life. Likewise, the level of electric power services was continuously improved throughout Year 2017. The coverage of smart meters in influence throughout the international community. the entire network reached 93% and the coverage of low-voltage meter reading was 73%. The reliability of power supply was also further improved. The average power outage time (low pressure) was 20.08 hours, a decrease of 10%. The average power outage time in downtown areas was 2.14 hours, a reduction of 21.3%. In Year 2017, CSC's thirdYear 2018 will mark the first year for profoundly implementing Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 19th CPC National party customer satisfaction reached 81/100. CSG has also earned first place accolades in public satisfaction evaluation of local public services. Congress,marking the 40th Anniversary of China's reform and opening up to the international community. It is a crucial year for securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and for continuing to implement the 13th Five-Year Plan. The Company pledges to unite more closely around CPC Central Committee CSG has adhered to the direction of socialist market economy reform and given full play a responsible role as an important pilot company of reform. Focusing on with President Xi Jinping as the core, and to hold high the banner of Xi Jinping's socialist ideology with Chinese characteristics in the new era to meet the people's growing supply-side structural reforms, CSG unswervingly promotes the performance of important duties such as power system and state-owned enterprise reforms. In Year 2017, CSG needs for a better life as the starting point and ultimate goal. CSG pledges to meet the challenges of this exciting new era, promote high-quality development and accelerate completed full coverage of transmission and distribution price reforms in the provincial power grids and orderly promoted inter-provincial and inter-regional transmission tariff the establishment of a globally competitive, world-class business enterprise, so as to contribute our best to fight for a great victory in this new era of socialism with Chinese verification, which provided references for national power transmission and distribution tariff reform at large. The Company also actively released reform bonuses and witnessed characteristics! *OUSPEVDUJPO This Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 focuses on the concepts, initiatives, ongoing business practices and performances of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd., as it fulfilled its social responsibilities throughout Year 2017. It is our fervent prayer that you will appreciate our sincerity and, as always, understand and support the Company’s ongoing reform and development activities. This CSR Report follows the preparatory processes recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative's Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4). The Company has invited internal and external stakeholders to join in the formulation of this annual Report, listened to their expectations and appeals, evaluated material topics and finalized all issues concerning the sustainable development of China Southern Power Grid, which will be disclosed in this Report. Listening Evaluation Report China Southern Power Grid maintains constant contact with its key Based on China Southern Power Grid Corporation's Social Responsibility This year's Corporate Social Responsibility Report is presented in four main chapters: Overview, Main Body, Management and Performance Evaluation. stakeholders and adheres to the principle of inviting in and going out . Index System (CSG-CSR 2.0) and feedback from stakeholders, the ComThe Main Body section is being offered in four major sub-sections: power supply, environmental protection, operating efficiency and social harmony. Senior managers from the Company learned of the priorities of varied pany has selected 52 issues from its internal information bank and Additional material topics are disclosed in additional chapters of this Report. stakeholders through various platforms such as expert reviews, key conducted a first-time, questionnaire-based survey on Weibo, China's customer discussions and information summits. “Twitter-like” platform. Through in-depth and follow-up analysis, screening and evaluation, material topics have been identified and have been followed closely by the Company’ s talented senior management team with their inclusive statements becoming part of this annual Report. Overview 06-09 About Us 10-17 Spotlight Stakeholders Involved Identification of Material Topics Power Supplies 18-37 Environmental Protection 38-51 In order to deliver a sound Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017, the Company conducted real-time communication with customers, government departments, regulatory agencies, industry associations, partners, non-governmental organizations and experts on social responsibility. High 1.000 Identification of key issues These senior leaders held informal discussions with functional departments within the China Southern Power Grid corporate organization at its head0.900 19 6 25 quarters in Guangzhou and those at the “grassroots” levels throughout 44 0.800 27 Southern China in order to absorb and understand customer expectations 50 1 2 40 48 and appeals. CSG is dedicated to the needs of its key stakeholders and will 0.700 31 Main Body 12 respond to the each concern as outlined within this annual review. 24 9 45 K 52 15 43 0.600 37 49 e 22 30 10 28 Operating Efficiency 52-65 Social Harmony 66-77 y 33 3 C 0.500 S 8 38 35 46 G 23 5 D 41 29 0.400 7 42 e 11 v 20 47 14 e 32 17 39 36 Employees 0.300 34 l Government o 16 Regular meetings p 13 26 Daily reports Regular training 0.200 m 51 and communication Daily communication 18 e 4 n 21 t 0.100 Client 0.000 Partners Information 0.000 0.100 0.200 0.300 0.400 0.500 0.600 0.700 0.800 0.900 1.000 Project cooperation disclosure Meetings Low Hotline and activities Daily communication Stakeholder management High Customer survey Responsible Management Identification of Key Issues 78-81 82 Outlook 2018 Social Activities Implementing Management Surroundings Activities for public 1 Improving power quality 19 Consumption of 43 the Belt and Road Initiative Information goods hydropower in disclosure on Volunteer service Yunnan Province environment issues Information Expediting disclosure 2 Enhancing emergency 24 Supporting new 44 development in the Forum and exchange activities capabilities energy development Guangdong-Hong KongMacao Greater Bay Area 83-84 Ratings and 85-86 Report Benchmarking 6 Optimizing procedures and improving efficiency 25 Addressing climate change 45 Improving employees' sense of Performance Evaluations fullfillment Evaluation 9 Managing safety challenges 27 Comprehensive energy services 48 Implementing targeted poverty alleviation 87 About this Report 88-91 Key performance since the 18th CPC National Congress 12 Transformation and 33 Promoting 49 Building a beautiful application of anti-corruption countryside technological achievements and enhancing integrity 2017 CSR Report Overview 2017 CSR Report Overview About Us China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd., (i.e. CSG) was Corporate Corporate established at the end of Year 2002. The Company is CSG Spirit Development Strategy Service Philosophy Team Principle Purposes Philosophy under the management of Central Government and the Best Service for Integrity Service Ready for Change, Innovation and Building CSG into a World-leading Power Grid Company Customer-oriented, Harmonious Being Loyal to the Company and Nation while State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration the People Harmony Innovation Contribution Featuring Sophisticated Management, Fine Service, and Mutually Beneficial taking Peronal Ownership in Buildig a Better Commission of the State Council fulfills the responsibility Outstanding Performance and Excellent Brand. CSG as its primary investor. CSG constructs and operates power networks throughout Guangdong, Guangxi, CSG Image Our Mission Corporate Vision Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan, with a total service area spanning one million square kilometers and a population CSG Lights up Providing Safe, Reliable Building a Safe, Reliable, Green and Safety Principle Business Philosophy Philosophy of the Rule of Law Behavior concept base of more than 252 million people and 84.9 million Every Household Electricity to Boost Efficient Smart Grid and Becoming a Every Incident is To Create Value and Innovate To Raise Awareness of and Abide by the Be Honest Observe the households. in Southern China Economic Development Well Respected Enterprise in Power Preventable Development Law Rules Grid Development Business ecology map Power consumption Power distribution Transmission Power generation 兰䢴 㼭⼓ Power transformation CSG works with key stakeholders, including Economic Values Social Values Environmental Values government, customers, partners, employees, the Provide continuous, year-round electricity services which sells 890.2 TWh. Provide quality electricity services to more than 252 million people in its designated power Encourage non-fossil energy power generation with installed capacity of environment, communities and other stakeholders supply areas of southern China. non-fossil energy accounting for 50.2% of of its total instlled capacity to create an ecosystem that covers the upstream Provide electric support for economic and social development with per kWh of electricity … which in turn produces and downstream of the industrial chain as all RMB13.64 of GDP. Provide impetus to the development of rural areas as well as agriculture with an investment Carry out energy-saving power generation dispatch with 142.5g standard of RMB 34.1 billion. coal/kWh consumed for per unit electricity generation and dissemination. shareholders strive to maximize their participation Pay appropriate taxes and operate its business in accordance with the law while realizing profits and taxes of RMB in and integrated value of the economy, society and 49.5 billion. CSG is dedicated to public welfare and charities as dedicated nearly 180,000 hours in Reduce operational losses with 6.52% of overall line losses. voluntary service throughout Year 2017. the environment. China Southern Power Grid ensures the maintenance and appreciation of state-owned assets' value and has earned a Class A rating by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Carry out targeted poverty alleviation efforts and directly assisted lifting 179,000 citizens Provide energy-saving services to aid business and residential customers Council (SASAC) for its exceptional performance for 11 consecutive years. out of poverty. that in Year 2017 saved more than 1.21 TWh. 6 7 2017 CSR Report Overview 2017 CSR Report Overview Management Team Corporate Governance China Southern Power Grid is a state-owned “backbone” company and in accordance with Company law and the requirements of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC), CSG has established a modern corporate governance structure consisting of a board of directors, Board of Supervisors and operational senior management team. Focusing on the development strategy of building a market leading power grid and corporate structure that excels in management, service, performance and corporate image and the development goal of 185611 , the senior management team at CSG has defined its rights, responsibilities and decision-making procedures at all levels and departments in order to ensure that laws, regulations and efficient operations are implemented and realize the maintenance and substantial appreciation of state-owned assets. These and other actions work in tandem to create and improve the Company’s corporate governance structure and with an established board of directors and board of supervisors in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan Power Grid Co., Ltd., and Guangzhou, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co., Ltd., all work together to improve the Company-wide decision-making processes. Organization Chart Based in Guangzhou, CSG Headquarters has 22 functional departments and controls two affiliated units, three branch companies, 14 wholly-owned subsidiaries and six holding subsidiaries. Li Qingkui Cao Zhi'an Board Chairman Board Director, President Board of Board of Directors Supervisors Management Assistant President ( Chief Counsel), Chief Safety Officer (Chief Engineer), Team Chief Information Engineer, Deputy Chief Engineer, Deputy Chief Economist, Head of Inspection Team and Deputy Head of Discipline Inspection Team. (Party Committee Office, Office of Board of Directors) Office for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms (Direct-Affiliated Office of Party Committee of CSG) CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center Safety Supervision Department (Rural Power Grid Management Department) Industry Investment Department Organization and Personnel Department Human Resources Department (Shared with the Office of the Discipline Public Relations Department Planning and Development (Emergency Command Center) Infrastructure Department International Cooperation Technology Department Corporate Management Information Department Operational Technology (Policy Research Office) Finance Department Marketing Department Materials Department Auditing Department Legal Department Supervisory Bureau General Office Trade Union (shared with the Office of the Department Department Department Department Inspection Commission) System Operation Department) Shi Zhengjiang Bi Yaxiong Wen Limin He Xiqiang Vice President Vice President Chief Accountant Vice President Affiliated Units Branch Companies Holding subsidiaries EHV Power Transmission CSG Overseas Development CSG Electric Power Research CSG Southern Power Grid Energy Dinghe Property Insurance Guangzhou Power Trading (Party School, Executive School) Education, Training and CSG Finance Co., Ltd. CSG Media Co., Ltd. Logistics Affairs Annuity Center Efficiency & Clean Energy Co., Ltd. Center Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Institute Co., Ltd. Company Co., Ltd. Evaluation Center Management Center Wholly-owned subsidiaries Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. Yunnan Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guizhou Power Grid Co., Ltd. CSG Power Generation Co., Ltd. (CSG International (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.) CSG Capital Holdings Co., Ltd. Hainan Power Grid Co., Ltd. CSG International Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Power Dingxin Information and CSG Energy Development CSG Materials Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Power Supply South Dingyuan Assets Yang Zhihong Jiang Yi Chen Yunpeng Head of the Discipline Vice President Vice President Supply Bureau Co., Ltd. Technology Co., Ltd. Operation Co., Ltd. Bureau Co., Ltd. Research Institute Co., Ltd. Inspection Commission of the Party Committee 8 9 2017 CSR Report Overview 2017 CSR Report Overview Taking the construction of the Greater Bay Area as a major cornerstone, all Company business areas are working as one with their Spotlight Bright Lights Warm Bay Area counterparts in Hong Kong and Macao to accelerate the pace in building a world leading Bay Area and world-class city cluster. Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee and President of China and Chairman of the Central Military Commission In Year 2017, China explicitly proposed promoting deeper cooperation between the Chinese Mainland and Hong Kong and Macao and formulated development plans for a new city cluster, to be named the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, thus taking the unique advantages of Hong Kong and Macao and strengthening their roles and functions in China's economic development and opening-up to the international community. Improving the reliability of power Facilitating the construction of key Deepening Power Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Cooperation supply in the Greater Bay Area projects in the Greater Bay Area With the support of the central authorities, Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao have improved their cooperation mechanisms on innovation to achieve China Southern Power Grid takes advantage of its unique geographical location and long-term cooperative relations in Hong Kong and Macao to mutual benefits and significant win-win cooperation and are committed to building the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area into even more With its focus on customers' needs, CSG has continuously CSG accelerates the integration of new technologies, new methstrengthen the interconnection of power trading in the Greater Bay Area, ensuring the reliable 24/7 power supplies of Hong Kong and Macao SAR vibrant economic zone and a quality place for life, work and entertainment … and a demonstration zone for the in-depth cooperation of Mainland-Hong consolidated the building of power grid, improved power outage ods and traditional services and actively participates in key and takes proactive action to promote the long-term prosperity and stable development of Hong Kong and Macao SAR. Kong-Macao which will aid in forming a world-class Bay Area and city cluster. management to systematically reduce outage time and improve construction projects of the city cluster within the reliability of power supply for city clusters in the Greater Bay the Greater Bay Area. Area. The Guangdong-Hong Kong Power Cooperation. China Sou Southern Power Grid resolutely implements the central policies Guangzhou to push foforward the substantial opportunities of developing GuangZhaoqing Since Year 2013, a In the two decades since Hong Kong's return to the motherdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. The Company is dedicattotal of 57.181 TWh land, CSG has connected Hong Kong power grids through Huizhou ed to build building a community of shared future for power enterprises in The Greater Bay Area wins its has been delivered four 400 kilovolt lines and seven 132 kilovolt lines. Relying Dongguan this area a and building the Greater Bay Area into a world-class city first four places in the reliability of to Hong Kong. on advanced power supply equipment, technology and exceptional management, CSG is focused on developing cluster fea featuring sustainable development, green environments and power supplies social harm harmony. long-term safe and reliable power supplies to Hong Kong, helping this important region enjoy political stability and Zhongshan Shenzhen economic prosperity. Zhuhai Power Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau No. 1 Supply Bureau No. 2 Hong Kong Jiangmen The Guangdong-Macao Power Cooperation Guangzhou Power Zhongshan Power Zhuhai Supply Bureau No. 3 Supply Bureau No. 4 Macao Since Year 2013, a Connected to Macao through six 220 kV lines and three total of 19.88 TWh 110 kV lines (hot spares), CSG signed supplemental agreehas been delivered ments to provide long-term power supplies to Macao which Mr. Li Qingkui, Board Chairman of CSG, attended the 7th Guangdong-Hong to Macao. in turn will expand the scale of Macao's power transmission Kong-Macao Power Industry Summit and delivered his remarks. and the ratio of clean energy transmission, in a bid to meet power demands of Macao’ s economic and social development. Making electricity an “engine for economic change” within the Smart distribution automation facilitates a world-leading free trade zone. CSG has adopted the 20 kV double-link “backbone” grid China Southern Power Grid supports the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge power project. The Company is fully invested in the 110 Greater Bay Area operation structure a market leading product and first of its kind in kV artificial island power transmission project and is primarily China and relay automation design in grid construction of the responsible for the power supply of this artificial island and the Boosting regional development The Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area city cluster is one of the most economically dynamic regions in China. As it transforms itself Hengqin Free Trade Zone. Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge project to meet the power into an integrated energy service provider and serving the construction of the Greater Bay Area with market-leading standards, CSG has adopted a demands in this area, providing strong electricity support for the With its focus on the Greater Bay Area, CSG has promoted the coordinated development among the eastern, western and northern parts of scientific grid planning structure and provides exceptional services to help build the city cluster of the Greater Bay Area into a world-class innovation integrated transportation system and highway network in GuangGuangdong, Yunnan, Guangxi and Guizhou fueled by West-East power transmission and by providing power support for industrial planning. center and a new “engine” for global economic growth. dong, Hong Kong and Macao. Improving the power quality in the Greater Bay Area Guangdong Guangxi A world-class city cluster cannot be built and maintained without steady and reliable electrical power support. High-end manufacturing and high-tech As the pioneer of power business, CSG has offered its support to the The senior management team of China Southern Power Grid is dedicated enterprises are gathered in the Greater Bay Area and CSG thus sets its customer needs as its working foundation, focusing on salient problems while interactive development between the eastern, western and northern parts of to helping Guangxi solve their challenges of imbalanced and inadequate continuing to improve power quality and provide reliable electricity to a large number of manufacturing and high-tech clients. Guangdong and the Pearl River Delta region, and to the development of urban and rural power services, a successful conclusion of which China (Guangdong) Pilot Free Trade Zone. Meanwhile, we have promoted promotes a sustainable economic and social development to improve By strengthening its foundation through technical prowess, CSG Value-added service. Focusing on customers' need, CSG offers power planning and power building in Shenzhen-Shantou Special Cooperapeople's livelihood. focuses on voltage “sags” and other power quality issues, studying consumers comprehensive value-added power supply choices as tion Zone and Guangdong-Guangxi Cooperation Pilot Zone, so as to provide better and more efficient services for regional cooperation. improvement techniques for voltage eligibility rates while conductit continues to transform low-voltage areas. The company also ing comprehensive evaluations of power quality and research on carries out power quality diagnosis and management. Yunnan power supply technologies. The Company gives full play to the role of seeing the Kunming Power Guizhou Trading Center serving as a platform to improve the trading rules and Extended reading: The Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area refers to the city cluster formed by nine cities including: enrich the trading varieties. CSG makes significant contributions to the CSG has shifted the source of power generation from thermal power in Guangzhou,Shenzhen,Foshan,Dongguan,Huizhou (excluding Longmen),Zhongshan,Zhuhai,Jiangmen,Zhaoqing (urban area and Sihui City) formation of an “all-win” cycle of Yunnan's electricity market by consumGuizhou to hydropower in Yunnan, and fully tapped the potential of and,Two special administrative regions Hong Kong and Macao ing Yunnan-created hydropower. West-East transmission and the its underlying market. These measures have facilitated the generation and consumption of clean energy in This area is one of the four largest bay areas in the world alongside the New York City Bay Area; the San Francisco Bay Area and the Tokyo Bay This in turn, further aids the economic and social development of Yunnan western China. Province. Area. Night scene of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge These large metropolitan markets are an important region for China to build a world-class city cluster and participate in global competition. 10 11 12 2017 CSR Report Overview 2017 CSR Report Overview West-to-East Power Transmission Helps Green Development in Greater Bay Area Working together to build a thriving Greater Bay Area Securing power supply in Macao As a platform for regional resource optimization and deployment, the Company transported clean energy from the west to the Greater Bay Area China Southern Power Grid ensures the safe and stable operation of the power grid, providing green and intelligent integrated energy services to On August 23, 2017, a strong typhoon named “Hato struck the Pearl River through the West-to-East power transmission channel to continuously improve the energy distribution in this area and contributed to the green millions of business and residential customers and plays a vigorous leadership role in the construction of a world-class, livable and affluent city Estuary, causing substantial damage to various parts in Guangdong-Hong “Traffic in Macao has been largely resumed, but development of the city cluster in Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. cluster in the thriving Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. some parking lots were still waterlogged. Some of the generators provided by CSG were used for Delivering clean power to the Greater Bay Area Power sent by CSG from the west to the east (Unit: 0.1 TWh) The destruction caused by Typhoon Hato caused power outages in the Macao pumping water and supplying power in the three in 10 years peninsula and the outlying islands. Thousands were evacuated, flights larger parking lots, which greatly eased the traffic In the 15 years since its establishment, CSG has been committed to strengthenIndustry Food cancelled and schools closed after the storm triggered Hong Kong and pressure in Macao” . ing the construction of the West-to-East power transmission channel. 2028 Macao’ s most severe warning, indirectly impacting the water supply system 2000 1953 1891 To provide customers with value-added technical services such CSG leads China’ s “green revolution” in the catering industry and wireless network in many buildings and residential homes. Deputy Commissioner of DSAT-Zheng Yuewei and The Company transports clean hydropower resources from the west to the 1723 as power quality inspection, assessment and management, so as and promotes an entire “electric kitchen concept” into restaurants, Jia Jinglong to comprehensively improve the power quality for customers and school canteens and other venues to popularize a green lifestyle. China Southern Power Grid organized more than 5,500 staff to repair downed Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area to achieve a balanced 1500 1314 drive the development of high-tech industries in the Greater Bay power lines in Zhuhai and after more than 10 hours work in fierce wind and resource utilization among regions and significantly reduce fossil energy use. 1243 1156 1117 Area. rain and in pitch darkness CSG personnel successfully connected two 220 1057 969 1000 kV lines at Guozhu at 9:00 a.m. on August 24 to fully restore the power During Year 2017, the ± 800 kV Northwest Yunnan UHVDC transmission project In Year 2017, the Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau held a services to Macao. The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau has completed the has developed substantial transmission capacity, with a new additional 2.5 GW Green Earth for the Future salon using the theme of a largest city power quality monitoring system in China, building of new cloud power transmission capacity. When this project reaches full opera500 “green kitchen” … inviting nearly 30 corporate representatives (and placed on line) three technical support platforms for tion, it will be able to deliver clean energy to nearly 20 TWh annually to Guangto enhance their understanding of the energy-saving impact of power quality which provides customers with a greater level of dong Province. electromagnetic kitchen utensils and the charm of bringing the 0 power supply system reliability and power quality evaluation “green kitchen” to the modern home. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) services. To date, CSG has formed 18 large-scale channels for West-to-East power transmission with a maximum transmission capacity of 47.5 GW, providing clean energy in support of the economic development of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Employees from Guangdong Power Grid Company braved the rain to repair the power lines Accommodation Transportation China Southern Power Grid is a true pioneer in the construction In the Pearl River Delta region, the Company promoted the interof smart, green and low-carbon communities while promoting connection of rapidly charging networks with emphasis on the On the morning of August 27, At 13:00, CSG urgently assemAt Noon on August 28, CCHP system in new home fabrication to reduce household construction of electric vehicle charging stations as well as port Macao authorities made a request bled 53 emergency generators to relief material arrived in energy consumption. and shore-to-ship power projects in ports such as Zhuhai and for 50 emergency generators. aid Macao. Macao. Nansha. In Year 2017, the Foshan Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd., carried out an automatic collection The Guangdong Power Grid Company's Dongguan Power of electricity, water and gas consumption data for 376 Supply Bureau built 16 charging facilities at varied locations, And at 22:00, CSG aid workers At 15:00 on the 28th, the Guanzha By 11 a.m., the working group sent by residents in the Baoli Zishan Green Garden District and including the Sports Park in Chang'an Town and Wanjiang conducted immediate technical underground bus terminal was flooded CSG arrived at the Macao Inspecting provided comprehensive services of supplying various types Bus Station. These facilities spanned 16 towns and streets in assistance on the streets of Macao. and the working group of CSG offered Vehicle Center and conducted a techof energy, intelligent use of electricity and data value analysis. Dongguan City, as well as the last mile for electric vehicle its professional advice on getting the nology transfer. charging. generator operation back on line. The upper reservoir of Huizhou Pumped Storage Power Station 13 14 15 2017 CSR Report Overview 2017 CSR Report Overview An established technical foundation comes innoSpotlight vation-driven development Development is one of the top priorities with individual staff talent serving as a primary resource and scientific innovation as a key driving force. Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee and President of China and Chairman of the Central Military Commission In the front lines of reform and openning-up to the international community, China Southern Power Grid regards innovation as one of the most important driving forces for development and the numerous benefits derived from innovation-driven development to build a technological innovation system that is in line with international standards. Enhancing innovation foundation Supporting employees in innovation The Company also focuses on launching cutting-edge technologies in the grid field with centralized innovation to cultivate core competitiveness and technological innovations to build an innovative enterprise business. Throughout Year 2017, CSG scientists and staff continued to CSG has further promoted employee scientific innovation and optimize the Company’ s internal technology management built a platform for employee innovation as these employee National Awards system by increasing investments in science and technology and pushing forward true scientific and technological research and innovation projects have obtained 1,100 national patent licensing on the basis of which two established national demonstration development. studios which have motivated nearly 40,000 people to participate in innovation projects. Outstanding Winner of National Second Prize of National Award for CSG optimized the evaluation system of scientific and technoAward for Scientific and Technological Science and Technology Progress logical innovation and encouraged its affiliated units to A special fund of RMB CSG gave its support to 2,013 Progress increase investments in scientific research and development 89.16 million was invested technology innovation projects Ultra-large AC and DC Power Grid and accelerate the commercialization of research outcomes. in employee innovation developed by its employees. Academician, Li Licheng, as the Technology Innovation and Its projects. person-in-charge, worked closely CSG promoted the construction of the National Key Laboratory Application in National West-to-East with the State Grid Corporation of of DC transmission enterprises and completed the construction Power Transmission China and the UHV ± 800 kV DC of R&D and technology exchange platforms which lay the Transmission Project foundation for R&D. Strengthening transformation of CSG shared its key laboratories and scientific discoveries research results while promoting joint construction of laboratories between universities and enterprises and worked with Northeast Electric In-house scientists at CSG have earned a number of internationally Power University to construct a wind proof, ice proof power grid advanced achievements, patents and standards with independent UHV ±800 kV DC Transmission Project laboratory on the green island. intellectual property rights. China Southern Power Grid continued to increase its corporate By Year 2017, CSG held more than 10,000 valid patents that were UHV ±800 kV DC transmission is the most successfully applied technologies, created 37 world “firsts” and significantly promoted investment in science and technology projects which accountsuccessfully used in power grid construction and dispatch electric power transmission technique in the world, featuring the the development and international influence of China's electric ed for 1.54% of overall revenue with 1.65 billion yuan set aside operations, which in turn ensures the safe and stable operation of highest voltage, largest capacity and longest economic transmisengineering discipline and electric power industry. for science and technology projects. large power grids. sion. Since the launch of the ±800 kV UHV DC transmission technology It represents the preeminent technology for international high and engineering application research in Year 2006, CSG has voltage, large capacity, long distance and cost-effective power continuously invested in individual staff and management talents transmission and is a key technology for large-scale cross-regionand material resources to take a leadership stance in completing a Talent Development al energy optimization throughout China. series of technical research and development, standard formulation and results application tests. CSG focuses on national strategic needs and takes the initiative Promoting the application of artificial intelligence By the end of 2017, CSG project completed 141 studies on key to undertake major national science and technology projects and draws upon top technology talents at home and abroad so the Company can discover and take practical use of staff and senior With scientific and technological advancement, CSG has made CSG completed a feasibility demonstration of the higher-level voltage management talents. efforts to build itself into a digital and smart grid company. Making requirements of the grid and completed a technical development of the UHV ±800 full use of cloud computing, big data, Internet of Things, mobile kV DC transmission project. Internet, and smart city, CSG has upgraded its power supply High-caliber scientific services, with the core technological competence of AI as its basis, Scientists from CSG guided the R&D of UHV DC equipment, led the final and technological talents and Internet + AI as its fuel. By the end of 2017, many AI technolinstallation of the equipment and honed its technological specifications while 2 ogies have been applied to transmission line operation and mainteresolving many technical challenges. The Chinese Academy of Engineering nance, instrument check, and customer service. CSG launched the standard formulation of the ±800 kV UHV DC transmission, which formed the first standard system of UHV DC design and equipment in the 4 world, promoted the internationalization of standards and raised China's “power The national “Thousand Talents Program” of discourse” in the field of international UHV and DC standards. 1 The world's first demonstration project the ±800 kV Yunnan to Guangdong UHVDC power transmission was built and placed on-line and in doing so, The State Class Persons of National Talents Engineering created a myriad of technical challenges such as system integration, project 76 Spitfire drones: Instrument calibraTunnel inspection Intelligent operation design and construction and debugging. Cleanning suspention robot: Improving robots: Monitoring robots in transformer Specialists who enjoy the State Council Special Allowance sion on high voltage the overall operating underground tunnel station: Automatically Trial operations were overcome which is moving the project toward achieving lines, which relieved efficiency and conditions in real completing 10kV long-term safe operation and full-load power transmission. 19 staff from having to accuracy of the time and improving emergency switchclimb transmission electricity meter. efficiency of long-dising-off The sending end of ±800 kV Yunnan Northwest DC ProjectXinsong Company-level technical experts towers to maintain tance operation, convertor station, DC field power lines. maintenance and inspection. 16 17 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Answering the Party Central Committee's Call We must ensure the principal status of the people, and adhere to the Party’ s commitment to serving the public good and exercising power in the interests of the people. We must observe the Party’ s fundamental purpose of wholeheartedly serving the people, and put into practice the Party’ s mass line in all aspects of governance. We must regard as our goal the people’ s 1PXFS4VQQMJFT aspirations to live a better life, and rely on the people to move history forward. We will promote safe development, and raise public awareness that life matters most and that safety comes first; we will improve the public safety system and the responsibility system for workplace safety; we will take resolute measures to prevent serious and major accidents, and build up our capacity for disaster prevention, mitigation, and relief. We should aim for the frontiers of science and technology, strengthen basic research, and make major breakthroughs in pioneering basic research and groundbreaking and original innovations. We will strengthen basic research in applied sciences, launch major national science and technology projects, and prioritize innovation in key generic technologies, cutting-edge frontier technologies, modern engineering technologies, and disruptive technologies. *Excerpt from the report delivered at the 19th CPC National Congress CSG in Action CSG regards the people's demand for electric power as a stepping stone towards a better life. It is the deepest aspiration of all work completed at China Southern Power Grid. The Company continues to improve the quality of electricity supplies and service, fully honoring its promises of 24/7 service as the organization shifts from providing adequate electricity to producing the high quality electricity and services. With the principle of Life First, Safety First , the Company consistently improves its risk awareness, laying a firm foundation for safety as staff and senior management join hands to increase the overall prevention capabilities of the power grids against natural disasters. The Company fully believes in the national innovation-driven development strategy, accelerating the application of cutting-edge technology that upgrades the traditional power grid and vigorously promotes scientific and technological innovations, individual innovations from its senior managers as well as staff and consultants. Power Supplies 18 19 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body 1PXFS4VQQMJFT Meeting the demand for power for a better life Key Issues Management CSG always regards the people's demand for power for a better life as the starting Key Issues point and ultimate goal of all daily work. Providing quality service. Ensuring safe business operations. Continuously upgrading the comprehensive customer service system. Quickening emergency Building a smart power grid. Innovating in the service model to enhance service efficiency. response. Making the power supply service even more convenient, efficient and user-friendly. Major Action Strategies Reducing power outages and improving power quality. The Company has adhered to the safety philosophy of every incident is preventable , strengthened Providing reliable and quality electricity to a growing customer base. closed-loop risk management and ensured the safe and stable operation of large power grids. Embracing the change of the times and implementing innovative development. The Company has improved its customer-centric service system, offering customers with various service channels and delivering faster and diversified services. Creating a safe, reliable, green and efficient electrical grid. The Company constantly explore the remarkable technological and management potential. Their service and dedication to CSG services to minimize power outage time and improve power quality in Ensuring urban development and a good life for the people. multiple dimensions. The Company has strengthened the development of talents for scientific and technological projects and carried out research on key technologies for smart electrical grids which constructing safe, reliable, green, and efficient smart grids. Core Management Performance ‫ڊ‬џչࢎ࡬ Throughout Year 2017, the Company has continued in its efforts to improve overall business and ਈ࢛ residential customer services. Guangdong Power Grid; Guangxi Power Grid; Yunnan Power Grid; Guizhou Power Grid; Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau and the Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau ranked first in the professional evaluation of respective local public services. ٗЏ澝ӫ‫ޏ‬չ ׂॅગ‫ޑ‬ Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Zhongshan Power Supply Bureaus ranked among the top four in terms of reliability of power supplies in China. Օܴ৒ There have been no major accidents or casualties in the whole system. Nor have there been accidents ֽ١չ॑Ԛ caused by power supply or equipment failure, or incidents that have major adverse effects on the society and the company. િુѠङ ࢃોչࣿф 20 21 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Providing quality service Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility Improving power business environment Accurate metering and billing Introduction Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance Less outage time and Customers, employees, Smooth service channels, The score of third-party higher value government less power outage time and customer satisfaction 1PXFS4VQQMJFT improved power quality reached 81 CSG has improved customer services in different businesses, CSG has strictly implemented relevant national laws and regulations, promoted the efficiency of business expansion, galvanized continue to promote the intensive metering construction and With the principle of Customer-Oriented, Coordinated and Win-Win , CSG has improved the all-round customer-centric service systems investment interface extension, and reduced energy costs, so as standardization management, completed the establishment of a for its millions of business and residential customers, and at the same time has fully upgraded all service channels and procedures. to free customers from worries of time, money and troubles. We provincial-level centralized metering automation system and actively have provided them with better services and a better business promoted the full coverage of smart meters and low-voltage meter environment. reading. Improving business efficiency via power business expansion. As a result of By the end of 2017, the coverage rate of smart meters was 93%, Commitment to upgrading service standards the effort, power business expansion processes for low-voltage residents and that of the low-voltage meter reading was 73%. Smart metering and non-residents have been further streamlined. We have extended the and low-voltage meter reading were fully covered in the provinces of investment interface of power expansion project to customer redline (the In November 2017, CSG officially released Power Supply Service Hainan, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen. redline of the land property of the building customers live in) via power Commitment of China Southern Power Grid, which outlines the business expansion, and cancelled design inspection, intermediate inspection and final inspection. Also, we have streamlined businesses for high-voltage CSG has improved its measurement management system, is actively Company’s high business standards. This important outline carefully explains single and dual power supplies by cancelling approval processes and carrying out measurement authorization which in turn effectively enhances to the user the organization’s commitment to upgrading the voltage eligibility decentralizing investment management authority. Moreover, the 10kV power the legitimacy and authority of the measurement work. rate of rural residents' clients; customer's power-on limit time; the time for supply plan approved by power supply bureaus at county (district) level has In Year 2017, CSG officially obtained the national measurement special power supply resumption after customers have paid their electricity bills made typical design available. Guided by the new measures, it now takes low-voltage residents and non-residents only 4 and 8 workdays respectively authorization, making breakthroughs in the legal measurement management and other indicators which combined helps meet consumer demands for for electricity businesses to be completed, and as for high-voltage power field. electricity utilization. supplies, it only takes 34 and 43 workdays to go through all the business procedures. Fulfillment rate of all service commitment has reached 100% Press conference for power supply commitment. Reducing energy costs. CSG has actively responded to the calls of the central government, and worked closely with the government to reduce an astounding electricity prices. We have further decreased the electricity costs for industrial The number of stamps The extended investment and commercial use in five provinces of Southern China by cancelling temporary power connection bills, reducing West-East transmission prices, required for documents throughout the network and temporarily reducing the prices of provincial-level power grid transmission decreased from 21 to reached and distribution. 6 RMB 8.2 billion Galvanizing investment interface extension. CSG has invested in the circuits National power CSG power supply Performance in Compared with Content of power supply service of power grid access points and implemented such investment on the entire supply standards service commitment Year 2017 that in Year 2016 network since September 2015, so as to reduce customers' investments and Construction period The completion rate support CSG's innovation and development. In January 2017, we achieved of supporting projects of special inspection the goal of extending investment interface to customer redline on the entire reduced from 187 days to rectification of power 1 Power supply service hotline: 95598 Connection within 20s(%) None 90 95.6 None business expansion was 90 days network, totaling 8.2 billion yuan throughout the year. The reliability rate of power supply in urban areas is not lower than (%) 99 99.9 99.9245 0.0016 100% The reliability rate of power supply in rural areas is not lower than (%) None 99.5 99.6768 0.0355 The voltage eligibility rate at the receiving end of urban customers is not lower than (%) 95 98 99.420 0.296 The voltage eligibility rate of rural customers end is not lower than (%) None 94 98.021 0.196 The time before arrival for power supply and repair personnel in urban areas does not exceed (minutes) 60 45 34 Flat The time before arrival for power supply and repair personnel in rural areas does not exceed (minutes) 120 90 62 11 The time before arrival for power supply and repair personnel in special remote areas does not exceed (minutes) 240 120 72 20 The reply period of power supply plan for residential customers does not exceed (working day) 2 2 1.6 Flat The reply period of power supply plan for customers with customers with low-voltage supply does not exceed (working day) 5 5 3.3 0.2 The reply period of power supply plan for customers with single highvoltage supply does not exceed (working day) 15 15 7.4 0.1 Speeding up power service supplies and improving service quality, so as to inject impetus into the development of Guangxi Beibu Gulf Note: 1 Power Supply Service hotline: 95598 Connection Rate within 20s: CSG made a new commitment in Year 2017. Economic Zone 22 23 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Multiple service channels Working in advance to meet the need of each customers, CSG has accelerated the innovation of blending traditional electricity business and the Entity service channels Internet and strives to broaden power supply service channels covering entity services, remote services and third-party services. CSG is a market leader in establishing a unified service platform on the Internet in China, and is diligent in enabling customers at all levels of business 1PXFS4VQQMJFT and private (and with multiple needs) enjoy high-quality and convenient power supply services. Smart upgrading, introducing smart services to service halls Remote service channels Through new technologies such as:Internet Plus,Artificial intelligence and mobile applications, and The intelligent upgrading of business halls, equipment, and service environments has been realized and the intelligent mode of customer service in business halls has been introduced. Integration upgrading and building an efficient service system Online+offline integration and innovation Brand-new service experience Guangzhou's first community-based smart power supply business hall was unveiled at the Haizhu Power Supply Unified service platform on the Internet, new reform of Internet plus electricity service Bureau. The robot “YouYou” became the first smart power salesperson in Guangzhou, and customers can enjoy selfservice without queuing up. CSG has optimized, integrated and upgraded provincial-level online business and WeChat service accounts; launched the first WeChat service applet in power industry and built a unified Internet service platform of the Company. The Nanshan Smart Business Office of Shenzhen Power Customers today only need to register once to handle their business through all Internet channels. CSG 95598 has become the first WeChat Supply Bureau is the first power supply business hall in the account with more than 10 million users in China’s power industry. power industry in China that integrates smart customer service with smart electricity display experience. The smart service terminal can save 3/4 of the time compared with manual service counters. The number of registered users on Internet CSG 95598 unified service platform exceeded 13 million Recollection of Tariffs Business processing Unified service One-time registration for onePower outage platform stop service repair Network inquiry http://95598.csg.cn/ Tariff Third-party service channels information Nanshan Smart Business Hall, Shenzhen Power Supply Burea Expanding upgrading, achieving new breakthroughs in service channels 95598 provincial-level concentration, CSG has continuously optimized third-party service platforms such as banks, Alipay, WeChat and convenience service sites, developing new 24-hour efficient service third-party service platforms such as residents’ window self-service terminals and one-door and one-network government service platform and In September 2017, the company realized 95598 allowed customers to handle electricity supply business in less time and with less documents, further saving the customer's business processing provincial-level four integrations 1 intensive time. management objectives. The intensive management promoted the efficiency and customer service staff for the 95588 hotline was actually decreased by 27% and the cumulative traffic connection rate was 95.6%, an increase of eight percentage points over the same period of Year 2016, solving the 95598 hard to get through challenges. Government One door and Alipay, WeChat Bank withholding Convenience citizen's window one network service sites Note: 1 Four integration refers to integration of service service platform standards, integration of customer experience, integration of business control and integration of 95598 Customer Service Center back-stage support. 24 25 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Reducing power outage time 50 50 50 0Hz The Hz Hz most stable CSG is centered on creating a two exquisites and two excellences, world-class development strategy. In Year 2017, with the goal of minimizing power outage time, the Company focused on grid management equipment, blackout management and scientific and technological advances to explore management and technology potential, systematically reducing outage time and frequency and continuously improving the reliability of power supplies. 1PXFS4VQQMJFT Throughout Year 2017, CSG focused on the most prominent challenges to power quality such as voltage dips, short interruptions and low Outage time in downtown area (Unit: h) Outage of full coverage (Unit: h) voltage for residents in the urban power grids. Giving priority to the needs of its business and residential clients, CSG has continuously improved power quality management and power quality in multiple dimensions to meet the demands of high-end, high-quality, high-tech modern industries with high quality power. 2015 4.98 2015 23.3 CSG has increased its investment in power grids and The Company has “triple secured” the classified business files of monitoring systems for areas sensitive to power quality its key clients and provided customers with value-added technical while fully grasping power quality changes in its vast services such as power quality inspection, assessment and security 2016 4.6 2016 22.33 electric grid. management. Power quality performance (Unit:%) 2017 2.14 2017 20.08 (year) (year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 10 15 20 25 The voltage eligibility rate at the receiving 99.74 99.77 98.730 99.124 99.420 end of urban resident customers Creating stable power supplies from reliable distribution CSG recorded fewer power outages through scientific management nvetworks. CSG has continuously improved the distribution as the Company has integrated its outage management systems, The voltage eligibility rate at the receiving 1 end of rural residents 98.22 98.83 97.449 97.825 98.021 network construction and promoted the upgrading of distribution promoted a collaboration mechanism of one stop and multiple use, network equipment and management of its distribution network comprehensive maintenance , and reduced circumscribed overhauls to satisfy electricity demand with a professionally maintained and repeated, overtime and temporary power outages which 50±0.2Hz frequency eligibility rate 100 100 100 100 100 distribution network. effectively improves power supply reliability. Live line operation plays an important role in improving the China Southern Power Grid has proven that electricity can be restored 500 kV voltage eligibility rate 99.9999 99.9999 99.9999 99.9998 99.9999 reliability of power supply. CSG has carried out in-depth research quickly after unplanned events, such as a typhoon and has improved and the development of the core technologies of “live working”, its internal fault repair management mechanism and repair process, expanded the coverage of this new company outreach and promoting the coordination of service scheduling and scheduling of Note: 1 The statistics from Years 2013 to 2014 only covered the parent company and that from Years 2015 to 2017 is of full coverage. reduced the impact of equipment overhaul on customers. distribution network deployment during repair operations and carried out the rapid restoration of defective distribution network in an orderly and safe timetable. CSG sends out customer notices so that key clients will be informed (in advance) of any scheduled outage plan. High-quality electricity supports the industrial development of the big data industry RMB 54.54 billion The Gui'an New Area of Guangzhou Province is at the forefront of the development of big data has been invested in in China and is increasingly home to big data the distribution network reconstruction. information companies from home and around the globe. The coverage rate of The Gui'an Power Supply Bureau of Guangzhou distribution network Power Grid Co., Ltd., intensified its investment automation was in power grid construction, closely followed the 53.94% big data industry and actively carried out specific projects to improve its power quality from the power grid side and the customer side … this in The Year 2017 implementation of live line operation on turn provided powerful electricity guarantees for distribution network reached the development of big data industry in Gui'an 86,067times The world's first integrated intelligent detection current transformer developed by the Guangzhou Power New Area. With the support of reliable and quality electricity, Supply Bureau has realized the shift in its function from “off-power tests” to “live working tests” and Gui'an on Cloud continues to grow. intelligent operation and maintenance. 26 27 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Guaranteeing power supplies at major national activities and special events Earning customers' satisfaction CSG comprehensively promoted the lean management of power supply (from the aspect of organization, emergency management and monitoring, CSG always regards the people's electricity demand for a better life as the starting point and ultimate goal of all work. The Company has optimized and power grid operation, equipment operation and maintenance, customer service, evaluation and inspection, emergency power supply support, and upgraded its exclusive customer full-service system and has thousands of staff working daily to solve customer concerns about power consumption. information security) under the clearly defined requirements of 15 tasks during major events in Year 2017. China Southern Power Grid has been widely applauded by customers in five South China provinces and regions for its reliable and quality power 1PXFS4VQQMJFT supplies and sincere and caring service. In Year 2017, CSG scored 81 in its third-party customer satisfaction, an increase of 1.5 over the same period last year and earned first place satisfaction honors from public evaluation of local public services for several consecutive years. Top-level tasks of unstoppable power supply were successfully completed Ranked first in public evaluation among all provincial (level) companies during Year 2017 Zero The Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd. The Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd., March April incidents Boao Forum for Asia Tianzhou-1 Cargo Spaceship was launched Earned first place in a satisfaction survey of the Won a first place satisfaction award – within the public service industry for ninth consecutive public service industry for the fifth consecutive years with its flawless satisfaction ranking. year. Zero Zero errors complaints July 20th Anniversary of Hong Kong's return The Yunnan Power Grid Co., Ltd., The Guizhou Power Grid Co., Ltd. to China Captured first place in its public satisfaction Won top honors in a satisfaction survey of surveys of the Top 10 public service industries key provincial industries for the seventh July October for nine consecutive years. consecutive year. Long March 5 Series Power supply guarantee Launch Vehicle was at the 19th CPC National launched Congress The Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Won first place in a public service 17th year in a “citizen Won 40 first places awards in government industry survey evaluation of city public service for its seventh consecutive year. for the ninth status” survey. consecutive years. Third-party customer satisfaction (Unit: score) 90 Increased by 79.5 1.5 scores 81 81 scores 79 79 80 76 The third-party customer 70 satisfaction reached 81 scores, exceeding the During its power supply guarantees for the 19th CPC National Congress, CSG invested 57,498 employees; 8,648 vehicles; the use of 361 80th score plateau for the emergency generators each day; 18,949 “grass-root” forefront stations to achieve full coverage with CSG personnel on duty 24 hours a day … 60 first time. culminating to the successful completion of the power supply guarantee tasks at the 19th CPC National Congress. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) 28 29 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Safe Operational Guarantee Stable system In response to various operational risks of the power grid, CSG continues to improve its closed-loop risk management and control mechanisms while Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance refining the operation and maintenance of the power grid which in turn ensures the reliable operation of the power grid. There have been no major Ensuring the bottom Employees, contractors, Strengthening the Nor have there been accidents or casualties in the whole system. Nor have there been accidents caused by power supply or equipment failure, or incidents that have major Introduction line of power grid safe governments, customers and management foundation, accidents caused by power adverse effects on the society and the company. 1PXFS4VQQMJFT operations scientific research institutions stable operation of the supply or equipment failure are but a few of the major electrical grid and sound stakeholders invested in the operation of all company safe operation of the power equipment grid that serves millions of customers throughout South Improving management China Strengthening risk control and control of secondary Improved response to grid of the power grid risks emergency Given the increasingly complex electrical system and the on-going “tug of war” between power supply and demand, and regional frequent natural disasters, CSG holds fast to its safety mantra that all incidents can be prevented with staff dedicated to effectively D u r i n g Ye a r 2 0 1 7 , C S G Extensively implementing highCSG has strengthened the building resolve safety risks in energy production while transmitting quality power to millions of households. conducted in-depth identification fidelity transmission tests for of the guarantee power grid whose of the grid's benchmark risks stability control systems and plans have been developed and and major challenges and protection devices to reduce the implemented in 28 major cities and Management improvements implemented 31 measures for chance of human error and/or ready to launch in 66 prefecturerisk management. failure to operate level cities. Risk identification The Company continuously CSG promoted the utility of standby Security officials from power CSG works through a “closed-loop” management structure, thereby supervising any possible safety risks and improving its production safety improved its internal safety scheduling and completing the grids, of different levels, have levels through constant three-tier scheduling construction responsibility system, to the fullest and continuously strengthened the construction of the production safety risk management system to ensure the issued 6,531 early warnings in communication channels and of the province, prefecture-level city Year 2017, realizing full coverage and prevention stable operation of the power grid. automation systems as well as and county of risks on level-three and above. improving support and guarantee CSG successfully completed the The Company has promoted the close integration of production CSG staff works to improve its seasonal safety inspections and capabilities first, grid-level switch between safety risk management with professional management and daily the Company has improved its internal safety inspection forms The average interruption time of main-standby dispatching and work. This has required the production and release of a new while creating an inspection team to conduct invasive supervision communication channel for realcommunication center to realize a production safety Risk Management System to improve the quality of constituent companies and grass-roots units to ensure the time control in production was normalized synchronous shift reduced to 5.1 seconds and applicability of the localization revisions of operational standards implementation of safety requirements. and to strengthen practical application. Risk resolution CSG General Dispatching Center, The power grid safety and CSG achievements of production safety risk management system from Year 2015 to Year 2017 CSG staff effectively managed Guangdong Power Dispatching Center stability defense line was further system safety risks that may have and Dongguan Power Dispatching consolidated and improved. The 107 power supply companies have achieved ratings above three stars, accounting for 89% of the total. (Unit: piece) led to large-scale outages with dramatic adverse effects, such rapid removal rate for failures Center all use synchronous on-duty personnel shifts with its corresponding at 220 kV and above reached as simultaneous faults, protection main-standby dispatching center 100%, and the number of failures 2015 2016 2017 (year) and switch refusal of cross-over at the automation main station and seamless switch which greatly lines. increases the grid emergency was 0. response capability. Five-star 1 1 5 Four-star 22 26 31 Three-star 70 69 71 Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Power Grid Company patrols the 220 kV Qinyun Substation. CSG staff used Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) to visually inspect the electric grid/operation. 30 31 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Healthy equipment Personal safety CSG has implemented concepts of asset life cycle management, comprehensively promoting the construction of the master mechanism for equipment CSG actively promotes the implementation of 26 measures to prevent personal injuries; launched specific overhaul on electrical safety incidents; and the rating of star teams. This issue focuses on equipment risk management to make refined power transmission and transformation equipment, electricity misoperation prevention and “hidden dangers” of public electrical safety and strengthened safety management of infrastructure construction differentiated operation and maintenance and standardized overhaul. sites (specifically the safety management of outsourced construction teams). The level of equipment sound operation continued to rise in Year 2017 with zero incidents occurring in the power grid (or related equipment) caused by 1PXFS4VQQMJFT the destruction of power facilities. Level 3+ electrical safety Number of personal injuries CSG developed specific inspections of important equipment accidents (Unit:case) (including contractors) (Unit:case) Security reflection Warnings which then promoted equipment management mode of localization of operation and maintenance and intensification of 48 overhaul to realize a shift from periodic inspection to state-based 50 8 Production safety responsibilities 7 maintenance. Based on the condition evaluation of equipment, have not been implemented; safety 40 6 CSG implemented risk-linked closed-loop management and 6 management has not yet been fully control, focused on the special patrols and maintenance of 31 30 implemented; procedures have not 30 submarine cables, major channels for the transmission of electric been implemented and personnel 4 power from west to east, important crossing points, key and 20 3 habitual violations of rules have not major equipment, and to ensure safe and stable operation of been managed effectively. It needs 2 equipment, especially the main power transmission channel from 10 to take a full range of effective the west to east. measures to improve this situation. 0 0 CSG enhanced the entire “life cycle” of management and 2015 2016 2017 (year) 2015 2016 2017 (year) equipment, which in turn improved the quality and “lifetime” of critical power grid equipment. These special teams promoted the construction of asset life cycle management and technical standards, updated equipment selection guides and technical specifications and carried out GIS model reviews. These and Robot of Zhaoqing Converter Station patrolling other actions have vastly improved quality control and supervision converter station equipment Carrying out Safety Year of Electric Power and saw a zero defect handover of equipment. In Year 2017, Construction activities the newly commissioned 220 kV GIS equipment achieved zero defect and zero failure for the first time. CSG has thoroughly implemented a series of important “deployments” for production safety made by the Party Central Committee and the State Council; launched the Safety Year of Electric Power Construction and “Production Safety Month activities and carefully advanced all safety work to build an intrinsically safe grid organization. First robot for internal inspection of Guangdong Construction site 7S management Power Grid meeting transformers placed into production Co., Ltd. Guangxi C ontrac tor s afety s upported by Tracing internal defects and faults of oil-immersed Power Grid blacklist management Co., Ltd. transformers has always been a challenge that upsets personnel during substation inspection. Yunnan The project's equipment and Power Grid personnel were managed through twoAt present, there are no simple and effective Co., Ltd. dimensional code technical means to search for internal faults Guizhou of transformers. After one year of technical Power Grid Safety year on-site exchange meeting breakthroughs, the Shenzhen Power Supply Co., Ltd. Bureau successfully developed the first “robot” Hainan Researching and utilizing on-site capable of internal inspection of oil-immersed Power Grid management and decision system of transformers and it was put into use in November Co., Ltd. infrastructure construction” 2017. Guangzhou The successful development of the Company’s Power Supply Promoting the app Ji Jian Bao Bureau internal “patrol” robots is an important measure to improve the intellectualization level of the power Shenzhen Building a comprehensive information Power Supply system for security management grid. It has realized the internal automation and Bureau intellectualization of transformers, effectively Ultra-high Camera app for construction applied solving many issues such as difficulty in internal Voltage systematically inspection and high work risk of transformers Company and greatly shortened the inspection time inside Power Launching a double-blind emergency transformers. Generation drill for wind and flood prevention and Company personal injuries 32 33 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Information security Improving Emergency Capability As required by the government for network and information security, CSG has finalized network security management and technology standards, Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility Introduction promoted research on key security technologies and system construction for network security situation awareness and guarded against major network Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance security incidents. Safeguarding public Governments, clients and the Response to natural Effective response to 11 safety and public public as major stakeholders disasters typhoons in one year 1PXFS4VQQMJFT interest CSG has organized all-round risk assessment and “hidden Strengthening publicity trouble” investigation and rectification, completed network and education CSG always takes public safety and the interests of society as a priority;vigorously promoting the construction of emergency penetration tests of 71 dispatching centers at prefecture-level (or management mechanisms; comprehensively enhancing the intrinsic safety of the power grid and its ability to resist disasters and provide above) in operational environment, and eliminated cross-network CSG organized a series activities during Cyber interconnected risks. Security Week; reliable power supplies for economic and social development. Inviting professionals from the Ministry of Public CSG has established a professional team of experts to work on Security to offer professional lectures on current-event CSG has fought against natural disasters. CSG has completed CSG has constantly intensified its efforts to fulfill the three goals of network security to timely cope with the 3.3 worm virus; 5.15 topics. the construction of emergency bases, so as to ensure an efficient disaster prevention. CSG has made great efforts to promote power WannaCry ransomware virus outbreak and other emergencies and orderly operation of the emergency response mechanism. grid development planning, building, operation and maintenance, and have implemented 17 problem-oriented prevention and Throughout the year, the company has deployed more than 130,000 as well as to improve the company's regulations, standards and control measures in four aspects such as the removal of system Strengthening team people for emergency power recovery, repaired more than 34,000 structure. By doing so, CSG aims to achieve three goals: to build building vehicles, and effectively fought against 16 heavy rainfalls and 11 safe and reliable guarantee power grids in urban areas; to build vulnerabilities to improve the ability to defense against cyberattacks and viruses. typhoons in power supply areas. power grids with a stronger capacity for Hong Kong and Macao CSG created a self-control network security team that with higher standards; to build power grids in coastal areas with is tasked with the mechanism of underpinning between attack and defense. differentiated standards. C S G h e l d t h e f i r s t E x q u i s i t e Wo r k C u p f o r Lean emergency management “CSG performed well in defending against the professional skills in network security to enhance staff WannaCry virus, fullydemonstrating the high attention and senior management capabilities. CSG has improved its disaster prevention and resilience capabilities and emergency management services ranging from information obtained on and fruitful performance of the central state-owned the telephone to visualizing the power grid from the hasty response to a natural calamity to the improvement of the emergency system and technical enterprise in network security”. Taking special equipment. ——Guo Qiquan, Chief Engineer of the Ministry actions of Public Security Cyber Security Bureau Full information Speedily providing supplies Precise and effective in providing repairs China Southern Power Grid successfully completed the work of network information security during the 19th CPC National Congress. CSG collaborated with government regulators and R e a l t i m e Nine types of Level 1 + Level Emergency supplies Helicopters and The first domestic third party organs to fix bugs. transmission of information to be 2 + First Aid allocation platform unmanned aerial application of disaster-driven checked at any time Pack mode Hotline 7100 – is vehicles are used to reinforced tower site information on the emergency making transfer available for 24 investigate on-thetechnology to The Company (on average) resisted nearly two million malicious 0 via satellite command platform of supplies faster hours during these ground situation as i mpro ve th e w i n d Senior company officials successfully prevented attacks such network attacks from the Internet during Year 2017 more than communications and information natural disasters CSG staff and senior resistance as new-type network ransomware threats but there were no 200,000 Trojan virus attacks and more than one million suspicious network system managers work level 2+ network security incidents during Year 2017 visits per month. tirelessly to find ways to regenerate electricity services as soon as possible Mr. Li Qingkui, Secretary of Leading Party Group and Board Chairman of CSG, traveled to Zhuhai to inspect the ongoing repair process to regenerate The internal information security team has made every effort to ensure CSG's network security. electricity services in South China and Macao in the aftermath of Typhoon Hato. 34 35 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Construction of smart grids Promoting 36 key projects as planned. CSG has vigorously carried Comprehensively improving the quality of project construction. out project-related party management and conducted transparent China Southern Power Grid has dramatically improved the quality Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility Introduction Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance communication on related issues of the power grid construction control of key links such as check upon acceptance and assessment Leading the economic Employees, governments, Construction of smart grids Investment for power on a professional basis. The expansion project of the 500 kV Luxi standards of infrastructure as well as quality control WHS standards and social development contractors grid construction reached back-to-back converter station was placed into operation ahead of to manage quality issues that could impact the safe operation of the 1PXFS4VQQMJFT RMB81.7 billion schedule and the ±800 kV power transmission capacity was also on power grid. line in advance from the Northwest Yunnan to Guangdong. CSG has carried out research on key technologies for smart grids, strengthening the construction of support systems for smart grids, and gradually promoted varied demonstration projects while striving to build safe, efficient smart grids. Strengthening the application of new technologies. CSG has Enhancing design management. China Southern Power Grid organized an “exchange conference” on smart grid planning and has established guidelines for smart transformer station design construction technology as well as the fifth Golden Dot Award technology, completed design standards for power distribution competition. CSG has also released the first power grid engineering networks and standard cost revisions and fully supported the digital standard covering all voltage levels in the domestic power construction needs of medium and low voltage distribution networks, industry. power business expansion and other supporting projects. Investment for power grid construction Promoting the construction of an integrated 176 Establishing a fully-connected power communications network reached`RMB 81.7billion smart transformer stations are covered by the power grids currently power grid operating smart system with a with a cable coverage rate of 90% of power stations of 23.5% 35 KV and above. under operation full network coverage rate of Smart energy Flexible and and energy reliable power Internet Clean and distribution Diverse and Safe and friendly power interactive use efficient power generation of electricity; transmission and transformation Building four supporting systems for smart grids Efficient and interactive adjustment A fully-covered technical support system An integrated information sharing platform A fully-connected communications network and control systems Investment in Power Grid (Unit: 100 million yuan) Awards for Quality Project 3 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017(year) Three projects won the 2016-2017 National Quality Project Award 500 kV 500 kV Jingxi Transformer Station of the Ultra Voltage 167 156 178 139 140 Corporation and above Kaili Zhouxi 500 kV Power Transmission and Transformation Project in Guizhou ±500 kV Chuxiong Yongren Power Convertor Station of 220 kV 111 148 154 136 104 the Yunnan Power Grid HVDC flexible, back-to-back projects of the highest voltage and largest capacity in the world – the Luxi Back-to-Back HVDC Project 110 kV and below 359 349 342 500 573 9 Nine projects won the 2017 China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 36 37 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Answering the Party Central Committee's Call We must realize that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets and act on this understanding, implement our fundamental national policy of conserving resources and protecting the environment, and cherish the environment as we cherish our own lives. The modernization that we pursue is one characterized by harmonious coexistence between man and nature. In addition to creating more material and cultural wealth to meet people’ s ever-increasing needs for a better life, we need also to provide more quality ecological goods to meet people’ s ever-growing demands for a beautiful environment. *Excerpt from the report delivered at the 19th CPC National Congress &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO CSG in Action CSG has vigorously pushed forward the optimization of its energy structure, increased the proportion of non-fossil energies and strives to make the sky cleaner with a balanced eco-system throughout the southern region of China. CSG adheres to a “green and low-carbon” development philosophy and places the concepts of green development into the entire process of production and operation to minimize its own energy consumption. CSG continuously promotes the concepts of low carbon and environmental protection as it offers energy-saving services and makes substantial contributions to the economy and society with environmentally friendly products available to millions of customers. Environmental Protection 38 39 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body To be an envoy of green energy transfers Key Issues Management &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO Green development and clean energy use is a sacle plate for measuring the ecological civilization. Key Issues To deliver more clean electricity to the five southern provinces is our unshakable responsibility. Green power supplies Green grid construction CSG bears the weight of driving green development through West-East Electricity Transmission Project. Green operations promotion Comprehensive energy services CSG has created an energy bridge for a green transmission with a green grid. CSG promotes its own enery conservation and emission reduction programs through green operations. Major Action Strategies CSG contributes to a green development with energy saving services. CSG has helped to put into practice the national strategy of West-East Electricity Transmission to CSG is committed to using its power and community involvment to promote an energy consumption revolution . promote the consumption of clean hydropower in the west. CSG builds a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy system and strives to be an envoy in the transmission of The Company has integrated the concepts of environmental protection into the entire process of power grid planning, construction and operations to create a green corridor. green energy. CSG has tapped into its potential for energy saving and consumption reduction to promote its own internal green operations. CSG has provided more diverse, high-quality green products and services and helped society to foster a green and low-carbon production lifestyle. Core Management Performance Non-fossil energy power generation accounts for 50.8% of the Company’s total output. The comprehensive line loss rate of the entire power grid is 6.52%. More than 202.8 TWh of electricity has been transported from the west to the east, a year-on-year increase of 3.84%. Electricity saved on the demand side has exceeded 12.1 TWh. 40 41 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Providing Green Power Supplies 50 50 50Hz 50 The Hz Hz greenest Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility Introduction Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance Providing green energy Governments, employees, Accelerating the West-East Power transported from the west for social development power generation companies electricity transmission project to east stood at 202.8 TWh; and environment and supporting the development abandoned water in Yunnan Hydropower utilization in Yunnan with all efforts of new energies was reduced by 27.7 TWh. CSG has tapped into its potential for energy saving and consumption reduction to promote its own internal green operations.During Year 2017, the accumulated water during the flood season in the Lancang River and the Jinsha River in Yunnan Province was more than expected with water levels of major hydropower stations such as Xiaowan and Nuozhadu reaching (or approaching) the warning line many times and thus the hydropower enterprises were under great pressure to abandon CSG has given full play to the functions of optimal resource allocation platforms to continuously optimize the energy structure and water. promotes the transformation of energy supplies from centralized, large-scale traditional fossil-based energy , to green and low-carbon With the scientific management of the Company, 20 measures for hydropower utilization were implemented in Yunnan to enhance the capacity of the West-East power transmission channel. CSG then increases space for hydropower utilization in Yunnan to reduce the amount of abandoned water-generated power.` sources with distributed green energy and new energies as one of the main sources and thus fostered a new picture of harmonious coexistence between humanity and nature. In Year 2017, installed capacity of CSG's non-fossil energies accounted for 50.2% of the Innovatively replacing thermal power from Guizhou with Strengthening channel construction &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO Company’s total output; comprehensive energy consumption per RMB10,000 output value stood at 0.151 tons of standard coal. The hydropower from Yunnan in delivering electric power to Guangdong CSG completed the defect elimination of STATCOM in the Funing Converter energy consumption of electricity generated and received per unit was 142.5 grams of standard coal per kilowatt hour, a year-on-year In September 2017, after holding coordination meetings among relevant Station before the Year 2017 flood season. It was the Yongfu's DC decrease of 0.90%; West-East electricity transmission delivered 87% clean energy, an increase of 5.3%. governmental departments of Guangdong, Yunnan and Guizhou provinces transmission capacity that reached 3 GW, which increased Yunnan's outgoing and power grid companies on replacing thermal power from Guizhou with capacity by 600 MW. The unit extension project of the Luxi Back-to-Back hydropower from Yunnan to deliver power to Guangdong, contract trading Convertor Station was placed into operation, increasing the outgoing capacity between thermal power in Guizhou and hydropower in Yunnanwas first listed of Yunnan by one million kW. In Year 2017, Yunnan's power transmission at the Guangzhou Power Exchange Center, as a means of market-oriented capacity peaked at 26.2 GW. transactions. The transaction volume reached 0.62 TWh in side electricity Thermal power Hydropower Nuclear power Wind power and others natural sources (Unit: %) generation via the power grid. Fourteen hydropower stations had bid for the project and the transactions were completed in full. The listing of contract trading between thermal power and hydropower that CSG's regional power generation structure: National power generation structure: was then transferred to Guangdong via diversified cross-provincial and cross-regional power trading, achieved a great synergy among hydro, and Power transported from A year-on-year thermal power originating sources which improved the utilization of clean west to east growth of 62.26% 31.60% 5.14% 1.00% 78.35% 16.76% 2.10% 2.79% energy sources and achieved outstanding environmental protection, energy 2013 2013 conservation and emission reduction benefits. This in turn effectively eased the pressure on the regional coal supplies and 202.8 TWh 3.84% made a substantial contribution to the sustainable development of the Guizhou Effective utilization of A year-on-year 54.46% 38.58% 5.63% 1.33% 75.26% 19.23% 2.28% 3.23% provincial energy industry. The listing of contract trading between thermal 2014 2014 power and hydropower that was then transferred to Guangdong via diversified 27.7 TWh growth of cross-provincial and cross-regional power trading, achieved a great synergy among hydro, and thermal power originating sources which improved the of surplus hydropower 67.9% in Yunnan 50.5% 41.2% 6.3% 2.0% 73.0% 19.4% 2.9% 4.7% utilization of clean energy sources and achieved outstanding environmental 2015 2015 protection, energy conservation and emission reduction benefits. This in turn effectively eased the pressure on the regional coal supplies and 48.9% 39.4% 8.8% 2.9% 72.2% 19.4% 3.5% 4.9% made a substantial contribution to the sustainable development of the Guizhou provincial energy industry. 2016 2016 Optimizing the dispatch running schedule Improving power price mechanisms 48.9% 38.2% 9.1% 3.8% 71.7% 18.3% 3.8% 6.2% China Southern Power Grid optimized the cascade hydropower dispatch CSG has pushed forward the improvement of cross-provincial power 2017 (year) 2017 (year) running schedule to give full play to the regulating role of the main reservoir. transmission price mechanism to enhance Yunnan's competitiveness in CSG further optimized the cascade hydropower generation arrangements, delivering hydropower. The Company has further launched the first electricity according to the water inflow from each basin and the water level of the package plan across the nation. In it, residents who use more than 4,000 reservoir. The role of the main reservoirs, including Xiaowan and Nuozhadu, kilowatt hours of electricity, per year, could select multi-step electricity pricing were brought into full play to minimize the abandoned water pressure of or electricity package. cascade hydropower stations in the middle areas of the Jinsha River and other runoff hydropower stations. Environmental Benefits Generated from Clean energy deployment Expanding utilization market (Unit: 10,000 tons) CSG has accelerated the extension of its fiscal investments to improve the Standard coal conversion Carbon dioxide emission conversion efficiency for power business expansion which shortened the construction time for customers and realized quick access and sufficient use of electricity; CSG has vigorously exploited the marketplace for electric power replacement 5000 4698 and during Year 2017, the Yunnan Power Grid Co., Ltd., had achieved electric 4003 power replacement of 1.26 TWh. 4000 2915 2971 3000 2000 1766 1492 1505 1096 1117 1000 591 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) The full view of the reservoir under the Qiongzhong Pumped Storage Power Station in Hainan 42 43 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Advanced development of new energy Construction of Green Grids China Southern Power Grid strives to build a smart grid that adapts Installed wind power capacity Installed biomass power Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Main responsibility to green and low-carbon development and smart usage demand within the region reached capacity within the region Introduction Responsibility value involved covered fulfillment performance of distributed new energy access as well as of higher levels of reached 17.12 GW The harmonious Governments, employees, Building green transformer 99% of infrastructure project 1.58 GW automation and intelligence. During Year 2017, new energy capacity coexistence between subcontractors, the public stations, creating green designs reached first class in the power grid and environment corridors and establishing green design of grid-connected access of wind power, photovoltaic power and construction and power grid construction Installed photovoltaic capacity environment communication other new energy sources reached 6.4 GW, a year-on-year increase within the region stood at of 30%, and the proportion of wind power and photovoltaic power generation utilization stood at 97.74% and 99.41% respectively. 8.33 GW CSG has continued to improve the management mechanism and early warning emergency mechanism of environmental protection; integrating green environmental protection into the power grid construction and the entire process of planning, construction and operation of transformer stations, establishing a normalized communication mechanism with stakeholders thus joining hands with stakeholders to participate in the construction of green power grids. &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO China Southern Power Grid has accelerated the construction of new energy management standards, CSG has stepped up the improvement of new energy technical specifications and monitoring systems, and made new energy sources including full-scale wind generation supporting measures and the new energy Constructing green transformer stations set grid-connected standard system to increase power and photovoltaic power generation plans fully technological innovation and enhance the ability of The company adheres to the ideas of resource conservation and environmental protection, vigorously adopted new types of environmentally-friendly included in the dispatch system to ensure coordinated grid-connected utilization of new energies. and orderly development of these exciting new and energy-saving materials, introduced intelligent equipment to make transformer stations more energy-efficient, water, land and material saving, energies. which is more in line with environmental protection standards and requirements, and strives to achieve harmonious integration of transformer stations and the surrounding environment. Conserving resources: China Southern Power Grid has promoted consumer use of water-saving appliances and The Company has actively participated in the construction of new, nationwide energy demonstration used green construction materials with rational distribution of CSG has proactively supported new energy equipment transformer station areas to strictly implement national energyprojects. In Year 2017, the Nansha Smart Micromanufacturing enterprises to provide basic support for Grid Project of the Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau saving standards during new construction. new energy development. was approved as a National New Energy Micro-Grid Demonstration Project. Reducing pollution: Plate-type double-layer sound-absorbing panel walls were installed around the main transformer interior walls to reduce noise pollution; the production of solid The country's first plant-insulated oil transformer was successfully waste was reduced through earthwork balance; sewage was developed in Guangzhou with each transformer saving nearly 20 discharged through the sewage treatment system. tons of mineral oil per year. Power grid construction communication Serving the world's first grid-connected PV power plant for fishpond CSG has adopted an open and transparent attitude to build a comprehensive communication network that covers all stakeholders, and created a twoway communication atmosphere conducive to honest dialogue. Through the Power Grid Open Day, 95598 hotline, Dual Micros platform and other In 2017, the PV power plant for fishpond channels, CSG achieved timely communication and exchanges with stakeholders on power grid construction planning, electromagnetic radiation and in Lanchong Village, Guangpo Town, other issues of concern to eliminate misunderstandings and concerns and strive to obtain understanding and support from their stakeholders. Gangkou District, Fangchenggang City, Guangxi, served by Fangchenggang Power Supply Bureau of Guangxi Come on in Power Grid Co., Ltd., has achieved gridBy inviting students, community residents, the public, media, connected power generation. Lanchong and other stakeholders to the demonstration bases of social Village has combined photovoltaic r e s p o n s i b i l i t y, p o w e r s u p p l y power generation with shrimp industrial bureaus, transformer stations and other venues of interest aquaculture. It places the photovoltaic and through online monitoring data display and electric power modules above the shrimp industrial knowledge presentations – aquaculture workshops, and integrates China Southern Power Grid has worked to eliminate stakeholder outdoor power generation and indoor misunderstandings concerning electromagnetic radiation. aquaculture, contributing to the world's first PV power plant for fishpond. CSG Going out has been dedicated to building the power CGS staff have visited schools, With the strong coordination of the power supply sector, the mariculture solar energy communities and sub districts plant and helping villagers make use of project was completed with high quality and efficiency. Next, we will focus on the work to demonstrate the results of electromagnetic monitoring of the solar power, which has boosted green transformer stations to various of promoting photovoltaic strong towns, and bringing wealth to the villagers through stakeholders to help alleviate public energy development. misunderstandings and queries; photovoltaic energy. ” CGS representatives also visited government departments and Chen Hongyuan, Head of Mariculture Solar Energy Power Station interacted with them concerning on line walking, land occupation and environmental impact to earn the government's understanding and support. Big news agency digging into the 500 kV Meilin Transformer Station 44 45 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Creating a green corridor Promoting Green Operations CSG has integrated the functions and requirements of ecological services such as protection of biodiversity and prevention of soil erosion into the entire Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction life cycle of the power grid construction and clarified the environmental protection requirements for each link of power grid construction to strive to create Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR a green corridor in harmony with the environment. Improving energy Governments, employees, Lean management of line The comprehensive line loss conservation and emission subcontractors, the public loss, waste management and rate was 6.52%. Throughout Year 2017, 99% of infrastructure project designs earned “First Class” honors in green design with ecological restoration and control rate of reduction impact at the and environment green office the grid construction reaching 100% … and the environmental rate of approval for the grid construction standing at 100%. power grid side CSG works to reduce energy losses and adverse impacts on the environment during the operational process, actively promoting the integrated development of energy conservation, pollution reduction, consumption reduction and carry out green operations with “real Ecological conservation world” results. after construction Comprehensive line loss rate of CSG (unit: %) &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO Green planning before construction After construction, backfill was Lean management of line loss c o n d u c t e d t i m e l y, v e g e t a t i o n 8 Environmental protection 7.20 6.94 6.72 CSG has selected the most reclamation was carried out and 6.38 6.52 during construction ecological compensation measures environmentally friendly technical CSG is truly creative when dealing with ideas of line loss 6 routes in power grid planning and were implemented to reduce impact on CSG has avoided woodland areas management, improved lean management of line loss and reduced design, avoiding nature reserves as as much as possible during tower the ecological environment. 4 operating line loss from all aspects such as management and much as possible to proactively protect positioning and established span CSG carried out ecological conservation technology. During Year 2017, the rate of comprehensive line loss 2 biodiversity. towers to reduce woodland logging. of cultivated vegetation to promote integration of cultivated environment and was 6.52%, and the rate was controlled at a low level below 7% for 0 An environmental “early warning” CSG has carefully arranged four consecutive years. mechanism has been established, primary environment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) construction areas to reduce the area assessment of environmental impacts Note: Increased long-distanced power supply in West-East transmission across provinces ofecological disturbance and final acceptance and record system and improved management contributed to a more accurate line loss rate. This can be has been implemented. reflected in the statistics in 2017, i.e. an increased comprehensive line loss rate. CSG has adopted green construction materials and recycled building materials to reduce the impact on the Daily tracking, weekly analysis and monthly reporting mechanisms were established to form a systematic line loss primary environment management experience for promotion. The statistical analysis of the line loss in Guangzhou and Shenzhen were carried out on a daily basis rather than on a monthly basis. Management Problem-oriented and project-based analysis and solutions were conducted to resolve issues relating to the monthly fluctuation of line loss rate caused by different periods of electricity meter reading. Loss reduction measures CSG promotes the use of energy-saving environmental protection equipment, replaced energy intensive transformers and increased reactive compensation capacity. Technology CSG has pushed forward lean management of power usage in power plants and stations to reduce power consumption. For example, the Qingyuan Pumped Storage Power Station has undergone a technological transformation, realized by sub-metering and visualized management of the power plant with direct plant electricity consumption rates reduced by 32% year-on-year. CSG Brother Lei Feng service team protect the home of little egrets CSG Brother Leifeng Service Team of the Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd.,persisted in long-term patrolling at the habitat of the little Fighting against line loss winning back lost power egrets in the Wanhe Mountain in Wutou to safeguard more than 10,000 migratory little egrets each year. They voluntarily organized During Year 2017, the Yanhe Power Supply donations to purchase saplings to plant trees within the forests Bureau of Guizhou Power Grid Co., Ltd., of Jing. They also advocated that villagers and tourists in the carried out an sword action to reduce surrounding areas cooperate with them in patrolling these habits. line loss. Throughout the entire year, CSG During the holidays, they spontaneously organized inspection areas completed the labelling work of 55 10kV and stopped tourists from potentially doing harm to the surviving lines in 2328 stations to clarify the line loss environment, created promotional slogans and proposals and management in each area. Combined with advocated people from all walks of life to protect little egrets. Since electricity inspection, CSG staff eliminated the establishment of the Jiangping group, they have carried out 26 such behaviors as misappropriation, missed volunteer publicity activities; set up 20 billboards and warning signs; reading and wrong reading to recover the saved 28 injured white little egrets; planted 650 mangrove seedlings electricity of 86.1 MWh. Since the launch of and demolished 1,300 meters of bird nets. All this and much more the “sword action”, the line loss rate of the was done with the purpose of creating an ideal home for egrets. Yanhe Power Supply Bureau decreased by 0.23%, and 1194.4 MWh of power losses were retrieved. 46 47 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Waste management Integrated energy services CSG has actively explored ways to maximize the use of waste resources, continuously improving the recycling rate of waste and strived to reduce the Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction impact of waste emissions on the environment. Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR Driving demand-side energy Employees, customers, the Supporting electric vehicle Newly added 11.4 conservation and emission public and the environment development,assisting TWh of electric power reduction customers in energy savings replacement electricity Solid waste management: The waste generated during power grid construction was backfilled on site; with the goal of “lowest On the basis of strengthening its main business, China Southern Power Grid accelerated its internal industrial transformation and stock of idle materials”, a cross-bureau and cross-project actively developed an integrated energy business, making green and low-carbon electric power a priority. resource allocation mechanism was established to increase the utilization rate of idle inventory. &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO Waste water management: According to the difference of domestic sewage and oily wastewater, different treatment Developing an integrated energy Conducting electrification processes were adopted to maximize recycling. service system The Company accelerated the process of electrification and promoted such Exhaust gas management: Sulfur hexafluoride, a major gas electrification technologies as an electric boiler heating system; heat pump China Southern Power Grid exerted its advantages in brand, pollutant, was collected, stored, purified and re-entered the system; electric cold storage air-conditioning system; port electrification technology and customer resources and played the role of a circulatory system for utilization. system and electromagnetic kitchens in line with local conditions, thus professional platform of integrated energy business … thus increasing the proportion of electric power in terminal power consumption developing an integrated energy service system in all aspects. In and improving industrial technology upgrading. During Year 2017, 4,232 Year 2017, the demand side's saving of electric power reached electric power replacement projects were completed. 726.3 MW. Placing a concentration on industrial parks, industrial enterprises, CSG is the nation’s pioneer in developing electromagnetic kitchens. large public buildings, large commercial complexes and other key On the basis of carrying out developments from the inside out, the objects, CSG staff utilized such technologies as Cloud Big Things electromagnetic kitchen reformation within the system was carried Waste oil recovery rate of transformers 100% (cloud computing, big data, mobile internet and artificial intelligence) to develop a new smart energy business model that is focused out in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan and Hainan provinces. on users and based on electricity, thus providing customers with CSG has steadily advanced port electrification business. In response to diversified integrated energy supply and value-added services. related national policies of port electrification, the Company finished its first project using high-voltage frequency conversion shore-based power supply Sulfur hexafluoride recovery rate 100% technology the Dongguan Humen Shore-to-ship Power Project having newly built two sets of 800 kW of shore-side power equipment for the port. Ultra-high voltage company performing substation equipment Newly added 11.4 TWh maintenance. CSG has accelerated distributed energy projects. The Distributed Natural Gas Energy Station Project of the National Supercomputer Center in of electric power replacement Guangzhou was heavily invested and built by CSG. This project used electricity natural gas as a key fuel to realize combined cooling and electric power supply, with its energy utilization efficiency exceeding 70 %. Green office CSG took energy management and resource conservation as Year-round video conferences increased by the starting point, integrated the idea of green development into the daily work of employees, created a green office “atmosphere” and encouraged employees to save water, save electricity, save 21% year-on-year paper, and choose green travel to support green and low-carbon development with practical results. Headquarters meetings C o n f e r e n c e c o s t s The first Comprehensive Demonstration Area for Internet were decreased by were reduced by + Smart Energy Consumption was placed into operation After abundant research and studies, CSG established an energy-saving office management index system, carried out 14% 29% energy monitoring and management through energy-saving In Year 2017, the company's first Comprehensive Demonstration office indicators, implemented energy-saving reforms and CSG's office energy consumption per ten Area for Internet + Smart Energy Consumption was launched at improved overall office energy-savings. thousand output value reached the Sino-Singapore Guangzhou Knowledge City. This program has 0.0036 All major conferences used paperless conference systems to been designed as an integrated energy service system for users. reduce conference supplies consumptions and steadily advance Based on a communication network constructed with electric fiber network video conference applications. tons of standard coal per RMB10,000 for home users which is augmented with key elements including an integrated centralized meter reading systems of electricity, CSG actively promotes the energy-saving renovation of office A year-on-year decrease of water and gas; these smart homes feature distributed energy and buildings by using a contract energy management model, charging facilities, offering homeowners a true energy-efficient use 5% conducted year-on-year and ring-to-quarter analysis of office of electricity consumption. energy consumption and focused on controlling office energy consumption. 48 49 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Supporting electric vehicle development Innovation of green and smart service China Southern Power Grid increased its investment in the infrastructure of electric vehicle charging stations and dramatically improved electric vehicle CSG has integrated the concepts of Internet + into the development of its energy-saving services to the general public, and taking an active role in intelligent charging service platforms to support the burgeoning electric vehicle industry with conveniently located, fast charging services. working with engineers in the planning of the urban energy internet by constructing a cloud service platform of smart energy consumption that aids in measuring smart energy consumption communities and demonstration areas, thus laying an energy foundation for the transformation and upgrading of the city. The Company completed specific plans of the first eight Internet + smart energy demonstration projects as two demonstration projects were selected as the first Internet + smart energy (energy Internet) demonstration projects of the National Energy Administration. Building up the regional infrastructure.CSG enhanced the construction of charging facilities in public areas in cities such Serving as Guangzhou and Shenzhen; placing an intercity “fast charging station” every 50 kilometers, serving as a “safety net in key areas. 510,000 Building integrated energy demonstration year-round electric vehicles at These actions build confidence in company staff to purchase and charging stations across South areas to realize smart energy consumption use their electric vehicles on a daily basis. China &OWJSPONFOUBM1SPUFDUJPO In 2017, the Dongguan Power Supply Bureau, the Newly added subsidiary of GuangdongPower Grid Company, and Building charging platforms. CSG staff improved the network-level Duduchong electric vehicle charging intelligent service platform, 4,992charging piles Dongguan SSL (Eco-park) National Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone Administrative Committee signed realizing the integration of intelligent charging terminals and provided a Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreement of a quick-steering, one-button navigation, one-button charging, oneElectric charging accumulated to Dongguan SSL International First-Class Integrated Energy button payment and other rapid service functions. The Duduchong charging platform has access to 2,257 charging stations and 15,360 charging points. 30.77GWh Demonstration Area . The demonstration area would be based on a “smart grid” to form an integrated energy network that uses a combination of electricity, heat, and natural gas. With the help of advanced technologies such as cloud computing and intelligent control, plans call for the building of an efficient, intelligently utilized, integrated energy demonstration area which will be a national model of green and low-carbon CSG built the country's first transformer station + charging station site development. During Year 2017, CSG improved the “upstream and downstream” performance of energy conservation and emission reductions. 41 fast AC 9 fast DC Photovoltaic power generation system generates Be able to meet the fast charging requirements of Items Amount of electricity Standard coal Carbon dioxide emission Sulfur dioxide emission charging points charging points (0.1 TWh) conversion (10,000 tons) conversion (10,000 tons) conversion (10,000 tons) 64 MWh of electricity per year 720 Incremental power generation by electric vehicles per day 602 1735 4614 33.3 non-fossil energy Clean energy deployment 1766 4698 34.6 The decline of comprehensive line loss rates 19 55 146 1.1 Demand-side energy conservation and emissions reduction 12.1 37 99 0.7 Grand total 3593 9557 69.7 Accumulated performance enhancement of the “upstream and downstream” energy conservation and emission reductions in the electric network since Year 2011. Amount of electricity Standard coal Carbon dioxide emission Sulfur dioxide emission Items (0.1 TWh) conversion (10,000 tons) conversion (10,000 tons) conversion (10,000 tons) Incremental power generation by non-fossil energy 7609 22624 60182 436 Clean energy deployment 6785 18048 131.7 The decline of comprehensive line loss rates 244 728 1936 13.5 Demand-side energy conservation and emissions reduction 78.24 247 655.4 5.15 Grand total 30384 80821.4 586.35 Shenzhen Lotus Hill Charge-swapping Station 50 51 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Answering the Party Central Committee's Call Law-based governance is an essential requirement and important guarantee for socialism with Chinese characteristics. We must exercise Party leadership at every point in the process and over every dimension of law-based governance, and be fully committed to promoting socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics. We must improve the Chinese socialist system of laws, at the heart of which is the Constitution; establish a Chinese system of socialist rule of law; build a socialist country based on the rule of law. Only with socialism can we save China; only with reform and opening can we develop China, develop socialism, and develop Marxism. We must uphold and improve the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and continue to modernize China’ s system and capacity for governance. We should pursue the Belt and Road Initiative as a priority, give equal emphasis to ” bringing in” and “going global,” follow the principle of achieving shared growth through discussion and collaboration, and increase openness and cooperation in building innovation capacity. With these efforts, we hope to make new ground in opening China further through links running 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ eastward and westward, across land and over sea. *Excerpt from the report delivered at the 19th CPC National Congress CSG in Action The Company takes its business operations according to law as a main task as well as defending rights according to law as its entry point, exercising power according to law and takes the culture of the rule of law and the rule of law team construction as the foundation to accelerate the advancement of managing enterprises according to law. The Company follows the law of the marketplace and the development laws of the electric power industry, using a problem-oriented approach that challenges supply-side structural reform, focusing on key issues, supplements shortcomings and making improvements along the way that enhances the company's vitality, international competitiveness and risk resistance capability. The Company is ramping up its posture of “going global as it accelerates the construction and operation of power interconnection projects with neighboring countries with emphasis on electric power cooperation to help construct the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Operating 52 efficiency 53 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body A good life is earned through hard work Key Issues Management 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ Economic development is inseparable from electricity. Key Issues CSG is in joint efforts with its valued customers to work hard and earn a better Company management according to law and regulations Lean management promotion life for the five provinces and regions of South China; managing the Company Deepening and furthering reform Liability value extension International exchange and cooperation according to law and regulations to be a driving force for development. Major Action Strategies Electric power market reform adds vigor to development. In joint efforts with value-chain partners, CSG shares its development results. CSG insists on managing the Company according to law and regulations, CPC Party conduct and clean government construction and internal audits. Under the Belt and Road Initiative, the footsteps of CSG become firmer. CSG promotes lean management to reduce and eliminate waste in the whole process by involving all factors. Let's join hands together,to build a better world. CSG carries out transmission and distribution price reforms to advance the construction of the electric power marketplace. The Company also extends the value chain of responsibility to help suppliers and contractors fulfill their responsibilities. CSG also practices the Belt and Road Initiative in carrying out various forms of international exchanges and cooperation. Core Management Performance Electricity sales topped 890.2 TWh for an increase of 7.3%. Total assets reached RMB744.5 billion for an increase of 8%. For the 11 consecutive years, CSG has been honored as Class A in the Examination of Business Performance by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). The Company ranks 100th among the world's top 500 companies. 54 55 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Key business performance Solid foundation for development China Southern Power Grid continues to increase efficiency, promote reforms and address potential internal challenges. Through an active adaptation Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction to new mechanisms of electricity transmission and distribution price reforms, the achievement of annual operating goals and the steady decline of Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR Business operations are Government, regulatory Law-based corporate Total labor productivity: asset-liability ratio, CSG has been awarded a Class-A Prize in the Examination of Business Performance by the SASAC for 11 consecutive years, conducted according to law and agencies, employees governance, anti-corruption, RMB 520100 /person per ranking 100th among the world's top 500 companies and – for the first time – ranked 299th among the world's top 500 brands. regulations and optimization of internal audit and lean year operating capabilities management The Company's ranking in the world's top 500 companies CSG insists on comprehensively managing the Company according to the law, deepening the reform of internal institutional mechanisms and establishing a management and control mode of headquarters focusing on planning, provincial companies focusing on business, 95 100 and local power supply bureaus focusing on strengthening the base, and competition-based companies focusing on dynamism to build 115 113 a thoughtful and thoroughly professional management system. 134 Business operation according to law and regulations As a leader in the international community, China Southern Power Grid takes great pride in its corporate identity which has as its hallmark the essence of integrity, rule of law and internal auditing 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ as a “troika” of stability and works hard to build a rule-based, stateowned enterprise that is well-managed, operationally compliant, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) regulated and law-abiding. Taking clean atmosphere as escort Key performance indicators of the company's operation in Year 2017 CSG has always placed intensive internal challenges on not dare to rot , which contributes to the continuous decline of corruption Electricity sale: 890.2 TWh (unit: 0.1 TWh) Revenue: RMB 494.6 billion (unit: 100 million yuan) stock, effectively curbing corruption and effectively improving its Year-on-year growth of 7.3% Year-on-year growth of 4.5% political foundation. The Company actively promotes a pilot program of standardization of four forms of discipline supervision and 8902 4946 enforcement and improves employees' awareness of integrity which 9000 8297 5000 aids in effectively preventing small problems from turning into big 7859 7822 4733 7433 4738 4707 mistakes . 4482 The Guangdong Power Grid Zhaoqing Power Supply Bureau built 6000 4500 The Company rebukes improper practices and corruption that a visualized “incorruptibility education base” with electricity waste can damage the interests of the people, banning market entry materials 3000 of suspected bribery suppliers, thus safeguarding a fair and just 4000 market environment. CSG carries out an activity of reviewing inspection tours for rectification and action against specific problems 0 0 and actively promotes the construction of the non-corruptible 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) institutional mechanisms in eight key areas to continue to enhance Opinions on Accelerating the Stringent Corporate its business practices. Management in Accordance with the Law formulated by CSG was promoted by the StateFor seven years in a row, CSG has held seminars on integrity owned Assets Supervision and Administration Total tax revenue: RMB49.5 billion (unit: 100 million yuan) Total assets: RMB744.5 billion (unit: 100 million yuan) Commission of the State Council as one of the for Company leaders and conducted interviews with staff who top three outstanding cases of top-down design Year-on-year decline of 11.0% Year-on-year growth of 8% have undergone corrective actions; continuing to strengthen staff for the rule of law in state-owned enterprises. awareness of unwilling to corrupt . 600 556 8000 7445 501 495 6891 6191 6362 The assistance of the rule of law 5872 450 407 6000 382 Revenue growth and expenditure reductions by CSG gives full play to the role of legal review and approvals to auditing (unit: 100 million yuan) 300 4000 ensure seamless progress of many major reforms; resolving major legal cases and avoiding or recouping economic losses of RMB1.06 8 7.35 150 2000 billion. 6 5.19 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Promoting management through audit 4 2.13 CSG has both reformed and streamlined its internal audit system to 2 1.40 1.19 effectively carry out project audits which strengthen the Company's Note: CSG has reduced power transmission and distribution prices, delivering benefits of such reform. CSG has supported the development of real economy and replaced business tax with value-added tax, leading to a lower tax burden and a decline in total major project management. 0 profits and taxes in 2017. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017（year） 56 57 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Management promotion The Company is focused on eliminating waste, creating value, making improvements, and seeking the best . Taking a good grasp Gaining Development Momentum of two carriers for comprehensive benchmarking management and independent improvement for all staff, the Company has vigorously Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction established improvement mechanisms such as compliance Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR incentives to build up a management advancement system. Deepening and furthering Government, regulatory Electricity system reforms, Reducing electric power reform to release its dividends agencies, employees state-owned enterprise consumption costs of customers reforms and internal system by RMB54.5 billion reforms throughout the year When it comes to problem-oriented approaches, since Year 2015, CSG has carried out special operations in key areas and key links of production and operations to accurately solve challenges to the China Southern Power Grid has always insisted on the orientation of Socialist market economy reforms. Taking supply-side structural Company's production and operations. In Year 2017, eight special reforms as the main task, the Company promotes a “revolution” of quality and efficiency and continues to deepen the reforms of the operations generated remarkable results in continuously improving electric power system, state-owned enterprise and assets and internal systems so that these structural changes can be widely shared business performance and the generation and use of clean energies. among the society. CSG employs a service philosophy to lead all staff by organizing Electric power system reforms training at different layers and levels and through the combination of theory and practical training exercises. The Company continues to play its role as a practical field of electric power system reforms and further promotes the implementation of transmission and distribution price reforms, electric power market construction, electricity sale side reforms and incremental power distribution reforms, thus CSG sets-up, organizes and conducts benchmarking for all affiliated presenting the “CSG experience” as a positive nation-wide example. companies under its direction with 78 companies meeting or 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ exceeding domestic and industry-leading standards. CSG shares the benefits! The Company has implemented 7S management and launched the Lean CSG app and encourages Cao Zhian, Board Director, General Manager of the company staff to carry out reforms based on their own posts to reduce the and Deputy Secretary of the Leading Party Group, visited the burden on the specialized management teams and improve their production line and gave in-depth guidance Carrying out transmission and distribution Steadily promoting retail side reforms own business expertise. price reform in all aspects Five southern provinces including Guangdong, Guangxi, The company has established 25 power sales companies 50 50 0Hz 50 The Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan have fully carried out and actively participated in market competition. Hz Hz leanest transmission and distribution price reforms The company acting as an agency has traded 11.89 billion The approval of cross-provincial and cross-regional power kilowatt hours of electricity, which accounted for more transmission price is promoted in a professional manner than 11.1 % of the total agent electricity traded within the The Company takes its responsibility to its millions of customers very serious, seeking a conscious effort for every staff's daily work and company’s service territory. providing people with access from “electricity”, to “good electricity”. Reducing electric power Production and construction consumption costs of Grid dispatch customers by RMB 54.5 The Guangdong Power Grid Company has The power supply bureaus in all 66 cities and regions implemented a streamlined project that has increased of the entire network have established an integrated the balance of production project progress while control and operation mechanism to dispatch and managing security and capital risks. directly monitor and control equipment, greatly billion throughout During the first three quarters of Year 2017, project improving daily production and incident response the year progress reached a year-on-year increase of efficiency. Steadily advancing electric power market The coverage rate of centralized monitoring of 38.4% transformer station of the entire network reached development Launching incremental power distribution reforms in an orderly manner 1 2 94.5% The provincial-level electric power trading centers within the company’s service territory were all established and an The company takes the initiative to assist the government 3 4 electricity market system with effective competition was in with special distribution network planning and technical Low-voltage meter reading Electricity power supply insurance place. During Year 2017, 268 billion kilowatt hours of intrastandards establishment so as to attract social capital The Hainan Power Grid Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Power The Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd., introduced provincial market-based electricity were sold, accounting to incremental power distribution. The first group of 20 Supply Bureau Co., Ltd., and Shenzhen Power Supply a new process-wide platform for the management and Bureau Co., Ltd., track real-time customer information control of claim settlements to improve the management for 30.1 % of the total electricity sold by the company. projects within the company’s service territory was all coon power consumption and resolve customers' efficiency of insurance and Reducing the social impact The company has established and perfected market funded by different parties. concerns about power consumption in a professional of power supply incidents. rules and trading technology platforms to standardize the The company has incorporated 219 independent power and timely manner through the improvement of lowPower supply liability insurance management voltage meter reading which uses a full-caliber electric trading institutions at both company and provincial levels. supply districts and achieved breakthroughs in regional efficiency increased by 23% on year-on-year accounting rate. basis The company has kept increasing trading varieties. The grid reforms in Laibin (Guangxi Autonomous Region) and Baoshan (Yunnan Province). Low-voltage meter reading coverage reached 23% spot market development has been included in the first batch of national pilots and officially launched. 100% 58 59 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Reforms in state-owned enterprises Internal system reforms Promoting Joint Development and assets The company is further pursuing the industry development strategy of prioritizing grid business, developing comprehensive energy and Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction The company keeps improving the state-owned assets supervision Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR financial services and expanding the global market and has built a Leading the Sustainable Governments, Suppliers, Safeguarding the Rights One kilowatt hour of electricity system, actively and prudently carries out reforms of mixed diversified business sector closely centering around the value chain Development of the Value Subcontractors, Power and Interests of Partners supports 13.64 yuan of GDP ownership and adheres to improving quality and efficiency to help Chain Generators and Serving Regional within the company’s service of the electric power industry, and promoted industrial transformation China's economy enter a new era of high quality development. Development territory through internal system reforms, thus laying a deep and solid foundation for sustainable development. CSG joins hands with value-chain partners for sustainable development, creates an open and transparent responsibility ecological circle, and shares the achievements of reforms and openning-up, jointly serving the economic transformation and upgrading of the five Promoting classification control Gradually improving internal institutional mechanisms provinces the company serves. Reducing electric power consumption costs of customers by RMB54.5 billion throughout the year. The company has promoted reforms in corporate business The company keeps optimizing the establishment of institutions and subsidiary classification. It prompts all branch companies at all levels, steadily restructures the Power Generation and subsidiaries to launch corporate reforms and has Company, promotes reforms and development of transmission Transparent material management comprehensively restructured 138 subsidiaries. and distribution companies in an orderly manner and basically establishes a new materials and tendering and bidding CSG advocates responsible procurement, strictly implements fair, open and impartial procurement, and promotes lean management of quality and The company has made substantial progress in cooperation management system featuring separating management and logistics to improve procurement efficiency. with local governments. In December 2017, Yunnan Baoshan implementation . Industrial and Trade Park Electricity Distribution and Retail Co., Ltd., jointly funded by Yunnan Power Grid Co., Ltd. and Baoshan The company also accelerates reforms of enterprises under Power Grid Co., Ltd., was established to promote industrial collective ownership. It has formulated a working plan to this 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ The company has founded China Southern Grid Materials Co., Ltd. and actively planned to establish upgrading and development. end, completing basics research and analysis of 134 collectively provincial material companies to separate the supervision and implementation of bidding. owned enterprises throughout the year. The centralized procurement The company has improved the centrality and standardization of procurement at both headquarter rate Promoting pilot programs of mixed ownership reforms in Qianhai Achievements of streamlining and strengthening Implementating accountability and subsidiary level. The centralized procurement at these two levels reached RMB58.72 billion 96.9% The company works hard to ensure that bidding and procurement are conducted on its online The company keeps promoting the mixed reform pilot programs of The company comprehensively promotes streamlining and bidding platforms. The company's e-commerce system is awarded certification at the highest level, Qianhai, organizes reform and development outlines for Qianhai pilot strengthening as well as quality and efficiency improvement, and with more than 45,000 items purchased online. companies, and actively injects electric power supply assets. Three carefully carries out the reforms of the state-owned enterprises types of businesses, namely, power supply companies, marketto reduce management layers and the number of legal persons. oriented electricity sales and integrated power services, have taken The management layers have all been reduced to 4 layers, and The company keeps reducing the amount of asset reserves (in ten-thousand yuan) to increase off in an orderly manner in Qianhai, playing an effective role in the the number of legal persons has decreased by 163, fully meeting inventory turnover ratio. The turnover ratio of pilot programs of mixed ownership reforms. SASAC’s assessment requirements. conventional reserve Optimizing Warehousing The company works out special solutions to project materials returned to effectively reduce waste materials reached and Logistics generated during the construction process The company carries out lean management in community-level teams, strengthens 7S management 722% and on-site improvement and promotes the use of barcode to improve work efficiency Barcode proves highly useful in warehouses During Year 2017, Chongzuo Power Supply Bureau of Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. took the lead in implementing the V1.0 pilot program of barcode mobile applications materials, and systematically carried out warehouse system modeling, basic data collection, material information tag specification, and barcode application training. In July 2017, Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. fully promoted the pilot operation of mobile applications. This is also a successful application of mobile Internet in the lean management CSG’s warehousing, effectively improving the precision of management information The mobile terminal barcode is so convenient that it will make our job easier. and reducing the excessive number of frontline ——Huang Lingling, a warehousing executive from the Warehousing and Delivery staff. Division of Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. The night view of Qianhai, Shenzhen 60 61 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Sustainable value chain Facilitating the Development of the Five Provinces the Company Serves CSG gives full play to its role as a bond between different parties. It establishes strategic partnership with power plants to secure power supply. It also helps suppliers and contractors to improve their ability to perform responsibilities, builds sustainable value chains, and provides strong, green, and CSG performs the task assigned by the central government for stable growth, restructuring, and public welfare, helping the five provinces it serves smart support for the five southern provinces it serves to achieve their development goals of the new era. to successfully achieve the annual economic and social development goals. Guangdong Province Taking the Lead in Building a Moderately Guangxi Autonomous Region Prosperous Society in All Respects Striving to Write a New Chapter for the CSG aims to build itself into a world-class Development of Guangxi in the New Era Government Communities Upstream Power Plants integrated energy services provider to make CSG has built a safe, reliable, green, and new contributions to province's mission of efficient smart grid to provide strong support Paying Taxes in Accordance accumulated service time Consumption of Clean Energyand with the Law Profits and amounted to nearly 180,000 Dispatching of Electric PowerClean building a moderately prosperous society and for socialist modernization in Guangxi. Taxes: 49.5 billion yuan hours Energy Accounted for 50.8 % speeding up socialist modernization. Yunnan Province Guizhou Speeding up the Building of a Beautiful Guiyang Yunnan Kunming Guangdong Guangxi CSG assists Yunnan in strengthening local 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ Yunnan Demand Nanning Guangzhou energy sector and gives a full play to the Shenzhen role the company plays in boosting local Increasing 300,000 employees development. Productivity and Electric power supply covers an area of 1 Haikou Reducing Impact Hainan million square kilometers. on Environment Hainan Province Through Reliable Grid construction investment reached 81.7 billion yuan. Guizhou Province Building a Beautiful Hainan and Effective Creating a Brand New Future for Guizhou Electric Power CSG has evidently increased its ability of F e a t u r i n g A ff l u e n c e a n d a B e a u t i f u l Supply. serving the people by providing quality electric Environment power and thus has been able to meet the CSG accelerates the the transformation needs of Hainan to succeed in building a and upgrading of rural grids to achieve full moderately prosperous society in all respects. coverage of smart meters and low-voltage meter reading, sparing no efforts in helping Guizhou tackle poverty alleviation and build a well-off society in an all-round way. Shenzhen Contractors Suppliers Guangzhou Building a Global Innovation Hub of Building a Leading Socialist Global City with Sustainable Development Chinese Characteristics Construction safety Transparent Procurement and Accountability CSG adheres to the new development CSG speeds up the transition to an integrated Enhancement philosophy and aids Shenzhen in piloting energy services providers and supports socialist modernization. Guangzhou in building a high-quality and CSG builds a contractor management system with an optimized The company actively carries out assessment of supplier high-level moderately prosperous society in mechanism to promote the building of an integrity system. The qualifications, adding such evaluation indicators as environmental all respects. company, using the information system, has completed the management system, occupational health and safety management registration and filing of 6,268 contractors, and carried out a mark system, employee social security coverage, participation in disaster During Year 2014 to 2017 GDP output In 2017, GDP output per kilowatt hour deduction and evaluation mechanism based on their violation of relief or emergency contribution, participation in social welfare per kilowatt hour of electricity in the five of electricity in the five provinces the related rules and regulations. Contractor evaluation is conducted undertakings, on-site occupational safety protection measures, etc. provinces the company serves (unit: yuan) company serves (unit: yuan) 26.7 every six months and the evaluation results will be applied to project in supplier's qualification assessment criteria to guide and encourage 24.7 14 13.64 25 bidding. suppliers to actively fulfill their social responsibilities. 12.96 13 20 The company strengthens safety education of the contractor through 12.2 All suppliers are certificated by the Quality 11.92 14.6 education, training, instruction manuals, on-site guidance, etc., 100% Management System (QMS) 12 15 10.9 14.1 10.8 9.8 urging contractors to deploy safety management personnel and 11 10 increase awareness of safety production and self-protection. of the suppliers are certificated by the 10 5 In order to promote infrastructure contractors' Safety Risk 91.93% Environmental Management System (EMS) 0 0 Management System Construction, the company has evaluated 283 infrastructure contractors, eliminating one diamond-level 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Guangdong Guangxi Yunnan Guizhou Hainan Guangzhou Shenzhen of the suppliers are certificated by the Occupation Province Autonomous Province Province Province infrastructure contractor and degrading 26 diamond-level and three 90.16% Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) Region star-level infrastructure contractors. Note: GDP output per kilowatt hour = GDP/overall electric power consumption Based on actual business performance of the company, the data of Guangdong is calculated excluding Guangzhou and Shenzhen. 62 63 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body International Exchanges and Cooperation Fulfilling Overseas Social Responsibilities and Undertaking the Belt and Road Initiative Corporate Main Stakeholders Responsibility Issues Key Performance Hiring Locals to Support Local Socio-Economic CSG has offered disaster relief, properly relocated Introduction Responsibility Value Involved Covered Indicators Development immigrants and contributed to local public welfare. Expanding Circle of Foreign Governments, Undertaking the Belt Overseas assets have risen by Friends and Extending Counterparts, Local and Road Initiative and 9.3 billion yuan, accounting for Influence Communities Participating in International 3.9% of the total Cooperation CSG hires locals in project construction, creates more job All these have benefited local people and established a responsible opportunities locally, raises foreign employees’ awareness of safety image of Chinese companies. and quality, provides skills training to make foreign employees CSG undertakes the Belt and Road Initiative by participating in power cooperation experts and benefit from such activities. All these cement the After rare wind disasters at the Hardmoauk resettlement site in along the Belt and Road friendship between China and other countries. Bokeo Province, Laos and severe flooding in Myanmar, CSG actively offered disaster relief and won praise from the local people Currently Vinh Tan project has hired more than 1850 Vietnamese and government. During the construction of Nam Tha 1 Hydropower New Progress in Interconnection workers, 66.1% of the total.Nam Tha 1 Hydropower Project has Project, CSG built high-standard resettlement villages, hospitals, hired more than 770 Laotian workers, 61.6% of the total. schools, roads and other facilities to improve the living standards of CSG has earnestly undertaken the Belt and Road Initiative the local people. The company got the companies and employees advocated by President Xi Jinping, the five types of connectivity, involved in Vietnamese project to donate school supplies to local as well as the new development concepts. It actively promotes poverty-stricken students and build entertainment rooms in an effort grid interconnection and power cooperation with neighboring to bring tangible benefits the local people. countries for a shared social and economic growth through negotiation consultation and cooperation. CSG’s grid is 0QFSBUJOH&DJFODZ connected to Vietnam, Laos, and Myanmar through 12 circuits of 110 kV and above. By the end of 2017, the power had amounted Extensive people-to-people exchanges are conducted to promote connectivity to 51.65 billion kWh, which has played an active role in promoting the optimal allocation of regional resources. Li Qingkui, Board Chairman of CSG, visited the site of Vinh Tan I Coal-Fired Power Plant BOT Project in Vietnam Providing financial assistance to students from CSG has held training for power technicians from GMS countries to study in China neighboring countries The night view of Qianhai, Shenzhen High Standard and Quality Construction Project Since 2010, 77 students from Mekong countries have studied For more than a decade, CSG has carried out professional in China with the help of CSG. At present, a total of 39 graduate technology training for 25 batches of 413 people from neighboring Vinh Tan I Coal-Fired Power Plant BOT Project (Vietnam) Nam Tha 1 Hydropower Project students and undergraduates from the Mekong countries, funded by countries in power markets, power dispatching and UHV CSG, are studying at Guangxi University and Kunming University of transmission technologies. Located in Binh Thuan Province, Vietnam, Vinh Tan I Coal-Fired The Nam Tha 1 hydropower station is located in Bokeo Science and Technology. The cultivation of foreign students helps Power Plant employs two 600 MW supercritical thermal power Province, Laos, with an installed capacity of three 56 MW units. promote people-to-people connectivity . units, using the most advanced power generation technology in A ground-breaking ceremony was held in December 2013. The the world. It can reduce CO2 emission by about 20,000 tonnes concession agreement and financing agreement were signed in per year, creating a technologically advanced, safe, reliable, 2014. On November 6, 2015, the river closure was successfully International Exchanges and Cooperation green and environmently-friendly demonstration power plant. implemented. The three units of the project are expected to July 18, 2015 marked the groundbreaking ceremony of the be fully operated in December 2018. This will promote local CSG keeps expanding foreign exchanges and cooperation channels and the social circle, joins international organizations and participates in standard project. It is expected that the first unit will be put into operation in economic and social development and greatly improve the living setting to increase international influence and voice. September 2018 and the other in March 2019. This will effectively standards of the people in the old revolutionary areas. relieve the electricity shortage in southern Vietnam and contribute to greater cooperation and friendship between China and CSG’s multilateral and bilateral exchanges and CSG has actively participated in international Vietnam. cooperation mechanisms have been consolidated conventions and exhibitions and extended new platforms for international exchanges and CSG has participated in the 7th Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao cooperation Power Industry Summit, the 4th Power Utility Summit for LancangMekong Countries and the 2nd CSG-KPX-TEPCO Summit, giving full play to the leading role of the company in the summit mechanism As the vice chairman company of GO15, CSG actively participates and continuously consolidating international influence and right of in meetings at all levels. The company has joined the Power Trading discourse. The company has promoted exchanges and cooperation Association, China Chamber of International Commerce, opening with all parties through summits. The company has renewed the up a new platform for international technology exchanges. The Memorandum of Understanding with the Royal Group of Cambodia company attended 2017 annual conference and overseas sub-forum and signed an exchange and cooperation agreement with the U.S. of Boao Forum For Asia, the 14th China-ASEAN Expo, APEC CEO Energy Foundation. The company has reciprocal high-level visits Summit, BRICS Business Forum 2017, 2017 Fortune Global Forum, with EVN, KEPCO etc. and received 52 foreign delegations, 374 and other well-known international conferences and exhibitions, people in total, expanding its social circle and influence. constantly improving its international brand image. The HVDC transmission technology exchange meeting was jointly held by ONS Vinh Tan I Coal-Fired Power Plant BOT Project Nam Tha 1 Hydropower Project and CSG in Guangzhou to lay a solid foundation for the company to deliver transnational technical services. 64 65 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Answering the Party Central Committee's Call In our Party, each and every one of us must always breathe the same breath as the people, share the same future, and stay truly connected to them. The aspirations of the people to live a better life must always be the focus of our efforts. The wellbeing of the people is the fundamental goal of development. We must do more to improve the lives and address the concerns of the people, and use development to strengthen areas of weakness and promote social fairness and justice. We should make steady progress in ensuring people’ s access to childcare, education, employment, medical services, elderly care, housing, and social assistance. We will intensify poverty alleviation, see that all our people have a greater sense of fulfillment as they contribute to and gain from development, and continue to promote well-rounded human development and common prosperity for everyone. *Excerpt from the report delivered at the 19th CPC National Congress CSG in Action CSG puts the employee first while setting strict requirements for them, so as to ensure they can work and live happily, obtain all-round development and share the company's benefits of reforms and development. CSG adheres to the enterprise tenet of people's electric industry for the people . To meet the people's 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ ever-growing power demand for better life is taken as our goal;l promoting social development and national harmony and continuing to enhance the people's sense of fulfillment and wellbeing. Social 66 Harmony 67 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body For the Happiness of the People, Bringing Warmth to Society Key Issues Management For the Happiness of the People, Key Issues Continuously enhancing people's sense of fulfillment and happiness. Improving employees' aense of wellbeing These have been CSG's constant pursuit. Implementing targeted poverty alleviation policies 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ With the people-oriented approach, let's grow together. Serving the construction of beautiful countryside We strive for the happiness of every employee; Enthusiastically engaging in public social welfare We advance rural revitalization and implement targeted poverty alleviation. Major Action Strategies On the road to building a well-off society, We leave no ethinic group or village behind; Protecting the rights and interests of employees, and striving to provide employees with more substantial benefits, a broader space for development, and a more comfortable working atmosphere, We promote the socialist core values, so as to enhance their sense of well-being. practice the traditional virtues of the Chinese nation. The transformation and upgrading of rural power grids will help the construction of beautiful countryside and inject strong impetus into rural development. Help the poor, protect the elderly and love the young. It is what we all need to do. CSG gives full play to its professional advantages, conduct targeted poverty alleviation, and engage in social public welfare with full commitment. Core Management Performance RMB34.1 billion has been invested in the new rural power grid transformation. The total amount of donations for foreign aid reached RMB101.14 million. 179,000 people received direct support and were lifted out of poverty. 68 69 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Care and Love for Employees Introduction Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR Safeguarding internal Employees, the government Rights protection, staff Social insurance coverage Staff Training Assessment and Incentives harmony development, employee care reached 100%. In the promotion and reform of education and training institutions. CSG CSG improved the management of the Chairman's Award Fund, highlighting CSG insists on putting people first, actively safeguarding the rights and interests of all staff members, and supporting their professional works to build a modern vocational training system which is geared towards the assessment and rewards for emerging businesses, established a lean the career development of all staff members. management assessment and incentive mechanism, as well as reviewed development while striving to create a healthy, energetic and warm corporate atmosphere, thus continuously enhancing staff member's performance salary distribution. sense of fulfillment and wellbeing. Improving supporting resources of training. Throughout the year, CSG built CSG deepened the training, evaluation, certification, and employment 53 skill training rooms and 258 simple training fields according to local mechanism, and boosted the transformation of employees from I'm required 4.05% conditions. to learn to I want to learn. A total of 66,654 frontline employees passed the assessment test throughout the year. Education Keeping innovating training methods. A new model of hybrid teaching was 17.75% 18.92% Background of the Based on production needs and job requirements, CSG held competitions established which included a combination of concentrated learning and 35.41% online learning, theoretical study and practical application, and on-campus on communication, network security, and chemistry and other skills. Ten Age Structure of the Staff 19.20% Staff company technical experts were selected through those competitions. training and off-campus experience. 29–Year-Old and below Postgraduate and above 30-39-Year-Old Undergraduate 40-49-Year-Old 10.83% Junior College 35.43% 27.90% 50-Year-Old and above Secondary Technical School 30.51% High School and below 6532 Number of Training Sessions: CSG obtained RMB 4.386 million of incentive funds from governments at all Safeguarding Employees’ Rights and Supporting Staff Development Staff Training Rate: 96.3% levels for personnel development. Interests 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ The Project of Exploration and Construction on Organizational Learning Development System in Shenzhen” CSG strictly abides by labor laws and regulations as well as labor Staff development is the driving force for any company's growth. won the training industry’s Oscar policies. The Company respects the' privacy of each staff member, CSG has been continuously enriching its staff training system, optimizes the pay distribution mechanism, smooth communication improving the assessment incentive mechanism, and building a Association of Talent Development (ATD) Excellent Practice Award channels. The Company respects and protect employees' legal multi-channel career development system to stimulate the growth rights, and actively build harmonious and stable labor relations. and vitality of staff. The Company follows all tenants of professional, fair and open recruitment Officials Management and hiring, and works to eliminate all form of employment discrimination. Collective contracts were signed according to the law, with a labor contract CSG has further regularized and institutionalized the requirements signing rate of 100%. for all Party members to have a solid understanding of the Party CSG has established a salary distribution mechanism that gives priority to Constitution, Party regulations, and related major policies. The efficiency and maximum fairness. The company strictly implements national Company solidly promotes the construction of primary-level and local social security mechanisms, securing 100% coverage of social party organizations and the development of Party members, and insurance coverage throughout the year. continues to improve the mechanism for selecting and employing The company launched the first professional The Company has been dilligent in making substantial improvements in the staff so as to train outstanding officials for the company's reforms skills competition for distribution posts enterprise democratic management system with the Workers' Congress and development. as the basic form, strengthening the system of inspection by employee representatives, and consolidated the achievements of the certification of The Company increased the selection and training of young officials and From November 20th to November 24th, 2017, openness for factory affairs. The proportion of staff participating in the trade accelerate the deployment of young officials around the age of 30 in the the first professional skills competition for power union is 100%, and the reply rate of the labor union chairpersons at all levels third-tier units. Meanwhile, CSG quickened the implementation of the distribution was held at the Qinghe No. 2 Base of the also stands at 100%. professional manager system in CSG Energy Efficiency & Clean Energy Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau. The competition Co., Ltd. and Dinghe Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. had expanded the cable production, overhead CSG has formulated and implemented the Company's three-year occupational health management work plan, organized training courses on The company has adapted to the situation of leadership of the 17 branches line operation inspection and other projects on the occupational health management, and initiated the design and development and subsidiaries. Through in-depth discussions with local and regional basis of the distribution network live work skills of occupational health management modules. The annual physical officials, senior managers work to obtain full understanding of their thoughts, competition, and adopted new methods such as examination coverage rate is 100%. work and life conditions. In Year 2017, a total of 311 people from departmentrandom selection of contestants, using scanning level managers and 4,658 people from division-level managers were called for talks. code, face recognition, iPad on-site assessment, monitoring along with on-site assessment and other CSG has established at working mechanism for party committees at all technological means to comprehensively review and Total number of Proportion of female levels to connect with service experts, supporting their expertise. Company improve the skills of the distribution staff. employees employees Per capita paid leave officials also worked to integrate these technical experts, overseas high-level 300,000 25.43% 9 days talents and post-doctoral personnel in a continued effort to advance the plan for outstanding innovative talents in the west and promote the coordinated development of talents in the easternw and western regions. 70 71 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Building CSG in Pursuit Devotion to Universal Services of Happiness Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction The company implemented the CPC Central Committee Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR and the State Council's Reform Plan for the Staff Guaranteeing people's Employees, communities, Serving agriculture, rural RMB34.1 billion was invested in rights to use electricity and the government areas, and rural people Year 2017 during the latest round Construction of Industrial Workers in the New Era, of rural power grid transformation. strengthened the ideological and political leadership of employees and promoted the improvement of employees' CSG takes the initiative to assume responsibilities of power universal services, and strives to solve unbalanced and inadequate power quality, dedicated to serving the staff. development issues, in the hope that it can help rural areas change from electricity-available to electricity-convenient , thus ultimately serving rural development strategies. CSG keeps forging three brands, namely, CSG Model Workers, CSG Artisans, and CSG Makers . It creates a sound atmosphere of advocating, learning from and Promoting Rural Power Grids Upgrading Improving Rural Ecological Environment trying to become the advanced employees to obtain a happy life through hard work. By strengthening the grid structure, increasing the capacity of CSG actively carries out rural electrification, increases the level transformers, and upgrading old lines, the quality of rural power grids of rural electrification, and reduces harmful emission brought by was improved and rural power supply capacity equally enhanced. agricultural development. In 2017, there were more than 1,800 Since October 1st, 2017, 8 subway lines in Beijing, 1605 CSG accelerates its pace to resolve issues concerning rural power electrification items for agricultural products processing, with an high-speed railways in Beijing-Guangzhou and Beijingconsumption “bottlenecks” of low voltage and dynamic electricity. By estimated replacement capacity of approximately 9.5 million kWh, Shanghai, and Wangfujing Commercial Street in Beijing releasing rural electricity demands, and supporting rural breeding, equivalent to a reduction of approximately 2736 tonnes of standard have presented public posters for the 18 Party member agricultural product processing and other industries, the Company coal and a reduction of approximately 7278 tonnes of carbon dioxide Idols selected by the State-owned Assets Supervision directly injects impetus into the development of China's beautiful emission. and Administration Commission of the State Council countryside. (SASAC). They are idols, role models, and the best interpretation of the spirit of state-owned enterprises in Rural Network Comprehensive Line Loss Rate (Unit: %) the new era. Overhaul leader He Mantang and Sansha Docking Relocation of Supporting Grid construction 4.99 5 4.39 Party Service Team were selected. 4.07 4.29 CSG proactively cooperates with the government in completing 4 the relocation of supporting grid project construction to ensure that 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ 3 where the immigrants relocate, where electricity is available, so Over a five-year period, Sansha Service Team built 2 that immigrants can have access to electricity. During Year 2017, Sansha Yongxing Island from an electric-isolated 1 a total of 2,434 supporting grid projects for relocation sites have island into an electric-affluent island covered by green been completed, which met the electricity demand of approximately 0 smart micro-networks. They are a group of pioneers, 790,000 relocated households. 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) innovators, and builders who use the power of technology and the spirit of dedication to light up every household in Sansha City. The establishment of the Sansha Power Supply Bureau gave them opportunities to cultivate their characters and enhance their ability, and also offered them a stage to realize the value of life. 50 50 50 0Hz The Happiest Hz Hz Focusing on the construction of a Staff Home , CSG Fully promoting the construction of Caring Mummy Hut . A plaque implants the concept of lean management as well as awarding and experience exchange meeting was held to commend benchmarking for improvement. Its work pattern is based 53 Caring Mummy Hut demonstration sites and 53 Caring Ambassadors . on the principle of universal home building, focusing on achieving standards and upgrading quality, and features Caring for all staff members. With secondary units serving as level-to-level construction and administration. Throughout the main body, CSG continually improves the standardization the year, 150 million yuan was invested to improve of its support mechanisms. Blessings and benefits come from working and living conditions as well as cultural activities participating in festivals … as well as celebrating birthdays and of employees in 2218 primary stations. During 2017, a other special events are part pf the CSG staff experience and a full expression of the Company's care for its staff. total of 34 five-star staff model homes and 65 five-star staff model standard homes were built to enhance all staff member's sense of fulfillment and belonging. Providing Sufficient Electric Power to Support the Development of Pitaya Demonstration Garden in Yiling Valley, Wuming, Nanning City of Guangxi Autonomous Region 72 73 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Bringing Warmth to Society Implementing Targeted Poverty Alleviation CSG positively responds to the nation’s call for targeted poverty alleviation. Adhering to precision, quality, long-term effectiveness , it builds a poverty Corporate Social Main stakeholders Responsibility issues Key performance Introduction Responsibility value involved covered indicators of CSR alleviation linkage system and works out a special route for poverty alleviation, thus contributing to the nationwide poverty alleviation efforts. The Building a harmonious Employees, the public, the Charity, volunteer services, 179,000 people received direct company was invited to be a member of the State Council Leading Group for Poverty Alleviation and Development. And Party Secretary and Chairman society government targeted poverty alleviation support and were lifted out of Li Qingkui was included as a member of the Group. poverty We set up a leading group for poverty alleviation and five major mechanisms Based on the power industry's main business to participate in poverty CSG pays close attention to social livelihood issues, uses its core strength to carry out targeted poverty alleviation, supports regional for poverty alleviation, namely, the system of responsibility, system, work, alleviation, we aim at facilitating the special poverty alleviation path of five development, and enthusiastically engages in social welfare. It integrates social development needs into daily business activities, lights supervision and evaluation. combinations . up every household and brings warmth to communities. Enthusiastically Engaging in Social Types of Donation Amount (unit: ten thousand yuan) Welfare Industrial Poverty Alleviation Combined The Policy of Every Household linked up with Targeted Poverty Alleviation with One Another Relief donation 9758 CSG is actively involved in social welfare undertakings by participating in charitable donations and encouraging employees' CSG invested RMB40.2 billion in 216 impoverished counties in the CSG is committed to promoting the long-term development of volunteer services, thus injecting its power into social welfare 1. Donation to disaster-affected 0 five southern provinces it serves to speed up rural grid upgrades collective industries, lifting poverty-stricken villages out of poverty, and areas and meet poverty alleviation needs accurately implementing household assistance according to the actual undertakings. conditions of poor households. 2. Donation to targeted poverty 9714 Since the 18th National Congress, the Company has been Charity .CSG actively participates in disaster relief, education assistance, alleviation areas entrusted by the State Council with fix-point poverty alleviation medical assistance, infrastructure construction, etc., and uses the power of 3. Other relief donations 44 challenges in Guangxi Donglan County and Yunnan Weixi County enterprise development to help people in impoverished areas and vulnerable Special Targeted poverty alleviation combined as well as 761 targeted villages by five provincial and district Party groups to create a better life. poverty with rural construction committees and governments at all levels, for a total investment of Non-profit donation 181 RMB350 million . alleviation path of five CSG aligns its targeted poverty alleviation programs with rural Volunteer Service .CSG established a voluntary service system entitled Net revitalization, for the concentrated development of rural industries and Corporation-Member Corporations-Power Supply Bureaus of Various CitiesPoverty Alleviation Combined with combinations the latent prosperity of rural people's livelihood. County Companies (Power Supply Bureau) , and a coordinating voluntary 1. Donation to the development of 78 Inspiration Encouragement and Education 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ service team. The Company encourages all staff members to participate in education, culture, sports, and health volunteer services, and created Youth Lights up Every Household volunteer 2. Other public welfare donations 103 CSG pays attention to complementing the spiritual shortcomings service brand and volunteer service sub-brands such as Happy Kitchen . Typical Driving Combined with Overall of the poor and supports them in taking actions with enthusiasm With practical actions, CSG has been truly furthering its volunteer spirit. Propulsion and improving their competence. During Year 2017, units affiliated to CSG at all levels set up 336 volunteer Other donations 175 service teams in total, conducted more than 3,000 volunteer service activities, and served around 740,000 person-time and accumulated service CSG does a good job of building party organizations, mentoring CSG highly values the selection of advanced models of povertytime amounted to nearly 180,000 hours. The Amount of Outward Donations 10114 party members to take leadership opportunities in achieving stricken officials. In 2017, three poverty-relief officials fighting at prosperity, motivating the poor to change their business practices the frontline of poverty alleviation were selected as the 5th Session and increase their innate power to shake off poverty. Moving CSG individuals. CSG won the Guangdong Province Kapok Cup Gold Cup for two consecutive years. Poverty-stricken people's electricity consumption, dynamic electricity supply, and the power supply quality are all ensured. With the direct help of CSG, 280 poor villages and 179,000 people were lifted out of poverty during Year 2017. The governance capabilities of the primary organizations under the C o m p a n y ’s d i r e c t i o n h a v e b e e n significantly increased. Conducting Lei Feng Volunteer Activities Longmei, CSG's first secretary staying at the Yongmo village of Donglan County, talks with the elderly. 74 75 2017 CSR Report Main Body 2017 CSR Report Main Body Innovation Path, Precision and Effectiveness Devoted to Shouldering Responsibilities, Obtaining Recognition The Company is fixed on targeted poverty alleviation and has adapted measures to meet local conditions with a coordinated poverty alleviation After reaching out to the Guangxi Autonomous Region and Yunnan program, including fixed-point ones in the power industry. CSG constantly explores innovative poverty alleviation paths and effectively meets its Provincial Party Committee Organization Department, CSG responsibilities as a vibrant central enterprise. sent 11 poverty alleviation officials to Donglan County and Weixi County. After these poverty-alleviation officials came to work in the village, they closely followed the requirements for targeted poverty alleviation, actively seeking support for government funding projects, and injecting themselves into the poverty-stricken population, and exchanged their thoughts with local residents. A number of advanced models such as Long Mei and Yang Sijun were repeatedly Establishing an Internet+Poverty Alleviation applauded by relevant leaders of the central and provincial Exploring Ways of Rendering Support Vigorously Carrying out Industrial Poverty Alleviation Platform governments, winning support and recognition from people in thses In the process of aiding Weixi County, CSG established the The Company has intensified efforts in rural grid reforms in the poverty-stricken areas. CSG developed a new Light up Well-off Life application, set up Weixi County Special Agricultural Products Poverty Alleviation five southern provinces we serve, promoting special construction donation assistance modules such as dream recognition, love CSG's first secretary, Mr. Yang Sijun quickly engaged in the work in Company in cooperation with the county government. Through a projects such as upgrading rural grids in small towns and central Yangfang Village, Taijiang County of Guizhou Province. He did a lot in the pairing, and combined with company volunteer service activities to company+base+farmer (cooperative) operating model, CSG has villages, powering rural wells and delivering dynamic electricity in introduction of excellent crop varieties and assistant locals into the sales of provide a communication and assistance platform for employees, their agricultural products with significant results. He was then praised by helped Weixi County nurture and develop characteristic agricultural poor rural areas. In these and many other ways, the Company has social forces and poor villages on the Internet, which successfully Comrade Zhao Leji, member of the Politburo of the CPC Central Committee industries. During Year 2017, Company sales volume of agricultural channeled significant resources into solving specific challenges helped the poor village children realize 355 dreams. and minister of the Central Organization Department. products in Weixi County more than 400 million yuan, which helped including low voltage and impassable dynamic electricity in poor Weixi County establish a platform for producing and selling specialty areas. In December 2017, Dongshan County and Weixi County conducted three agricultural products. levels of satisfaction surveys in villages, townships, and counties, as well as CSG has vigorously developed photovoltaic poverty alleviation questionnaires and interview evaluations on China Southern Power Grid's assistance programs throughout the year. projects as it explores three different operating models of One-Stop Education for Poverty Alleviation corporate+government+poor village , corporate+charity organization and Corporate Support Fund. CSG takes advantage of the company's subordinate power schools to cultivate middle school graduates from Donglan County and Weixi County (extended to Hechi City and Diqing Prefecture), and they are 4PDJBM)BSNPOZ Building demonstration village of targeted poverty alleviation hired to work on the local grid system after graduation. The oneOfficials involved in the surveys at the three levels of villages, stop solution settles problems like the education, employment and townships, and counties, expressed CSG has firmly grasped the essence of target and focuses on the construction of the model village of targeted poverty alleviation. In CSG's subjects of counterpart support, 12 sites of targeted poverty alleviation demonstration villages were identified, 12 indicators were formulated and six targeted poverty alleviation of students from impoverished families. A total of 184 impoverished students have entered the company's system 100% requirements were implemented in the entire process, ensuring that targeted poverty alleviation and accurate poverty reduction could have a through their studies. satisfaction with CSG's efforts towards poverty alleviation. successful landing. In December 2017, CSG's leading group on poverty alleviation identified the first batch of four demonstration villages for targeted poverty alleviation, which provided demonstrations and accumulated experience for accurately promoting poverty alleviation work. Sketch Map of the First Batch of Targeted Poverty Alleviation Demonstration Villages West Lake Village, Wuhua County of Guangdong Province Guizhou Province Taijiang County Jingmei Village, Jiexi County of Guangdong Province Wuhua County Yunnan Province Donglan County Guangdong Poso Village, Donglan County Guangxi Province of Guangxi Province Jiexi County Provincet Yangfang Village, Taijiang County of Guizhou Province CSG's First Party Secretary Yang Fangyu worked together with villagers throughtout the farmland. 76 77 2017 CSR Report Management 2017 CSR Report Management Responsibility Management Responsibility Governance Responsibility Exchanges CSG has established a three-tiered system of social programs. CSG enthusiastically exchanges ideas with its counterparts, scholars and experts, and SOEs directly under the central government. Focusing on the responsibilitywhich includes leadership, management, and UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, CSG actively contributes its wisdom and energy to the global community for its sustainable development. These best practice provide reference markers which improves the quality execution. It covers the Company's headquarters, branches and of this CSR Report preparation as the Company carefully analyzes its best subsidiaries, and conducts focused social responsibility work. In social responsibility management and practice. 2017, this social responsibility outreach work was handled by the Public Relationsl Department., forming a new management model The Company has concluded its experience in targeted poverty alleviation Target 11 Target 9 Target 1 which integraed brand, culture and practice with responsibility as its services and issued its first White Paper on Accurate Poverty Alleviation by core elements. the China Southern Power Grid Corporation (2013-2017). This “white paper” Sustainable Cities Industry, Innovation Eliminating All Forms document serves to exemplify CSG's efforts and achievements in leveraging and Communities and Infrastructure of Poverty in the its expertise, resources and technology to support the development of poor World Responsibility Research areas and help build a prosperous society. May 2017 September 2017 January 2018 The 7 th Guangdong-Hong KongThe 4th Energy Forum and International First Corporate Responsibility Forum The Company insists on taking a global perspective view as its Macao Power Utility Summit Top-level Forum on Engineering of SOEs Directly under the Central corporate benchmark, continuously exploring and learning valuable CSG conducted in-depth Science and Technology Development Government experience of advanced CSR management and transforming it communication around issues such as Focusing on promoting in-depth energy CSG conducted peer exchanges into CSG's action, thus continuously improving our level of social creating a community of shared future revolution, we exchanged views with SOEs directly under the central responsibility work. for Guangdong, Hong Kong & Macau with government representatives, government on implementing the Electric Power Companies, promoting scientific and technical experts, etc., central government's call for deepening CSG continuously carries out an empirical level of research in the pages the sustainable development of the on the topic of the effect of generalized targeted poverty alleviation, and sharing of this globally-focused, advanced CSR report and selects excellent urban agglomeration of GuangdongHVDC transmission technology on the CSG's unique approach and results companies including energy and power companies and power equipment Hong Kong-and-Macau Greater Bay development pattern of power grids. of upholding five combinations and suppliers for research exploration. The Company takes the United Nations’ Area, and playing due roles to help building five major systems . 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda as its working thesis and conducts in-depth research on the latest, market-leading social responsibility outreach build Guangdong, Hong Kong, and Macao into a world-class livable and desirable urban agglomeration. Major Honors of Responsibility CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report The report has won the award of CSG Targeted Poverty Alleviation It has won the Responsible The related projects of CSG poverty relief and fixed-point poverty alleviation has been assessed as Five-Star report Golden Bee Outstanding Corporate project was included in the first 2017 Golden Bull Award—Targeted in the electric power industry were listed in 2017 China's Enterprise Poverty by Research Center of Corporate Social Social Responsibility Report Evergreen Central Enterprise Social Responsibility Poverty Alleviation Award in the Alleviation Blue Book as the Excellent Case of Poverty Alleviation, and were Responsibility, Chinese Academy of Social Award for five years in a row. Blue Book by the State-owned Assets Fifth Annual Meeting of China selected as the Most Beautiful Pictures of Poverty Relief and the Most Sciences for seven consecutive years. Supervision and Administration Social Responsibility 100 Forum. Beautiful Poverty Alleviator by Poverty Relief Office of the State Council. Commission of the State Council (SASAC). 78 79 2017 CSR Report Management 2017 CSR Report Management Responsibility Communication Since Year 2013, the Company has held its Social Responsibility Week for five consecutive years, releasing social responsibility 2017 Guangzhou Shenzhen Haikou Sanya reports and the fascicule of corporate social responsibility practices, drew affinitive communications with its key stakeholders to achieve A Total Journey of over Participants of More Than a stronger force of corporate social responsibility and a higher Guangdong 20000 km 10000 level of corporate public transparency. These and other efforts Shenzhen have received positive feedback from all walks of life. During the Social Responsibility Week, CSG invited representatives of varied stakeholders including the SASAC, the China Electricity Council, Haikou mainstream social responsibility agencies, other related central Hainan enterprises and the media to launch a special research program Sanya on the the Social Responsibilities of CSG to visit and survey The research team witnessed in Guangzhou the departure the company's grass-root units for its good practices of social of the first train with the theme of social responsibility report responsibility. in China and all kinds of applications of clean energy and new energy like nuclear power, waste power, electricity transformation and submarine cable. All these serve as strong 2013 Guangzhou Dongguan Shenzhen Nanning evidence for the achievement of CSG's green development of Canton Tower Subway Station Making Guangzhou an Electric and more than 50% of the electricity coming from non-fossil energy. Powerful City: Exhibition of Social Responsibility Guangxi Guangzhou Nanning Dongguan Kunming Nujiang 2016 Shenzhen Nujiang Children in Guangxi Electric Power Science Exhibition Hall Kunming Yunnan The research team visited the China Southern Power Grid's electric vehicle demonstration center, the Dongguan 500kilovolt transformer substation, the Shenzhen Flower Transformer Substation, Wangzhou South Community in Nanning City etc. to learn about CSG's practice of responsibility for electric vehicles, reliable power supply, green power grids, and community construction and other areas. The delegation travelled to border areas in Southwestern China to visit Yundian Technology Park, Nujiang Power Supply Bureau, Dulongjiang Power Supply Bureau and other places and have witnessed that the company has fulfilled its Foshan Zhongshan Leishan County, Guizhou 2014 responsibility to provide high-quality electric power services Nujiang Power Supply Bureau employees serve minority customers for every ethnic minority, which demonstrates CSG's social responsibility of missing out no ethnic minorities. 2015 Jiangmen Zhuhai Shenzhen Dongao Island, Zhuhai Guizhou Leishan Guangdong Guangdong Foshan Zhongshan Zhuhai Shenzhen Jiangmen Dong'ao islands, Zhuhai The research team visited the rooftop photovoltaic installations The research team visited the large-span section of the Taishan Nuclear in modern factory, the self-service payment terminal in modern Power Phase 1 Access System Project, the Hengqin Island Cable Tunnel, community, and finally the Hmong and Dong minority areas in the Power Quality Center of Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau, and the Guizhou Province, which gave them a full knowledge of CSG's Dongao Island Smart Micro-grid System to gain insight into effects of the endeavors in every post and every piece of land to light up every clean energy access, power quality upgrade, smart micro-grid and other household in China. aspects. CSG Lights up Hmong Minority Area The research team boarded Yamen's large span 80 81 2017 CSR Report Management 2017 CSR Report Management Outlook 2018 Ratings and Evaluations Year 2018 will be an important one for profoundly implementing Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the Rating Report of CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017. spirit of the 19th National Congress. It marks the 40th Anniversary of China's reform and opening up and it is a crucial time period for securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and for continuing to implement the 13th Five-Year Plan. Under the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics for a New Era and in the spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress, the Company pledges to Commissioned by China Southern Power Grid, the China Expert Committee for CSR Rating formed a team to rate its Corporate Social Responsibilifollow the energy strategic ideas of five requirements in respect of energy production and consumption revolution (i.e., energy consumption revolution, ty Report 2017 (i.e. Report). energy supply revolution, energy technology revolution, energy system revolution and international cooperation). Under the requirements of high quality development along with supply-side structural reforms, China Southern Power Grid will “pick up the pace” in transforming CSG into a competitive worldclass enterprise and make significant new contributions to securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. I. Rating Basis Comparability (ƾƾƾƾƾ) Compilation Guide to Chinese Corporation's Social Responsibility Report The Report pointed out 44 key indicators, including: sales of electrical (CASS-CSR 3.0) Power Supply Industry and Rating Criteria for Chinese power, total taxes and profits, R&D input, power grid construction Corporation's Social Responsibility Report (2018). investment, environmental benefits from clean energy deployment and social welfare expenditures during the past three consecutive years. The Power Supplies Environmental Protection II. Rating Process Report also made a “horizontal” comparison among National Power Supply Reliability ; Power Measurement Failure and Error Rates and •The process assessment team interviewed major members that compiled Public's Appraisal Satisfaction of Local Government's Public Service as the Report and reviewed relevant information on site well as other data. To enhance the quality of the power grid development, CSG will raise the level of green development, implement The company plans will highlight the systematic solving the requirements of addressing pollution, speed up the •The rating team evaluated the compilation process and the contents of Readability (ƾƾƾƾƾ) the Report before drafting a rating report. challenges of unbalanced and inadequate development of construction of a smart grid adapted to green and lowThis current Report continues with the Company’s ongoing theme of CSG power grids; eliminating major and serious power safety and carbon development, deepen the implementation of the •The rating report was submitted to the Vice Chairman of the Expert Lights Up Every Household in Southern China , which is rich in connotaCommittee for CSR Rating and the leader of the rating team for their equipment incidents and major serious personal injuries. West-to-East Power Transmission strategy, promote tion and fully displays the Company’s excellent responsibility managesignatures. ment and daily business practice. The cover creatively integrates the This will be based upon a customer-centric principle where the optimization of energy structure, and expand the corporation's identity and the design of the opening pages showcases the III. Rating Conclusions Company’s responsibility practice in a panoramic presentation. These China Southern Power Grid is committed to its promise accommodation of non-fossil energy sources to help the designs not only enhance the impact of the Company’s dynamic brand towards constant service improvements whole society to achieve a low carbon development Process (ƾƾƾƾƾ) culture but also highlights CSG’s pursuit of its sensitive social responsibilities. The design style is fresh and simple; the color scheme is harmonious The CSG Public Relations Department has been specifically tasked to The average power outage of customers in the downtown Non-fossil energy electric We will achieve create the Report Compilation Team with participating senior leaders from with the overall atmosphere, which significantly enhances the pleasant 1.78 16.4 sense of the Report and its readability. area does not exceed power accounts for China Southern Power Grid, including the Board Chairman, President and Deputy Secretary of the CSG Leading Party Group guiding this compila50.5% hours TWh tion. The CSG Leading Party Group reviewed and approved the final Innovativeness (ƾƾƾƾƿ) of electric power replacement version of this Report. CSG clearly defined the functions and value of the The Report begins with two key areas of responsibility Lights and Love Report, built a complete report system and compiled Social ResponsibiliAre Full in the Bay Area and Grid of Science and Technology Shows The score of third-party customer satisfaction exceeds of the total. throughout the year ty Management Measures to further strengthen the standardized Innovation-Driven Development which focuses on key policy issues 81 management of Report compilation. All substantial issues were identified 208 regarding the Company’s best business practices and its implementation Power transmitted from on the basis of the corporation's major events, national policies, industry of macro-policies. Taking 50Hz and SDGs as the explicit and implicit the west to east stands at TWh benchmarking analysis, internal and external stakeholder surveys and themes throughout the main chapters, the Report will also presents the investigations and a special conference was held to release the Report, characteristics of CSG's performance of responsibilities and highlights its which will be presented via an electronic (Internet) version, printed version important central state-owned enterprises' duties. Each chapter mirrors and H5 version … all these identified the exceptional performance of CSG the United Nations’ sustainable development goals in the form of SDGs in the process of writing this Report. Activists . The Report also echoes the Company’s practice and effectiveness during key challenges and demonstrates the progress made as well Materiality (ƾƾƾƾƾ) as the corporation's leading responsibilities. Operating Efficiency Social Harmony The Report revealed key issues in the power supply industry, such as: Overall Rating (ƾƾƾƾƾ) guarantee of reliable power supply, power utility in rural/remote areas, improvement of power quality, reduction of power outage time, reinforceIn accordance with the rating team's assessment, CSG Corporate Social We fully promote the law-based enterprise management CSG will deepen the program of employees' ability Responsibility Report 2017 has earned a five-star rating. ment of safety management, promotion of green power supplies, healthy and optimize the allocation of resources with the creation improvement to revitalize the deposit of human resources, operation of electrical equipment, and the improvement of power of value as the core; make supply-side structural reform as deliver excellent universal service as well as bottomIV. Suggestions for Improvement transmission efficiency and safeguarding employees' rights and so on, are the main task and actively release the reform bonus; focus guaranteeing service to facilitate the rural revitalization revealed detailed and elaborate narration. The substantiality of the It is suggested that China Southern Power Grid judiciously enhance the timeliness of the reporting framework which is expected to further develop on the industrial development layout of optimizing main strategy and secure a victory in the fight against poverty. Corporate Social Responsibility of China Southern Power Grid is this innovative CSR Report. grid, enhancing distribution grid and expanding overseas exceptional. business to provide driving force for stronger and better Rating Team We will meet the target of We will complete the grid Completeness (ƾƾƾƾƾ) 24 competitive business. Team Leader: Mr. Zhong Hongwu, Director of Research Center of construction in the first The main contents of the Report systematically revealed that 93.1% of 20 batch of core indicators of the power supply industry from the perspectives of Corporate Social Responsibility, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Electricity Sales: power supply ; green environmental protection ; economic Demonstration Counties Ye a r o n Ye a r performance ; social harmony and responsibility management ... Team Member: Mr. Zhang Xiaosong, Director of Social Responsibility 935 of High Quality Electricity small towns with Chinese therefore, this Report is fully complete. Department of Comprehensive Bureau under the State-owned Assets growth of 5% Consumption TWh characteristics Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council Balance (ƾƾƾƾƾ) (SASAC). The reliability rate of power supply of rural distribution The Report revealed significant “negative” information such as: full caliber Revenue: power outage times, comprehensive line loss rates, incidence of Wang Zhimin, Process Evaluator network will not be lower than 99.78% occupational disease cases throughout the year, human error incidents, 514.5 Ye a r o n Ye a r personal casualty accidents, and level-three electric safety incidents or growth of 4% higher and so on. The Report briefly describes the causes and improvebillion yuan ment measures of the corporation's personal safety incidents and presents an excellent balance between the Company’s social and corporate business responsibilities. Leader of the rating team Vice Chairman of the Rating Expert Committee Scan this code to view corporate rating files 82 83 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation Report Benchmarks Third-Party Evaluations Actions to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals Action: Action: Action: With the direct help of Helped county nurture Organized training courses CSG, 280 poor villages and and develop characteristic on occupational health Director of Business Innovation Department of China 179,000 people were lifted agricultural industries. management,. The annual Cheng Duosheng Enterprise Confederation out of poverty during Year P76 physical examination 2017. coverage rate is 100%. P75-77 P70 The report centers on New . First, it has a new concept. The report closely follows national strategies and the overall situations of CSG's reforms and development. The opening chapter includes the Party Central Committee’s Call and CSG's Action, explaining CSG's initiative 1 Action: 1 Action: Action: to fully implement the requirements of 19th CPC National Congress Report under the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. Second, it has a new perspective. The report communicates with stakeholders on an equal The promotion and reform CSG pays salaries on time Building green substations footing and with the same frequency. A 50Hz column is set up in each chapter to describe CSG's special performance of responsibilities of education and training and strictly complies with inaccordance with the and demonstrate the values created and shared by CSG and its stakeholders. Third, it has a new idea. The report focuses on satisfying institutions. Staff training male and female. Proportion requirements of “saving rate reached 96.3% of female employees en ergy, l an d, wa ter an d the electricity demand of the people who want to live a better life. Prior to the contents of each chapter, it presents with plain words and reached 25.43% materials and protecting beautiful illustrations the company's vision of creating value for shareholders and meeting the needs of people to live a better life. Fourth, it P71 environment” has a new style of management. The innovation of the report is reflected in CSG's new approach of to the report's preparation in which the P70 P45 shareholders participate. Following the process of listening-evaluating-reporting, the preparation of the report functions as a bond between the internal and external shareholders to exchange and communicate with each other. Hopefully, CSG will continue its innovation in the future and contribute more fresh insights and experience to the CSR management in China. 1 Action: Action: Action: Non-fossil energy power Protecting the rights and Increase investment in generation accounts for interests of employees ,to technological innovation and 50.8% of the Company’s enhance all staff member's power grid construction total output. sense of fulfillment and belonging. P16-17 P41-44 P36-37 P70-72 P49-51 1 Action: 1 Action: Action: Yin Gefei Chief Advisor of China WTO Tribune Improving emergency CSG has actively explored CSG takes the initiative to m a n a g e m e n t , ways to maximize the comprehensively use of waste resources, assume responsibilities of enhancing the intrinsic continuously improving power universal services, and safety of the power grid and the recycling rate of waste strives to solve unbalanced its ability to resist disasters and strived to reduce the and provide reliable power impact of waste emissions and inadequate power I am very pleased to see in the report that the Company has made achievements in promoting responsibility management and supplies for economic and on the environment. development issues social development. comprehensively upgrading the ability to perform responsibilities. Firstly, the concept has been updated. The report focuses on implementing Xin Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 19th CPC National P73 P35 P48-51 Congress to clearly express that the key to its social responsibility is to satisfy the electricity demand of people who want to live a better life. Secondly, the management system has been upgraded. The report systematically presents the stakeholders' participation in CSG's performance of social responsibility, which reflects that the company attaches great importance to the concern and attention 1 Action: 1 Action: Action: of stakeholders. Thirdly, the practice has been upgraded. The report has disclosed in depth the responsibility practices of CSG in the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area, technological innovation, consumption of hydroelectric power from Promoting green development Enhancing marine ecology Creating a green project, to from the power side to the and biology protection in the protect biodiversity Yunnan Province, release of reform dividends, and implementation of targeted poverty alleviation in the past year, leaving readers with customer side process of implementing a distinct impression. Fourthly, the performance has been improved. CSG has received 81-point third-party customer satisfaction and P46 Special National Award for Scientific and Technological Progress. It has also transmitted 202.8 billion kWh of electric power from West to P40-51 East, and 27.7 billion kWh of surplus hydropower from Yunnan Province. These fully reflect the Company dedication to its responsibilities. Action: 1 Action: Taking clean atmosphere CSG undertakes the Belt as escort,promoting and Road Initiative by management through audit participating in power cooperation along the Belt P57 and Road P64-65 Note: Goal 14 is not disclosed in detail in the report but are available on the Company's website. 84 85 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation Report Indicators and Indexes About this Report This report is the eleventh annual social responsibility report issued by CSG. The Cover GRI Benchmark CASS-CSR Indicators for Chinese Academy of Social Sciences previous report was released on May 23, 2017while the next one is scheduled to Board Chairman’s Message G4-1/G4-2 RP3.1/ RP3.2 be released in May 2019. Report Review G4-DMA/G4-24/G4-25/G4-26/G4-27/G4-37 RP2.1/RP2.2/RP2.3/RM1.3/RM2.2/RM4.1/RM5.1/RM5.2/RM5.3/RM5.5 Based on the principles of objectiveness, standardization, transparency and Scan for comprehensiveness, the report discloses the company's performance in economic, G4-3/G4-4/G4-5/G4-6/G4-7/G4-8/G4-9/G4-13/G4-14/ more information About Us RM1.1/RA1.1/RA1.2/RA1.3/RA1.4/RA1.5/RA1.7 social, environmental and other aspects. The report is in both Chinese and English. G4-34/G4-35/G4-38/G4-49/G4-56 In case of any discrepancy, Chinese shall prevail. Spotlight (1) G4-EC7/G4-EC8/G4-SO1/ G4-SO2 SP1.9/EP1.6/RA2.1 Spotlight (2) G4-EC6/G4-EC7/G4-EC8/ G4-EC9/ G4-SO1/ G4-SO2 ES6.1/ES6.2/ES6.3/ES6.4/RA2.1 Power Supplies DMA ES1.1/ES1.3/ES1.4/ES1.5/ES1.6/ES1.8/ES1.10/ES3.1/ES3.2/ES3.3/ES3.4/ES3.5/ Key Business Performance G4-PR2/G4-PR3/G4-PR5/G4-PR8/ G4-SO1/ G4-SO2 ES3.6/ES3.7/ES3.8/ES3.9/ES3.10/ES3.12/ES3.14/ES3.15/ES3.16/ES4.2/ES5.1/ES5.5 Time Range of the Report Guaranteeing Safe Operation G4-14/G4-HR7 ES2.1/ES2.5/ES2.6/ES2.7/ES2.9/ RM4.4 The report covers a whole year from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 while some of the contents were extended to enhance the comparability Improving Emergency Capability ES2.4/ES5.2/ES5.3/ES5.4/ES5.6/ES5.7/ES5.8 and perceptiveness of the report. Construction of Smart Grid G4-PR1 / G4-SO2 ES4.1/ES4.5/ES4.6/ES4.7/ES4.8 Subjects of the Report Environmental Protection DMA The report focuses on China Southern Power Grid Company, including its branch companies, subsidiaries, and subordinate bodies. Key Business Performance G4-EN19 /G4-EN21 EP2.1/ EP2.2/ EP2.3/ EP2.4/ EP2.5/ EP2.6/ EP2.8/ EP2.10 Compilation Basis of the Report Construction of Green Grid G4-EN11/G4-EN12/ G4-EN29 EP1.1/ EP1.2/ EP2.13/ EP2.14/ EP3.1/ EP3.2/ EP3.3 Index System of Corporate Social Responsibility of China Southern Power Grid Corporation (CSG-CSR 2.0); Promoting Green Operations G4-EN2/G4-EN23/G4-EN27/ G4-EN30 EP1.5/ EP1.7/ EP1.8/ EP1.9/ EP2.11/ EP2.12/ EP2.15 Guidelines to State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling CSR by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Integrated Energy Services G4-15/G4-16/G4-EN6/G4-EN7/ G4-EN19 EP1.6/ EP2.17/ EP2.18/ EP2.19/ EP2.20 Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC and NDRC Research [2008] No. 1); GB/T36001-2015 Guidelines for Social Responsibility Reports Compilation; Operating Efficiency DMA China's Corporate Social Responsibility Report Compilation Guide 3.0-Power Supply by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS-CSR 3.0); Key Business Performance OP1.1/OP1.2/OP1.3/OP1.6/OP1.7/OP1.8/OP1.11 Solid Foundation for Sustainability Report Guidelines by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4); G4-SO4/ G4-SO5 OP1.10/OP2.1/OP2.2/OP2.3/ SP1.1/ SP1.2/ SP1.3/ SP1.4/ SP1.5/ SP1.6 Development Guidelines for Social Responsibility of China's Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations by China Federation of Industrial Economics. Gaining Development G4-43/G4-56/G4-57/G4-48/G4-SO3/G4-SO4/G4-SO5/ OP1.10/ SP1.10 Momentum G4-SO8/G4-PR1 G4-12/G4-EN33/G4-LA14/ G4-LA15G4-SO1/G4-SO2/ ES1.9/ES2.3/ES2.11/OP2.4/OP2.7/OP2.8/OP2.9/OP2.10/OP2.11/OP2.12/ Promoting Joint Development G4-SO10 OP2.13/ RM3.2/ SP1.9 International Exchanges and About the Data G4-16 OP2.14 Cooperation The data used in the report is derived from documents and reports officially issued by CSG and other agencies. The data of 2017 disclosed in this Social Harmony DMA reportare from flash reports, which may differ slightly from the final statistics. G4-10/G4-11/G4-EC3/G4-L1/G4-LA7/G4-LA8/G4-LA9/G4-LA1 SP1.7/SP1.8/SP2.1/SP2.2/SP2.3/SP2.4/SP2.5/SP2.6/SP2.7/SP2.8/SP2.12/SP2.13/SP2.14/ Care and Love for Employees 0/G4-LA12/G4-LA13/G4-LA16/G4-HR5/G4-HR6 SP2.15/SP2.17/SP2.21/SP2.23/SP2.24/SP2.25/SP2.26/SP2.27/SP2.28/SP2.29/SP2.30 Devotion to Universal Services G4-SO2 ES3.17/ SP3.5/ SP3.6/ SP3.7 Reliability Guarantee The company guarantees that there are no false records, misleading statements or major omissions in the report. Promotion of Common Good G4-SO6 SP3.1/ SP3.2/ SP3.9/ SP3.10/ SP3.11/ SP3.12 Management About the Appellationsin the Report Responsibility Governance G4-35/G4-36/G4-42/G4-49/G4-46/G4-49 RM2.1/ RM2.3/ RM2.4/ RM2.5/ RM5.1 For convenience, “CSG”, “the company” and “we” are used in this report to refer to China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. Responsibility Research G4-43 RM3.1/ RM6.1/ RM6.4 Responsibility Exchange RM1.2/ RM4.3/ RM5.6/ RM6.2/ RM6.3 Major Honors of Responsibility Extended Reading G4-50 RA2.3 Responsibility Communication G4-50 RM1.2/ RM4.3/ RM5.6/ RM6.2/ RM6.3 A social responsibility information disclosure system has been created in CSG. Please visit CSG’s website www.csg.cn for the company's previous Outlook 2018 RA3 reports and other materials such as the Social Responsibility Practice Booklets 2017 of Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou, Hainan Power Grid Corporations, and Guangzhou and Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau to know more about the company’s corporate social responsibilities. Performance Evaluation Ratings and Evaluations G4-2 RA4 Report Benchmark G4-17/G4-22/G4-23/G4-28G4-29/G4-30/G4-31 RA5 To Obtain Different Versions of the Report About the Report RP1.1/ RP1.2/ RP1.3/ RP1.4/ RP1.5/RA6 E-text of this report is available on our website. Should you have any questions about the report or demand a hard copy, please contact us by E-mail: Key Performance of Responsibility after the 18th CPC National Congress ES4.3/ES4.4/ RM4.2 csr@csg.cn, or by phone: (020) 36621917. For more information, please scan the QR code on the back cover. 86 87 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation Key performance since the 18th CPC National Congress Consumption of fossil fuel per unit power generated and sold decreased Environmental from 215 grams of standard coal per kWh in 2013 to 142.5 grams of standard The score of third-party customer satisfaction increased from 76 Protection Power supplies in 2013 to 81 in 2017. coal per kWh in 2017. Outage time in downtown area (hour) Investment in Grid Total Number of Patents (Item) Proportion of Non-Fossil Energy West-to-East Power Transmission（100 million kWh） Construction(100 million yuan) Generation（%） 2013 5.54 2013 638 2013 2018 2013 37.74 2013 1314 2017 2.14 2017 817 2017 10834 2017 50.8 2017 2028 110 kV and above Transmission Line Length(km) Line Loss Rate（%） 2013 182181 2013 7.20 2017 212251 2017 6.52 Maximum Load of Centralized Dispatching (10 thousand kilowatts) Maximum Load of Centralized Dispatching (10 thousand kilowatts) 2013 52.59 2013 12891 2017 72.63 2017 16297 Key Performance Indicators of Key Performance Indicators of Corporate Social Responsibilities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Corporate Social Responsibilities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Outage time in downtown area (hour) 5.54 3.57 4.98 4.6 2.14 West-to-East Power Transmission (100 million kWh) 1314 1723 1891 1953 2028 Environmental Benefits of Clean energy deployment Investment in Grid Construction (100 million yuan) 638 658 674 775 817 (10,000 tonnes of standard coal) 591 1096 1505 1117 1766 R & D Investment (100 million yuan) Comprehensive Line Loss Rate (%) 26.28 20.23 21.90 58.5 76.2 7.20 6.94 6.72 6.38 6.52 Length of 110 kV and above Transmission Line (km) 182181 191371 200821 208438 212251 Helping Customers Save Energy (100 million kWh) 9.3 9.03 9.94 10 12.1 110 kV and above Transformer Capacity (10 thousand KVA) 73099 78919 83181 92368 97429 Energy Conservation Training (session) 220 197 147 123 158 Maximum Load of Centralized Dispatching 12891 13614 14164 14743 16297 Energy-Saving Diagnosis (household) (10 thousand kilowatts) 1437 1325 1135 1100 1092 88 89 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation 2017 CSR Report Performance Evaluation Key performance since the 18th CPC National Congress Social Social welfare expenditure increased from 47.9 million yuan Harmony in 2013 to 101.14 million yuan in 2017. Operating GDP output per kWh increased from 11.2 yuan in 2013 to 13.64 yuan in 2017. Efficiency Staff Training Rate (%) Accumulated Service Hours Investment in Upgrading Electricity Sales (100 million kWh) Revenue (100 million yuan) throughout the Year(hours) Rural Grids(100 million yuan) 2013 96.0 2013 153423 2013 205 An Average Annual Growth of 4.6% An Average Annual Growth of 2.6% 2017 96.3 2017 nearly 180000 2017 341 2013 7433 2013 4482 2017 8902 2017 4946 Total Assets (100 million yuan) An Average Annual Growth of 6.3% CSG has been awarded Class A Fortune Global 500 Ranking by SASAC for its 2013 5872 Social Welfare Expenditure business performance. (10 thousand yuan) 2017 7445 2013 134 2013 4790 2017 100 2017 10114 The electric power consumption costs of customers have been cut by 82.7 billion yuan throughout the year. Key Performance Indicators of Key Performance Indicators of Corporate Social Responsibilities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Corporate Social Responsibilities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) Total Assets (100 million yuan) 5872 6191 6362 6891 7445 Female Employees (%) 24.1 24 24.38 24.30 25.43 Electricity Sales (100 million kWh) 7433 7859 7822 8297 8902 Staff Training Rate (%) 96.0 95.0 96.4 100 96.3 Revenue (100 million yuan) 4482 4738 4707 4733 4946 Total Tax and Profits (100 million yuan) 382 407 501 556 495 Social Welfare Expenditure (10 thousand yuan) 4790 6176.8 13358 7663.7 10114 Fortune Global 500 Ranking 134 115 113 95 100 Investment in Upgrading Rural Grids Revenue Growth and Expenditure Reduction 205 182.9 173 324 341 (100 million yuan) Through Auditing (100 million yuan) 1.40 2.13 1.19 5.19 7.35 90 91
