Driving Transformation W I L M A R I N T E R N AT I O N A L L I M I T E D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited A Contents 1 About This Design / About This Report 4 Statement from the Board 6 Message from the CEO 7 2018 Highlights 8 Our Targets 11 About Wilmar 12 Wilmar’s Global Presence 14 An Integrated Agribusiness 16 Financial and Employee Highlights 18 Governance and Management 23 Palm Oil Operations 26 Sugar Operations 28 Our Policies And Practices To Sustainability 29 Our Approach to Sustainability 32 Supply Chain Traceability 35 Overview of Wilmar’s Palm Oil and Sugar Supply Chains 37 Driving Supply Chain Transformation 40 Stakeholder Commentary by Storebrand Asset Management 41 Engagement and Empowerment 43 Ethical Policies and Transparency 44 Stakeholder Commentary by Nestle S.A. 46 Environmental – Protecting Our Environment 47 Environmental Protection and Conservation 49 Enhancing Biodiversity Values around Wilmar’s Estates 51 Wilmar’s No Burn Policy 53 Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 57 Safeguarding Water Quality 60 Reducing Chemical Use 63 Social – Respecting and Empowering People 64 Empowering People and Communities 74 Stakeholder Commentary by CNV Internationaal 80 Smallholders Support 84 Community Relations 86 Supporting Local Communities 89 Overview of Partnerships 2018 92 Base Data 103 GRI Content Index 115 Independent Limited Report Assurance 117 Glossary 120 Contact Us About This About This Design Report Scope and Boundaries T o determine the boundaries of this report, and the most significant aspects for disclosure, Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’ or ‘the Group’) has been guided by the Global Reporting Index (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and the Singapore Exchange (SGX) Sustainability Driving Reporting Guide. This report provides an update on the Group’s performance Transformation in relation to our sustainability commitments, placing particular focus on our No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) policy. It also covers our contributions to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see page 8). W I L M A R I N T E R N AT I O N A L L I M I T E D The scope of this report includes both upstream and downstream businesses S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 where we have a major presence and over 50% shareholding with operational control. For palm oil, our primary focus is the performance of our own plantations, mills and refineries in Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana and Nigeria. A t Wilmar, we are committed to change. As Asia’s leading agribusiness group and one of the Having expanded the scope of our reporting in 2017, we now also include our sugar operations in Myanmar, Australia, New Zealand and Indonesia. world’s foremost palm oil producers, In February 2014, Wilmar became an investor in Mumbai-based Shree we believe in transforming for the Renuka Sugars (SRS) Ltd., India’s leading sugar company. We subsequently better and are driven to create a vibrant increased our stake to 58% as part of a comprehensive debt restructuring and sustainable future. exercise, and SRS became an indirectly owned subsidiary of Wilmar in June Leveraging on an integrated 2018. Performance data for SRS is currently limited due to the timing of this agribusiness model enables us to acquisition and will be included in our next sustainability report. optimise logistical advantages and take an end-to-end approach to drive This report focuses on business areas and activities under our control: those sustainable growth. At every stage of our own palm oil and sugar operations, our crude palm and lauric oil of our business operations, we seek suppliers, and our fresh fruit bunch (FFB) suppliers. Data on our supply chain to uphold the highest standards and are therefore limited to traceability and supplier monitoring. Although we practices, paving the way forward with now have better insight into the performance of our key suppliers, we do effective strategy, strong governance not disclose this information as it is subject to confidentiality agreements. and full transparency. The performance data disclosed does not cover: This year’s Sustainability Report is • Downstream or upstream operations in which Wilmar has 50% ownership, symbolic of our commitment to or less, or operations over which the Group does not have management drive positive transformation in the control unless otherwise stated; agricultural sector. The cover image • Other downstream and upstream activities outside the Group’s palm features key icons integral to our oil and sugar operations; growth and transformation. From palm • Environmental figures for unplanted areas inside Group plantations trees and sugarcane, farms and mills, (although data on conservation areas and fire incidents are included). flora and fauna, staff and family, these • SRS Ltd. India sugar operations; and different elements and stakeholders • Data on third-party suppliers, except for traceability and supplier form the very essence of Wilmar and monitoring. the impact we have on the industry, environment and community. We a r e f o c u s e d o n Driving Transformation, working collectively with our stakeholders to build a better business and in doing so, build a better future. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 1 About This Report Reporting Period group sustainability meeting was then held in November 2018 to review the Unless otherwise stated, this report 2017 sustainability reporting process covers performance data for the and discuss key material topics with calendar year 2018. Five-year historical each department representative. figures are provided where available. As the issues under discussion are For our palm oil business, several evolving rapidly, we have also provided emergent issues have been evaluated information on our progress in 2019, as significantly important for both our planned activities and targets Wilmar and our external stakeholders. for 2019/2020, and our long-term Especially noteworthy are third-party sustainability objectives. supply chain monitoring, supplier that these are covered by the assessments, labour issues and report; For this report, our Myanmar figures challenges relating to land status in • Through advice from our reporting are based on the 2018 calendar year. Indonesia. consultant, Helikonia, based These figures are not comparable to on their in-depth knowledge our previous report, for which data were For our sugar operations, the of the palm oil industry and its collated based on the harvesting season materiality matrix developed for stakeholders; and (April 2017 to March 2018). our Sustainability Report 2017 was • Through reviews and commentaries Topic Identification And primarily based on our perception of from various stakeholders and Prioritisation general global themes, sector-specific experts on critical aspects of our impacts, and risks linked to landscapes disclosure. The key topics included in this in which we operate. For this report report were identified through we have consulted with our operations Assurance various forums and engagements, in Australia, Myanmar and the trading including email correspondence department to refine the matrix and Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has been and telephone interviews with key prioritise issues. As this exercise was engaged to perform assurance stakeholder groups. Interviews were carried out prior to Wilmar gaining a work on selected disclosures in this conducted with representatives from majority stake in SRS Ltd., our new report. This assurance is for the use the finance and investment sector, sugar venture in India, this business of the Management of Wilmar only, the non-governmental organisation has been excluded from the process. and any use of or reliance upon this (NGO) sector and the customer base India shall be included in our 2019 assurance by a third party is at the for our palm operations. In addition, report. Some indicators have also been third party’s own risk. As sustainability we reviewed topics covered by other consolidated for clarity. reporting is an ongoing process, we palm oil and sugar related initiatives, have chosen to disclose and discuss such as the Zoological Society of In 2019, we will consider organising some of the most pertinent material London’s (ZSL) Sustainable Palm workshops for both internal issues for Wilmar and its stakeholders Oil Transparency Initiative (SPOTT), and external stakeholders prior within the boundaries of this report. KnowTheChain 2018 Benchmark to conducting the materiality Due to the inherent limitations of Report, Global Child Forum 2018 survey to ensure a comprehensive the internal control structure, it is benchmark study on Corporate understanding of the exercise. possible that errors or irregularities Responses to Protecting Children’s in the information presented have Rights in Southeast Asia, the High Validation and Review occurred and have not been detected. Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) We continually strive to strengthen our Steering Group and CDP disclosures. We validate our material aspects reporting processes and to present and ensure balance in our reporting information in the most complete and Key environmental, social and through the following processes: accurate manner possible. Please refer governance issues were also verified to the section “Independent Limited in consultation with key internal • Through the reporting process, Assurance Statement” on page 115 for stakeholders and plotted in materiality continuously monitoring more details. matrices (see next page). An internal stakeholder concerns to ensure 2 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Palm Oil Materiality Matrix 2018 Supplier/supply chain monitoring Labour conditions Impact to external stakeholders Transparency & accountability HCS/HCV & deforestation Supply chain Corporate governance/ ethics & anti-corruption Land issues & conflict transformation Community relations Peat development Fire & haze Health & safety Wildlife conservation Smallholder inclusiveness Water impacts Sustainability certification Investment in community Pesticides & chemical usage infrastructure Jurisdictional approaches/certifications Child protection GHG emissions Moderate Significant Priority Impact to Wilmar’s Business Sugar Materiality Matrix 2018 Water pollution Human rights Impact to external stakeholders Paraquat Sustainbility Certification Sugar Health & safety consumption Labour conditions Child labour Transparent & fair pricing Water management for smallholders & usage Traceability Cane burning & air quality Forced labour Internal labour migration Associations & unions Grievances/remedy Governance Land grabbing Moderate Significant Priority Impact to Wilmar’s Business Note: Sugar materiality matrix does not include feedback from our sugar operations in India. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 3 Statement from the Board W e are pleased to present our that we put in place in 2013. Going From left to right: 1. Juan Ricardo Luciano 2018 Sustainability Report, beyond our own operations to also Alternate Director to covering our palm oil and sugar cover third-party suppliers means that Mr Raymond Guy Young operations for the financial year 2018. we are taking responsibility to drive the 2. Teo Siong Seng Independent Director wider industry, and this is something 3. Teo La-Mei It has been more than a decade since we are proud of. Executive Director Wilmar embarked on a structured 4. Weijian Shan sustainability programme, and it Our journey has been guided by our Independent Director has been both a satisfying and commitment to multi-stakeholder 5. Raymond Guy Young engagement and certification Non-Executive Director challenging journey. As a Board, we schemes. Today, 76% of our planted 6. Lim Siong Guan have experienced a steep learning palm oil area has achieved RSPO Lead Independent Director curve to understand the material, certification, and in 2018 we produced 7. Kuok Khoon Hong environmental and social impacts Chairman and about 681,000 tonnes of certified that stem from our operations, the Chief Executive Officer sustainable palm oil. Furthermore, constantly evolving stakeholder 8. Pua Seck Guan our efforts to map and engage Chief Operating Officer landscape, and the improvements with our suppliers have enabled us and Executive Director we can make towards the goal of 9. Kuok Khoon Ean to trace 96% of the oil handled by becoming a sustainable business and Non-Executive Director our refineries to mills. We are now an inspiration to our industry peers. 10. Kuok Khoon Hua using this information to monitor and Non-Executive Director provide support to more than 1,500 11. Tay Kah Chye We believe that Wilmar is a leader plantations across almost 15 million Independent Director in sustainable and responsible hectares. This transparency in turn 12. Kwah Thiam Hock practices in the palm oil industry. Our Independent Director allows us to supply customers and achievements to date far exceed the consumers with palm oil that is free 13. Kishore Mahbubani Independent Director expectations we had when we began from exploitation and deforestation, our own sustainable certification and which does not contribute to journey in 2007. Today, we are actively peatland destruction. ensuring that our supply chain is free from deforestation, new peatland In addition to sustainability in palm, development and exploitation, a policy we are pleased to report that we have 4 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 achieved 100% traceability of sugar mills. In Indonesia, we achieved an business areas. While we recognise to mills for both Australia refineries, important milestone by converting the that there is still much to do, we as well as certification against the contracts of all our temporary workers’ are pleased to report that we have Bonsucro standard for three of our in Central Kalimantan to permanent exceeded our target to reduce our sugar mills and own farms supplying positions. Securing stronger labour greenhouse gas emissions by 500,000 to them in Australia. union relations across our Indonesian tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. operations has also been a key focus as This reduction has been secured Small farmers make up a significant we continue to build on a collaborative primarily through ongoing investment part of our supply chain. Without approach to workers’ rights. in methane capture facilities at our their success, we cannot claim to be palm oil mills. making real change on the ground. We The UN Sustainable Development therefore continued our engagement Goals guide our efforts relating to We acknowledge that climate change efforts throughout 2018 to ensure child welfare and protection. In 2018, is a fundamental threat to life on our that smallholders are part of our we undertook a range of initiatives to planet, and that a combined effort sustainability journey. In Myanmar, identify risks for children in and around is required from all agribusinesses our sugar operations provided training our estates. We have also escalated our to both curb emissions, through on best practices for almost 1,000 work to ensure that the 12,400 children initiatives such as methane capture, sugar farmers, and a further 3,000 living in our plantations in both Asia and and avoid emissions through strict smallholders were engaged across Africa have access to decent primary bans on deforestation and peatland Indonesia and Malaysia. Meanwhile, schooling. Currently, about 84% of development. In this respect, we our pilot outgrower schemes in Nigeria these children now attend school, support the inclusion of the High continue to assist small farmers in and our objective is to ensure that Carbon Stock Approach and peat strengthening sustainability standards we reach 100% attendance by 2025. restrictions in the revised RSPO and increasing access to markets. These efforts have been strongly Principles & Criteria, which was agreed supported throughout the company, by the RSPO General Assembly in Wilmar’s operations are guided by a and we are therefore proud to be 2018. Wilmar was one of the many commitment to human rights. We work ranked number one in the Global contributors to this laudable new proactively to prevent the exploitation Child Forum 2018 Corporate standard, and we believe it will be of workers and communities, and seek Responses to Protecting Children’s instrumental in bringing larger to immediately halt and remediate any Rights in Southeast Asia report for the palm oil companies onto a more infringement of our policies. Over the improvements we have made. responsible path. past two years, we have placed a great deal of our focus on strengthening Our commitment to combat climate We will continue to embrace worker rights in our plantations and change remains steadfast across all su st ain ab ilit y wh ole h e artedl y, improving the way we operate and inspiring other industry players in their own work to eradicate deforestation, peatland development and exploitation from their supply chains. We must be sincere and genuine in these efforts and collaborate with like-minded organisations towards this goal. As individual entities we can take steps, but only together can we complete the journey. Board of Directors Wilmar International Limited 27 May 2019 Workers accommodation in a Wilmar plantation Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 5 Message from the CEO I am very proud to see the tremendous progress being made across all of Wilmar’s sugar and palm oil operations. I believe that our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and our leadership on sustainability standards has set a great example for others to follow. It is disappointing, however, that we continue to be singled out for criticism by a number of civil society organisations. While these organisations acknowledge our contribution towards sustainability in the industry as a whole, they appear to be leveraging our position to put pressure on the rest of the industry. I am glad to see that many of our commercial stakeholders, especially our customers, are now much better informed, and have more in-depth knowledge and understanding of the industry, their supply chains and the other environmental and social variables that need to be factored in. Wilmar has always been, and will continue to be, open to discourse and engagement with both local and international NGOs. Such engagements can help the industry to identify gaps, and may potentially lead to improvements in best practice and efficiency in operations. However, the key elements of such engagements must be that all parties provide constructive feedback, agree to work together in providing solutions, and are able to manage expectations. I hope that the coming years will move us to a more collaborative space, where mutual guidance and the joint development of pragmatic solutions take the place of grievances and complaints. Mr Kuok Khoon Hong CEO of Wilmar International Limited 27 May 2019 Panoramic view of planted areas in a Wilmar plantation 6 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 2018 Highlights Palm Oil Operations Certification and Reduction of GHG conservation for Wilmar’s emissions for Wilmar’s operations operations • 76% of planted area RSPO • Completed construction certified Traceability and supplier target of 15 methane capture • About 681,000 MT# RSPOcompliance facilities at palm oil mills since certified palm oil produced • 96% traceable to the mill 2015, totalling 23 plants as at • Six additional mills • 14.75 million# ha monitored by end 2018 MSPO certified the Supplier Group Compliance • Achieved GHG emissions • 29,613 ha of conservation Programme1 reduction of 588,5452 MT area identified • 201 parent groups covering CO2e in 2018, exceeding our 750 mills, representing target of 500,000 MT CO2e approximately 1,500 plantations for 25 facilities in operation spanning Malaysia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea covered by the monitoring programme • 51 grievance cases registered • 429 mills# shared their selfassessment results using Wilmar’s Supplier Reporting Tool • 1,622 suppliers trained on Training for smallholders environmental and social best practices in Indonesia and 132 training sessions on Wilmar’s Malaysia NDPE policy and certification Conversion of temporary works (ISPO & RSPO) conducted worker status for 3,171 independent and Achieved 100% conversion associated smallholders across of temporary contracts to Malaysia and Indonesia permanent contracts in Sugar Operations Central Kalimantan3 Certification for Traceability Training for smallholders Wilmar’s operations 100% traceable# to mill-level Capacity building and best 3 mills in Australia have attained achieved for both origin practice training conducted for Bonsucro certified status refineries in Australia 978 farmers across 19 locations in Myanmar # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. 1 Some portions of the area covered under the monitoring programme are fully developed plantations and do not have any further land clearing activities. Aidenvironment, as engaged by Wilmar, continues active monitoring of remaining undeveloped areas for any land clearing activities. 2 GHG emissions reduction includes emissions avoided due to fuel replacement of diesel with biogas. 3 Indonesia is the only country in which Wilmar plantations operate without a fully permanent workforce. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 7 Our Targets W e recognise that the private sector has a crucial role in the global mobilisation to address the most pressing economic, social and environmental challenges. This is why we are committed to contributing towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and have identified five SDGs of particular relevance to our business: Quality Education (SDG 4), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Responsible Production and Consumption (SDG 12), Life on Land (SDG 15) and Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17). More information on our SDG commitments can be found on page 21. Our progress towards these five goals is mapped out below. Target SDG Link Initial Target Progress as at 31 Dec 2018 Certification and grievances Complete Roundtable on 2018 for all Target for refineries revised to 2020 Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) operations To date, 78% of refineries are certified. certification for all our own palm operations4 Target for mills revised to 2023 All mills in Malaysia and Ghana as described in the 2013 timebound plan* have been certified, while the timebound plan for our mill in Nigeria is 2022. Seven out of 25 mills in Indonesia remain uncertified due to delays in finalising operation permits (Hak Guna Usaha). *Note: One additional mill in Malaysia – Suburmas – is under a joint venture where Wilmar does not have majority shareholding. However, under the RSPO Certification Systems requirements, this was clarified as being under Wilmar management control in 2018. This mill is now included in our timebound plans and is scheduled for certification in 2021. Achieve 100% MSPO 2019 On track certification for all our To date, 8 out of 9 mills are MSPO certified5. Malaysian mills and estates Complete Indonesian 2025 Target revised to 2023 Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) For our stand-alone mills, ISPO certification is certification audits for only possible for independent mills when at least 10 stand-alone palm oil mills6 20% of the crop received is certified. Wilmar is in Indonesia working with the independent fresh fruit bunch (FFB) suppliers towards certification. 100% response rate to all Ongoing Target achieved grievances raised via Wilmar’s 100% response rate to all grievances raised via Grievance Procedure Wilmar’s Grievance Procedure since 2015. Supplier engagement Conduct training for 1,000 2018 Target achieved supplier participants in To date, 910 supplier participants have attended Indonesia and Malaysia training sessions across Indonesia and Malaysia in 2018, bringing the total number of trained supplier participants to 1,622. Environment Complete construction of 15 2018 Target achieved methane capture facilities at To date, 23 methane capture facilities have been crude palm oil (CPO) mills on completed. top of the 8 completed plants in 2015. 4 Following RSPO Principles and Criteria for palm oil mills and RSPO Supply Chain Certification Standard for refineries that process palm oil products only. 5 Our Suburmas mill in Malaysia falls outside the scope of this report. However, it is included under our MSPO certification figures as MSPO certification covers all mills over which we have operational control. 6 This refers to independent mills as defined under the scope of the ISPO standard requirements. 8 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Target SDG Link Initial Target Progress as at 31 Dec 2018 Environment Reduce water consumption 2023 On track intensity (mill process only) for Water usage for Sarawak, Central Kalimantan and palm oil mills based on 2016 Sumatra were within respective absolute targets baselines with absolute targets: in 2018. 1.2m3/MT FFB for Indonesia and 1.3m3/MT FFB for Malaysia and Ghana* *Note: With a new mill in place in Nigeria, we are working to ensure data robustness prior to setting targets. 15% reduction in GHG 2023 On track emissions intensity for all palm Our 2018 GHG emissions intensity was 0.72 MT oil mills from our 2016 baseline CO2e/MT CPO. of 0.82 MT CO2e/MT CPO (based on GHG Protocol) For palm oil mills discharging Ongoing Target achieved to waterways, maintain effluent All operations were compliant with relevant local levels to be within local thresholds. regulation thresholds Employees and communities Establish Women’s Committees Ongoing for Target achieved (or Gender Committees) in Malaysia, All estates in Malaysia, Indonesia and Ghana have 100% of Wilmar’s palm estates, Indonesia and established Women’s Committees, ensuring ensuring female representation Ghana female representation in all of Wilmar’s palm in 100% of Wilmar’s palm estates. estates 2019 for Nigeria On track Upgrade and modernise 2020 On track for Indonesia and Nigeria schools in and around our oil To date, 10 schools have been redeveloped palm estates (15 in Indonesia, in Indonesia and 3 schools have completed 6 in Nigeria, 2 in Ghana) redevelopment in Nigeria. Target achieved for Ghana Both schools in Ghana have undergone redevelopment. 100% of smallholder suppliers 2020 for Ghana On track in a smallholder support Adum smallholder programme launched in programme Ghana in 2018, and is expected to benefit all 300 farmers by 2020 (160 in 2019 and 140 in 2020). 2023 for Nigeria On track We plan to scale up the Pilot Outgrower programme to target 2,000 farmers in Nigeria; however, the timeline is dependent on when funds become available. All farmers are expected to be in full compliance within a year of project commencement. 2025 for On track Indonesia In 2018, 6,087 independent smallholders participated in the ISPO certification training programme in Indonesia. The target is to reach 24,218 by 2025. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 9 Our Targets Target SDG Link Initial Target Progress as at 31 Dec 2018 Employees and communities 100% of children of compulsory 2025 On track school-going age that Around 84%# of children of compulsory schoollive in Wilmar plantations going age living in Wilmar’s plantations attend attend schools, education school programmes or equivalent 100% of permanent workers Ongoing for Target achieved in palm oil estates and mills Malaysia, All workers in Malaysia, Indonesia and Ghana are provided with onsite Indonesia and have access to onsite accommodation. Those accommodation Ghana who stay offsite do so by choice. 2025 for On track Nigeria 11% of permanent workers are currently provided with accommodation in our estates. 100% of workers in palm Ongoing Target achieved estates and mills have access to All workers have access to healthcare facilities healthcare including insurance, onsite clinics, and transportation to and from clinics and/or hospitals (for emergencies). No withholding of identification Ongoing Target achieved and/or travel documents No travel documents withheld. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Accommodation for workers and their families at our Malaysia estate 10 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Committed To Change ABOUT WILMAR Wilmar International Limited is Asia’s leading agribusiness group and a Fortune Global 500 company. Founded in 1991 and headquartered in Singapore, we are one of the largest listed companies by market capitalisation on the Singapore Exchange (SGX). Wilmar is the global leader in the processing and merchandising of palm and lauric oils, as well as in the production of oleochemicals, specialty fats, palm biodiesel and consumer pack oils. We are also a leading player in oilseed crushing and flour and rice milling, and one of the world’s top 10 raw sugar producers. Our global operations are supported by a multinational workforce of about 90,000 employees. Wilmar’s Global Presence O ur operational footprint includes over 900 manufacturing plants worldwide7, as well as an extensive distribution network that spans China, India, Indonesia and more than 50 other countries and regions. #1 PLAYER IN CHINA • Largest edible INDONESIA & MALAYSIA AFRICA • One of the largest EUROPE • Leading refiner of oils refiner and • One of the largest oil palm plantation tropical oils specialty fats and oil palm plantation owners, edible oleochemicals owners and the oil refiners and manufacturer largest palm oil producers of • Leading oilseed refiner, palm kernel consumer pack UKRAINE crusher, producer of and copra crusher, oils, soaps and • Largest edible oils branded consumer flour miller, specialty detergents refiner and specialty Over Extensive distribution Multinational workforce pack oils, rice and • Third largest sugar fats producer fats, oleochemicals producer 900 network in China, India, of about flour and biodiesel 90,000 Indonesia and some • One of the largest manufacturer manufacturing plants in flour and rice millers • Largest producer of 33 50 staff globally branded consumer pack oils in INDIA • Largest branded RUSSIA • Largest other countries consumer pack manufacturer of countries and regions 7 and regions Indonesia oils, specialty fats consumer pack and oleochemicals margarine and producer and edible mayonnaise oils refiner • Leading oilseed crusher • Leading sugar miller Note: This map shows the extent of Wilmar’s operations and goes beyond the scope of this report. and refiner 7 Including those of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. United Kingdom  Netherlands   Poland  Germany  Ukraine Spain   Italy  Russia Morocco   Pakistan Senegal  Ivory Coast   Nigeria  Djibouti Liberia    India Ghana  Ethiopia  China Uganda    Kenya Bangladesh  United States of America  Myanmar  Tanzania  Sri Lanka Thailand   Laos Guatemala  Zambia   Mozambique  Mexico  Zimbabwe Cambodia   Vietnam  Brazil  Mauritius  Malaysia  Japan  South Africa Singapore   Philippines Indonesia   Papua New Guinea  Australia  Fiji  New Caledonia 12 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited New Zealand 13  An Integrated Agribusiness O ur integrated business model encompasses the entire value chain of the agricultural logistical advantages of this model enable us to maximise operational synergies and cost efficiencies at every commodity business, from step. They also enable us to take an cultivation and processing through end-to-end approach as we continue to the manufacture, marketing and driving transformation towards distribution of a wide range of high sustainable growth throughout our quality agricultural products. The operations – and beyond. Origination Tropical Oils Oilseeds and Grains Sugar Others Plantation Manufacturing Manufacturing Consumer Milling, Merchandising, and Merchandising Products Reﬁning and Consumer Products Oleochemicals Consumer Pack One of the largest Largest global processor Leading soybean crusher World’s largest producer Largest raw sugar producer Fertiliser Edible Oils listed palm plantation and merchandiser of in China and one of of consumer pack edible and reﬁner in Australia and companies in the world palm and lauric oils with the largest ﬂour millers oils with leading positions leading sugar reﬁner in Shipping a distribution network globally in many Asian and African Indonesia Biodiesel Oilseeds across more than 50 countries Meal countries Leading consumer pack sugar Processing manufacturer in Australia and Almost 100% of output is supplied Almost 100% of edible oil to the Tropical Oils (Manufacturing is supplied to New Zealand Specialty Rice and and Merchandising) segment Consumer Products Fats Flour Bulk Raw and FFB VOLUME VOLUME VOLUME VOLUME Edible Oils Reﬁned Sugar 4.2m MT 24.3m MT 31.2m MT 6.0m MT 11.7m MT REVENUE REVENUE REVENUE REVENUE REVENUE US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Merchandising 17.06b 15.69b 6.79b 4.01b 2.30 b and Distribution RESULTS RESULTS RESULTS RESULTS US$ US$ US$ US$ Customers 546.1m 875.0m (123.0m)* 19.9m * Includes impairment of assets & goodwill of US$138.6m. 14 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 15 Financial and Employee Highlights Revenue8a Employee breakdown by geographic region 2018 US$ Million 43,085 38,777 41,402 43,574 44,498 50,000 Indonesia • 44% 40,000 30,000 China • 25% 20,000 Malaysia • 12% Others (Including EU and USA) • 9% 10,000 Africa • 8% Australia • 2% 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: Employee figures are based on subsidiaries only and exclude joint ventures and associates. Net Profit8a,8b US$ Million 1,156 1,023 972 1,196 1,128 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: FY2015 and FY2017 figures have been restated. Note: The data in this section highlights financials relating to the whole of Wilmar’s operations and goes beyond the scope of this report. 8a FY2017 figures were restated upon adoption of SFRS (I) 9 Financial Instruments, SFRS (I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS Convergence. FY2014 to FY2016 figures are not adjusted. 8b FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agricultural: Bearer Plants. FY2014 figures are not adjusted. 16 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 17 Governance and Management Corporate Governance and one is a citizen of the People’s and Management Republic of China. The Board is led by Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, who is W ilmar’s Board of Directors is our Chairman and Chief Executive responsible for the strategic Officer (CEO). The Lead Independent direction of the Group and is its Director acts as a counter-balance on highest governing body. The Board management issues in the decisionis composed of Directors with diverse making process. In February 2019, skills and qualifications in areas such Wilmar appointed its first female as accounting, legal, finance and Director to the Board. business management, as well as specific industry-relevant experience. The Board is supported by a key management team responsible for As at the date of this report, the Board executing the Group’s strategy and has 12 members, including three operations. For more details about our Executive Directors and nine Noncorporate governance structure and Executive Directors, six of whom are processes, please refer to our 2018 Independent Directors. Nine Board Annual Report. members are citizens of Singapore, one is a citizen of Malaysia, one is a citizen of the United States of America 18 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Governance and Management Sustainability Governance Wilmar’s Sustainability Department is implementation of these strategies and and Management responsible for the implementation of policies throughout our supply chain, the Group’s sustainability strategies. Its as well as reviewing the progress of Sustainability governance is a core mandate covers the NDPE policy, the execution. function within the Group’s overall risk principles of the United Nations Global management structure. Our Chairman Compact, certifications, stakeholder The implementation of our NDPE and CEO oversees the implementation engagement, corporate governance policy is supported by siteand of our No Deforestation, No Peat and and reporting. The department is regional-level operation teams, No Exploitation (NDPE) policy, and is staffed by more than 60 employees a communications team, and a supported by the Risk Management worldwide, combining a wide range of Technical Advisory Group comprising Committee, which reviews relevant local and technical expertise NGOs and other sustainability partners. sustainability reports and emerging across South East Asia, Europe and These teams provide input to the Joint issues on a quarterly basis. Wilmar will Africa. Wilmar’s Chief Sustainability Steering Committee, which oversees continue to review and enhance key Officer (CSO) spearheads the Group’s important strategic issues relating performance indicators (KPIs) related overall sustainability agenda, while to the implementation of the NDPE to sustainability to further strengthen the Group Sustainability General policy and evaluates progress against our governance practices in 2019. Manager (GM) is responsible for the policy targets. In addition, we have Sustainability Governance Structure TOP LEVEL OVERSIGHT TOP LEVEL OVERSIGHT Board of Directors Risk Management Committee Chairman & CEO • Assess and manage all sustainability-related risks SUSPENSION JOINT STEERING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE (JSC) Chairman & CEO, CSO, Wilmar and The Forest Trust (TFT) Group Sustainability GM, Procurement Head • Resolve policy/implementation Indonesia, major issues Procurement Head • Evaluate progress on policy commitments Malaysia • Deal with major issues unresolved from Communications & Policy and • Assess potential supplier Operations teams suspensions OPERATIONS TEAM TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS • Check on activities, prioritisation, ADVISORY GROUP efficiency & POLICY TEAM NGOs, Wilmar, Sustainability • Work through technical issues that • Manage and provide advice Partners (Aidenvironment, need closure and can be dealt with at on current and emerging BSR, CORE, TFT, Verité). operational level communications, public • Escalate unresolved issues from JSC relations and governance issues • Provide guidance on • Receive inputs and queries from JSC related to sustainability sustainability strategies • Seek input from the Technical • Manage crisis communications Advisory Group Note: The governance structure also covers sugar operations, with the exception of involvement by The Forest Trust and the Suspension Committee. 19 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 established local teams in Malaysia and various implementation partners to At an operational level, Wilmar’s Indonesia to provide on-the-ground support our ongoing NDPE policy Technical Managers are assessed support for our third-party suppliers. implementation and supply chain against the Environment, Health For suppliers who fail to comply compliance work. These partners & Safety (EHS) performance of the with our NDPE policy, a Suspension include Aidenvironment, TFT (now respective operations under their Committee has been set up to review known as Earthworm Foundation), charge. In addition, a site-level KPI trading relationships. Proforest and Daemeter of the scorecard for EHS has been introduced Consortium of Resource Experts for factory managers. In addition to this formal (CORE), Business for Social governance structure, we have Responsibility (BSR) and Verité made strategic agreements with Southeast Asia. Sustainability Management Structure GROUP SUSTAINABILITY Compliance: External Supply Chain & Grievance Wilmar’s Own Engagement Downstream Management Operations • Certification • Sustainability Policy • Sustainable • Conservation • Stakeholder Sourcing • Smallholder Supply Engagement • Third-party Supplier • Sustainability Compliance Communications • Multi-stakeholder Partnerships Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 20 Governance and Management Sustainability Values and ESG build on these commitments, we have Furthermore, and as a responsible Topics Relating to the Five embedded five of the SDGs into our corporate citizen, Wilmar remains SDGs long-term sustainability strategy and, committed to good environmental, where applicable, have measured our social and governance (ESG) practices. In 2015, countries around the world performance against them. While These ESG objectives steer the Group’s adopted the 2030 Agenda for specific reference to individual targets decisions and ensure that our approach Sustainable Development and its 17 will not always be made, we have to sustainability is integrated in all Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). highlighted where our actions align aspects of our business. We constantly Also recognising the private sector’s with or contribute to the five identified engage with our stakeholders and role and responsibility to support and SDGs in this report. evaluate ESG risks for all activities we are involved in. Road through the mature palm trees in Wilmar estate 21 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 WILMAR’S SUSTAINABILITY VALUES Conserving Reducing Climate Giving Back to the Sustainable Forests and Species Change Impacts People (Social) Business (Environment) RELEVANT ESG COMPONENTS HCV/HCS/no Air quality Child protection Corporate governance deforestation Fire and haze Community relations & anti-corruption Wildlife conservation Greenhouse gas and conflict resolution Food safety and Water and pollution (GHG) emissions Freedom of association nutrition impact and Food safety and Grievance resolution management nutrition Jurisdictional No peatland Health & safety approaches and development Human rights certification Pesticides and chemical Investment in Supply chain usage community monitoring infrastructure Supply chain Labour conditions transformation Smallholder Sustainability inclusiveness certification Transparency and accountability KEY INDICATORS No deforestation GHG emissions/ Provision of schools, NDPE policy HCV/HCS/peat methane recovery daycare facilities and Supply chain traceability Riparian areas Fire mitigation crèches and smallholders Anti-poaching (species) School redevelopment Certification Water programmes Banks (sustainability Provision of loans) scholarships Research and Community development development Partnerships and programmes engagement Human rights & labour conditions policies & practices Community development programmes Philanthropy & CSR initiatives Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 22 Palm Oil Operations Plantations and Mills Around 53% of our total supply base is Plantations by geographic composed of third parties, while 5% is region 2018 (Total: 230,409) W ilmar is one of the world’s largest oil palm plantation owners. As at 31 December 2018, our total planted composed of scheme smallholders. As at 31 December 2018, we have area covers 230,4099 hectares in three achieved Roundtable on Sustainable main regions: 67% in Indonesia, 25% in Palm Oil (RSPO) certification for 25 of East Malaysia and the remaining 8% in our mills, and 16 are certified against Africa, specifically Ghana and Nigeria. two further national sustainable We own an additional 14,000 hectares certifications (eight in Malaysia and of infrastructure area. eight in Indonesia). We have also achieved certification for 36 sites Wilmar directly manages about 35,800 across our biodiesel supply chain hectares belonging to smallholder under the International Sustainability schemes in Indonesia and Africa. & Carbon Certification (ISCC) Through joint ventures, we also own standards. For more information on plantations covering approximately our certifications, see page 30. Africa • 8% 46,000 hectares in Uganda and West Malaysia • 25% Africa10. An additional 149,000 hectares Plantations age profile 2018 Indonesia • 67% owned by smallholder and outgrower schemes are managed through these joint ventures and associates. Wilmar operates 45 palm oil mills 7-14 years • 44% located across East Malaysia, Indonesia, Ghana and Nigeria11. In 2018, a new mill was commissioned > 18 years • 18% in Nigeria to replace an old, smaller0-3 years • 15% capacity mill. Nine mills in Indonesia 4-6 years • 13% are independent operations that purchase fresh fruit bunches (FFB) 15-18 years • 10% exclusively from third-party suppliers. Total oil palm planted area (ha) Wilmar Estates Scheme smallholders 238,287 240,956 241,892 229,456 230,409 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 31,666 31,428 31,284 34,524 35,884 50,000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 9 Excluding one area in Suburmas, which is leased from the local government. 10 Outside the scope of this report. 11 We have an additional palm oil mill in Malaysia, Suburmas, where we have less than 50% shareholding. Unless otherwise stated, this mill is outside the scope of this report. 23 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Group yield and extraction rates CPO extraction rate (%) PK extraction rate (%) FFB yield (MT FFB/Ha) 25 21.4 21.6 20.6 20.5 20.0 20.0 19.9 20 20.6 19.7 19.0 15 10 4.7 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.9 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wilmar’s Palm Oil Plantations and Mills 2018 (Southeast Asia and West Africa) Geographical Location of our Upstream Operations in Indonesia and Malaysia 12 5 1 1 Peninsular Sabah Aceh Malaysia North Sumatra 5 3 2 6 Sarawak 2 6 Riau West West Kalimantan Sumatra 9 4 Central 5 3 Kalimantan Jambi 1 7 10 4 3 Number of Oil Palm Plantation Management Units Bengkulu Number of Palm Oil Mills 1 Lampung Indonesia Malaysia Note: Our Suburmas mill in Sarawak falls outside the scope of this report, unless otherwise stated. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 24 Geographical Location of our Upstream Operations in Africa Number of Oil Palm Plantation Management Units Number of Palm Oil Mills Ghana Nigeria 1 1 6 1 Palm Oil Refineries Wilmar is the world’s largest processor and merchandiser of palm and lauric oils, from which we derive refined palm oil, specialty fats, oleochemicals and palm biodiesel. We source crude palm and lauric oils from our own plantations and third-party suppliers. As at 31 December 2018, the Group has plants located in the following countries: Refinery Oleochemicals Specialty Fats Biodiesel Subsidiaries Indonesia 25 4 4 11 Malaysia 15 3 1 2 China 51 10 6 0 Vietnam 4 0 2 0 Europe 0 1 0 0 Africa 2 0 2 0 Others 4 0 1 0 Total no. of plants 101 18 16 13 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 30 2 2 3 Associates India 45 3 6 0 China 7 2 3 0 Russia 4 0 1 0 Ukraine 2 0 1 0 Malaysia 3 0 0 0 Africa 10 0 4 0 Bangladesh 2 0 0 0 Europe 6 1 1 0 Indonesia 0 0 0 1 Singapore 0 0 1 0 Total no. of plants 79 6 19 1 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 14 <1 <1 <1 Note: Refinery capacity includes palm oil and soft oils Explore our supply chain at wilmar-international.com/sustainability/supply-chain-map. 25 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Sugar Operations W ilmar has been involved in sugar production since 2010, and is now one of the world’s top 10 raw the leading national sugar brand, Madhur. SRS is supplied by sugar farms that source all sugarcane from Sugarcane planted area by country (ha) 2018 (Total 7,043 ha) sugar producers. We are the largest smallholders12. raw sugar producer and refiner in Australia, the leading sugar refiner Sugarcane Plantations, Mills in Indonesia, and the top consumer and Refineries pack sugar manufacturer in Australia and New Zealand. Our sugar business Approximately 91% of our planted area employs more than 4,000 employees is in Queensland, Australia, while the globally. remaining 9% is situated in Northern Myanmar13.In 2018, our total planted Our sugar operations span Myanmar, area of 7,043 hectares produced Indonesia, Australia and New Zealand, 505,363 tonnes of sugarcane. and we have recently expanded our business in India. We made an In 2018, our plantations recorded additional investment in Mumbaiyields of 91.4 tonnes and 69.4 tonnes Myanmar • 9% (643) based Shree Renuka Sugars (SRS) Ltd., of sugarcane per planted hectare in Australia • 91% (6,400) increasing our shareholdings from 27% Australia and Myanmar respectively. to 58% by the end of June 2018. SRS Myanmar’s lower yields are attributed manages seven sugar cane mills with to different climatic conditions and integrated ethanol and cogeneration lower levels of mechanisation. units, two port-based refineries and Cane delivery to our sugar mill in Australia 12 The timing of this acquisition puts the performance of our new India operations beyond the scope of this report. Data will be included in our 2019 sustainability report. 13 Data for Myanmar are based on the calendar year (January to December 2018) and are not comparable to our previous report, where data were collated based on the harvesting season (April to March). 26 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Wilmar operates 10 mills in Australia Wilmar’s Global Sugar Operations 2018 and Myanmar, which produced a total of around 2.35 million tonnes of raw 2 sugar during the reporting period. 2 Bonsucro certification for our sugar 7 operations in Australia expanded in 2018 to include all our farms and three mills in Burdekin, North 2 Queensland. Our efforts to retain our Smartcane Best Management Practices accreditation for two of our Number of Sugar Refineries 8 1 Australian farms continue, and we are Number of Sugar Mills working towards accreditation for two India additional farms – one targeted for Myanmar 2019 and one for 2020 (see page 31 Indonesia 1 1 for more information on certification). Australia New Zealand Wilmar operates one refinery in New Zealand and two refineries in Australia Note: India does not fall under the scope of this report through a joint venture with Mackay Sugar. We also operate two refineries in Indonesia. All of our refineries and As at 31 December 2018, the Group has sugar mills and refining plants in the warehouse operations in Australia and following countries: New Zealand, as well as one refinery in Indonesia, have been certified Milling Refining against the Bonsucro Chain of Custody Subsidiaries Standard. Australia 8 2 In Australia, third parties (including New Zealand 0 1 leaseholders and independent Indonesia 0 2 producers) manage 198,371 hectares India 7 2 of our total planted area and delivered Myanmar 2 0 14,961,969 tonnes of sugarcane to our Australian mills in 2018. Meanwhile in Total no. of mills/plants 17 7 Myanmar, a total of 36,603 hectares Total capacity (million MT p.a) 27 4 was contracted to be managed by Associates scheme smallholders in 2018. These smallholders supplied 1,310,830 Morocco 7 1 tonnes of sugarcane to the mill under Total no. of mills/plants 7 1 our joint venture, Great Wall-Wilmar Total capacity (million MT p.a) 4 1 Holdings. Overall, third-party suppliers represent 97% of Wilmar’s sugarcane supply base. Find a full overview of our sugar operations on page 21 of our 2017 Sustainability Report. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 27 Small Steps Towards Big Impact OUR POLICIES AND PRACTICES T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our Approach to Sustainability S ustainability is firmly embedded in Wilmar’s core business strategy and operations, and we are committed consumer goods companies. This is equivalent to 6.1 million hectares, or ten million football fields. Meanwhile Facing these challenges head on, we have re-affirmed our commitment to break the link between oil palm to driving transformation in the other industry players are lining up cultivation and deforestation, peatland agricultural sector. In December to adopt their own NDPE policies, development and social conflict. In 2013, we became the first palm oil achieving a level of commitment to December 2018, Wilmar issued a Joint company to launch an integrated sustainability that has far surpassed Statement with Aidenvironment and No Deforestation, No Peat and that seen with any other agricultural supporting consumer goods companies No Exploitation (NDPE) policy commodity. that details our new supplier monitoring extending across the entire supply and engagement programme. This chain. Supported by international At Wilmar, we maintain our focus on programme has been designed to standards and our multi-stakeholder the impact of our oil palm operations accelerate our efforts towards a partnerships, this policy has set the and drive compliance with our deforestation-free palm oil industry. Group’s overall direction towards NDPE policy at multiple levels. For mitigating deforestation, peat our own operations and for scheme Effective from 1 January 2019, development and exploitation. smallholders, we pursue continuous W i l m a r w i l l i m m e d i at e l y h a l t improvement by strengthening sourcing from suppliers at the Also recognising the private sector’s standard operating procedures and group level who are involved in responsibility to support and participating in relevant certification verified cases of deforestation and/ build on the commitments of the schemes. In our wider supply chain, or new developments on peatland. Sustainable Development Goals, we we use our refineries as central hubs Suspended suppliers will need to have embedded five SDGs into our for engaging, assessing and enhancing meet re-entry criteria that specify long-term sustainability strategy (see supplier performance. Reaching minimum thresholds for Wilmar to page 21). We will continue to measure beyond our direct supplier mills, the consider resuming sourcing. This our performance against targets scope of our policy extends to grouppolicy supports our recently launched aligned with these goals. Overall, our level14 oil palm plantations owned by timebound action plan to accelerate NDPE framework and overarching companies that we have business NDPE implementation, which has the sustainability strategy greatly relationships with. following three priorities: overlaps with SDG 12 on Responsible Consumption and Production, which A key learning from this process is that 1. H i g h e r t r a n s p a r e n c y a n d is one of the most relevant goals to the challenges we face in effective verification of NDPE compliance our sustainability efforts. Many of our policy implementation extend across the supply chain; existing activities and much of what beyond the palm oil industry itself, 2. Participation in cross-industry we currently report demonstrates our and therefore need to be addressed collaboration to fight deforestation; progress towards this goal. holistically through the collaborative and effort of governments, civil society 3. Monitor labour and community Accelerating NDPE Policy organisations, smallholders, suppliers issues to ensure no exploitation. Implementation and other industry players. To ensure successful implementation, we In order to establish a deforestationReports by Tropical Forest Alliance continue to invest significant resources free supply chain from 2020 onwards, 2020 and Forest Trends show that t o s u p p o r t m u l t i s t a ke h o l d e r Wilmar recognises that the provision the palm oil industry has made partnerships and jurisdictional and of remediation measures, also known significant progress in the last four landscape approaches as part of our as Recovery Plans, is required for to five years, both in the quality of no sustainability strategies. Nevertheless, past non-compliances related to deforestation commitments and in as we implement our policy, we are still deforestation and peat development. their implementation. At the time of obstructed by the opaque ownership Adopting a conversion cut-off date of reporting, 29% of Indonesia’s leased structures used by some companies, 31 December 2015 to determine the out landbank is protected under the and recognise that deforestation due extent of non-compliance, we will NDPE policies of 365 traders and to oil palm expansion continues to develop high-resolution forest cover occur. and peatland baseline maps for 2016 14 Group-level of suppliers is based on the definition of “group” provided by RSPO. In addition, national interpretations will be applicable in the respective regions. 29 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 onwards, beginning with Indonesia Timebound plan for outstanding mill certifications as of and Malaysia. We expect this work to 31 December 2018 be completed in 2019. Location Company name Target date Read more about our Joint Statement Central Kalimantan PT. Sarana Titian 2023 In process of finalising and NDPE action plan here. Permata 1 & 2 operation permits (HGU) West Kalimantan PT. Agro Nusa 2019 New certification exercise We will also continue working to Investama (ANI) taking over from ANIS Senabah ensure that our commitments and Sambas (Kumpai) approach to NDPE are equally West Kalimantan PT. Agro Nusa 2020 In process of finalising Investama Pahauman operation permits (HGU) relevant and impactful to our sugar West Kalimantan PT. Agro Palindo 2020 In process of finalising business. We are currently adopting Sakti 2 operation permits (HGU) best management practices at our South Sumatra PT. Musi Banyuasin 2020 In process of finalising mills and will subsequently engage in Indah operation permits (HGU) partnerships to encourage changes West Sumatra PT. Kencana Sawit 2019 Recertification exercise throughout the industry. Our NDPE Indonesia policy was scheduled for review in Riau PT. Sinarsiak 2020 In process of finalising 2018 to ensure full alignment with Dianpermai operation permits (HGU) our sugar business; however, due to Jambi PT. Agrindo Indah 2023 In process of finalising limitations in capacity, this has now Persada 2 operation permit (HGU) been rescheduled for completion in Sarawak Suburmas Palm Oil 2021 Updated RSPO membership Mill Sdn. Bhd. rule requires Wilmar to include 2019. We are currently convening Suburmas in our timebound action public consultation processes relating plans moving forward to relevant sustainability policies and Calaro Biase Plantation Ltd. 2022 New mill, pending maturity procedures. (Calaro mill) of plantation Note: Delays in certification due to HGU finalisation are a result of the revised legality requirements Sustainability Certification set out by the RSPO in June 2018. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) RSPO Supply Chain Certification before the certificate is obtained. In Standard and can deliver palm oil addition to the issues stated above, As at year-end 2018, 25 of our mills and products under the Segregated and there are increasing challenges with 172,047 (76%) hectares of our planted Mass Balance supply chain models. the RSPO certification process due area across Malaysia, Indonesia and We target to complete certification to the variable interpretation of the Ghana are RSPO certified. Of the total for all refineries by 2020. certification standard by parties hectarage, 3,690 hectares are owned involved in the certification process. by scheme smallholders. In 2018, we We continue working to achieve RSPO produced approximately 681,000# certification for all our estates and mills. All of Wilmar mills in Malaysia and tonnes of certified sustainable palm oil There has been a decrease in certified Ghana have been RSPO certified15, (CSPO) and around 149,000# tonnes volumes for our own operations since while the timebound plan for our of certified sustainable palm kernel 2017 because certificates have expired mill in Nigeria is set for 2022. Seven (CSPK). A further 11,425 tonnes of at three of our mills. One of these mills of our 25 mills in Indonesia remain CSPO and 2,929 tonnes of CSPK were is undergoing an ongoing process to uncertified due to the ongoing process produced by our plasma smallholders. obtain operation permits, or Hak Guna of obtaining operation permits. Our Around 5% of all the palm oil products Usaha (HGU); one is in the process target for 100% RSPO certification for we handle, trade and process are of resolving a land title issue relating all mills has therefore been revised RSPO-certified. to a plasma smallholder that will be to 2023. We will continue working re-certified in 2019; the third mill diligently with all relevant parties to As of year-end 2018, 78% of our has been re-certified but is awaiting overcome these barriers – including refineries are certified against the closing out of non-compliances with the necessary government # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. 15 This refers to all Malaysia and Ghana mills as described in the 2013 timebound plan. An additional mill in Malaysia, Suburmas, is operated under a joint venture and Wilmar does not hold the majority shareholding. However, the status of this mill was clarified in 2018 as being under Wilmar management control according to RSPO Certification Systems requirements. This mill is now included in our timebound plans and is scheduled for certification in 2021. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 30 Our Approach to Sustainability bodies towards an efficient process social sustainability. At the end of the of resources are all vital strategies in obtaining the operation permits. current reporting period, 20 mills and as we work to fulfil the global We will provide the RSPO with regular 16 refineries across our biodiesel demand for palm oil. We invest updates on our progress. supply chain are certified against the significant resources in research and ISCC standard. development (R&D) to find new ways National Palm Oil Certification to boost our performance, all the while Schemes Bonsucro ensuring that our palm oil is produced responsibly and sustainably. The Indonesian Sustainable Palm Wilmar adheres to the Bonsucro Oil (ISPO) certification is a national Production Standard for its sugarcane Since 2009, we have collaborated with re q u i re m e n t i m p l e m e n t e d b y mills and supply operations, and the Temasek LifeScience Laboratory on Indonesia’s Ministry of Agriculture and Bonsucro Chain of Custody Standard research to shorten the palm breeding has been applied to all mills since for all products handled above cycle through the use of genetic 2011. As at 31 December 2018, eight mill level. screening. Significant progress has of our mills and their supply bases are been made, and we are currently fieldAs of 31 December 2018, about certified against the ISPO standard. For testing genetic markers against FFB 51% of total sugarcane planted area independent mills, ISPO certification yields in selected palms. If successful, owned by Wilmar is certified against is only possible when at least 20% of this research may enable us to halve the Bonsucro Production Standard. the crop received is certified. Wilmar the breeding process time compared Our Bonsucro certified sites cover is working with independent FFB to conventional methods. Wilmar’s Burdekin farms, as well as suppliers and smallholders towards three of our raw sugar mills in Australia. This technique is currently housed achieving ISPO compliance by 2023. We have also obtained Bonsucro under Wilmar’s palm breeding units. We have been implementing the Chain of Custody certification for all We plan to distribute the superior Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil downstream operations in Australia seeds throughout our plantations in (MSPO) certification programme and and New Zealand, as well as for the Indonesia, and eventually make them its Principles and Criteria (P&C) for Jawamanis sugar refinery in Indonesia commercially available. our own operations since 2016. We and our sugar trading office in Singapore. Among other R&D initiatives, we certified six additional mills and their are working closely with Orillion, a supply bases in 2018, and after achieving Smartcane Best Management New Zealand-based pest control certification for the remaining Malaysian Practice (BMP) expert, on a new rodenticide. This mill in February 2019, we now operate initiative supports our Integrated all nine mills under the standard. Smartcane BMP is a voluntary Pest Management (IPM) programme, In addition, Wilmar is also partnering accreditation system for cultivating which includes the mass rearing of with the Malaysian Palm Oil sugarcane in Australia. The system barn owls for biological rat control Certification Council (MPOCC) to provides best practice guidance on and the use of target-specific rat baits. support all of our suppliers as they farming and business management. Of these, the solution developed by work to achieve MSPO certification Orillion has been identified as the We worked throughout 2018 to retain by the end of 2019 (see page 41 for most appropriate. We have also our Smartcane BMP accreditation for more information). been conducting best management the farms that we operate in Burdekin practice trials in conjunction with the and Herbert, as well as to secure International Sustainability and International Plant Nutrition Institute. accreditation for our Proserpine farms. Carbon Certification (ISCC) This collaboration has produced a We will begin the process at our Plane book – “Oil Palm Best Management Wilmar is a member of the ISCC Creek farms in 2019, with an aim to Practices for Yield Intensification”– Association, which promotes the achieve accreditation in 2020. which was published in 2014 for the sustainable cultivation, processing and benefit of the oil palm industry. In utilisation of biomass and bioenergy. Improving Productivity and addition, we are setting up a new The ISCC scheme is geared towards Palm Oil Yields laboratory in Central Kalimantan to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions explore palm-cloning techniques. This reduction, sustainable land use, Improving our productivity, increasing facility is expected to be operational protection of natural biospheres and our yields and optimising our use in the second half of 2019. 31 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Supply Chain Traceability A s the world’s largest palm oil trader, and with third parties representing over 90% of our total supply base, improvement. We are also able to make our supply chain as visible as possible to all stakeholders. To Report, it was reported that while some companies disclose the names of selected suppliers, Wilmar is the we have both a responsibility and learn about our approach, visit our only company out of the 38 studied an opportunity to lead our supply traceability to mill page. to disclose a full list of its first-tier chain towards sustainable palm oil suppliers. We also achieved almost production. By tracing supply flows We publish a list of our palm oil double the average company score we are able to map our supply base, suppliers on an interactive map on for traceability and risk assessment. evaluate suppliers’ performance our website, including company against our NDPE policy, and engage names and addresses. Based on the See our scorecard at 2018 Food and with suppliers to drive continuous 2018 KnowTheChain Benchmark Beverage Benchmark Worker harvesting the fresh fruit bunches at a Wilmar plantation Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 32 Supply Chain Traceability Traceability Status in 2018 America and Papua New Guinea, while Specifically, we have achieved 98.5%# refineries in Africa source products traceability to mills in Indonesia, and The majority of palm oil produced from local markets. 99.4%# traceability to mills in Malaysia. and traded by Wilmar is sourced from plantations and processing facilities Indonesia and Malaysia have been In Indonesia, about 10.20# million in Indonesia and Malaysia. However prioritised in our traceability exercise, tonnes of CPO and 1.32# million tonnes our products are often refined but good progress has also been made of palm kernel oil (PKO) processed by further in other countries, and we are in other countries where we have a our refineries were traceable at least committed to tracing them, regardless presence. to mills. About 5.87# million tonnes of of destination. In addition to Indonesia CPO and 0.77# million tonnes of PKO and Malaysia, European refineries also As at 31 December 2018, we have from our Malaysian refineries were also source palm oil products from Latin achieved 96% traceability to mills. traceable at least to mills. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Traceability data for all origin and destination facilities relating to supplies and shipments as at 31 December 2018 Traceable Volume (million MT)# Country Traceability Rating (%)# Palm (CPO) Lauric (PKO) Bangladesh 87.6% 0.09 – China Oleo* 68.6% 0.33 0.04 China Specialty fats* 67.7% 0.98 0.02 Germany 99.5% 0.47 0.03 Ghana 100.0% 0.23 – India 90.0% 1.35 0.13 Indonesia 98.5% 10.2 1.32 Ivory Coast 100.0% 0.40 0.01 Malaysia 99.4% 5.87 0.77 Netherlands 99.6% 0.44 0.14 Nigeria 75.9% 0.08 – South Africa 99.8% 0.20 0.02 Sri Lanka 100.0% 0.01 0.002 Uganda 76.5% 0.13 0.004 Ukraine 99.8% 0.15 0.004 United States of America 99.9% 0.18 – Vietnam 96.2% 0.37 – Zambia – – – Notes: 1. China is out of scope for the limited assurance undertaken for this report. 2. No volumes or rating were recorded for Zambia in 2018, however data is being collated and measured. 33 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Traceability status of Wilmar’s palm oil operations by geographic location 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Indonesia Malaysia India, China China Europe Ghana, Vietnam Ukraine United Bangladesh Specialty Oleochemicals Nigeria, States of and Sri Fats South Africa, America Lanka Ivory Coast, Uganda & Zambia Note: As mill lists are updated on a quarterly basis, and each update covers four calendar quarters, it can take up to four rolling quarters for changes at mill-level to be reflected. We committed to achieving full information, for instance through these mills have been mapped showing traceability to mills for all palm oil suppliers’ quarterly self-declaration estate boundaries and the location of physically handled by Wilmar refineries documents. every smallholder and dealer. by 2015. However, securing full traceability remains extremely difficult For our palm oil operations, our Given that 94% of the raw sugar due to the inherent challenges of primary focus to date has been on processed through our operations is commodity transportation and trading. traceability to mill. This is because a sourced from third-party suppliers, we The task is further complicated by mill is a good reference point for the have embarked on a similar traceability hesitance on the part of refiners and/ approximate location of its suppliers. exercise for both of our origin refineries or traders to share information about Due to the multi-tiered nature of the in Australia and have achieved 100% supplying mills. Nonetheless, we supply chain, we have found that traceability# to mill for 2018 sources. believe industry attitudes are shifting. pursuing traceability further upstream Through the exercise, we recognise the With Wilmar’s support, this process is extremely resource intensive and challenges in traceability to individual will now be accelerated with the new can, beyond a certain point, prove mills along the supply chain due to the resolution passed at the RSPO General ineffective, especially as traceability way in which sugar is processed and Assembly in 2018 requiring members information does not in itself address stored. We will work towards further involved in primary procurement to environmental or social issues. refining this traceability exercise before publish third-party supplying mill lists. Nevertheless, all palm oil handled by implementation at other operations. We also continue to work diligently Wilmar-owned mills have been 100% with our suppliers to secure accurate traceable to plantation since 2014, as # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 34 Overview of Wilmar’s Palm Oil and Sugar Supply Chains TRADED TRADING OFFICE PARCELS (SINGAPORE) Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Cane sugar Crude Palm Oil & Palm Kernel (CPO/PK) Crude/Refined Palm & Lauric Products TRADED Raw Sugar PLANTATION AND MILL OPERATION REFINERY OPERATION PARCELS White Sugar Wilmar Own/ BULKING Third-party Plantations TERMINAL Smallholders WILMAR WILMAR ORIGIN TRADING OFFICE ORIGIN OWN MILLS REFINERIES (SINGAPORE) Smallgrowers FFB Collection Centres Palm Supply Indonesia Malaysia Sugar Supply Third-party Plantations Australia Smallholders THIRD-PARTY Myanmar THIRD-PARTY INTERMEDIATE REFINERIES/ BUYER Smallgrowers MILLS SUPPLIER TRADERS FFB Collection Centres BULKING TERMINAL Wilmar Own/ WILMAR Third-party Plantations OWN MILLS DESTINATION Palm Supply TRADED Rest of The World PARCELS Sugar Supply WILMAR New Zealand THIRD-PARTY BULKING DESTINATION Indonesia MILLS TERMINAL PROCESSING PLANT TRADING OFFICE (SINGAPORE) 35 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 36 Driving Supply Chain Transformation O ur journey towards sustainability began in our own operations following the inception of the RSPO To accelerate and intensify our efforts towards our target of a deforestationfree palm oil supply chain from 2020, ART enables our refineries to provide a central point for growers and millers to report on their progress towards in 2004. Through the subsequent we recently announced that we environmental, social and traceability years of trial, error and internal have been working on group-level targets. The programme incorporates troubleshooting we have developed compliance monitoring alongside a risk screening for supplying mills, and an experienced internal team and have Aidenvironment since 2013. This has built-in verification assessments identified tools and best practices that scope of this work includes operations that assess compliance in sample have proven to be effective. Our supply that we do not source from directly, groups of supplying mills selected from chain transformation programme is but which are associated with our highest to medium risk categories. built on this collective experience. suppliers. As part of our progress towards Our internal compliance teams Compliance at Refineryand having 100% of our supply base continue to conduct annual internal Mill-Level assessed, we launched the SRT in audits of our own mills to assess 2017 for suppliers that have been compliance against our NDPE policy, For our NDPE policy to be effective, evaluated to be of lower risk. The as well as other sustainability-related engagement with our third-party SRT is an online self-reporting system standards. At the same time, we believe suppliers and smallholders is key. that enables suppliers to report their that working with our suppliers is To this end, we have implemented current compliance with Wilmar’s the best way to tackle the issues of initiatives such as the Aggregator NDPE policy. These assessments aid deforestation and exploitation in our Refinery Transformation (ART ) our understanding of environmental industry. programme and the Supplier Reporting and social risk-related issues within Tool (SRT) to assess our suppliers’ level our supply chain, including legality; Since 2013, we have continually of compliance with our NDPE policy. identification on high conservation addressed the risk of non-compliance value (HCV), high carbon stock (HCS) with our direct mill suppliers, of which Launched in 2014, the ART programme and peat protection; environmental there are about 1,000 globally. We also was conceptualised as a means to impact management; child protection; include mills and plantations that we strengthen every actor in the supply occupational health and safety, do not source from directly, as long chain. It promotes transformation and workers’ rights and labour standards; as they belong to an existing supplier provides a collaborative framework access to grievance mechanisms; group. for refiners, millers and growers to Free, Prior and Informed Consent overcome challenges on the ground. (FPIC); and traceability. Supplier Reporting Tool process overview Auto-generated Individual reports Suppliers complete are then made results made SRT online via OnConnect available to available to suppliers suppliers Areas of Wilmar works improvement on with suppliers to compliance to NDPE develop time-bound identified action plan 37 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Training session on SRT with suppliers in Latam The SRT was launched in Malaysia, launch in December 2013. Since then, priorities of the programme include: Honduras and Guatemala in April we have engaged Aidenvironment enforcing NDPE policy with suppliers, 2018. The results were subsequently to conduct proactive mapping and supplier mapping and monitoring, and analysed and action plans have been monitoring of geospatial information supplier suspension and engagement. formulated. In September 2018, we using regular satellite updates of at-risk carried out three supplier engagement areas. In December 2018, we raised Today, the SGCP monitors more than sessions in Indonesia to introduce SRT the bar even higher through intensified 14.75 million # hectares. Its scope to our suppliers in Jakarta, Medan and efforts via our new supplier monitoring covers 201 parent groups and 750 Palembang. The SRT was then made and engagement programme, which mills, representing approximately available in Indonesia, followed by has been designed to accelerate our 1,500 individual plantations across Colombia. To date, 429# mills have efforts towards a supply chain free Malaysia, Indonesia and Papua New shared their self-assessment results from deforestation from 2020 onward. Guinea. using the tool. The Supplier Group Compliance Programme (SGCP) entails a more Enforcing NDPE policy with Compliance at Group-level efficient mapping and monitoring suppliers process and helps to strengthen Our NDPE policy has been applicable our suppliers’ commitments and With effect from 1 January 2019, to our suppliers at group-level since its compliance to our NDPE policy. Key Wilmar requires all suppliers at groupQ1 2019 Supplier Group Mapping Q4 2019 Platform designed and trialled Mapping process completed Q2 2019 Suppliers confirm maps # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Refer to footnote 1 on page 7 for further context on this monitoring programme. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 38 Driving Supply Chain Transformation Screenshot of the Supplier Group Mapping Platform level to provide written confirmation record and investigate reports from immediate halt of purchases from of their commitment to adhere to stakeholders about potential breaches the supplier at group-level. We will our NDPE policy (to be provided by of our NDPE Policy by either Wilmar’s continue working with the suspended Q1 2019), unless they already have an own operations or our suppliers. supplier to assist them in moving acceptable public NDPE policy. towards compliance via timebound As at 31 December 2018, we have action plans. Suspended suppliers must Supplier mapping and monitoring ceased sourcing from a total of 17 meet minimum re-entry criteria before suppliers due to non-compliance with we are able to resume sourcing. Action The provision of group-level maps has our NDPE policy. This has resulted in a plans are required to be proportionate been a condition of trade for all new volume loss of more than one million to the scale of the supplier’s nonsuppliers since May 2018. Such maps tonnes to our operations. compliant developments, and may allow comprehensive monitoring of include options to protect and restore potential NDPE non-compliances. Nevertheless, Wilmar has observed that forest, bare land and/or peat swamps, Under the SGCP, we are supporting in some cases suspension only moves and to assist local communities to the development of a Supplier Group these suppliers to sell to operators that secure social forestry rights. Mapping Platform, which will contain do not have NDPE policies. According comprehensive data, including to studies by Chain Reaction Research, Existing grievances relating to group-level links, names of subsidiary there has been a growth in “leakage deforestation and/or peat development companies, mill capacities, available markets” outside of NDPE-compliant raised before 1 January 2019 will be landbanks, as well as written or public markets. Suspension may also have a dealt with based on the Grievance commitments to our NDPE policy. disproportionate and negative impact Procedure released in January 2015. Combined with detailed forest cover and on smallholders. To mitigate these peatland baseline maps, and supported risks, we place equal importance on In addition, Wilmar will contribute by high-resolution satellite imagery, post-suspension engagement to assist to cross-industry collaborations the mapping database will enable us to suppliers in bringing their operations and participate actively to develop monitor any land development activities back into compliance. Wilmar is industry-recognised remediation undertaken by our suppliers. committed to providing support and and restoration guidelines and best guidance throughout this process. practices. Further, we will also support Addressing non-compliances through grievance procedure and integrated action plans designed to To accelerate our efforts towards a strengthen forest conservation efforts, supplier engagement deforestation-free palm oil industry, especially through landscape-level new grievances with verified proof Wilmar launched a Grievance programmes and community or of deforestation and/or peatland Procedure in January 2015 to smallholder programmes. development will result in an 39 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY STOREBRAND ASSET MANAGEMENT By Tulia Machado-Helland, Senior Legal Adviser, ESG It is a positive development that Wilmar is joining efforts with Aidenvironment to better monitor its supply chain. If properly implemented, the full mapping of Wilmar’s supply chain will increase transparency and allow Wilmar to identify those producer groups in violation of the NDPE policy, and in turn provide the tools for Wilmar to focus on specific areas or specific supplier groups to help them implement the policy. Storebrand sees this as a step in the right direction. Once maps have been established, this needs to lead to action, and we would like to see Wilmar take a proactive role. Furthermore, the new grievance approach can produce positive results if properly implemented, so that those suspended suppliers end up implementing the NDPE policy through a constructive engagement process. Spelling out these clear requirements is beneficial to suppliers so that they have the framework to meet the requirements before being readmitted into Wilmar’s supply chain. Investors do need transparent information on this process in order to monitor progress and be reassured that suppliers are changing their behaviour and actually implementing the NDPE policy. About The Storebrand Group is a leading player in the Nordic market for long-term savings and insurance and has been working with sustainability since the 1990s. Tulia joined Storebrand Asset Management’s sustainable investments team in 2008. Her specialty areas are international humanitarian law, human rights, indigenous peoples’ rights and active ownership. Supplier training workshop on SRT held in Palembang Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 40 Engagement and Empowerment W ilmar is actively involved with governments, the private sector and civil society organisations. These elimination of deforestation. We also collaborate with international labour rights organisations as we work to Capacity Building and Empowerment partnerships are built on shared strengthen labour practices in our We constantly engage with and principles and values for the benefit supply chains. Until November 2018, support suppliers to adopt sustainable of people and the planet. Aligned we were an active member of the RSPO practices. We provide regular training with SDG 17 – Partnership for the Principles & Criteria Review Taskforce. programmes and access to all relevant Goals – our engagements focus on The latest P&C were formally ratified facilities at our disposal. strengthening the means by which and adopted by RSPO members at the sustainable practices are implemented 15th Annual General Assembly on 15 In March 2018, we partnered with in our industry and our supply chains. November 2018. the Malaysian Palm Oil Certification Council (MPOCC) in a project to Collective action by various We continue building partnerships assist all of our Malaysian operations stakeholders at international, regional, to achieve transformation at the in obtaining MSPO certification by the national and local levels is essential landscape level. In doing so, we have end of 2019. This project engages more for driving transformation in the found the collaborative framework than 260 mill suppliers representing palm oil industry. Wilmar plays an offered by jurisdictional approaches over 55% of the total number of mills increasingly active role in certification to be highly effective in addressing in Malaysia. To generate impact, we and assessment organisations, as environmental and social constraints rolled out our Supplier Reporting well as in various multi-stakeholder in land use scenarios. Tool at the end of 2017. Where small platforms that support the production and medium growers in Malaysia are of sustainable commodities and the For an overview of our partnerships faced with challenges in meeting as of end 2018, see page 89. MSPO requirements, we link them to SRT training workshop for suppliers in Medan 41 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 specific mills and provide access to training and assistance to help them achieve group certification. We are also conducting a series of roadshows in collaboration with MPOCC to build local capacities in line with MSPO requirements. Since 2017, Wilmar has collaborated with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and several other global brands to run a series of supplier workshops in the world’s major palm oil producing regions. These workshops focus on improving working conditions and workers’ livelihoods, and involve speaker representatives from the government, unions, civil society, business organisations, buyers and our suppliers. Tailored for Wilmar suppliers, these engagements target small Key speaker from Hukatan-KSBSI presenting in one of the BSR workshops and medium plantation companies with specific focus on their human resources personnel. Participants from our supplier companies participated Responsible Financing in the workshops held in Medan, Pekanbaru and Jakarta throughout To be a truly responsible business, Wilmar believes that sustainability 2018. Following positive feedback, metrics should be incorporated into every aspect of the business. We a second phase of capacity building were the first palm oil company to peg the interest rate on loans to our workshops is scheduled for 2019. performance based on pre-set targets for a comprehensive range of ESG metrics. When targets are met, the interest rate on the facility is reduced In 2018, we conducted multiple on a tiered basis. The first collaboration was undertaken with ING Bank workshops and training sessions. in 2017. Two subsequent partnerships, with OCBC Bank and DBS, were These were attended by 910 suppliers undertaken in 2018 with credit facilities totalling US$ 350 million. under the programme with BSR, as well as those taking part in the ART and SRT programmes. This brings the total number of suppliers trained to 1,622 by year-end, surpassing our target of 1,000 suppliers to be trained by 2018. We have also been expanding support for communities along our sugar and palm oil supply chains. Training programmes have been conducted in Myanmar for 978 smallholder farmers who supply our joint venture, Great Wall-Wilmar Holdings. For specific details on smallholder training programmes, see page 80. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 42 Ethical Policies and Transparency W e launched our revised ethical policy framework in 2017, and this is now disseminated through our are compliant with the Singapore Exchange (SGX) requirements and are published on our website. We also to RSPO detailing our progress against the standard and its P&C. Our performance has been benchmarked Code of Ethics, Anti-Fraud Policy, conduct tailored meetings for key or rated by the following assessment Privacy Policy and our updated stakeholder groups to update them on platforms: Code of Conduct. The revisions our sustainability practices and provide address a range of ethical concerns, forums for constructive discussion. • Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency including the prohibition of all forms Initiative (SPOTT), Zoological of corruption and bribery. In 2018, In January 2015, we established an Society of London (ZSL): As of we updated our Whistleblowing online Sustainability Dashboard that November 2018, our Group score Policy to ensure a robust process can be accessed on our corporate is 83%, making Wilmar one of for the independent investigation website. The Dashboard ensures that the top-scorers among peers in of alleged improprieties as well as we are responsive to our stakeholders’ Indonesia and Malaysia. follow-up actions. Whistleblowers concerns, and is regularly updated with are guaranteed confidentiality and the latest information on grievances, • CDP (formerly the Carbon freedom from reprisals, in good faith traceability, certifications, policies Disclosure Project): Wilmar and without malice. The Policy has and statements. We redesigned submitted Forests, Climate Change been communicated to employees the Sustainability Dashboard in and Water Programmes to CDP in and is made available on the Group’s November 2018 to provide a better 2018. website. user experience. • Green Cats Index Ranking, Forest In line with our practices on Explore our Sustainability Dashboard Heroes: In 2018, Wilmar was placed transparency, Wilmar produces annual and subscribe to updates. second out of 22 companies where reports on sustainability and quarterly our score improved from 74.5 in updates on traceability. Our annual Wilmar submits an Annual 2016 to 77 in 2018. corporate and sustainability reports Communication on Progress (ACOP) Screenshot of revamped dashboard 43 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 • 2018 Food and Beverage Benchmark, KnowTheChain: Wilmar ranked eighth out of 38 companies in 2018, achieving the highest score on the theme of “Remedy”. Our overall score improved by eight points compared to 2016, and we scored full points STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY NESTLÉ S.A. for commitment, management and accountability, and stakeholder By Emily Kunen, Global Responsible Sourcing Leader, Palm Oil & Seafood, Nestrade Procurement Division engagement. • 2018 report on Corporate Wilmar adopts a proactive approach in being responsive to stakeholders’ Responses Protecting Children’s concerns, and understands our requests when we raise issues or concerns. Rights Southeast Asia, Global Child Where there is an allegation or question of an NDPE policy violation within Forum: This independent report the supply chain, they are usually already well informed and have often rated Wilmar as the best-performing already started to investigate. The Wilmar team typically responds within company in the region for corporate a few hours and often reaches out to stakeholders first, or ensures that responses in three impact areas: the information is available on their website through the grievance log. Workplace, Marketplace, and In instances where they cannot send out proactive communication until Community and Environment. We matters are clarified, they will at least respond with an informal status scored 8.74 out of a maximum of pending further proactive communications. 10 points and were commended for our Child Protection Policy. About Wilmar has been one of Nestlé’s long-standing suppliers, both as a direct Grievances and an indirect supplier. Nestlé works with Wilmar to map and assess the supply chain as well as on specific initiatives to address gaps with We invite input from our stakeholders Nestlé’s standard. Emily works on Nestlé’s Responsible Sourcing team, as this helps enhance transparency in which is part of the company’s procurement division. Emily covers the our supply chain. To address issues responsible sourcing of palm oil and seafood, working with buyers and raised by stakeholders, and ensure that suppliers to ensure that purchased products come from origins that dialogue is open and inclusive, we have meet Nestlé’s responsible sourcing standard. established a Grievance Procedure that incorporates timelines and public updates on progress. Grievance cases 2018 Nature of grievance cases New cases in 2018 Total cases listed as grievance (as at December 2018) Deforestation 8 36 Social conflict 4 Human right violations 3 Deforestation/social conflict 6 Deforestation/human rights 1 Deforestation/human rights 1 violation/social conflict Total 8 51 Our Grievance Procedure and Grievance List can be accessed at wilmar-international.com/sustainability/grievance-procedure Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 44 Ethical Policies and Transparency Our management and staff use the SOP. Grievances will not be registered From Q2 2019 onwards, we will report Grievance Procedure as guidance when or investigated if they lack supporting clear information about the progress of handling grievances filed by external information or are undergoing legal our suppliers at group-level, relating to: parties concerning the implementation procedure. of Wilmar’s policies. We have standard • Availability of written confirmation operating procedures (SOPs) in place There were 51 recorded grievance of adherence to our NDPE policy at all sites to handle such cases, which cases related to our supply chain in or public commitment to another are generally overseen by local Human 2018. In the same timeframe we have NDPE policy; Resources departments and are not achieved our ongoing target of a 100% usually registered on the grievance response rate to all grievances raised • Accuracy of concession maps list published on our Sustainability through the Grievance Procedure. submitted and updated on the Dashboard. Exceptions may occur if group mapping database; the complainant submits the grievance From 2019, our public Grievance officially through the Grievance List will also include cases identified • Remaining undeveloped forests Procedure, or if an NGO publishes a through our internal monitoring and peatland within supplier grievance in the public domain on the process. Where non-compliances are holdings at group-level; and complainant’s behalf. For grievances confirmed, timebound actions are registered by external stakeholders, required to be taken by the supplier to • Appearance on the Grievance List we evaluate each case based on the remain or re-enter our supply chain. for suppliers at group-level. Constructive Engagement and Collaborative Progress Wilmar advocates constructive engagement and collaboration with all its stakeholders. We firmly believe this is an efficient and progressive means of improving our own business and moving the industry as a whole towards becoming more sustainable and responsible. The publishing of our Joint Statement together with Aidenvironment and supported by major consumer goods brands was a direct result of constructive engagement with Greenpeace, and is the outcome of fruitful discussions and well-intentioned partnerships that will pave the way for Wilmar in expediting efforts to put in place a supply chain that is free from deforestation, peatland development and exploitation. In the spirit of continuous improvement, Wilmar welcomes all stakeholders, including the NGO community, to guide, support and work with us as we identify and resolve gaps and improve the way we operate from a sustainability aspect. While campaigning efforts can be an effective means to bring attention to concerns surrounding the palm oil industry, they do not always offer effective and pragmatic solutions, and may even be counter-productive. By portraying the entire industry in a negative light, such campaigns omit the genuine and strenuous efforts being made by the more sustainable and responsible companies to transform the industry. A more balanced picture should also acknowledge the significant benefits that the industry contributes, such as millions of job opportunities, developments in education and healthcare, and improvements in living conditions and infrastructure. 45 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Turning Ability Into Sustainability E N V I R O N M E N TA L – P R O T E C T I N G O U R E N V I R O N M E N T Environmental Protection and Conservation E mbracing our vital role as custodian of the landscapes in which we operate, we work to protect threatened hectares belonging to Wilmar and third-party suppliers at grouplevel. Our practices are aligned Access the summary and peer review report at highcarbonstock.org/ registered-hcsa-assessments/. and endangered species, place special with the components in SDG 15 – emphasis on wildlife conservation, Life on Land – and specifically the Wilmar has been a member of the Sabah and enforce a strict No Burn policy. sustainable management of forests, Jurisdictional Steering Committee combating desertification, halting (JCSC) since its inception in 2016. The Wilmar acknowledges the major and reversing land degradation, and JCSC assists the Sabah Government risks that climate change poses halting biodiversity loss. According to towards its vision of achieving 100% for communities, ecosystems and ZSL’s SPOTT, Wilmar scored 100% on RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil in supply chains. We have therefore deforestation and biodiversity efforts the state by 2025. Wilmar has helped pledged to progressively reduce in 2018. the JCSC enlist the support of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on HCS Approach Executive Committee existing plantations and we prohibit Guided by our NDPE policy, we are in funding a pilot project to develop development on peatland regardless strongly committed to the use of High an HCS Approach assessment at of depth. Mindful of our duty to Conservation Values (HCV) and the the jurisdictional level. This project conserve the natural resources we High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach to will in turn provide essential input share with neighbouring communities, identify areas suitable for planting and to the jurisdictional certification we continue our diligent efforts to areas to be set aside for conservation. initiative, providing a state-level HCV safeguard water quality and reduce Wilmar has always used registered and HCS map to inform sustainable our use of chemicals where possible. HCV and HCS licensed assessors development and conservation to conduct these assessments and, strategies at a jurisdictional level. Beyond No-Deforestation following the 2017 launch of the integrated HCV-HCSA Assessment Forest Conservation and We recently reaffirmed our Manual, we only appoint licensed Wildlife Protection commitment to work towards a assessors that are able to work with deforestation-free supply chain from the integrated approach. To date, Through our HCS and HCV 2020 onward. Through our Supplier we have conducted one such HCS assessments, we have identified Group Compliance Programme, we Approach assessment, in our Nigerian and set aside 29,613 hectares for are collaborating with implementation operations, which has subsequently conservation in Indonesia, Malaysia, partners to closely monitor our supply undergone the HCS Approach Peer Ghana and Nigeria. In our sugar chain, which covers 14.75 million# Review Process. operations in Australia, we identify our Conservation area by region (ha) 2018 (Total: 30,288 ha) 15,084 15,000 10,000 6,069 5,000 3,011 1,723 2,010 1,633 83 675 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Australia Kalimantan Kalimantan (sugar) # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Refer to footnote 1 on page 7 for further context on this monitoring programme. 47 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Wilmar staff patrolling our conservation areas to monitor wildlife species vegetation classes under the categories conservation specialists. These We are also one of the few oil “not of concern”, “of concern” and specialists work closely with plantation palm companies with government“endangered” in accordance with managers to ensure that these appointed Honorary Wildlife Rangers Queensland Government laws. areas are maintained and, in some and Wildlife Wardens. These individuals Approximately 675 hectares have been cases, enhanced in terms of their are invested with authority similar to set aside for conservation under this biodiversity value. Their work includes that of State Rangers and Wardens, system in 2018. monitoring and protecting endemic and are empowered to stop any illegal and endangered species and habitats wildlife activity within our plantations. Wilmar does not operate in from threats such as poaching, illegal As at 31 December 2018, we have internationally or nationally designated logging and encroachment. Wilmar 70 Wildlife Rangers and Wardens protected areas. Furthermore, if high monitors conservation areas using a operating in Sabah and Sarawak. Ten conservation values are present on combination of strategies to ensure of these posts are filled by women. our operational sites, we implement vigilance and responsiveness, such appropriate measures to conserve as manual patrolling by onsite teams Wilmar collaborates in a broad range them. as well as technological solutions. We of initiatives to conserve and enhance also conduct awareness briefings for populations of endangered and Overseen by our Global Conservation our workers and community members flagship species. Our focus includes Lead, our conservation areas in where we socialise the importance of our own conservation areas and areas Malaysia, Indonesia, Ghana and reporting encroachment and other surrounding our operations. Our work Nigeria are managed by regional environmental threats. with these partnerships can be found on page 89. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 48 Enhancing Biodiversity Values around Wilmar’s Estates Siamang Rehabilitation Programme, Sumatra Conservation Area About The Programme Location: PT. Kencana Sawit Indonesia (KSI), Partner organisation: Yayasan Kalaweit Solok, Sumatra Partner since: 2014 Total planted area: 7,617.34 ha Project mission: Rehabilitation of captive siamang HCV areas: Bukit Tengah Pulau and Bukit Salo gibbons into HCV areas in PT KSI Total conservation area: 1,760 ha Overview of Programme Our siamang rehabilitation programme was launched in 2014 as a partnership between Kalaweit Foundation and our PT. Kencana Sawit Indonesia operations. KSI‘s HCV area forms part of the forest landscapes in which gibbons, including siamangs, were once prevalent before becoming locally extinct. The HCV area is home to tree species that can provide both habitat and adequate food to support a siamang population. It is also well protected from illegal activities such as poaching, logging and encroachment. Following reintroductions, including the release of eight individuals in 2015, the team from Kalaweit has closely monitored the population’s health and behaviour. Positive early results included the birth of two infants, a significant milestone that demonstrated successful adaptation by a siamang pair previously rescued from the pet trade. The programme has continued to make significant progress in 2018, with 24 siamangs observed in two HCV areas at KSI. It is likely that, over time, more pairs will start breeding. When this occurs, our programme will mark the first successful reintroduction of a locally extinct siamang species globally. This would also make it the first successful case in which a sustainably managed production landscape contributes to the enhancement of biodiversity in a conservation area through provision of a suitable habitat to support the survival of an endangered species. About Siamangs Scientific name: Symphalangus syndactylus Found in: Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, Indonesia, Southern Peninsular Thailand Interesting facts: Arboreal, with webbed second and third toes. Neck vocal pouches produce calls for socialising and for defending territories. Social structure consists of monogamous pairs that mate for life. Diet: Leaves, fruits, flowers and insects IUCN Red List species status: Endangered Local status: Protected in Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia 49 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Securing Viable Habitat for Primates, Sabah Conservation Area About The Programme Location: Sabahmas plantation, Sabah Partner organisation: Sabah Forestry Department Riparian areas: Segama river reserve Partner since: 2009 Total area: ~288 ha (47km in length) Project mission: Rehabilitating and enriching the Segama River Reserve in our Sabahmas plantation; providing a suitable habitat and wildlife corridor for proboscis monkeys and silvered langurs Overview of Programme Through this programme we are working to enhance riparian areas by expanding their width and restoring native tree species to provide food for local wildlife, including the proboscis monkey and silvered langur. Since 2009, we have expanded the width of riparian reserves from 20m to 50m in some areas. We have also established a monitoring programme to collect data on populations of proboscis monkeys and silvered langurs at the Segama river, and this continues to show promise. Early data indicates that both populations remain relatively stable#. The monitoring programme is the first of its kind to be conducted in a production landscape, and may provide the most secure habitat for the Borneo-specific proboscis monkey, as the area is within the boundaries of our estate in Sabahmas. About Proboscis Monkeys Scientific name: Nasalis larvatus Found in: Borneo Interesting facts: Arboreal, living in coastal areas and along rivers. One of the largest monkey species native to Asia, and known for its unusually large nose. A very aquatic primate. Diet: Leaves, fruits, flowers, seeds and insects IUCN Red List species status: Endangered Local status: Protected in Malaysia and Borneo About Silvered Langurs Scientific name: Trachypithecus cristatus Found in: Peninsular Malaysia; Borneo; Sumatra, Indonesia Interesting facts: Arboreal, living in coastal areas, mangrove and riverine forests. Specialist folivore (leaf-eating) and able to feed on tougher and more mature leaves than any of its close relatives. Diet: Leaves, fruits, flowers and seeds IUCN Red List species status: Near Threatened Local status: Protected in Malaysia, Borneo and Indonesia # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this programme. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 50 Wilmar’s No Burn Policy W e take an active role in mitigating the occurrence of haze by implementing a strict No Burn policy Despite our best efforts, fires may occasionally occur in our concessions, particularly during the dry season. were 64 reported fires in Indonesia – almost three times the number recorded in 2017 – affecting 423.25 within the palm oil operations. Any Most of these fires originate from hectares within our operations. A deliberate burning activities for land enclaves within our concessions that significant rise in the number of fires clearing by our suppliers shall result in are set aside and controlled by smallreported within a five-kilometre radius an immediate termination of business scale farmers and local communities of our concessions was also recorded relations. that continue to practice burning as – 98 fires in 2018 compared to 28 in a means to clear land. Some fires also 2017. Although rainfall for 2018 was All Wilmar operations have onsite originate outside our concession areas closer to 2017 levels, a larger affected fire brigades and are equipped and spread to our concessions due to area was reported as our monitoring with firefighting infrastructure topography or wind. systems have become more advanced and equipment. We operate a over the years and are now better 24/7 monitoring system to alert We keep detailed documentation at detecting and recording fires. Fire us to fires occurring within a fiveon every fire incident, including incidence and total affected areas kilometre radius of our concessions, its location, the affected area, the were higher in 2015 due to decreased and conduct fire prevention and action taken, the cause of the fire rainfall. suppression programmes to reduce and its duration. We support this the incidence and impact of fires and with photographic records. Police We recorded seven fires in Nigeria and haze. Our workers undergo training to reports are filed for all fire incidences Ghana during the reporting period. ensure they remain vigilant and able in Indonesia, as forest burning is a These fires spread into plantations to respond quickly and decisively in criminal offence. from land clearing activities carried out the event of a fire. by local communities, affecting a total Our efforts have resulted in a major of 1.7 hectares of planted area. We are In 2016, we became a founding drop in the number of fire incidents in developing an SOP on fire monitoring, member of the Fire Free Alliance (FFA), recent years. However, in 2018, there suppression and reporting to mitigate a voluntary initiative that provides its members with a methodology for producing a fire risk map five kilometres Fire monitoring in Indonesia beyond their plantation boundaries, among other tools and resources. Affected area (ha) Average rainfall (mm) We are actively involved in the FireNo. of fires within concession Free Village Programme (FFVP), a 3,052 3,159 2,956 community-based incentive scheme to help reduce the incidence of fires. 2,439 FFVP provides us with a platform to engage with local communities and 414 help build their firefighting capacities. 23 23 64 We also provide communities with fire suppression equipment. Since the 2,177 start of our FFA initiative, we have conducted socialisation with 145 villages along the boundaries of our plantations in Indonesia. These villages are given joint training by the relevant 84 311 423 government agencies on the use of fire suppression equipment and methods 2015 2016 2017 2018 for extinguishing forest and land fires. 51 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Activation of Wilmar’s fire fighting team in plantation to control detected fires the impact of such occurrences in In our Burdekin operations, fire is In 2018, a total of 2,917 hectares these countries. used to remove build-up of deadwas burnt in our Australian sugar leaf trash that is a barrier to irrigation operations using prescribed and The Use of Fire in Sugarcane water flow. This is the most economic controlled methods. We discontinued Cultivation and viable solution compared to burning practices in our Myanmar alternative methods. The fires used operations in 2017 after having set With guidance from Smartcane for these burns are relatively clean and up an overhead irrigation system for BMP, we only allow the use of fire quick in comparison to smouldering harvesting. during cane harvesting, where it is a trash fires that produces copious necessary solution in specific contexts amounts of blue smoke that lingers We will update our NDPE policy to in sugar cultivation. In our Australian for hours. Wilmar commits to abide by include our sugar division and reflect operations, the use of prescribed, all applicable local regulations, and to these scenarios. controlled burning is only permissible have robust SOPs in place to govern in isolated blocks where there are weed all prescribed burnings. or pest issues, or when conditions arise that obstruct the normal harvesting or irrigation process. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 52 Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions W e have committed to progressively reduce our GHG emissions, as prescribed in our NDPE carbon intensity of 0.11 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of CPO produced (MT CO2e/MT CPO) In 2018, we see an overall reduction of 152,136 MT CO 2e in net GHG emissions compared to 2017. The policy. To monitor and minimise between 2017 and 2018 for our RSPOmost significant source of our 2018 our carbon footprint, we identify certified operations. emissions is historical land use change significant pollutants and emissions and implement comprehensive mitigation plans. GHG emissions by source (%) 2018 RSPO PalmGHG Calculator Historical land use change We use the RSPO PalmGHG calculator allocation • 42% to measure the GHG emissions of our RSPO-certified palm oil mills on an annual basis, in accordance with the Peat oxidation • 30% requirements of the RSPO standard. As there have been substantial changes made across the different versions of POME • 14% the calculator, historical data cannot be used as a definitive indicator of N2O emissions • 8% year-on-year reductions and/or CO2 emissions from fertiliser • 4% increases in carbon dioxide emissions Fuel consumption (field) • 2% prior to 2016. Version 3.0.1 has been Grid electricity utilisation • 0% used to map our 2018 emissions. We Fuel consumption (mill) • 0% recorded a reduction in our overall Emission sources and sinks (MT CO2e) 2018 3,881,301 4,000,000 3,000,000 2,000,000 1,522,250 1,074,914 1,000,000 291,609 493,938 145,909 55,287 12,323 69 0 -126,745 -112,367 -1,000,000 -2,000,000 -1,604,662 H ch isto an ric ge al C C ro p seal lan lo dca u tio se n O2 e m iss io qu es t r at io ns fro m fe n Fu N 2 O em rti lis er el co ns um iss io ns Pe pt io n (fi el co S at ox id at io d) ns eq er ue va str tio at n ion n Fu el ar i ea n s G rid co ns um pt PO M E M el ec tri ci io n (m ill ) i ke ll c rn re e d bu l s its t y u til isa tio N enc hel (sa h l, e le & m o e le pt pa f n ou t em ctr y fr lm tg is ro sio ity) t w n er s ic ui em (iniss clu io dens s ) Note: For our 2018 PalmGHG calculations we have included the land area breakdown by types in Indonesia. Therefore, sequestration in conservation area figures are significantly higher than 2017 figures, due to the inclusion of Indonesia’s HCV areas for emission calculations. See base data for further details. 53 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 occurring after November 2005 Carbon intensity (MT CO2e/MT CPO) (39.2%), followed by peat oxidation Region 2016 2017 2018 (27.7%) and palm oil mill effluent (12.7%). Although we are unable to Sabah 0.74 0.81 0.73 undo historical land conversions, Sarawak 0.86 0.75 0.73 we remain committed to expansion Malaysia 0.77 0.79 0.73 only in low carbon landscapes. This commitment will continue to ensure Central Kalimantan 1.46 1.17 0.92 that all future developments have a West Kalimantan 7.50 16.04 22.47 significantly lower carbon footprint. Sumatra 4.08 4.66 4.7 Indonesia 3.03 3.83 3.68 Net emission by country Ghana 1.04 0.98 0.40 (RSPO mills only MT CO2e,%) Wilmar Overall 2.27* 2.88 2.77 2018 * 2016 sequestration data was previously calculated incorrectly and has been restated in this report. Note: Our West Kalimantan operations shows a significant jump from 2017 as data only reflects the intensity from one RSPO-certified mill in 2018, which is supplied mainly from estates planted on peat. oil and sugar operations. For sugar, and electricity generated onsite by we calculate scope 1 and scope 2 burning bagasse (a by-product of GHG emissions in accordance with sugar milling). This cogeneration the Australian Government Clean process generates a total capacity of Energy Regulator under the National about 199 megawatts. A significant Ghana • 12,299 • 0% Government Clean Energy Reporting portion of the electricity produced is scheme. For our three Bonsucro exported into the Queensland power Malaysia • 291,285 • 8% certified mills in Australia, we also grid, thereby reducing the region’s Indonesia • 3,577,717 • 92% report net GHG emissions data for overall GHG emissions. Three of both mills and farms in line with our mills use cogeneration facilities certification requirements. to increase their export capacities GHG Protocol and CDP and further drive the efficient use of Reporting Wilmar is the largest producer of biomass. Surplus bagasse is stockpiled renewable energy from biomass on specially designed pads to ensure The GHG Protocol accounting in Australia. Our eight sugar mills a ready source of renewable energy standard is utilised for both our palm are powered by renewable steam outside the crushing season. Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions breakdown by country and business activity 2018 Emissions by country Australia & Malaysia Indonesia Africa Myanmar New Zealand Scope 1 (MT CO2e) 1,325,580 3,330,205 18,822 206,673 6,748 Scope 2 (MT CO2e) 230,596 345,221 71 47,610 0 Emissions by business activity/division Palm Oil palm Sugar Palm oil mills refineries/ Sugar farms Sugar mills plantations refineries others Scope 1 (MT CO2e) 328,586 1,363,413 2,661,969 13,426 133,649 386,985 Scope 2 (MT CO2e) 5,092 405 570,326 1,341 22,843 23,492 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 54 Reducing GHG Emissions Flaring of biogas captured from the methane capture system in operation Looking forward, we aim to reduce the Wilmar participated in three CDP associated with climate change, as overall GHG emissions intensity of our programmes in 2018, including annual well as information on our emission mills by 15% by 2023. This reduction reporting for the Climate Change reduction efforts. will be measured from a 2016 baseline Module. The report discloses Wilmar’s of 0.82 MT CO 2e/MT CPO. As at carbon footprint in line with the Mitigating GHG Emissions 31 December 2018, we recorded a reporting scope16 and in accordance through Methane Recovery GHG intensity of 0.72 MT CO2e/MT with the standards defined by the GHG CPO. Protocol. The report also presents Methane from palm oil mill effluent our assessment of the business risks (POME) is one of our largest sources First two methane capture plants 23 methane built in Malaysia capture plants 2008 2011 2015 2018 2019 First methane • Eight methane Expected to capture plant capture plants complete two built in Indonesia built more plants • Target set to install 15 more by 2017 16 The scope of the 2018 CDP report is the same as the scope of this sustainability report. 55 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 of avoidable GHG emissions. To 500,00017 MT CO2e. However, we have the implementation of practices that reduce our carbon footprint, and in already exceeded this target based on maintain water tables at appropriate line with industry best practice, we have the data from our 23 operational mills levels. Around 8% of our planted and invested heavily in the construction in 2018, where we achieved a total plasma areas is currently on peat. Most of methane capture and power POME GHG emissions reduction of of this area is located in our older generation facilities at a number of 588,545 MT CO2e. estates in Sumatra. our mills. As at 31 December 2018, we have 23 operational methane capture Peat Conservation and Together with other key stakeholders, facilities at our CPO mills, and expect to Restoration we collaborate with Tropical Forest complete two additional plants in 2019. Alliance 2020, a global publicWilmar prohibits development on private partnership that, among other The biogas captured from these peatland, regardless of the depth, in activities, brings palm oil and pulp facilities is used for flaring or accordance with the full scope of our and paper companies together to electricity generation. This provides NDPE policy and adopts best practices exchange best practices in peatland alternative sources of electricity for in agricultural management to prevent conservation and restoration. We our operations, and helps to reduce soil erosion and degradation. Where also collaborate with the Indonesian our overall fossil fuel consumption. An feasible, we explore options for peat Peatland Restoration Agency (Badan operational methane capture facility restoration by working with expert Restorasi Gambut (BRG)), sharing can potentially reduce a palm oil mill’s stakeholders and communities. Where information and supporting progress GHG emissions by 90%. plantations have been established on towards their peatland conservation peat in the past, we work closely with target of restoring two million hectares We initially estimated that once all expert stakeholders to develop and of peatland in seven Indonesian 25 methane capture facilities were in implement remediation measures provinces by 2020. place, we would achieve an annual as defined by RSPO and peat emissions reduction of more than specialists. These measures include Planted and conserved peat (ha) 2018 12,045 12,000 9,000 7,620 6,000 2,312 2,152 3,000 43 0 84 0 21 111 0 Sabah Sarawak Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Peat area planted Peat area conserved 17 This excludes the emissions avoided by not using fossil fuels for electricity generation. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 56 Safeguarding Water Quality W e recognise the need to carefully manage our use of water, an essential and finite global resource. All Wilmar operations were compliant with relevant local thresholds in 2018. We have therefore implemented To mitigate the impact of our sugar comprehensive measures to safeguard operations on waterways and water quality, increase water efficiency aquatic ecosystems, our raw sugar and improve water management. mills process surplus water and We are also working to minimise effluents through detention ponds the use of potable water across all and sludge plants, or treat them in our operations. These measures are constructed wetlands. Treated water designed to mitigate any negative is then recycled back to our mills or impacts that our palm oil and sugar directed to facilities managed jointly operations have on waterways. by local government and the mill for further treatment. Treated water, Managing Effluents and sometimes the effluent itself, can also be used for irrigation. We The processing of palm oil results in ensure that all effluent discharged to Inspection at a water sampling station to assess highly polluted wastewater known as the impact of farming practices on runoff water local waterways is in compliance with from cane farms palm oil mill effluent. POME is often local regulations on water quality and discarded in waterways, resulting in discharge limit requirements. Where contaminants that pollute groundwater pathways for fertilisers and pesticides regulatory requirements do not exist and soil. applied to the land by producers. for water surplus used for irrigation, we follow good practice. This involves At Wilmar, however, we repurpose We are also involved in trialling monitoring water quality to ensure POME as fertiliser. Applied to land, approaches to the sustainable use of suitability for irrigation without longit provides moisture, nutrients and mill by-products through our Cane term negative impacts to soil. organic matter that enhance the soil Supply Improvement Programme and in turn reduce our reliance on (CSIP). Under this programme, trials Water Initiatives for Sugar inorganic fertilisers. When POME is were conducted from 2016 to 2017 Operations released into local rivers, it is treated in Herbert to test different mill bybefore discharge. In both instances, we product application methods and Wilmar is actively involved in specific comply with local environmental limits application rates to identify how to initiatives in Australia, to address the to minimise any risk of groundwater use these products to improve industry impacts of declining water quality and pollution or disturbance to aquatic life. profitability while minimising their climate change on the health of the environmental impact. The results Great Barrier Reef. Our Central Kalimantan mills have indicated that banding mill byrecorded higher biological oxygen products at low rates, and burying Wilmar is a founding member of the demand (BOD) readings in 2018, them below plant mounds, significantly Baratta Creek Action Group (BCAG), compared to previous years. Our mills reduces nitrogen and phosphorus in a partnership between sugarcane generally have higher readings for runoff water, compared to a broadcast farmers, the government and providers a number of reasons, including the application or using higher rates of research, development and impact of repairing existing treatment of the by-products #. Wilmar has agricultural extension. BCAG captures plants, lower rainfall and an increase convened a working committee of data on nutrients and pesticide loads in total suspended solids in claytechnical experts and government and in runoff water to influence on-farm bath water. Our ongoing target is industry service providers to develop activities to improve water flowing to to maintain BOD levels below local recommendations on the use of mill the Great Barrier Reef, as well as to thresholds for all effluent discharged increase awareness of potential loss by-products for industry application. to waterways from our palm oil mills. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this programme. 57 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) levels by region and discharge destination River discharge BOD levels by region (mg/l) 94 94 100 90 89 80 58 60 52 40 32 25 26 17 19 17 20 0 Sabah (land irrigation) Sarawak West Kalimantan Sumatra 2016 2017 2018 Land application BOD levels by region (mg/l) 1,171 1,200 1,052 1,065 982 1,000 800 600 506 400 317 271 312 251 134 175 200 60 0 Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Ghana 2016 2017 2018 Notes: 1. In Nigeria, there was sufficient pond capacity to contain all effluent without land discharge. 2. BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for river discharge: • Sabah: 20/50/100 mg/l, depending on the year the mill is built • Sarawak: 50 mg/l • Indonesia: 100 mg/l 3. BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for land application: • Indonesia: 5,000 mg/l • Ghana: Not applicable Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 58 Safeguarding Water Quality Water Usage standards, we monitor net water to ensure that all irrigated water is consumed per unit mass of product efficiently used and applied to our Mills account for the majority of water for our sugarcane plantations and fields. In 2018, we were just below the used in our palm oil operations. This mills, and in 2018 our consumption Bonsucro threshold for our Burdekin water is drawn from local waterways was well within the water usage limits operations due to low rainfall that and wells to process FFB. Aside from set up by the standard. We also try resulted in increased water use. mills, water is also used for nursery irrigation and household use. Our 2018 mill water usage levels were Net water consumed per unit mass product and water efficiency in line with industry levels across all in Australia regions. For our palm oil mills, we target to reduce water consumption Net water consumed per intensity to 1.2m3 per tonne of FFB Efficient use of water unit mass product (kg of (kg/ha)/mm processed for Indonesia and 1.3m3 per water/kg of mass product) tonne of FFB processed for Malaysia 2017 2018 2017 2018 and Ghana by 2023. We will set a target Plantations 97.89 107.35 95.90 88.43 for Nigeria once we have ensured data robustness with the new mill in place. Mills 0.64 0.38 Not Applicable Our sugar operations in Australia Notes: source water from nearby surface 1. For net water consumed per unit mass product, Bonsucro’s limits are <130kg of water/kg of mass product for farms, and <20kg of water/kg of mass product for mills (sugar only). water bodies or artesian bores for 2. For efficient use of water, Bonsucro’s threshold is >90 (kg/ha)/mm. Efficient use of water only use in mills. Government approval is applies to fully irrigated sugarcane and therefore data is only representative for all farms in Burdekin needed to draw from these sources in where irrigation is used. Our remaining farms are rain-fed or supplemented with irrigation. all cases. In accordance with Bonsucro Water usage (m3/MT FFB processed) 2.0 1.64 1.65 1.62 1.60 1.57 1.55 1.53 1.55 1.46 1.43 1.52 1.5 1.38 1.33 1.26 1.27 1.25 1.19 1.20 1.12 1.01 1.02 1.0 0.5 0.0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 2018 59 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Reducing Chemical Use A t Wilmar, we work towards optimising our use of pesticides and implement safeguards to eliminate Strict Use of Paraquat The use of paraquat is strictly available due to it being a contact chemical with no residual activity. exposure to hazardous chemicals prohibited in our palm oil operations, Nonetheless, Wilmar recognises that for workers, communities and the and we enforce this prohibition in paraquat is a substance of concern, environment. Any use of fertiliser is our joint ventures and with thirdand we have established strict based on a thorough management party suppliers. In adherence to this procedures governing its use. This plan, as outlined in our standard policy, all Wilmar businesses involved includes only allowing application via operating procedure, to ensure its with fertilisers and/or chemicals have mechanised spraying, ensuring use of optimal use with minimal excess. ceased the selling of paraquat as of personal protective equipment (PPE), We also incorporate Integrated Pest 2018. However, paraquat is still widely ensuring conducive climate conditions Management (IPM), which combines used in the sugar sector, including in for its use and equipping tractors with cultural, mechanical, biological and our own plantations in Australia and proper filtration systems. By law, only chemical strategies to control pests Myanmar. This continued usage is due highly trained workers are allowed while minimising economic, public to the absence of viable alternatives. to handle chemical application, and health and environmental risks. their license must be renewed every Recycled palm fronds and other For our cane operations, and three years. organic products are used to increase specifically in the Australian context, the fixing capacity of soils. paraquat use remains the most We will be clarifying our policies in practical solution and may even curb 2019 to reflect these strict conditions We closely monitor toxicity within all our overall environmental impact. It is under which paraquat use is permitted our palm oil operations on a regular generally considered as reef-friendly in our sugar operations. basis, and undertake strict and detailed when compared to alternative means risk assessments for all substances that pose a potential hazard to our workers or the environment. Wilmar strictly prohibits the use of any pesticide categorised as World Health Organization (WHO) Class 1A or 1B, or those listed by the Stockholm or Rotterdam Conventions, except in specific situations18. Supported by our R&D laboratory in Indonesia, we will continue to seek, develop and adopt environmentally friendly solutions to prevent oil palm diseases and improve palm growth. We are also working with local stakeholders to determine and implement alternative pest control strategies in our operations. Mechanised and controlled application of fertiliser in our sugar farms 18 Wilmar uses some pesticides in the form of pre-formulated mixtures. In these instances, the final classification that we adopt is based on the classification set by the manufacturer for the actual formulation. This is explained on page 7 in the document “The WHO Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines for Classification 2009” available at http://www.who.int/foodsafety/publications/classification-pesticides/en/. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 60 Reducing Chemical Use Application of empty fruit bunches as organic fertiliser to reduce the use of synthetic materials Worker Safety Monitoring Chemical Use and random basis, we do not believe it is Toxicity meaningful to monitor the use of these All workers handling chemicals pesticides on a year-on-year basis. onsite in our operations are required Herbicide use is part of good to undergo extensive and regular agricultural practice within the palm For a more accurate assessment of training. The wearing of PPE onsite oil sector. The amount of herbicide our performance against palm oil is compulsory, including protective used is largely based on planting peers, we monitor toxicity levels per eyewear, facial masks, gloves and cycles, with new plantings and young hectare by region. We track this data boots. Showering is mandatory after crops requiring greater amounts to ensure that changes in the type or each shift, and shower facilities are compared to mature crops. Local volume of herbicides or pesticides provided at each site. Only authorised climate conditions, pest profiles and used do not adversely affect our personnel have access to chemicals, agricultural and soil conditions are also environmental footprint. Comparison which are stored in locked facilities, taken into consideration in herbicide can be difficult, as only a few oil palm and all containers used for storing application. plantation companies disclose toxicity chemicals are collected, stored and levels. However, we believe that our disposed of in accordance with legal We only permit the use of fungicides, current range of below 1,000 units per requirements for hazardous waste. All rodenticides and insecticides in hectare is largely in line with industry workers are subject to regular health specific and urgent situations – such best practice. checks and more information on our as a particularly aggressive outbreak. 2018 PPE initiatives is provided on Because these outbreaks occur on a page 76. 61 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Toxicity units/ha by region (palm oil operations) 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sabah 452 508 801 737 647 617 687 Sarawak 471 694 718 534 541 684 937 Central Kalimantan 367 318 337 328 253 283 209 West Kalimantan 327 296 416 464 256 271 277 Sumatra 258 219 231 257 317 563 304 Ghana – – – – 259 316 382 Nigeria – – – – 629 111 193 Notes: 1 With the exceptions of Ghana and Nigeria, historical data for 2012-2015 were incorrectly stated in Wilmar’s 2016 Sustainability Report for all other locations. The data for 2012 2015 have therefore been restated in this report. 2 The significant decrease in toxicity units per hectare for Nigeria between 2016 and 2017 is due to the estate not having access to all herbicides used in 2016. Only one herbicide was applied in 2017. In adherence to the Bonsucro chemical usage for both Australia Production Standard, we monitor and Myanmar plantations were within the level of active ingredients per the Bonsucro limit set for total active hectare for our sugar operations. ingredient used per hectare. In terms These measurements cover all of toxicity levels, our sugarcane farms agro-chemicals applied, including range from 2,400 2,900 toxicity units pesticides, herbicides, insecticides, per hectare. fungicides and ripeners. In 2018, our Total active ingredient per hectare (sugar operations) (kg/ha) Country 2017 2018 Australia 4.07 3.60 Myanmar 2.65 3.04 Notes: 1. Bonsucro limit: <5kg per hectare per year. 2. 2017 data has been restated. Information about herbicides used in Wilmar plantations can be found on page 97. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 62 Shaping Our Future SOCIAL – RESPECTING AND EMPOWERING PEOPLE Empowering People and Communities W ilmar is committed to No Exploitation of people and communities, and to respect, protect In line with our new action plan to accelerate NDPE compliance, we have been conducting a thorough contracts, restructuring wages, and reinforcing gender equality. Health and safety standards have also been and uphold the human rights of every review of the work that has been a priority. worker associated with our business. undertaken to date to identify ways to strengthen labour practices. Wilmar We have in place the following labour Our position on exploitation is guided will be designing a framework for and human rights policies: Human by international standards, including implementing social audits across our Rights, Child Protection, Occupational the UN Global Compact, the UN entire supply chain to demonstrate Health and Safety, Equal Opportunity Guiding Principles on Business and compliance (or otherwise) with our and Sexual Harassment, Violence Human Rights, the conventions of No Exploitation policy. Independent and Abuse, and Reproductive Rights. the International Labour Organization community and labour assessments Our Human Rights Policy guides our (ILO), the Universal Declaration of aligned to this audit framework are approach to due diligence within the Human Rights and its covenants, the being conducted in early 2019. These supply chain. It also guides our strategy United Kingdom (UK) Modern Slavery will be followed by a timebound action of using partnerships and platforms Act, and the Bonsucro Production plan to monitor labour and community to monitor labour risks linked to Standards for respecting human issues pertinent to our No Exploitation our suppliers at plantation-, millor rights and labour standards. We have commitments. group-level. For our sugar business, a Board-approved UK Modern Slavery we have additional policies covering Act Transparency Statement in place I n M y a n m a r, S o c i a l I m p a c t Environmental Health & Safety and that was signed off on 1 January 2018. Assessments (SIAs) were conducted Injury Management. in 2015 covering our sugarcane and Wilmar is an active member of the sugar plant operations. The SIAs Collaborations with international RSPO Human Rights Working Group, did not identify any critical issues organisations and multi-stakeholder specifically the Labour Taskforce, related to the labour force, and are partnerships that specialise in labour which addresses the rights of plantation now focused on potential impacts rights also play a key role in our efforts workers and vulnerable groups. As part to nearby communities. While there to strengthen labour practices. In of the Taskforce, we strongly supported have been delays on reporting the March 2018, Wilmar, Cargill, Golden the definition and methodology for a SIAs due to circumstances with the Agri-Resources, Musim Mas and sector-specific living wage standard hired consultants (final reports were Sime Darby Plantation established that was adopted under the revised received in late 2018 only), we are still the Decent Rural Living initiative, RSPO P&C in November 2018. We have working closely with the local team to convened by Forum for the Future. also contributed to the development ensure that increasingly reliable data The aim of the initiative is to improve of the RSPO Policy on Human is available on labour conditions in the protection of human and labour Rights Defenders, Whistleblowers, Myanmar. rights in the agriculture sector by Complainants and Community delivering practical and realistic Spokespersons, which was adopted Decent Work and Economic recommendations to support rural by the RSPO Board of Governors in Growth workers and secure their long-term September 2018. ability to thrive. Cross-industry and Our employees form the backbone stakeholder partnerships will be Wilmar sits on the HCS Approach Social of our operations, and we see it established to address worker-centric Requirements sub-groups relating to as our responsibility to provide barriers and going beyond compliance. Labour Rights and the Application good livelihoods and development More information can be found in this of Social Requirements to Existing opportunities for all our workers and joint statement. Operations. We are currently working their families. In line with SDG 8 on to formalise these as part of the 14 Decent Work and Economic Growth, We also collaborate with key HCS Approach Social Requirements, we have been rolling out reforms partners such as Business for Social 11 of which were adopted by the HCS since 2017 to entrench good labour Responsibility (BSR) on collective Approach Steering Group into the practices throughout our operations. actions to improve working conditions methodology in November 2018. These include converting temporary and livelihoods across the palm oil employment contracts to permanent 64 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 New Strategic Plan With Verité To Strengthen Labour Practices Wilmar began collaborating with Verité in 2017 with an aim to develop robust and sustainable solutions to labour issues in our operations and the wider palm industry. We subsequently underwent a 12-month programme, aligned with international standards and global market demands. Since then, we have been working with Verité to raise awareness on human rights and labour issues in plantations, specifically in the Indonesian context. We have set up systematic sustainability goals and have developed a strategy to change mindsets and entrench sustainability as the priority approach for our company. In January and August 2018, two workshops were organised with the key managerial and operations staff at PT. Daya Labuhan Indah (DLI) and PT. Perkebunan Milano (Milano). The focus of these workshops was strategic planning and problem solving in teams. The outcomes from the first workshop were working drafts of three-year strategic objectives, a three-year plan, and a 2018 action plan. The second workshop involved an assessment of the sustainability framework’s coherence in light of the three-year strategic objectives. As a result of these workshops, the following priorities were identified for mitigating the risk of recurring serious labour issues: • Exploring the possible root causes of child labour; • Understanding the link between work and pay practices; and • Screening for emergent labour issues. Moving forward, we plan to launch the programme throughout Indonesia to both strengthen Wilmar’s sustainability structure and design value-based labour and community engagement initiatives. supply chain in Indonesia. These immediate families, as well as other policy on overtime work on official actions include capacity building benefits, such as facilities for children, rest days. In parallel to the initiatives programmes and supplier workshops. including playgrounds, daycare implemented above, we are also More information can be found on centres for children of pre-school age, collaborating with peer companies page 41. and access to education for children on the decent living wage for workers of school-going age. All workers in and plan to conduct an external Wages and Benefits Malaysia, Indonesia and Ghana have assurance of wage payments as part access to onsite accommodation for of the programme. We pay fair wages to all employees those who require housing. Those and comply with minimum wage who stay offsite do so by their own Through work with our partner Verité, regulations, at the very least, for our choice. As our operations are still we are looking to calculate work lowest paid workers for all palm oil and developing in Nigeria, only 11% of completed after regular hours for sugar plantations, mills and refineries. permanent workers are provided with piece-rate workers with the aim of This applies to both full-time and accommodation in our estates as of better compensating work rendered temporary workers that are subject year-end 2018. We target to provide all upon exceeding the minimum to key performance indicators (KPIs). workers with accommodation choices productivity output. We are also by 2025. considering alternative measures to In 2018, all our workers received financial penalties for breaches in wages 19 of at least the applicable Over the years we have seen a steady company regulations on discipline minimum wage for our palm oil increase in workers’ pay throughout and performance. Such measures operations in Indonesia, Malaysia, the industry, and we are committed may include switching our approach Nigeria and Ghana. All permanent to driving further improvements by to positive reinforcement for nonworkers are also provided with free incentivising the harvesting of quality breaches. Now that payslips are housing for themselves and their fruit. We are also introducing a formal available in Bahasa Indonesia, our 19 Wages includes basic pay, fixed allowances and variable allowances. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 65 Empowering People and Communities focus is shifting to ensure that workers Under Australian legislation, sugar In Myanmar, our employees are understand the pay system, and to employees may have higher minimum provided with additional benefits, empower them to be more active and wages based on the sugar industry including staff housing and meal engaged in their involvement with award agreement. Wilmar also has allowances. While the majority of our the business. We are working with an enterprise agreement, which is a workers are paid directly by Wilmar on unions to provide clarification of the tailored collective agreement made at a daily rate, some workers are sublink between KPIs and wages. enterprise-level between employers contracted through an independent and employees that stipulates pay agency (mainly those working in In our sugar operations in Australia, rates higher than award wages. planting, harvesting and the application New Zealand and Myanmar, we also All employees are provided wage of fertilisers and herbicides). pay workers at least the applicable legal information through common law minimum wage, and are in compliance contracts. These contracts are tested Temporary Workers with labour rules and regulations against national employment standard covering overtime and breaks. wages to ensure our contract rates Temporary workers play an important exceed standard rates. role in the oil palm industry, particularly Employees by contract type by region 2018 (palm oil plantations and mills) Permanent Temporary 20,000 15,122 15,000 12,398 10,000 8,653 3,815 5,000 3,369 2,992 2,705 2,034 1,304 545 0 0 0 10 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan Employees by contract type by region 2018 (sugar plantations and mills) Permanent Temporary 1,500 1,299 1,200 900 769 689 516 600 300 0 Australia Myanmar 66 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 in providing services for specialist and Equal Opportunity women. However, we recognise timebound jobs. Overall, we continue that many women in our oil palm to reduce the number of temporary Wilmar is committed to the principle of plantations are on temporary rather workers in our operations in line with equal opportunity for each employee. than permanent work contracts for responsible employment practices. In line with our Equal Opportunity the purposes of having flexible working Policy, we do not discriminate based on hours to manage domestic and We have already made great progress race, colour, gender, age, social class, childcare responsibilities. In Central towards this goal in North Sumatra. religion, sexual orientation, politics, or Kalimantan, where all temporary As of October 2018, there are no disability when making decisions on workers have now been converted temporary contract holders in PT. DLI hiring, promotion or retirement. to permanent status, we have ensured and PT. Milano in the region, and we that all female workers can now enjoy are working towards the same goal Given the vast cultural differences maternity benefits. Menstrual leave at our other estates. The conversion between the countries and regions in application processes have also of temporary contract holders which we operate, gender distribution been made easier and less intrusive. to permanent contract holders is among workforces varies greatly. All benefits and subsidies paid out to consistent with Wilmar’s overall efforts In Malaysia, the number of women women are now on par with those countrywide. employees in Wilmar’s operations is paid out to our male workforce. largely proportionate to the relatively As at December 2018, 90.4% of our high participation of women in the In January 2018 Oxfam, Serikat Buruh workers in Indonesia hold permanent general workforce. This can be Perkebunan Indonesia (Serbundo) employment status. We have achieved compared to other regions where and Kapal Perempuan conducted 100% conversion of temporary women have less access to the formal onsite research in PT. DLI focusing contracts to permanent contracts labour market. In some countries, such on the working conditions of women in Central Kalimantan, and 90.5% in as Australia, agriculture tends to be employees and their reproductive Sumatra. Only 65.2% of our workers a male-dominated industry and our rights in oil palm plantations. Several in West Kalimantan are of permanent operations reflect this trend. key stakeholders were interviewed, status. including representatives from We seek to ensure that pay and company management, medical Our Nigeria operations embarked conditions are equal for men and officers and, most importantly, female on a large-scale exercise in 2018 to fill gaps created by dead seedlings. Many temporary jobs were created for this purpose, and people from nearby communities were recruited to help. We expect this exercise to be completed by end-2019 or 2020. As sugarcane is a seasonal crop, a large proportion of the workforce in our sugar plantations is temporary and composed of seasonal workers. While many seasonal workers in Australia are locals, non-locals must undergo checks to prove they are permitted to work and reside in the country. In recent years, cases of exploitation involving foreign seasonal workers have been reported, raising concerns in the Australian media and among public, government and civil society stakeholders. To our knowledge, these cases are not related to the sugar industry. Training for women workers Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 67 Empowering People and Communities Women in our operations by region (%) 2018 37.5% 37.0% 31.7% 30.1% 27.6% 24.0% 23.0% 18.1% 12.2% Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Australia Myanmar Kalimantan Kalimantan (sugar) (sugar) Note: Data for Myanmar excludes the number of women in the temporary workforce and those hired through third party agents, as data is unavailable. workers. The researchers concluded that the following conditions could be further improved within Wilmar’s operations: • Provision of basic adult education for women and men; • Protection of reproductive health rights; • Engagement to socialise the concept of gender equality in the estate; • Safeguards for the security and safety of female workers and female-specific grievance processes; and • Empowerment through the existing Gender Committee, and increasing female representation in general. Meeting of the Women’s Committee in one of our Malaysia estates We have started to build improvements that specifically address these gaps We have already established Women’s In 2018, we began work to standardise into our management workplans Committees across our estates in the focus of Women’s Committees at for enhancing gender equality in Malaysia, Indonesia and Ghana. estate-level in Malaysia. This includes our operations and estates. Gender These ensure female representation, setting up a specific taskforce to look sensitisation is also a component of regardless of labour or workers’ at the key issues of child care in our our three-year strategy developed association. In Nigeria, we target to crèche centres, as well as collating with Verité. establish Women’s Committees for womenand family-specific data for 100% of all estates by end-2019. each of our estates. In 2019, we will 68 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 be launching guidelines for Women’s Committees across all Wilmar operations. These guidelines will cover governance, areas of focus, as well as decision-making roles in estate management. A dedicated steering group will oversee the running of Women’s Committees, and will be led by the General Manager for Group Sustainability. Caring for Children in Our Plantations Children in one of our Malaysia estates going to school We launched our Child Protection Policy (CPP) in November 2017. The various facilities and other benefits Specific safety improvements for CPP supersedes our longstanding No for our workers’ children, including crèche facilities were also implemented Child Labour Policy, and is formulated schools in many estates. in 2018. Focus was placed on all to address issues of children’s rights aspects of childcare, including hygiene. and welfare in a more holistic way. It Child Safety A checklist of minimum standards was specifically enjoins us to ensure that developed for childcare workers based all children in our plantations, schools Building on the CPP, a review of our on a dedicated crèche safety review and facilities, as well as those under plantations and operations from conducted in April 2018, and this has the care of our third-party suppliers the perspective of child safety was now been incorporated as part of their and contractors, are provided with completed in July 2018. This included daily routine. Additional training was safeguards and protection from abuse an assessment using the Hazard also provided for childcare workers to and exploitation. The CPP is guided by Identification, Risk Assessment, and ensure a minimum standard of care global standards, including ILO and Risk Control (HIRARC) approach. is provided. This initiative has been UNICEF, and includes remediation incorporated as a set programme actions for instances where child The child safety assessment has been under the sub-committee of Women’s labour has occurred. shared with plantation operations Committee (Women and Children management, and we are currently Committee) and is being rolled out In September 2018, we were developing a cohesive child safety across Wilmar’s operations from 2019. recognised by Global Child Forum programme to ensure that safety for the improvements we have measures are in place and are School Attendance for Children made, ranking number one in their consistently applied. The programme Living in Plantations Corporate Responses to Protecting will focus on: Children’s Rights in Southeast Asia We believe that by providing access report. The Global Child Forum is • Educating caretakers and children to quality education for all children, a non-profit foundation initiated in about safety risks and mitigation and from a very young age, we can 2009 by the Swedish royal family as an measures; empower them to build meaningful independent platform for promoting • Designing safer environments for and prosperous lives. All children action on children’s rights. The report children; and of compulsory school-going age commended our CPP, particularly in its • Continuously reviewing children’s that live in Wilmar’s plantations are provision of a remediation plan should interactions with the immediate required to attend full-time education incidents involving child labour come surroundings and identifying programmes. Our conviction is to light in our own or our suppliers’ potential safety risks. reflected in SDG 4 on Quality operations. The report further Education. highlights our efforts in providing This programme will be rolled out across all Wilmar estates. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 69 Empowering People and Communities Class in session at one of our Humana schools in Sabah In 2018, we engaged in an exercise in which every Wilmar estate was asked Children living in plantations of school-going age who attend to obtain a census on the number of school by country 2018 children living within its boundaries, and to clarify which schools they 9,625 10,000 attend. As at 31 December 2018, there are about 12,400 children of 8,071 compulsory school-going age living in 8,000 our oil palm plantations in Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria and Ghana. In 2018, 6,000 we recorded that around 84%# of these children attend school20, and we target 4,000 to secure 100% attendance at schools, education programmes or equivalent 1,837 1,443 by 2025. 2,000 547 547 362 359 As part of our efforts to provide 0 access to quality education, we have Indonesia Malaysia Ghana Nigeria embarked on a school redevelopment No. of children living in Wilmar plantations of school-going age programme. More information can be No. of children who attend school found on page 86. # EY has performed limited assurance Notes: procedures for this figure. 1. Compulsory school-going ages vary by country based on government requirements. These are: 20 In 2017 we had reported that around 88.3% of a. Indonesia: 12 years compulsory education for ages 7-18 years children at school-going age who are living in b. Malaysia: 6 years compulsory education for ages 7-12 years Wilmar’s plantations attend school. We have c. Ghana: 11 years compulsory education for ages 5-15 years revised figures for 2018 due to improved data d. Nigeria: 9 years compulsory education for ages 6-15 years accuracy with Wilmar’s census exercises and 2. 143 children attending Humana school in our Sabahmas estate have been excluded from Malaysia expanded scope of the verification process. figures due to unavailability of supporting documents. 70 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Provision of Crèches throughout Wilmar’s Estates The childcare nursery at Sapi Estate is one of 45 Wilmar-run crèches in its Malaysian operations. These nurseries make it possible for plantation workers like Zubaidah Kama, who is from Indonesia, to work and supplement their household income and savings. While Zubaidah carries out her task as a sprayer until 2pm, her son is cared for by trained workers. This benefit was not available when she had her first two children some 20 years ago. Wilmar works closely with the well established Women and Children Committee to meet its sustainability goals and policies. This includes ensuring that there are sufficient crèches and primary schools at its estates in Sabah and Sarawak. In the early days, crèche employees were only provided with basic training. Through continuous feedback from employees and external parties, Wilmar and the Committee saw the urgency of focusing on the learning needs of children and detailed safety requirements, as well as equipping caregivers with the right knowledge. In 2018, we carried out in-depth training on the CPP to Wilmar crèche caretakers and nannies with a primary focus on child safety and handling. A series of meetings was held with the main Committee to define and introduce the role of a dedicated crèche sub-committee. This sub-committee allows for easier reporting to the management on crèche-related issues and to facilitate regular updates on crèche matters and child welfare. Wilmar is also rolling out a crèche inspection form and daily checklist for all crèches in its Malaysian operations. In August 2018, selected Wilmar crèche workers visited two established nurseries and kindergartens in Kota Kinabalu to learn more about best childcare practices. They picked up tips on meal plans, safety and health checks. Following their visit, crèche workers understood the need to introduce educational, play-based activities for children. They had also learned effective communication methods. The Committee will continue to monitor crèches and improve this facility by interacting regularly with crèche sub-committees, parents and estate management. Wilmar hopes to extend the crèche model implemented successfully in its Malaysian operations to its other locations in Indonesia and Africa. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 71 Empowering People and Communities Bonded Labour In line with our NDPE policy, RSPO requirements and the ILO core labour standards, we do not permit any forced, trafficked or bonded labour in our operations or supply chain. Wilmar employees are not subject to the unlawful withholding of wages, identification cards, passports or travel documents, or other personal belongings without consent. We provide secure locker facilities for our workers to store their personal belongings. Training on human rights in business by Hukatan-KSBSI Within our palm oil plantation and mill operations, we ensure that we recruit workers. In Myanmar, our labour head is in place for all Wilmar employees, workers directly and without engaging is subcontracted to hire workers for including permanent and temporary third party agencies, where there are daily operations. In Australia, our farms workers. All plantation and mill units higher risks of force or coercion. The operate in a heavily unionised and have site-specific complaints and agents we do use are only contracted legislated environment where strong grievances procedures, which have been for administrative and logistical trade union involvement ensures that a requirement of the RSPO P&C since purposes, but full responsibility for labour is voluntary and that employees 2005. These site-specific procedures payment is borne by Wilmar. In cases are free to terminate employment at are accessible to workers as well as where team leaders are required to any time. other stakeholders. Employees can assist in the recruitment of local address verbal or written complaints to workers, they are paid an incentive KnowTheChain’s 2018 Benchmark their supervisor or union representative, to do so. While agents are commonly Report reviewed the forced labour or make an anonymous complaint using used for this purpose in Ghana and policies and established procedures an onsite feedback box. Nigeria, we regulate the process and at 38 of the largest global food and do not permit the agent to request beverage companies. The report Employees are made aware of the monetary deposits or other collateral concludes that despite increasing grievance process at the point of as a condition of employment. We also adoption of the UN Guiding Principles employment and receive regular ensure that these appointed agents on Business and Human Rights, there is reminders via online and offline comply with our NDPE policy. a noticeable lack of remedial actions in channels. They are also issued an the sector. In fact, of the 12 companies employee handbook that outlines We recognise the risk of forced for which KnowTheChain identified the grievance mechanism. Women labour occurring beyond our own forced labour allegations, Wilmar was committees have been established operations, and have adopted a riskone of only three to have outlined the across our oil palm plantations to based approach to due diligence. steps taken to address the allegations. ensure that women can raise concerns This approach is informed by our ART We were also the only company to and access support. and SRT traceability programmes and disclose remedy outcomes for workers. ensures our policies are socialised A 2016 BSR assessment found that throughout all associated operations. We will conduct a risk assessment workers in Indonesia had a low exercise for labour issues within our level of awareness about grievance The human rights and labour provisions sugar supply chain in due course. mechanisms, and were unclear whether of the Bonsucro Production Standard temporary workers were covered. To have been socialised throughout our Employee Engagement and address this, we are working with the sugar operations to eliminate the risk Complaints Mechanisms RSPO to trial a mobile telephone-based of forced or compulsory labour. The grievance reporting tool called Ulula provisions apply to all workers on mill An appropriate complaints mechanism across our estates in 2019. and farm premises, including contract and process for addressing grievances 72 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Conflict resolution flowchart for employees Complaint received (individual/community) Conduct social or environmental impact assessment (if necessary) Identify the positive and negative impacts both to company and community/individual Identify root(s) of problem Prepare mitigation & preventive action plans to address the negative impacts Results presented to both parties Does the individual/community agree? Does the individual/community disagree? Sign agreement, including Start dispute process outlining decision and timeline Does the individual/ according to Conflict to implement decision community agree? Resolution Road Map If the dispute process fails, Review SOP and implement renegotiate with other preventive action plans compromising alternatives Monitoring and evaluation Does the individual/community of agreement still disagree? Bring matter up to court of law/native court Employ mediation process towards resolution Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 73 Empowering People and Communities STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY CNV INTERNATIONAAL By Karen Bouwsma, CSR Advisor By Amalia Falah, Country Representative (Indonesia) Wilmar’s proactive approach to working with labour unions in Indonesia is commendable and they have made great progress. One of Wilmar’s biggest challenges is the size of its business, which opens it up to risks in the supply chain and presents difficulties in managing social issues. While it is positive that Wilmar has been more open to critical NGOs and trade unions, and tries to involve them in solutions, this may complicate implementation. CNV sees opportunities for Wilmar and the industry to connect better through trade unions with a common agenda and approach. By having an improved structure to manage suppliers, and by collaborating more with trade unions, there will be stronger support for the industry in becoming more sustainable on labour issues. Wilmar should use this opportunity to collaborate with trade unions and GAPKI, who are present in every region, to conduct pilots. An eventual solution could be for Wilmar to encourage the Indonesian government to adopt a new and innovative approach, such as multi-company collective bargaining agreements, with the help of critically constructive unions. This could be a good opportunity for Wilmar, as its size gives it the means to have this type of conversation with governments as well as suppliers. About Wilmar collaborates with CNV Internationaal through Hukatan-KSBSI on collective bargaining agreements. Karen worked with CNV Internationaal for 10 years and was the CSR Advisor for the Netherlands team. Her work included supporting colleagues in their respective regions and local trade union partners/programmes in line with theories of change, CSR covenants, OECD and UNGP guidelines. Amalia represents CNV Internationaal within the Indonesia context. In the palm oil sector, CNV has one project with the trade union Hukatan, which is affiliated to KSBSI, the Indonesian Trade Union Prosperity, and Amalia works with these organisations on the ground. Her work, together with ILO, facilitates the Palm Oil Trade Union Network, Japbusi, which consists of nine federations and four confederations, bridging this network to the Indonesian Palm Oil Association (GAPKI), RSPO and other relevant stakeholders in palm oil. Freedom of Association and bargaining purposes. Our engagement other unions. We also provide parallel Union Relations with unions supports our ambition means for workers to participate in to continuously strengthen labour independent free association and Wilmar respects the right of all practices in our operations. bargaining. employees to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively. While our estates and mills have Indonesia Unions are our key stakeholders in established forms of labour ensuring that we understand and representation, most refineries do not We continue to take a proactive appropriately address the concerns have such associations. Therefore, in approach to working with labour and grievances of our employees. the absence of any proper collective unions in Indonesia and have built Workers can also utilise the union as agreement or association, Wilmar good working relationships with key a grievance channel or for collective does not restrict workers from joining union organisations. To date, we 74 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 have three established Perjanjian officials at Wilmar’s PT. DLI, where Excluding managerial staff (who are Kerja Bersama, or collective labour our progress in strengthening labour precluded from union membership agreements (CLAs), and one that is practices was showcased. Addressing to prevent conflicts of interest), 100%# currently undergoing negotiations. the delegation, the Serbundo leader of of our permanent workers in Ghana These CLAs provide clarity on the link PT. DLI explained the various changes are unionised. About 70% # of our between KPIs and wages and are valid and improvements we have achieved permanent workers in Nigeria are for workers who are union members. in partnership. Both Hukatan-KSBSI unionised. This figure is based on CLAs are negotiated between and Serbundo participated as expert overall employee data which include worker or union representatives and union commentators at the series staff and management. management. of capacity-building workshops conducted by BSR for Wilmar’s Australia, New Zealand and Through our work with Serbundo (a suppliers. Myanmar North Sumatra–based union affiliated with the International Union of Food In early 2018, we opened our doors Union rights and collective bargaining Workers) we have established a CLA to CNV to film a short documentary rights are well embedded in Australia for PT. DLI and PT. Milano in North in our PT. Murini Sam Sam estate and New Zealand. A large percentage Sumatra. We have also established in Riau. The documentary includes of our workforce is unionised, and there multi-site CLAs for PT. Bumi Pratama recorded interviews with our workers. are collective bargaining agreements Katulistiwa in West Sumatra, and PT. The video is available in both English in place. Some of our sugar suppliers ANI Sambas in West Kalimantan, and Bahasa Indonesia, and is a are Bonsucro certified, and we are in partnership with HUKATANtestament to the constructive social therefore confident that they also Konfederasi Serikat Buruh Sejahtera dialogue and positive outcomes of have such practices in place, as it is Indonesia (KSBSI), a national union this partnership. Our next step is to a core requirement under indicator affiliated to the Dutch federation CNV. build on this momentum by facilitating 2.1.4 (Respect the right of all workers conversations and collective action to form and join trade unions and/or In our sugar business, we have a CLA between unions and our suppliers. to bargain collectively). Furthermore, in place for our refinery in Indonesia, 100%# of our waged employees in PT. Refined Jawamanis. Negotiations About 26% # of the workers in our Australia are covered by an industrial are currently ongoing at PT. Murni Sam Indonesian operations, from estates agreement (Award or Enterprise Sam in Riau, and we are confident to refineries, are formally covered by Agreement), while the remaining staff that a new CLA will be in place soon. collective bargaining agreements. and managerial employees are covered through stand-alone contracts. We hope to be able to introduce Malaysia, Ghana and Nigeria our CLA format in other operations Unions also play a significant role in throughout Indonesia, though this Our Malaysian operations are not our Myanmar operations, particularly may be a time-consuming affair unionised, but we have ongoing in securing legislated protection and as CLAs are valid for two years engagements with workers on rights for workers. We have a robust upon negotiation and approval by conditions and pay. For collective framework and process in place for the regional representative of the bargaining purposes, 100%# of our determining rates of pay, and these Indonesian Manpower Ministry. estates have a Social & Welfare include regular negotiations with Committee in place, with established trade unions. There is one major Throughout 2018, we have focused SOPs to discuss matters such as union worker association present at on sharing our extensive knowledge wages. The Committee meets three our farms and mills in Myanmar, of and experience of labour relations times a year, is chaired by the manager which roughly 28%21 of our workers with our stakeholders. In February of the estate or mill, and is attended are currently members. 2018, Wilmar and Serbundo hosted by both management and worker a delegation of Belgian government representatives. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. 21 This figure has been excluded from the assurance process due to difficulties in obtaining supporting documents which are deemed sensitive by the union. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 75 Empowering People and Communities Health and Safety workers with heart or respiratory to be switched every three months problems; to work with no chemical exposure. Wilmar is committed to providing 3. An outline of when stop-work Once successfully implemented in a safe working environment for all orders will be issued; and North Sumatra, the rotation system employees, and upholding health and 4. Procedures for medical treatment will be scaled up and implemented safety standards remains an ongoing and emergency evacuation of across our plantation operations. priority. In accordance with our Health workers and their family members and Safety policy, we ensure all health arising from air pollution. We provide free healthcare from and safety measures and facilities are Wilmar-funded estate clinics to all up-to-date and conduct occupational This SOP is being socialised throughout permanent and temporary workers safety and health training for our Wilmar’s plantations in Indonesia to and their families across all our estates. workers on a regular basis. support operational preparedness Permanent workers are also covered among management and workers by medical insurance, dental care For our palm oil operations, our (including healthcare workers) during benefits and subsidies on spectacles, emphasis for 2018 was on improving haze events. dentures and hearing aids. Regular the efficacy of personal protective checks are conducted for our mill equipment (PPE). This focus has driven We are also undergoing trials for employees that work in areas with the implementation of new SOPs for mandatory rotation systems for elevated noise levels. All onsite doctors working during haze occurrences workers that handle pesticides in prioritise clear communication when and for reducing workers’ risk of North Sumatra. While we always explaining medical procedures and exposure to chemicals. All workers conduct regular medical checks for test results. All workers have access are provided with PPE, and while chemical sprayers, and give workers to healthcare facilities, including the tropical climate we operate in access to their tests, we are now health insurance, onsite clinics, and can restrict the type of PPE that is our increasing efforts to minimise transportation to and from clinics suitable, we never compromise on prolonged exposure and maintain and/or hospitals (for emergencies). worker safety when choosing the right safe chemical levels in our workers’ Our ongoing target is to ensure all equipment. As part of our continued bodies. The rotational system requires estate and mill workers have access efforts to inculcate a safety mindset, workers who work with pesticides to healthcare. our workers are reminded repeatedly of the importance of PPE at work. In 2018, we completed a Group-wide PPE best practice review, where best practices from around the various Wilmar operations were shared for internal alignment and improvement. We have also developed an Air Pollution Emergency Response procedure for our workers who risk exposure to smog resulting from forest fires, which is not an unusual occurrence in Indonesia. This SOP is under the purview of the emergency response team managers at each plantation, and covers several situations, including: 1. Ensuring adequate PPE is provided, such as N95 respirator masks; 2. Having special provisions for Workers in full PPE prior to work commencement 76 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) LTIFR per 200,000 working hours (palm oil plantations) 8.00 7.00 6.10 6.03 6.00 5.90 5.40 5.00 5.00 4.18 4.06 4.00 3.21 2.96 2.82 3.00 1.91 1.54 1.67 2.00 1.43 1.01 1.06 1.00 0.54 0.56 0.47 0.23 0.17 0.00 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 2018 LTIFR per 200,000 working hours (palm oil mills) 3.86 4.0 3.5 2.90 3.0 2.66 2.70 2.5 2.15 1.99 2.0 1.79 1.55 1.5 1.18 0.81 1.0 0.78 0.70 0.67 0.48 0.32 0.53 0.5 0.31 0.16 0 0.0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 2018 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 77 Empowering People and Communities We work persistently to reduce the action plan to prevent recurrence. procedures to ensure candidates who occurrence of workplace accidents These action plans are reinforced are indicated for hypertension in their and injuries. The significant reduction through continual efforts in health medical examinations do not qualify in lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) and safety training and PPE use to for strenuous work. at our Nigerian operations is due to the minimise and/or eliminate the risk of fact that we now have more estates fatal incidents in the future. Workers who are indicated to have in operation in the country, resulting high blood pressure, high cholesterol in a higher number of working hours We are deeply saddened to report six or high blood sugar levels will have across the board. Despite this, we have work-related employee fatalities in their tasks and position reviewed managed to keep the occurrence of 2018. Two fatalities occurred in our alongside the company doctor’s accidents relatively low. Our mill in plantations in Central Kalimantan, one recommendations. Provisions will Nigeria was replaced in 2018 and we at our plantation in West Sumatra, one also be made for better supervision are now able to better monitor and at our plantation in North Sumatra, of these individuals. report accident figures. one at our mill in Sumatra, and one at our plantation in Nigeria. Two of To address the fatalities related to In our sugar operations in Australia and these fatalities were precipitated by onsite accidents, we have strengthened New Zealand, we work to instil proper critical health conditions: one was safety checks and SOPs for the loading health and safety practices through a result of hypertension, the other and unloading process. Specific our Sugar Environment, Health and was caused by a heart attack. Three measures include ensuring wheel Safety (EHS) policy. This policy is fatalities occurred in onsite accidents, chokes are provided for all operational complemented by our dedicated one involving a vehicle accident during trucks and heavy equipment, and EHS management system, which loading at a warehouse, one caused the socialising of contractor safety outlines social policies, standards by injuries from a sickle, and one management systems. We also have and procedures. In Myanmar, our caused by a burn injury from a CPO revised inspection checklists for joint venture Great Wall-Wilmar splash. One worker died as a result of a sickle sheath worthiness, developed Holdings has a Safety Committee that truck accident on his return home systematic arrangements for their oversees the company’s production from work. mobilisation, and have conducted safety management and employee training on work safety. At the mill, a health and safety. This committee is In response to these incidents, we have breather system and a strainer were responsible for ensuring that practices conducted thorough investigations installed at the digester to prevent are in line with the relevant national and have taken steps to ensure that further CPO blockage. A review of the safety laws and regulations, as well the risks relating to these fatalities appropriate modes of transportation as with Wilmar’s standards and NDPE are mitigated in future. We have has been undertaken and road tests requirements. established and socialised health have been carried out to ensure memoranda and counselling to vehicles are roadworthy. In Australia, our processes for planting, ensure workers understand how to harvesting and chemical-application maintain healthy lifestyles. We have There were no fatalities reported are mechanised, which significantly also revised employee recruitment within our sugar operations. lowers our workers’ risk of injury or accident. LTIFR per 200,000 working hours (sugar operations) Fatalities Plantations Mills Refineries Every fatality is taken seriously and Australia 0 1.87 1.26 is followed up by an investigation Myanmar 0 0.10 into its cause. The outcome of this New Zealand 1.64 investigation forms the basis of an 78 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Number of fatalities across Wilmar’s operations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Australia 0 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 1 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 0 0 1 Ghana 0 0 0 0 0 Indonesia 1 3 0 4 5 Malaysia 1 1 1 1 0 Total 2 4 2 5 6 Note: Fatality data covers Wilmar employees only Safety boards with relevant warning signs are installed at areas with potential hazards Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 79 Smallholder Support Smallholder Support Scheme smallholders as at 31 December 2018 Smallholder RSPO-certified Smallholders account for 40% of Country planted area smallholder area the world’s palm oil production. We (ha) (ha) therefore place significant importance on providing them with guidance Indonesia 34,149 2,040 and support to produce oil palm Ghana 1,650 1,650 sustainably while ensuring they are Nigeria 85 0 very much a part of our integrated Total 35,884 3,690 global operations. Smallholder inclusivity is not only a prerequisite for our social license to operate, and Independent smallholder FFB volume purchased as at for maintaining our good relations 31 December 2018 with local communities, but also ensures the commercial operability Country FFB volume purchased (MT) of our palm oil mills. While we strongly Indonesia 441,761 support certification as a component Malaysia 73,009 in incentivising smallholders to Ghana 35,511 implement sustainable practices, it is equally important to make sure that Nigeria 4,052 these farmers understand the direct Total 554,333 value of sustainability as an integral part of producing quality FFB. nearly 30%, and smallholder farmers Smallholder Programmes account for a significant proportion of Wilmar sources FFB from both its sugarcane supply. In 2018, 36,603 To support palm oil smallholders, scheme (or plasma) smallholders hectares of smallholder-managed Wilmar has contributed to the and independent smallholders. We area was contracted and produced development of programmes under are committed to helping our oil 1,310,830 tonnes of sugarcane. the RSPO smallholder certification palm scheme smallholders achieve schemes in Malaysia and Indonesia. certification under applicable national We engage with our oil palm and We provide training and facilitation to certifications, and where relevant, sugar smallholder suppliers, and help independent smallholders obtain the RSPO Smallholder Principles & provide them with technical assistance ISPO certification. We also work with Criteria. A total of 3,690 hectares of towards compliance and certification the Malaysian Palm Oil Certification smallholder area was certified in 2018, requirements through training and Council to assist all suppliers in reflecting a reduction in certified area support initiatives. As a result, they achieving the MSPO certification due to some certifications expiring at implement good practices that before the end of 2019. Central to end-2018. increase their own yields and improve this initiative is our Supplier Reporting their access to markets. We take a Tool (SRT), which we are rolling out Meanwhile, we have also continued local, grassroots approach and partner to identify gaps and deploy resources to grow our independent smallholder with communities and governments more effectively. In 2018, the SRT was base. In 2018, we bought a total to ensure we address the vast diversity successfully implemented among of 554,333 tonnes of FFB from of cultures, traditions, land tenure our suppliers in Malaysia, Indonesia, independent smallholders, of which models and local development Colombia, Honduras and Guatemala. 80% was from Indonesia, 13% from needs that coexist in the regions we Malaysia, 6% from Ghana and the operate in. To support these efforts, We are working towards ensuring that remainder from Nigeria. we have developed comprehensive 100% of our smallholder suppliers engagement programmes together are supported by smallholder Our joint venture mill – the largest mill with our partner organisations across programmes: in Ghana by 2020, in in Myanmar – has a market share of the world. Nigeria by 2023 and in Indonesia by 80 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 2025. This means that each smallholder Smallholders supported by Wilmar 2018 linked to our supply chain will have access to a platform for expertise and Number of independent Number of scheme best practice sharing to meet their Country smallholders covered by smallholders sustainable production requirements Wilmar programmes and for economic growth. Malaysia N/A 159 Indonesia 15,402 12,960 In Indonesia, our efforts in 2018 have continued to focus on grouping and Ghana 438 550 partnering independent smallholders Nigeria 43 N/A with our stand-alone mills to enable ISPO certification. This includes training programmes (see following pages for and associated smallholders across on best management practices, as more information). Malaysia and Indonesia. well as sustainability requirements. In 2018, 6,087 independent smallholders For Malaysia we have introduced We conduct training programmes for participated in the ISPO certification specific smallholder programmes for our sugar outgrowers in Myanmar, training programme, and our target is sustainable certification (covering both expanding technical capacity and to train 24,218 smallholders by 2025. RSPO and MSPO) in collaboration knowledge of best management We also have a voluntary fertiliser with Wild Asia’s group smallholder practices. Training sessions reaching programme for our Indonesian programme, as well as a fertiliser access 978 farmers were conducted at 19 independent smallholders. programme through a subsidised locations in 2018. These provided loan structure. In 2018, a total of 132 forums to share knowledge on good In Ghana and Nigeria, our focus has training sessions on Wilmar’s NDPE farming practices for land preparation, been on improving the livelihoods policy and certification works were planting systems, cane nutrient of the smallholders in our scheme conducted for 3,171 independent requirements, fertiliser application, Group photo with various stakeholders at the completion event for WISSH programme Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 81 Smallholder Support weed control, and the safe handling such as Wilmar Small Growers Support Smallholder Mapping and application of chemicals. A total of Colombia (WISSCo) programme and 12 demonstration plots were planted the Wilmar Smallholders Support While we work to fulfil and enforce during the 2018 season. These plots Honduras (WISSH) programme. our NDPE commitments of No enabled farmers to gain hands-on Deforestation and No Peat, we are experience of working with sustainable After three years of implementation, simultaneously undertaking measures methods. On top of training provided, the WISSH programme has to ensure that our efforts do not site visits to farmers’ fields were successfully completed its objective negatively impact smallholders. We also conducted to help analyse with 3,300 smallholders successfully will continue working closely with any their problems with suggestions for trained on multiple sustainability suspended supplier to help them bring resolution. topics over 448 training sessions. their operations back into compliance A completion event was organised and prevent inadvertent losses for We are also working with our first-tier to provide various stakeholders the smallholders. suppliers across Latin America to build opportunity to exchange experiences capacity and provide training to their and challenges throughout the We will also support the mapping of smallholder suppliers. Meanwhile, we programme. The programme was independent oil palm smallholder continue to enhance smallholders’ well received with attendance from plantations in Indonesia and Malaysia capacity to implement good many smallholders, mill participants, – many of which are linked to environmental and social practices programme sponsors, representatives independent mills in our supply chain. in accordance NDPE policy through of the Honduras banking industry and innovative local partnership platforms, the regional government. Providing Access to Sustainable Practices and Alternative Livelihoods in Africa Pilot Outgrower Scheme, Nigeria The presence of Wilmar’s Biase Plantation Ltd (BPL) and Eyop Industries present a unique opportunity in rural Cross River State, Nigeria. Through our programmes, scores of farmers are beginning to revive their once-abandoned oil palm plantations whilst others are commencing a process to replant their old farms. In 2017, BPL launched a Pilot Outgrower Scheme with four cooperative groups from the surrounding areas of the plantation. This initially included conducting assessments to ensure there will be no deforestation or damage to HCV areas and surveying lands and ensuring locals obtain proper land ownership documentation from the local government. This was then followed by providing trainings to the cooperatives on four key areas: Group Dynamics and Group Management, Farm Management and Sustainable Production. During the planting season of 2018, BPL started working with the outgrowers to establish their plantations, following Wilmar’s planting procedures. High yielding and improved seedlings were made available to the cooperatives and BPL supervised the land preparation and planting. The BPL Pilot Outgrower Programme currently covers a land area of 150 hectares and benefits a total of 43 farmers from the four cooperative groups. Through the scheme, local farmers are beginning to take advantage of the improved planting stock, plantation management technologies and ready market opportunities that Wilmar offers. The company also provides low interest funding for the entire project. Over 2,000 farmers have expressed interest in joining the second phase of this programme and we are currently engaging with the Central Bank of Nigeria and other potential funders on a scaling up. We expect all farmers to be in full compliance within a year of commencing the project. 82 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Providing Access to Sustainable Practices and Alternative Livelihoods in Africa Adum Smallholder Scheme, Ghana In 2016, three communities in Mpohor District of the Western Region of Ghana approached Wilmar’s subsidiary, Benso Oil Palm Plantations (BOPP) Limited, to seek assistance in sustainable and best agricultural practices for development of 1,400 hectares of their farmlands into a smallholder oil palm plantation. The Adum Smallholder Scheme is a unique community initiative that was launched in 2018 and we expect the programme to benefit all 300 farmers by 2020 (160 in 2019 and 140 in 2020). From its onset, it was designed with three components aimed at protecting the environment, enhancing livelihoods and also promoting socioeconomic development. Detailed HCV and impact assessments have been conducted to ensure that the planned plantation development would not replace high conservation values or forests. Farmers are still awaiting the completion of the RSPO New Planting Procedure process and the commencement of plantation development. However, to avoid possible encroachment into forested areas and also to ensure that local farmers do not suffer unduly during the plantation development phase, BOPP in partnership with the local communities and Proforest secured some support from Partnership for Forests (P4F) to develop a forest protection mechanism and implement alternative/additional livelihood schemes. Two important protected forest reserves exist within the landscape – the Subiri and Nueng Forest Reserves. The partners of the programmes are working with local government authorities and the communities to develop enforceable by-laws that would prevent encroachments and degradation of the protected areas in the landscape. At the same time, an alternative/additional livelihood scheme has been introduced to provide income generating ventures in the communities, which also prevents farmers and hunters from extending their activities into nearby forests in line with the agreed local government by-laws. The livelihood enhancing activities include baking, piggery, poultry farming, bee-keeping, livestock farming and gari processing. For each of these livelihood activities, detailed on-the-job technical trainings are provided to the beneficiaries followed by start-up capital. Further trainings on fund management and book keeping are provided as well. Additionally, the beneficiaries are linked to markets in the cities to ensure the economic sustainability of their businesses and good pricing for their products. This diversification of incomes is expected to make them more resilient to commodity price fluctuations and provide them with reliable income sources both during the immature phases of plantation development and also throughout the life of the project. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 83 Community Relations W ilmar pledges to recognise and respect the long-term customary and individual rights of indigenous and local communities and recognising food security needs in new developments. We diligently strive to ensure that we only use land to which we have a legal right, and where we are recognised as the rightful managing entity by the local and national governments. We also commit to ensuring legal compliance and that international best practices on Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) are implemented prior to commencing any new operations, which is a participatory process that empowers local communities to negotiate the conditions under which a project will be designed, implemented, monitored and evaluated. The principle of FPIC is recognised in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), which states that local communities have the right to give or withhold their consent to proposed projects that may affect the lands they customarily own, occupy or otherwise use. Land issues and conflict Land use and land ownership are inherently complex matters in most of the countries where we operate, Community members having a game of volleyball at our workers’ residential area with overlapping or undelineated land rights in land concessions being a common challenge. Shaped Our standard practice involves all our stakeholders. We have engaged by a nation’s development policies negotiating with individual landowners with many of these communities and projects, these can sometimes and local community leaders, or through participative mapping and have an unintentional impact on the government, depending on the strive to address concerns through local communities and result in country. We endeavour to be respectful mediation processes. In the event disagreements and conflicts. This has of local communities whenever such of loss or damage affecting legal or resulted, for example, in delays in the disputes arise and are committed to customary rights, property, resources issuing of HGU for some of our estates building long-term relationships in a or livelihoods, we endeavour to in Indonesia. consensual manner as part of our goal undertake all measures to remedy of achieving harmonious relations with such loss or damage. 84 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 We strive for a fair compensation to the local community leaders for RSPO Complaint Cases existing crops, with statutory levels of compensation as a minimum. We also As of March 2019, there are two ongoing RSPO complaint cases against implement progressive community our subsidiaries. As a committed member of the RSPO, Wilmar has always development programmes through followed the due process of the RSPO Complaints Panel and is always employment opportunities and cooperative in any investigations. smallholder schemes, making every effort to ensure that communities In September 2018 we received news of a complaint lodged with RSPO in are satisfied with the socioeconomic July 2018 against our subsidiary, PT. Primatama Mulia Jaya by the Luhak benefits that development will bring. indigenous community. The complaint concerns the issuance of Right of In 2018, Wilmar commissioned TFT Utilisation over the land without prior consultation with the community. (now known as Earthworm Foundation) This case is currently undergoing review by the Complaints Panel. to undertake a thorough evaluation on issues and risks related to our West A second complaint was submitted to RSPO in October 2018 over Sumatran operations stemming from concerns that our subsidiary, PT. AMP Plantation, has breached plasma historical land acquisition in the 1990s. scheme arrangements (based on a 1997 plasma agreement) by failing to The programme focuses on: perform necessary land certificate arrangements, and by not disclosing profit made from sales of FFB between 2002 and 2014. There is also • The current policies, procedures an allegation concerning embezzled funds relating to land certification and practices related to grievance for 100 hectares. We take these allegations seriously and will work management in and around each diligently through the RSPO Complaints Process to ensure these issues company subsidiary’s operational are addressed in an appropriate manner. areas; Updates on previous cases • Existing and past grievance cases raised by local communities; The case lodged in 2016 against our subsidiary PT. Bumi Sawit Kencana II concerns allegations that the company has not yet paid compensation for • The original and historical land 78 hectares of land owned by the villagers. After a review and deliberation acquisition processes in the by the RSPO Complaints Panel the case was dismissed in March 2019. 1990s (linked to many existing grievances); and In September 2018, the RSPO complaint case concerning our subsidiary PT. Permata Hijau Pasaman (PHP I) was closed after a participatory • The original setup of local mapping process and agreed implementation plan were finalised. In this partnership schemes between case, the local community, Nagari Kapa, requested clarity on PT. PHP I’s companies and local people linked nucleus estate and land use right application. A participatory mapping to the management of plasma and process was carried out through consultation with Nagari Kapa and local the original land acquisition. government bodies followed up with an implementation plan. The case is now with the RSPO Investigation & Monitoring Unit. The programme will continue to early 2019, and the results from this will be used to develop timebound action plans for resolution. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 85 Supporting Local Communities M any of our operations are located in remote parts of developing countries and are often close to children of migrant workers in our operations in Malaysian Borneo. The educational syllabus is designed ensure that our privately run schools are in compliance with all government standards. Where there are already local communities. Our business based on the Malaysian curriculum, existing government schools close activities therefore have direct and but also integrates Indonesia-centric to our estates, we have also planned indirect impacts on the livelihoods subjects to help ease the Indonesian for their improvement. of our employees, their families and children’s transition into mainstream neighbouring communities. We seek societies whether they choose to stay Wilmar has ongoing school to facilitate self-reliance, particularly in Malaysia or return to Indonesia. As redevelopment programmes in through the provision of education, well as providing free education, we Indonesia, Nigeria and Ghana to healthcare and infrastructure. This also subsidise uniforms, books and ensure that schools are upgraded includes the provision of schools, food every year. with adequate facilities, including maintaining workers’ housing, and computer labs, science labs and establishing public facilities in and Through our joint venture, Great Walllibraries. We also aim to ensure that around our plantations, such as Wilmar Holdings, we are providing all settings are equipped for extraplaces of worship, sporting facilities, donations for school redevelopment curricular activities, such as music, orphanages and nursing homes. It also programmes in the vicinity of our arts, sports and uniformed groups. The includes organising programmes for mill in Myanmar. For our Myanmar redevelopment programme annually community development and relief sugar farms, about 93% of children benefits between 6,500 and 7,000 in areas struck by natural disasters. of school going age attend schools children from pre-primary school age operated by the government. There through to secondary school age. Access to Education are also kindergartens in the factory As of 2018, 10 schools have been compound, and 80 students are redeveloped in Indonesia, while the We are firm believers in supporting children of employees. five remaining schools are targeted efforts to empower community for completion by 2020. Three schools development through education. School Redevelopment have completed redevelopment in Wilmar invests substantially to provide Programme Nigeria while the remaining schools workers’ children with access to are targeted for completion by education, in line with SDG 4 on We are working closely with the 2020. Both schools in Ghana have Quality Education. Besides ensuring Indonesian Education Ministry to undergone redevelopment. inclusive and equitable quality education, we are heavily invested in providing a range of services in our plantations, including childcare and daycare facilities, crèches, kindergartens and schools. We have 15 schools in our Indonesian plantations, which together cover kindergarten, primary and secondarylevel curricula. We also support the education of more than 5,000 children in our local communities, including our employees’ children. In our estates in Malaysia we have a total of 17 primary schools that benefit a total of 747 children. In addition, we are working with the Sabah-based non-profit organisation Humana Child Aid Society to provide for the Computer access and learning for students at one of our redeveloped schools in Indonesia 86 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Access to Education Great Wall-Wilmar The Holdings redevelopment in Myanmar programme (Providing donations for school (Benefits between 6,500 and redevelopment programmes 7,000 children from in vicinity of mill, kindergartens pre-primary school age GW in the factory compound, through to secondary school 80 students are children of age annually) employees) 15 17 2 10 3 15 17 10 3 2 schools in primary schools schools schools schools Indonesian in Malaysia redeveloped redeveloped redeveloped plantations in Indonesia in Nigeria in Ghana (Kindergarten, (Benefitting a total (5 remaining, targeted (3 remaining primaryand of 747 children) completion by 2020) schools, targeted secondary-level) completion by 2020) Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 87 Supporting Local Communities Health check-up being conducted for our workers in a Wilmar clinic In addition to upgrading and providing healthcare services. In 2018, we have for logistical purposes, Wilmar new facilities, outstanding students are invested in building new clinics as contributes to and participates offered scholarships to pursue further well as maintaining existing facilities in various community events education at provincial and national in Indonesia and Nigeria. to promote “cane train” safety universities. In Australia, we provide programmes. We also provide educational bursaries to students at In Australia, we contribute to raising financial support to various rescue local high schools near our operations. awareness on issues such as mental organisations and initiatives, We also offer sponsorships and health, suicide prevention, cancer including Central Queensland internship opportunities to schools and prevention and domestic violence. Rescue, Burdekin Volunteer Marine tertiary education institutions. And to These engagements target workers Rescue, Whitsunday Volunteer inspire potential future employees, we and community member in and Marine Rescue and Cardwell Coast provide site tours and milling process around our cane operations, as well as Guard. Among other projects, our explanations to students from schools students from neighbouring schools. donations have contributed towards throughout our milling regions. the construction of a fence for a We continue to encourage our people new emergency helipad installed in Healthcare and Community to go out and make a difference in a Burdekin fishing community. Safety our communities. In 2018, employees from Sugar Australia in Yarraville On the business-to-consumer front, At Wilmar, we consider health and volunteered their time to contribute we recognise that sugar consumption wellbeing to be essential components to Foodbank Australia, where they is rising in many parts of the world, of sustainable development. This is packed an estimated 17,840 meals. and that excessive sugar consumption in line with SDG 3, which focuses on This would be enough to feed a family can be harmful to health. We seek to ensuring healthy lives and promoting of four people three meals a day for ensure that we are fully transparent wellbeing for all. In addition to 1,460 days. about the nutritional content of our providing healthcare for our workers sugar-packed products, and have and their families, the clinics in our oil In the local community hubs and ongoing projects to enhance sugar palm plantations are also accessible schools close to our cane farms properties, such as testing for varieties to local communities for basic with mills where railroads are used with a low Glycaemic Index. 88 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Overview of Partnerships 2018 Stakeholder Themes Wilmar’s involvement Certification and compliance Aidenvironment NDPE policy implementation and Implementation partnership for supplier group supply chain compliance mapping and engagement (Supplier Group Compliance Programme) Consortium of Resource NDPE policy implementation and • Implementation partnership to improved Experts (CORE) supply chain compliance verification systems of NDPE compliance at refinery level • Convening of public consultation processes relating to sustainability policies and procedures TFT (now known as NDPE policy implementation and Implementation partnership for NDPE policy Earthworm Foundation) supply chain compliance socialisation for suppliers Malaysian Palm Oil MSPO certification Assisting over 260 suppliers in achieving MSPO Certification Council certification by end-2019 (MPOCC) Eliminating deforestation and sustainable production Australian Packaging Sustainable packaging with a Signatory through Sugar Australia Pte Ltd Covenant (APC) focus on encouraging resource efficiency through sustainable design while reducing disposal wastages and increasing recycling Barratta Creek Action Group Water quality monitoring in Founding Member (BCAG) Queensland, Australia, focusing on improving the quality of water flowing to the Great Barrier Reef Fire Free Alliance (FFA) Fire and haze • Founding Member (2016) • Member of Fire-Free Village Programme (FFVP), a community-based incentive scheme to help reduce the incidence of fires Grow Asia and Grow Africa Sustainable and inclusive • Member of Grow Asia Business Council agricultural development in • Signatory of Grow Africa Letter of Intent Southeast Asia and Africa, and participants in Grow Africa forums and focusing on smallholder discussions development, economic growth and environmental sustainability of agriculture High Carbon Stock (HCS) No deforestation • Member of HCSA Steering Group Approach Steering Group • Member of the HCSA Executive Committee • Member of the Protection and Social Requirements Working Groups • Member of the Africa, Communications and Funding Taskforces International Sustainability & Sustainable cultivation of biomass Member Carbon Certification (ISCC) and its sustainable and traceable Association processing and utilisation 89 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Stakeholder Themes Wilmar’s involvement Eliminating deforestation and sustainable production Roundtable on Sustainable Sustainable palm oil production • Member of RSPO Board of Governors Palm Oil (RSPO) • Member of the RSPO Sabah Jurisdictional Approach for Sustainable Palm Oil Production Steering Committee • Chair of the RSPO Smallholder Support Fund Panel • Co-Chair of the Smallholder and Biodiversity and High Conservation Value Working Groups; Co-Chair of the FFB Legality & Traceability Taskforce • Member of the Human Rights, Emissions Reduction Working Groups and the Trade and Traceability Standing Committee • Ex-Member of the RSPO P&C Review Taskforce (updated P&C adopted in November 2018) Tropical Forest Alliance (TFA) Responsible growth without • Member of the TFA 2020 Steering Committee 2020 depleting natural capital and Africa Regional Committee • Collaboration on best practice in peatland conservation and restoration Conservation and wildlife protection Business in Environmental Promote and support natural Member through Wilmar’s subsidiary, Benso Oil Stewardship Network capital inclusion and security Palm Plantation (BESNet) in business development and company production value chains (key roles and functions of the network include championing advocacy for the long-term sustainability of Atewa Forest, Ghana) Kalaweit Foundation NGO collaboration on gibbon Partner rehabilitation Peatland Restoration Agency Responsible for restoring two Partner (Badan Restorasi Gambut, million hectares of peatland (BRG)) across seven Indonesian provinces with severely degraded lands by 2020 PONGO Alliance Support the conservation of • Founding partner orangutans and other wildlife • On Board of Directors within oil palm landscapes by engaging with growers, businesses, independent experts and NGOs Sabah Forestry Department Riparian Rehabilitation Project to Partner since 2009 (current project established in enrich and enlarge riparian areas 2014) on state and company land and restore habitats for populations of endangered Proboscis Monkeys and Silvered Langurs Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 90 Overview of Partnerships 2018 Stakeholder Themes Wilmar’s involvement Conservation and wildlife protection South East Asia Rainforest Advance knowledge and • Partner since 2011 Research Partnership application of sustainable • Signed Memorandum of Understanding to (SEARRP) plantation practices in Malaysia, facilitate research and training on biodiversity Indonesia and the wider tropics conservation and management of conservation through a five-year research areas training programme, with a focus on biodiversity conservation and management of conservation areas University of Malaysia Gather baseline data on the Partner since 2014 Sarawak (UNIMAS) diversity and abundance of flora and fauna species found in HCV areas within Wilmar’s plantations in Sarawak Labour practices Business for Social Labour rights and working Partner Responsibility (BSR) conditions CNV Internationaal Labour rights and unions Partner Decent Rural Living Improve overall protection of Founding Member Initiative (DRLI) labour and human rights in the agriculture sector by developing and delivering practical and realistic recommendation and plans that will further support and benefit rural workers and communities in developing countries Verité Labour rights Partner Smallholder programmes Association of Palm Oil Smallholder support Partner in implementing Wilmar’s Smallholders Producers (AIPAH) Support in Honduras (WISSH) Heritage Bank of Nigeria Smallholder support Partner in implementing the Pilot Outgrower Scheme in Nigeria Sustainable Trade Platform, Smallholder support Partner in implementing Wilmar Small Growers Solidaridad & NES Support Colombia (WISSCo) Naturaleza Finance initiatives OCBC Bank and DBS Bank Sustainable finance Wilmar’s loan interest rate pegged to ESG performance 91 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Base Data Income Statement US$ Million FY2018 FY20171 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Revenue 44,498 43,574 41,402 38,777 43,085 Profit before tax 1,617 1,563 1,300 1,379 1,538 Net Profit 1,128 1,196 972 1,023 1,156 Balance sheet2 US$ Million FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Total assets 45,680 40,933 37,032 36,926 43,558 Total liabilities 28,913 23,947 21,653 21,625 27,147 Shareholders' funds 16,049 15,964 14,435 14,394 15,495 Segmental sales volume MT ‘000 FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Tropical oils 3 24,275 23,163 23,368 23,500 24,607 Oilseeds & Grains 37,179 33,295 29,529 28,706 25,081 Sugar 11,742 10,974 4 13,544 13,118 9,714 Segmental profit before tax breakdown US$ Million FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Tropical oils 546 426.2 689.2 491.5 969.2 Oilseeds & Grains 875 735.0 251.1 689.8 348.5 Sugar -123 -24.6 125.3 84.3 134.4 Others 20 242.0 100.6 17.4 20.0 Geographical revenue breakdown US$ Million FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Southeast Asia 7,560 8,930 8,633 7,661 10,024 People's Republic of China 24,993 22,392 19,983 19,371 19,622 India 1,280 1,754 1,317 1,338 1,463 Europe 2,520 2,586 2,711 2,485 3,390 Australia/New Zealand 765 779 1,501 1,411 1,724 Africa 2,473 2,445 2,352 2,024 2,036 Others 4,908 4,687 4,904 4,488 4,826 1 FY2017 figures were restated upon adoption of SFRS (I) 9 Financial Instruments, SFRS (I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS Convergence. FY2014 to FY2016 figures are not adjusted. 2 FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. FY 2014 figures are not adjusted. 3 Excludes plantation volume. 4 Sugar volume has been restated for FY2017 upon adoption of SFRS(I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 92 Base Data Production – Palm oil FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FFB production (MT) 4,189,728 3,922,904 3,817,969 4,481,022 4,323,960 FFB yield (MT FFB/ha) 21.6 19.7 19.0 21.4 20.6 CPO (MT) 1,966,505 1,742,618 1,740,298 1,995,800 1,909,355 PK (MT) 482,977 421,574 424,913 472,968 437,776 CPO extraction rate (%) 19.9 20.0 20.0 20.5 20.6 PK extraction rate (%) 4.9 4.8 4.9 4.9 4.7 Production – Sugarcane FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 Sugarcane production (MT) – Australia 484,038 491,340 521,777 Sugarcane production (MT) – Myanmar 5 21,325 29,146 13,979 Sugarcane yield (MT/ha) – Australia 91.4 94.0 102.0 Sugarcane yield (MT/ha) – Myanmar 5 69.4 64.8 73.1 Scheme smallholders – Palm oil FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Total no. of scheme smallholders Malaysia 0 0 Indonesia 15,402 7,527 Ghana 438 438 Nigeria 43 43 Total 15,883 8,008 Total scheme smallholder area (ha) Malaysia 0 0 Indonesia 34,149 32,874 31,284 31,428 31,666 Ghana 1,650 1,650 Nigeria 85 0 Total 35,884 34,524 Total RSPO-certified smallholder area (ha) Malaysia 0 0 Indonesia 2,040 4,0126 Ghana 1,650 1,650 Nigeria 0 0 Total 3,690 5,662 5 FY2018 Myanmar data is reported based on the calendar year (January to December 2018) due to unpredictable shifts in harvesting cycles and is not comparable to previous years’ data, where they were first collated based on an April to March harvesting cycle. Moving forward, all sugarcane production data will be reported as at end-December of the reporting period. 6 Certified smallholders planted area in Indonesia has been restated for 2017. 93 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Conservation area Hectares (ha) FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Sabah 6,069 6,063 6,060 6,083 6,083 Sarawak 1,723 1,705 1,721 1,658 1,658 Central Kalimantan 15,084 15,083 15,088 15,087 15,098 West Kalimantan 2,010 2,041 2,036 2,033 2,168 Sumatra 3,011 3,114 3,128 3,043 3,352 Ghana 83 83 83 83 57 Nigeria 1,633 1,653 1,635 1,635 Australia 675 675 675 Myanmar 0 0 0 Total 30,288 30,417 30,426 29,622 28,416 Infrastructure area Hectares (ha) FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Sabah 3,396 Sarawak 2,403 Central Kalimantan 3,794 West Kalimantan 1,236 Sumatra 2,173 Nigeria 870 Ghana 135 Total 14,008 Fire incidents Year Item Central West Sumatra Australia Myanmar Kalimantan Kalimantan 2014 Planted ha burnt 448.10 711.93 115.18 Unplanted ha burnt 386.74 0.00 2.10 Total number of fires 245 82 26 2015 Planted ha burnt 504.30 9.11 428.30 2,808 119 Unplanted ha burnt 1,028.40 2.00 205.10 0 0 Total number of fires 323 9 82 0 0 2016 Planted ha burnt 0 1.37 0.02 2,807 312 Unplanted ha burnt 82.88 0 0 0 0 Total number of fires 17 5 1 0 0 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 94 Base Data Fire incidents (cont’d) Year Item Central West Sumatra Australia Myanmar Kalimantan Kalimantan 20177 No. of fires within concession 20 1 2 18 0 Affected area within concession 307.9 2.25 0.91 (ha) No. fires within 5km radius of 20 6 2 concession Planted ha burnt 2,859 0 Unplanted ha burnt 60 0 2018 No. of fires within concession 51 11 2 0 0 Affected area within concession 371.1 37.2 14.4 (ha) No. fires within 5km radius of 40 16 42 concession Planted ha burnt 2,917 0 Unplanted ha burnt 0 0 Carbon emissions (RSPO PalmGHG) FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Net GHG emissions (MT CO2e/year) Total 3,881,301 4,033,437 2,943,672 3,412,351 Emission sources and sinks (MT CO2e/year) Historical land use change allocation 1,522,250 1,733,027 1,637,743 1,478,029 Crop sequestration -1,604,662 -1,867,781 -1,738,834 -1,602,795 CO2 emissions from fertiliser 145,909 183,310 143,267 137,170 N2O emissions 291,609 349,525 298,324 224,442 Fuel consumption (field) 55,287 60,822 57,606 61,127 Peat oxidation 1,074,914 1,261,404 968,422 1,002,722 Sequestration in conservation areas -126,745 -58,718 9 -62,170 10 POME 493,938 546,262 647,223 556,585 Fuel consumption (mill) 12,323 18,866 19,419 16,902 Mill credits (sale of palm kernel shell, -112,367 -109,959 -107,450 -186,261 empty fruit bunch & electricity) Grid electricity utilisation 69 125 139 7 Since 2017, reporting is based on area burnt within concession boundaries and area burnt outside concession boundaries (within 5km radius). 8 Burnings in Australia are usually prescribed. There was one accidental fire in 2017. 9 For 2018 PalmGHG calculations we have included breakdown by area into the calculator. Therefore, sequestration in conservation area figures are significantly higher than 2017 figures due to the HCV area breakdown for Central Kalimantan. 10 Conservation area offset data for 2016 was previously incorrectly calculated and reported. This figure has now been restated in this report. 95 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 BOD levels by region and discharge destination (mg/l) – Palm oil FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 BOD levels – River discharge (mg/l) Sabah 32 26 25 32 25 Sarawak 17 19 17 16 13 West Kalimantan 89 94 90 83 74 Sumatra 58 94 52 79 57 BOD levels – Land application (mg/l) Central Kalimantan 1,052 506 271 363 448 West Kalimantan 312 317 251 169 241 Sumatra 982 1,171 1,065 928 898 Ghana 175 134 60 77 93 Water usage – Palm oil FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Water usage – Palm oil mills (m³/MT FFB) Sabah 1.6 1.64 1.55 1.68 1.59 Sarawak 1.01 1.26 1.65 1.55 1.13 Central Kalimantan 1.19 1.46 1.33 1.61 1.46 West Kalimantan 1.57 1.27 1.53 1.49 1.50 Sumatra 1.02 1.12 1.55 1.40 1.74 Ghana 1.38 1.52 1.43 1.63 1.52 Nigeria 1.62 1.20 1.25 1.00 0.97 Herbicide usage FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Herbicide usage – Palm oil operations (toxicity units/ha) Sabah 687 61711 647 737 801 Sarawak 937 684 541 534 718 Central Kalimantan 209 283 253 328 337 West Kalimantan 277 271 256 464 416 Sumatra 304 563 317 257 231 Ghana 382 316 259 Nigeria 193 111 629 Herbicide usage – Sugar operations (total active ingredient/ha) Australia 3.60 4.0712 Myanmar 3.04 2.65 11 Sabah data for 2017 were incorrectly stated in Wilmar’s 2017 Sustainability Report and has been restated in this report. 12 Australia data for 2017 were incorrectly stated in Wilmar’s 2017 Sustainability Report and has been restated in this report. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 96 Base Data Herbicide types Herbicides currently used Usage Palm Sugar in Wilmar plantations Glyphosate Systemic and non-selective herbicide to control Imperata ü ü13 (isopropylamine/ cylindrical, Paspalum conjugatum and Ottochloa nodosa. isopropylammonium) Paraquat Non-selective contact herbicide used to control a wide ü range of annual grasses and broad-leaved weeds and the tips of established perennial weeds. Paraquat is not systemic so it can be applied up to the four-leaf stage of sugarcane without lasting damage. Pendimethalin Herbicide used in pre-mergence and post-emergence ü applications to control annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds. It inhibits cell division and cell elongation. Metsulfuron-methyl Systemic herbicide used to control both narrow and broad ü ü leaf weeds when mixed with glyphosate isopropylamine. Isoxaflutole Selective herbicide used to control certain broad leaf and ü grass weeds. S-metolachlor Isomer herbicide mixture used to control grasses and ü some broad-leaved weeds in a wide range of crops. Haloxyfop Selective herbicide for the control of grass weeds in broad ü leaf crops. Originally it was produced as a racemic mixture. Flumioxazin Broad-spectrum contact herbicide, which works by ü interfering with the plants’ production of chlorophyll. MCPA Herbicide used in sugarcane production to control: Blue ü Top, Chinese Burr, Flannel Weed, Gambia Pea, Bell Vine, Streaked Rattle Pod, Bindweed, Pink Convolvulus, Cupids Flower, Merremia Vine, Morning Glory. Triclopyr butotyl Systemic and selective broad leaf weeds used to control ü (triclopyr butoxy ethyl ester) Asystasia intrusa, Mikania micrantha, Clidemia hirta and Melostoma malabathricum. Glufosinate ammonium Used as a general narrow leaf weed control such as ü ü Paspalum conjugatum, Ottochloa nodosa, Fimbristylis miliacea and Borreria latifolia. 2,4-D-(dimethylamine/ 2,4-D(dimethylamine/dimethylammonium) is a systemic ü ü dimethylammonium) and selective herbicide from the group of aryloxyalkanoic acids. This herbicide is used to control Mikania micrantha, Borreria latifolia, Ageratum conyzoides, Paspalum conjagatum, Ottochloa nodosa and Nephrolipis bisserata. Fluroxypyr-meptyl Used to control broad leaf and common weeds such ü ü as Asystasia intrusa, Mikania micrantha, Melostoma malabathricum, Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum and Axonopus compressus. 13 For our sugarcane operations, Glyphosate is only used for managing weeds in fallow, end of row and headlands areas. Glyphosate is not applied in sugarcane crop. 97 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Herbicides currently used Usage Palm Sugar in Wilmar plantations Sodium chlorate Non-organic and selective herbicide used for general ü weeds control, such as Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Mikania micrantha and Gingantochloa levi. Clethodim Selective post-emergence herbicide. Systemic, rapidly ü absorbed and translocated from treated foliage to the root system and growing parts of the plant. Mostly used to control Eleusine indica. Monosodium Broad-spectrum herbicide used to control grasses and ü Methanearsonate (MSMA) broad leaf weeds. Fluazifop-p-butyl Selective phenoxy herbicide used for post-emergence ü control of annual and perennial grass weeds. Indaziflam Preand post-emergence herbicide. Often mixed ü with Glyphosate isopropylammonium to prevent or control common and major weeds in plantation such as Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Ottochloa nodosa, Hedyotis verticillata, Asystasia intrusa, Ageratum conyzoides, Cyperus rotundus and Digitaria ciliaris. Imazapic Selective herbicide for both the pre and post-emergent ü control of some annual and perennial grasses and some broad leaf weeds. Imazethapyr Non-selective herbicide used for the control of a broad ü (ammonium/ range of weeds including terrestrial annual and perennial isopropylammonium) grasses and broad leaf weeds. Diuron14 Selective systemic herbicide used to control broad leaf ü ü weeds and grasses. Metribuzin Herbicide used to control certain broadleaf weeds and ü grassy weed species. Ametryn Herbicide which inhibits photosynthesis and other ü enzymatic processes. It is used to control broad leaf weeds and annual grasses in pineapple, sugarcane and bananas. Acifluorfen Contact diphenolic ether herbicide used to control broad ü leaf weeds and grasses, which can be applied before or after crop emergence. Atrazine14 Herbicide of the triazine class, used to prevent preand ü post-emergence broad leaf weeds in crops such as maize (corn) and sugarcane. Asulam Broad-spectrum herbicide used for post-emergent weed ü control in sugarcane. 14 Strict controls in place for when and how much can be applied for Australia operations. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 98 Base Data Wilmar’s lowest wage rates and legal minimum wage by country Wilmar lowest monthly wage Legal minimum wage (excl. piece-rate) Palm oil operations Indonesia (Rupiah)15 2,075,000 2,046,90016 Malaysia (Ringgit)17 920 920 Nigeria (Naira) 24,200 18,000 Ghana (Cedi) 715 28818 Wilmar lowest wage Legal minimum wage (excl. piece-rate) Sugar operations (excluding Australia) Myanmar (Burmese Kyat) 144,000/month 144,000/month Indonesia (Rupiah) 3,637,700/month 3,633,714/month – PT Duta Sugar International Refinery Indonesia (Rupiah) 3,878,113/month 3,622,215/month – PT Jawamanis Refinery New Zealand (NZD) 17.86/hour 16.50/hour Wilmar’s lowest wage rates and legal minimum wage – Australia19 Wilmar Legal minimum Sugar Industry Enterprise Wilmar’s wage/hour Award minimum Agreement rate/ employee rate/ (Australia) wage/hour hour hour (Effective From (Effective From (Effective from 2016 2017 1 July 2016 1 July 2016 6 Dec 2015 30 June 2017) 30 June 2017) 3 Dec 2016) Milling general operator level 2 17.70 (AUD) 17.70 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD)* Distilling and services operator level 2 17.70 (AUD) 17.70 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD)* Cultivation/cane production level 1 17.70 (AUD) 19.21 (AUD) Not Applicable 21.12 (AUD)** Wilmar Legal minimum Sugar Industry Enterprise Wilmar’s wage/hour Award minimum Agreement rate/ employee rate/ (Australia) wage/hour hour hour (Effective From (Effective From (Effective from 2017 2018 1 July 2017 1 July 2017 4 Dec 2016 30 June 2018) 30 June 2018) 2 Dec 2017) Milling general operator level 2 18.29 (AUD) 18.29 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD)*** Distilling and services operator level 2 18.29 (AUD) 18.29 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD)*** Cultivation/cane production level 1 18.29 (AUD) 19.84 (AUD) Not Applicable 21.12 (AUD)**** 15 Indonesia’s 2018 list of legal minimum wages in different provinces can be accessed at https://wageindicator.org/salary/minimum-wage/indonesia/ archive/4/ 16 This refers to the lowest legal minimum wage listed among the provinces where Wilmar has oil palm operations. 17 For Sabah and Sarawak. 18 Ghana’s legal minimum wage is based on a daily wage of 10.65 Cedi. To calculate the monthly national minimum wage, we have multiplied this daily wage by 27 working days. 19 Minimum wage is updated by Fairwork annually, taking effect from 1 July each year. The Sugar Industry Award is updated at the same time. 99 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Wilmar’s lowest wage rates and legal minimum wage – Australia (cont’d) Wilmar Sugar Industry Enterprise Wilmar’s Legal minimum Award minimum Agreement rate/ employee rate/ wage/hour (AUD) wage/hour (AUD) hour (AUD) hour (AUD) (Effective From (Effective From (Effective from 2018 2019 1 July 2017 1 July 2017 4 Dec 2016 30 June 2018) 30 June 2018) 2 Dec 2017) Milling general operator level 2 18.93 18.93 25.71 25.71***** Distilling and services operator level 2 18.93 18.93 25.71 25.71***** Cultivation/cane production level 1 18.93 20.54 Not Applicable20 Not Applicable20 * Effective from 6 Dec 2015 3 Dec 2016. ** Effective from 1 July 2016 30 June 2017. *** Effective from 6 Dec 2016 3 Dec 2017. **** Effective from 1 July 2017 30 June 2018. ***** Effective from 6 Dec 2017 3 Dec 2018. Breakdown of Wilmar employees by gender – plantations, mills, refineries FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Number of male and female employees – Palm oil operations Sabah 5,410 3,243 3,96821 2,41421 3,649 2,157 4,053 2,155 4,010 2,067 Sarawak 2,121 1,248 1,601 1,028 1,560 1,057 1,808 1,137 1,937 1,183 Central Kalimantan 10,952 4,170 10,604 3,984 9,689 3,923 11,223 4,694 10,567 5,262 West Kalimantan 4,444 1,405 4,478 1,280 4,105 1,478 4,974 1,628 4,114 1,436 Sumatra 10,552 3,150 10,590 3,365 8,543 2,760 9,928 3,771 10,224 3,964 Ghana 1,151 496 517* 40* 1,808* 1,137* 1,937* 1,183* Nigeria 3,939 1,827 1,604 821 898 463 941 475 Number of male and female employees – Sugar operations Australia 1,868 452 1,71722 34222 New Zealand 146 41 185 39 Indonesia – – – – Myanmar 542* 172* 843 255 *Figures exclude number of women and men in temporary workforce as gender data was not available for temporary workers. 20 There were no workers holding that starting grade so all employees who were above this level in 2018 have been paid at a higher pay scale. 21 Restated for 2017. 22 Excludes data from refinery operations as gender data was not available. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 100 Base Data Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) (plantations) FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY201523 FY2014 LTIFR – Palm oil plantations (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 0.56 0.54 1.01 1.37 Sarawak 4.06 3.21 2.96 7.82 Central Kalimantan 1.91 2.82 4.18 5.27 West Kalimantan 1.43 1.54 1.06 0.79 Sumatra 6.03 5.90 6.10 7.06 Ghana 0.17 0.23 0.47 0.26 Nigeria 1.67 5.00 5.40 LTIFR – Sugarcane plantations (per 200,000 working hours) Australia 0 2.3 Myanmar 0 0 Lost time injury frequency rate (mills) FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY201523 FY2014 LTIFR – Palm oil mills (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 1.79 1.99 2.66 3.99 Sarawak 2.70 2.90 2.15 0.84 Central Kalimantan 0.81 1.55 1.18 1.01 West Kalimantan 0.48 0.70 0.16 0.51 Sumatra 0.31 0.32 0.67 0.84 Ghana 0.00 0.78 0.53 0.18 Nigeria24 3.86 LTIFR – Sugar mills (per 200,000 working hours) Australia 1.87 1.09 Myanmar 0.10 0.12 23 In the course of compiling data for our 2015 Sustainability Report, we discovered that methodology for collating incidents differed across our sites, with some sites using national or regional thresholds for reporting, and others using international Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Due to these inconsistencies, we have excluded LTIR reporting in our 2015 report. We resumed LTIR reporting in our 2016 Sustainability Report after setting a more consistent reporting standard across the Group. 24 Robust systems for our accident reporting for our Nigeria mills were still being established prior to 2018. We will now include accident reporting moving forward. 101 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Fatalities FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Fatalities – Palm oil and sugarcane plantations Sabah 0 1 1 1 1 Sarawak 0 0 0 0 0 Central Kalimantan 2 0 0 1 1 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 2 2 0 0 0 Ghana 0 0 0 0 0 Nigeria 1 0 0 0 Australia 0 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – Palm oil and sugar mills Sabah 0 0 0 0 0 Sarawak 0 0 0 0 0 Central Kalimantan 0 1 0 0 0 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 1 1 0 2 0 Ghana 0 0 0 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 0 0 Australia 0 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 0 1 0 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 102 GRI Content Index T he Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a multi-stakeholder standard for sustainability reporting, providing guidance on determining report content and indicators. GRI is the first and most widely adopted global standard for sustainability reporting and has been designed to enhance the global comparability and quality of information on environmental and social impacts, thereby enabling greater transparency and accountability of organisations. Sustainability reporting based on the GRI Standards should provide a balanced and reasonable representation of an organisation’s positive and negative contributions towards the goal of sustainable development. We report in accordance with the latest version of the GRI Standards, which are 2016 for all disclosures except for disclosures 303 and 403, which were updated in 2018. There are two options for preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core and Comprehensive. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of organisation Scope and boundaries 1 About Wilmar 11 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Wilmar 11-17 Annual Report 2018 2-6, 28-37 102-3 Location of headquarters About Wilmar 11 102-4 Location of operations About Wilmar 11-17 Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Wilmar 11 102-6 Markets served About Wilmar 11-17 Annual Report 2018 2-6, 28-37 102-7 Scale of the organisation About Wilmar 11-17 Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 Annual Report 2018 2-6, 78-82 102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Wilmar 11-17 Empowering people and communities 64-79 Base data 100 102-9 Supply chain Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 Our approach to sustainability 29-31 Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Grievances 44-45 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Smallholder support 80-83 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and Annual Report 2018 60 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our approach to sustainability 29-31 Note: Wilmar adopts a precautionary approach through platforms such as the HCS Approach and RSPO 103 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Organisational Profile 102-12 External initiatives Sustainability certification 30-31 Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Environmental protection and conservation 47-57 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability certification 30-31 Environmental protection and conservation 47,51,57 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement from the Board 4-6 Annual Report 2018 2-3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities About this report 1-2 Governance and management 18-22 Our approach to sustainability 29-45 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Governance and management 18-22 Our approach to sustainability 29-31, 37-45 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical policies and transparency 43-45 Employee engagement and complaint mechanisms 72-73 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance and management 18-22 102-19 Delegating authority Governance and management 18-22 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Governance and management 18-22 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Our approach to sustainability 29-45 environmental, and social topics Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 Empowering people and communities 65 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate governance and management committees 18-22 Annual Report 2018 50-53, 56 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate governance and management 18-22 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Annual Report 2018 62 body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report 2018 61 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Corporate governance and management values, and strategy 18-22 Annual Report 2018 57 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 104 GRI Index GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Annual Report 2018 64 performance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual Report 2018 54-55 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate governance and management 18-22 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Corporate governance and management reporting 18-22 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2018 65-68 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report 2018 65-68 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups About this report 1-3 Sustainability governance and management 19-20 Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Freedom of association and union relations 74-76 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About this report 1-2 Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Environmental protection and conservation 47-48 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Smallholder support 80-83 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About this report 1-2 Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Grievances 44-45 Constructive engagement and collaborative process 45 Environmental protection and conservation 47-52 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Decent work and economic growth 65-79 Smallholder support 80-83 Community relations 84-85 Supporting local communities 86-88 Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 105 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About this report 1-2 Statement from the Board 4-6 Accelerating NDPE implementation 29-30 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Constructive engagement and collaborative process 45 Environmental protection and conservation 47 Decent work and economic growth 64 Caring for children in our plantations 69-71 Freedom of associations and union relations 74-76 Smallholder support 80-83 Community relations 84-85 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Scope and boundaries 4 statements Annual Report 2018 184-188 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Scope and boundaries 1 Topic identification and prioritisation 2 102-47 List of material topics About this report 1-3 102-48 Restatements of information Reporting period 2 Monitoring chemical use and toxicity 61-62 Base data 92-102 102-49 Changes in reporting Scope and boundaries 1 Reporting period 2 102-50 Reporting period Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report Scope and boundaries 1 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact us 119 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Scope and boundaries 1 Standards GRI Content Index 103 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 103-114 102-56 External assurance Independent Limited Assurance Statement 115 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 106 GRI Index Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission ECONOMIC Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its About Wilmar 11-17 Management Boundary Annual Report 2018 25-27 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its About Wilmar 11-17 components Annual Report 2018 38-41, 54-76 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 11-17 Annual Report 2018 54-76 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and About Wilmar 11-17 Economic distributed Annual Report 2018 25-27 Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Reducing GHG emissions 48-56 opportunities due to climate change CDP submission 2018 Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Empowering people and communities 64-88 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Empowering people and communities 64-88 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Empowering people and communities 64-88 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Wages and benefits 65 Market gender compared to local minimum Base data 99-100 Presence wage Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Smallholder support 80-83 Management Boundary Community relations 84-85 Approach Supporting local communities 86-88 103-2 The management approach and its Our targets 8-10 components Engagement and empowerment 41-42 Smallholder support 80-83 Community relations 84-85 Supporting local communities 86-88 Annual Report 2018 11-24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholder support 80-83 Community relations 84-85 Supporting local communities 86-88 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Palm oil operations 23 Indirect supported Smallholder support 80-83 Economic Supporting local communities 86-88 Impacts Base data 94 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Smallholder support 80-83 Supporting local communities 86-88 107 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Sugar operations 26-27 Management Boundary Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Approach Smallholder support 80-83 103-2 The management approach and its Smallholder support 80-83 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Smallholder support 80-83 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Procurement Smallholder support 80-83 Practices Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Ethical policies and transparency 43-45 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Ethical policies and transparency 43-45 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ethical policies and transparency 43-45 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its About Wilmar 11-17 Management Boundary Palm oil operations 23-25 Approach Sugar operations 26-27 Smallholder support 80-83 103-2 The management approach and its About Wilmar 11-17 components Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 11-17 Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume About Wilmar 11-17 Materials Palm oil operations 23-25 Sugar operations 26-27 Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GHG Protocol and CDP reporting 54-55 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its GHG Protocol and CDP reporting 54-55 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GHG Protocol and CDP reporting 54-55 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 108 GRI Index Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission ENVIRONMENTAL Water and Effluents (see also GRI 306) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Safeguarding water quality 57-59 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 57-59 GRI 303: 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Water 2018 resource 303-2 Management of water discharge-related Safeguarding water quality 57-59 impacts 303-4 Water discharge Safeguarding water quality 57-59 303-5 Water consumption Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Base data 96 Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Management Boundary Environmental protection and conservation Approach 47-50 103-2 The management approach and its Our approach to sustainability 29-30 components Environmental protection and conservation 47-50 Overview of partnerships 2018 89-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Environmental protection and conservation 47-50 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Biodiversity managed in, or adjacent to, protected Environmental protection and conservation areas and areas of high biodiversity value 47-50 outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, Environmental protection and conservation and services on biodiversity 47-50 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Forest conservation and wildlife protection 47-50 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Refer to Sustainability Report 2011 46 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental protection and conservation 47 Management Boundary Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Our targets 8-10 components Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Highlights 7 Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 109 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission Emissions GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Wilmar’s No Burn policy 51 Emissions Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 CDP submission 2018 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 CDP submission 2018 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 CDP submission 2018 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 CDP submission 2018 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing GHG emissions 53-56 CDP submission 2018 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Safeguarding water quality 57-59 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 57-59 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Effluents and 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Safeguarding water quality 57-59 Waste discharges and/or runoff Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Management Boundary Supply chain traceability 32-34 Approach Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 103-2 The management approach and its Our targets 8-10 components Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Smallholder support 80-83 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Highlights 7 Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 2018 Highlights 7 Supplier environmental criteria Our targets 8-10 Environmental Sustainability certification 30-31 Assessment Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Sustainability certification 30-31 supply chain and actions taken Supply chain traceability 32-34 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Grievances 44-45 Beyond no-deforestation 47 Wilmar’s No Burn policy 51-52 Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 110 GRI Index Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission SOCIAL Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Financial and employee highlights 16 Management Boundary Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Decent work and economic growth 64-69 components Annual Report 2018 16-17, 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Decent work and economic growth 64-69 GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Employment that are not provided to temporary or Supporting local communities 86-88 part-time employees Annual Report 2018 40 Labour/Management Relations GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Decent work and economic growth 64-69 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Reducing chemical use 60-62 Management Boundary Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Approach Health and safety 76-79 103-2 The management approach and its Reducing chemical use 60-62 components Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Health and safety 76-79 Occupational Health & Safety Policy Wilmar Sugar Environment, Health & Safety Policy Wilmar Sugar Injury Management Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing chemical use 60-62 Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Health and safety 76-79 GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety Sustainability governance and management Occupational management system 19-20 Health and Health and safety 76-79 Safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Reducing chemical use 60-62 and incident investigation Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Health and safety 76-79 Base data 101-102 403-3 Occupational health services Reducing chemical use 60-62 Decent work and economic growth 64-69 Health and safety 76-79 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Reducing chemical use 60-62 and safety Health and safety 76-79 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and safety 76-79 Base data 101-102 111 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Equal opportunity 67-68 Management Boundary Annual Report 2018 40 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Equal opportunity 67-68 components Annual Report 2018 40 Equal Opportunity Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Equal opportunity 67-68 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Governance and management 18-22 Diversity employees Equal opportunity 67-68 and Equal Annual Report 2018 40 Opportunity Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Equal opportunity 67-68 Management Boundary Annual Report 2018 40 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its Equal opportunity 67-68 components Annual Report 2018 40 Equal Opportunity Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Equal opportunity 67-68 Annual Report 2018 40 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Freedom of association and union relations Management Boundary 74-75 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Employee engagement and complaints components mechanisms 72-73 Freedom of association and union relations 74-75 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Freedom of association and union relations 74-75 GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Freedom of association and union relations Freedom of right to freedom of association and 74-75 Association collective bargaining may be at risk and Collective Bargaining Child Labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Decent work and economic growth 65 Management Boundary Caring for children in our plantation 69-71 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Decent work and economic growth 65 components Caring for children in our plantation 69-71 Child Protection Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Decent work and economic growth 65 Caring for children in our plantation 69-71 GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Caring for children in our plantation 69-71 Child Labour risk for incidents of child labour Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 112 GRI Index Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Decent work and economic growth 64-65 Management Boundary Bonded labour 72 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Decent work and economic growth 64-65 components Bonded labour 72 Human Rights Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Decent work and economic growth 64-65 Bonded labour 72 GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Bonded labour 72 Forced or risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Compulsory labour Labour Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community relations 84-85 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Community relations 84-85 components NDPE Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community relations 84-85 GRI 411: 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Community relations 84-85 Rights of indigenous peoples Grievances 44-45 Indigenous Peoples Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Empowering people and communities 64-65 Management Boundary Community relations 84-85 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its Statement from the Board 4-6 components Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Empowering people and communities 64-65 Community relations 84-85 Human Rights Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Highlights 7 Empowering people and communities 64-65 GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Human Rights to human rights reviews or impact Grievances 44-45 Assessment assessments 113 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Material Topics Disclosure Page or reason for omission Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Smallholder support 80-83 Management Boundary Community relations 84-85 Approach Supporting local communities 86-88 103-2 The management approach and its Smallholder support 80-83 components Community relations 84-85 Supporting local communities 86-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholder support 80-83 Community relations 84-85 Supporting local communities 86-88 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community Smallholder support 80-83 Communities engagement, impact assessments, and Community relations 84-85 development programs Supporting local communities 86-88 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Our approach to sustainability 29-30 Management Boundary Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Approach Empowering people and communities 64 103-2 The management approach and its Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 components Empowering people and communities 64 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Highlights 7 Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Driving supply chain transformation 37-40 Supplier Social chain and actions taken Grievances 44-45 Assessment Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 114 Independent Limited Report Assurance INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE SUBJECT MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OF WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED In connection to our Engagement Letter dated on 20th December 2018 and the related Addendum dated on 09th May 2019, we have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Subject Matters set out in the Subject Matters section below. These Subject Matters are included in the attached Sustainability Report of Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’) for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 (‘the Sustainability Report’). Subject Matters Our limited assurance engagement covers the following Subject Matters: No Material Matter Information for Assurance Scope for Palm Oil segment Scope for Sugar segment 1 Labour conditions Percentage of eligible workers Plantations, Indonesia, Malaysia, Plantations, Australia represented by unions & workers Mills Ghana and Nigeria Mills association in Wilmar (2018) Refineries Indonesia and Malaysia Refineries Indonesia, New Zealand, Australia 2 Child protection Percentage of compulsory schoolPlantations Indonesia, Malaysia, N.A. N.A. going age children living in Wilmar Ghana and Nigeria plantations who attend schools (both Wilmar & government schools) 3 Supplier/supply Percentage of annual production Supplying mills Indonesia, Malaysia, Supplying All origin refineries chain monitoring; volume traceable to mill to origin and Bangladesh, India, Sri mills to in Australia (2 Supply chain destination Lanka, Ghana, Nigeria, origin refineries in total) transformation refineries South Africa, Uganda, Ivory refineries Coast, Zambia, Ukraine, United States, Vietnam, Netherlands, Germany 4 Supplier/supply Number of suppliers self-assessed Suppliers to Indonesia, Malaysia, Latin N.A. N.A. chain monitoring; through the Supplier Reporting Tool mills & America Supply chain (SRT) refineries transformation 5 Water pollution Improvements to runoff water N.A. N.A. Plantation Australia (the quality after implementation of Cane in Australia Orient) Supply Improvement Program 6 HCS/HCV + Number of proboscis monkeys/ Plantations Malaysia N.A. N.A. Deforestation proboscis monkeys’ groups observed over time 7 Sustainability Total production volume of CPO and Mills, Kernel Indonesia, Malaysia, N.A. N.A. Certification PK certified under RSPO Crushers Ghana 8 Supplier/supply Supply base area (in hectare) under Suppliers to Indonesia, Malaysia N.A. N.A. chain monitoring monitoring program by independent refineries consultant A hash symbol (#) in the Sustainability Report maintaining adequate records and internal principles of integrity, objectivity, professional denotes statements and claims on which we controls that are designed to support the competence and due care, confidentiality and have performed limited assurance procedures. sustainability reporting process. For the purpose professional behaviour. of the Sustainability Report 2018, there are no legally prescribed requirements relating to the Our firm applies Singapore Standards on Quality Management’s and Board of verification of sustainability reports. Control 1 of the Institute of Singapore Chartered Directors’ responsibility Accountants and, accordingly, maintains a The Management is responsible for the preparation comprehensive system of quality control of the Subject Matters in accordance with the Auditor’s Independence and including documented policies and procedures Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Quality Control regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Reporting Standards. The Board has ultimate We have complied with the independence and professional standards and applicable legal and responsibility for the company’s sustainability other ethical requirements of the Accounting regulatory requirements. reporting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for We have the required competencies and The Management is responsible for the collection Public Accountants and Accounting Entities experience to conduct this assurance and presentation of the information and for (ACRA Code), which is founded on fundamental engagement. Our professionals have both 115 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 the required assurance skills and experience What we did to form our Other matters in the applicable subject matters including environmental, social and financial aspects conclusions Our responsibility in performing our limited We designed our procedures in order to state assurance activities is to the Management of whether anything has come to our attention to Wilmar only and in accordance with the terms of Auditor’s responsibility suggest that the Subject Matters detailed above reference agreed with them. We do not accept or Our responsibility is to form a conclusion on has not been reported in accordance with the assume any responsibility for any other purpose or Wilmar’s preparation of the Subject Matters reporting criteria cited earlier. In order to form to any other person or organisation. Any reliance based on our work. We performed our work our conclusions, we undertook the steps below: any such third party may place on the Report is in accordance with International Standard on entirely at their own risk. Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) 1. Inquiries with Wilmar’s Sustainability team (Revised) – Assurance Engagements other to: Conclusion than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial a. Understand principal business Based on the procedures performed and evidence Information (the “Standard”). This Standard operations, obtained, nothing has come to our attention that requires that we plan and perform our work to b. Appreciate key sustainability issues causes us to believe that the information in the form the conclusion. The extent of our work and developments, Report was not presented fairly, and calculated performed depends on our professional judgment c. Map out information flow for in all material respects in accordance with the and our assessment of the engagement risk. sustainability reporting and the reporting criteria detailed above. relevant controls, Our review was limited to the information on the d. Identify data providers with their select indicators set out within the Report from responsibilities, and 01 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and our e. Recognise the likelihood of fraud on responsibility does not include: the sustainability information. • Any work in respect of sustainability 2. Undertake multiple visits to: Ernst & Young LLP information published elsewhere in a. Wilmar’s headquarters in Singapore, Signed for Ernst & Young LLP by Wilmar’s annual report, website and other b. Wilmar’s selected palm oil plantations, publications, mills and refineries in West Sumatera Simon Yeo • Sustainability information prior to 01 January and South Sumatera, and Partner, Climate Change and 2018 and subsequent to 31 December 2018, c. Wilmar’s selected sugar plantations, Sustainability Services and mills, and refineries in Australia • Management’s forward looking statements Singapore, 17 May 2019 such as targets, plans and intentions. 3. Interviews with and clarifications sought from employees and Management in Singapore, Reporting criteria Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana, Nigeria, As a basis for the assurance engagement, we have Myanmar, Australia and New Zealand (e.g. used the criterion of “Accuracy” as defined by GRI Sustainability team, Human Resources, Estate and specific criteria determined by Wilmar as Managers) to understand key sustainability being relevant for its sustainability performance. issues related to the selected indicators, We consider these reporting criteria to be relevant collection processes and accuracy of and appropriate to review the Report. reporting. 4. Conduct process walk-through of systems Assurance standard used and and processes for data aggregation and level of assurance reporting, with relevant personnel to Our limited assurance engagement has been understand the quality of checks and planned and performed in accordance with control mechanisms, assessing and testing the ISAE 30001 Assurance Engagement Other the controls in relation to the concerned Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial subject matters. Information. 5. Obtain documentation through sampling A limited assurance engagement consists of methods to verify assumptions, estimations making enquiries and applying analytical and and computations made by Management in other review procedures. Our procedures were relation to the concerned subject matters. designed to provide a limited level of assurance and as such do not provide all the evidence that 6. Checking that data and statements had been would be required to provide a reasonable level correctly transcribed from corporate systems of assurance. and/or supporting evidence, in relation to concerned subject matters. The procedures performed depend on our judgement including the risk of material Observations and areas for misstatement of the specific activity data, whether due to fraud or error. While we considered the improvement effectiveness of Management’s internal controls Our observations and areas for improvement when determining the nature and extent of our will be raised in a separate report to Wilmar’s procedures, our review was not designed to Board of Directors and Management. These provide assurance on internal controls. We observations and areas for improvement do not believe that the evidence we have obtained is affect our conclusion on the aforementioned sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for Subject Matters included in the Sustainability our conclusion. Report. 1 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard on Assurance Engagements for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 116 Glossary Annual Communications of Progress Effluents High Conservation Values (HCVs) (ACOP) Water discharged from one source HCVs are biological, ecological, social ACOPs are mandatory reports into a separate body of water, such or cultural values which are considered submitted by Ordinary and Affiliate as mill process water. outstandingly significant or critically RSPO members to gauge their important, at the national, regional or progress towards 100% RSPO-certified global level. sustainable palm oil. Extraction rate The amount of oil extracted from oil palm fruit at a mill. Crude palm oil High Carbon Stock Approach (HCS Bagasse (CPO) is extracted from the flesh; palm Approach) The dry, fibrous matter that remains kernel oil (PKO) from the nut. A global methodology used in after the extraction of juice from agricultural land development sugarcane. planning that is currently being applied Fire Free Alliance (FFA) in fragmented tropical landscapes on FFA is a multi-stakeholder group mineral soils in the humid tropics. The Biodiversity initiated for the management of methodology distinguishes HCS forest The diversity (number and variety of recurrent haze and fire problems areas for protection from degraded species) of plant and animal life. occurring in Indonesia. Under this, the lands with low carbon and biodiversity Fire-Free Village Programme (FFVP) is values that may be considered for a community-based incentive scheme development. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) to help reduce the incidence of fires. T h e a m o u n t of ox y g e n u s e d when organic matter undergoes Independent Director decomposition by micro-organisms. Free, Prior and Informed Consent According to the Listing Manual of Testing for BOD is done to assess the (FPIC) SGX, an independent director is one amount of organic matter in water. FPIC is the principle that a community who has no relationship with the has the right to give or withhold its company, its related corporations (i.e. consent to proposed projects that a corporation that is the company’s Bonsucro may affect the lands they customarily holding company, subsidiary or fellow A global standard for responsible own, occupy or otherwise use. subsidiary), its 10% shareholders or sugarcane production aimed at its officers that could interfere, or be creating lasting value for people, reasonably perceived to interfere, communities, businesses, economies Fresh fruit bunch (FFB) with the exercise of the director’s and eco-systems in all cane-growing Bunch harvested from the oil palm independent business judgement areas. tree. The weight of the fruit bunch with a view to the best interests of ranges between 10kg to 40kg depends the company. on the size and age. Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) Independent smallholder Carbon dioxide equivalents provide a universal standard of measurement Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Small growers with less than 50 against which the impacts of releasing Scope 1 GHG emissions are emissions hectares, which are self-financed, (or avoiding the release of) different released to the atmosphere as a managed, and equipped and are greenhouse gases can be evaluated. direct result of an activity, or series not bound to any one mill. They of activities at a facility level. Scope may deal directly with local mill 2 GHG emissions are those released operators of their choice or process to the atmosphere from the indirect their own palm oil using personal or consumption of an energy commodity. community manual palm oil presses (more common in Africa). 117 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil Land application Non-executive director (ISPO) standard In the context of Wilmar’s palm oil A board director who does not Mandatory requirement for all oil operations, land application refers to currently hold other employment with palm growers and millers operating wastewater from FFB processing at the company. Unlike an independent in Indonesia with the objective to Wilmar’s mills (POME) applied to land director, a non-executive can have holistically address environmental as a fertiliser. significant financial interests or close issues within the oil palm industry and personal ties to the company. thereby improve the competitiveness of Indonesian palm oil in the global Mass Balance market. The Mass Balance system allows for Non-governmental organisation mixing of RSPO-certified and non(NGO) certified palm oil at any stage in the Is used in this report to refer to Integrated Pest Management (IPM) supply chain provided that overall grassroots and campaigning IPM is the careful consideration of all company quantities are controlled. The organisations focused on available pest control techniques and mass balance model is constructed in environmental or social issues. subsequent integration of appropriate such a way that volumes of RSPOmeasures that discourage the certified product shipped will never development of pest populations and exceed volumes received by the endPalm oil mill effluent (POME) keep pesticides and other interventions user. By-product of processed fresh fruit to levels that are economically justified bunch (FFB). and reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment. IPM Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil emphasises the growth of a healthy (MSPO) Peat and Peatland crop with the least possible disruption The MSPO Certification Scheme is Peat is an accumulation of partially to agro-ecosystems and encourages the national scheme in Malaysia for decayed vegetation matter. Peat natural pest control mechanisms. oil palm plantations, independent and forms in wetlands or peat lands, organised smallholdings, and palm variously called bogs, moors, muskegs, oil processing facilities to be certified pocosins, mires, and peat swamp International Labour Organization against the requirements of the MSPO forests. Land with soil having more (ILO) Standards. than 65% organic matter is considered Is a tripartite world body representative peatland. o f l a b o u r, m a n a g e m e n t a n d government, and is an agency of New Planting Procedure (NPP) the United Nations. It disseminates RSPO’s NPP consists of a set of Plasma schemes labour information and sets minimum assessments and verification activities A programme initiated by the international labour standards called to be conducted by RSPO grower Indonesian government to encourage “conventions”, offered to member members and certification bodies the development of smallholders’ nations for adoption. prior to a new oil palm development, plantations with the assistance and in order to help guide responsible cooperation of plantation companies planting and ensure that social and (the nucleus) which assist and International Sustainability and environmental requirements have support the surrounding community Carbon Certificate (ISCC) been met. plantations (the plasma). ISCC is a sustainability certification system covering the entire supply chain and all kinds of bio-based feedstocks and renewables. Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 118 Glossary Raw sugar Singapore Exchange (SGX) Sugar that still contains molasses, The Singapore Exchange is Asia’s giving it more colour (and impurities) leading market infrastructure, than white sugar. Mills produce raw operating equity, fixed income and sugar, and white sugar is produced derivatives markets to the highest during the refining phase. regulatory standards. SGX is a member of the World Federation of Exchanges and the Asian and Oceanian Stock River discharge Exchanges Federation. In the context of Wilmar’s palm oil operations, river discharge refers to wastewater from FFB processing at Stakeholders Wilmar’s mills (POME) released into Any group or individual who are local rivers. affected by or can affect a company’s operations. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Sustainability A multi-stakeholder organisation A term expressing a long-term based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. balance between social, economic The organisation has developed a and environmental objectives. Often certification scheme for sustainable linked to sustainable development, palm oil. which is defined as “development that meets the need of current generations without compromising the needs of Social Impact Assessment (SIA) future generations”. Social impact assessments include the process of analysing, monitoring and managing the intended and Sustainable Development Goals unintended social consequences, (SDGs) both positive and negative, of planned Building on the Millennium interventions (policies, programmes, Development Goals, the SDGs is a plans, projects) and any social set of 17 global goals with the aim to change processes invoked by those end poverty, protect the planet and interventions. Its primary purpose is ensure that all people enjoy peace to bring about a more sustainable and prosperity with specific targets and equitable biophysical and human to be achieved by 2030. environment. Segregation The Segregation supply chain model assures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivatives delivered to the enduser come only from RSPO-certified sources. It permits the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a variety of sources. 119 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2018 Contact Us We w e l c o m e s u g g e s t i o n s o n improvements to ensure that we remain cognisant, responsive and inclusive. If you have any comments or questions on the contents of this report or on our sustainability performance, we welcome your contribution. Please contact us: Email: csr@wilmar.com.sg Post: Wilmar International Limited 56 Neil Road, Singapore 088830 Attention to: Sustainability Department To report a grievance or complaint regarding our sustainability commitments, please refer to www.wilmar-international.com/ sustainability/grievance-procedure/ Driving Transformation Wilmar International Limited 120 WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED Co. Reg. No. 199904785Z 56 Neil Road Singapore 088830 t. (65) 6216 0244 www.wilmar-international.com
