www.danfoss.com Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 1/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Contents About this report Danfoss has a long and proud history as a family-owned company founded in 1933 by Mads Clausen. Since then, Danfoss became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002. We continue to support Page courage, entrepreneurialism and innovation have been the Global Compact and its principles, which govern our sustainability efforts. central to Danfoss’ DNA. The Danfoss DNA and our culture Read more at unglobalcompact.org have been instrumental in Danfoss’ ability to build leading positions across multiple industries. CEO comment 3 Follow us here: Sustainability, with regard to people and the environment as Danfoss in brief 4 well as financial performance, is a precondition for Danfoss’ www.facebook.com/danfoss long-term success and for the company’s ability to make Global mega-trends 5 long-term investments. www.twitter.com/danfoss www.youtube.com/danfossgroup The SDGs tie it all together 7 The Sustainability Report 2018 reports on Danfoss’ activities from a sustainability perspective and presents Danfoss’ www.linkedin.com/company/danfoss Examples of our impact on SDGs 8 contribution as a committed participant in the UN Global https://www.instagram.com/danfosscareers/ Compact. The Sustainability Report is framed in the context Our commitment to sustainability 10 of our sustainability program. In essence, this report is about how we do business responsibly and profitably, with a view Energy, climate and environment 11 to maximizing sustainable value creation for society. Our people 15 This report complements Danfoss’ Annual Report 2018, which presents our business and financial results for the year and Health and safety 19 outlines the company’s strategy and priorities. Danfoss’ annual reporting is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Compliance, ethics and human rights 21 Statements Act (FSA). Together with the Annual Report 2018, the Sustainability Report 2018 fulfills the requirements of FSA, Products and materials 24 Sections 99a and 99b, by accounting for Danfoss’ activities relating to social responsibility and reporting on activities in the areas of human rights, labor rights, diversity, environment, anti-corruption, and climate change. This Sustainability Report 2018 has been prepared and published in English. The report is released as an electronic publication only and made available at www.danfoss.com. Sustainability Report 2018 2/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Smart energy Global mega-trends transform our world. Massive urbanization, food supply for a growing population and climate change, Selected partnerships in combination with the increasing global focus on the Paris solutions – Agreement and UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, fit right into our business context. EP100 – Energy Productivity 100 Danfoss joined EP100 to support the goal of the Global sustainable for The potential is huge – by combining our application know-how and innovative engineering to create smart sustainable solutions, Alliance for Energy Productivity to double energy productivity by 2030. Thereby we have committed to the long run we help our customers to build more competitive positions. double our economic output from every unit of energy We also play a significant role in the transition towards more consumed. At the same time, we will achieve reductions in electrification and lower carbon emissions, making the world’s energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions. energy consumption more sustainable. That is how Danfoss helps to build a better future – with a short payback time – this is actually good business. SEforALL – Sustainable Energy for All SEforALL is a global initiative launched by the UN in support Danfoss has never been more relevant. While delivering robust of making sustainable energy for all a reality by 2030 and financial results, Danfoss continues to strengthen the business mobilizing action from all sectors of society, including and invest in new technologies to drive sustainable growth and governments, business and civil society to deliver on three “We enable our customers and the world to use less customer relevance across the globe. We enable our customers objectives: universal access to modern energy services; and the world to use less energy, and we also take our own doubling the global rate of improvement in energy energy, and we also take our own medicine to reduce our medicine to reduce our CO2 footprint and make more efficient use efficiency; and doubling the share of renewable energy in CO2 footprint and make more efficient use of energy in of energy in our factories. the global energy mix. our factories.” In 2018, we remain on track of our climate ambition to cut our own energy consumption and CO2 emissions in half by 2030. By PACI – Partnering Against Corruption Initiative 2018, we had reduced our energy consumption by 43% and CO2 Danfoss is committing to the PACI Principles for Countering emissions by 25%, mainly driven by energy-saving projects in the Corruption to support a global, cross-industry, multiGroup’s largest factories across the world. stakeholder anti-corruption initiative established by the World Economic Forum. We commit to implement and As we move forward, our commitment to the Global Compact as develop an effective anti-corruption program and to play an well as working with the Sustainable Development Goals gives active role in advancing the global anti-corruption agenda. us a platform to develop our sustainability activities further, for example through partnerships, which directly address sustainable development. You can read more about our efforts in this report. Step Up Now Danfoss joined Step Up Now to demonstrate support of a All of this is about teamwork. At Danfoss, we are a team of stronger response to climate change in Europe. By bringing 27,795 excited colleagues deeply engaged in working with our together rich and diverse experiences of European actors customers to find the best solutions for their needs – to enable across cities, regions, businesses and investors supporting their success in a changing world. a net-zero by 2050 goal, Step Up Now pledges to scale up efforts over the next decade and showcases existing actions on climate change. Kim Fausing President & CEO Sustainability Report 2018 3/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Danfoss in brief Business model Business model Our business model builds on competitive advantages: Application knowledge, innovation and leading positions. Key elements are an aligned approach across the Group, our We engineer technologies, which enable the world to reduce operational setup with extensive, global coverage, and a energy consumption and ensure an efficient use of resources. Climate change strong regional presence close to customers. We produce and sell an extensive range of products and solutions Application Innovation for refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, motor control and knowledge Differentiate through Global mega-trends Close to customers new technology off-highway machinery. We also provide solutions for renewable Our business model links to five global mega-trends, energy, such as solar and wind power, as well as district energy Competitive which are driving new opportunities to grow our business. infrastructure for cities. advantage Our mechanical, electrical and software engineering enable bold innovation and constant improvement. The Danfoss is a global Group, divided into four business segments: Food supply Digitalization megatrends change the way we do business, our customers’ Danfoss Power Solutions, Danfoss Cooling, Danfoss Drives and needs and expectations, and inspire us to engineer a Leading Danfoss Heating. Danfoss Power Solutions is a leading player positions sustainable, energy-efficient future. We engineer tomorrow. in hydraulic systems and electronic controls for powering offExploit scale highway vehicles used in construction, agriculture and roadThe mega-trends are detailed in the Annual Report building industries. Danfoss Cooling is a market leader in the 2018 and briefly described at the following pages. These air-conditioning and refrigeration industry. Danfoss Drives is a Urbanization Electrification trends are also addressing our prioritized Sustainable leading player within low and medium voltage AC drives, power Development Goals (SDGs). Read more about how we modules and stacks for several industries. Danfoss Heating enjoys contribute to the prioritized SDGs on pages 7-9. leading positions within residential and commercial heating as Read more in the Annual Report 2018 well as district energy. The Danfoss heritage Key facts Danfoss has grown from a one-man business into a global leader 27,795 employees 23 R&D sites 71 factories by having a clear focus on innovative engineering right from the dedicated to engineering solutions, dedicated to exploring, inventing and in 20 countries, and Danfoss beginning. Today, Danfoss is a privately-held company controlled which make a difference to people testing our products and solutions for sells its products in more by the Bitten & Mads Clausen's Foundation. and businesses worldwide. our customers. than 100 countries. Group highlights Net sales, EURbn Growth in local currency EBIT margin Energy reduction since 2007 CO2 reduction since 2007 6.1 7% 10.6% 43% 25% Sustainability Report 2018 4/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Digitalization Electrification Urbanization What we do What we do What we do To increase customer value, Danfoss develops and provides digital With electrification comes great opportunities to enhance the flexibility, The growing population and increased urbanization will lead to solutions and advanced services based on innovative software efficiency and environmental performance of almost any application higher living standards and a demand for comfort. To support and connectivity. Some examples are the modern thermostat or system, leading to increased customer value. Danfoss has a range this, the need for construction and refurbishment of residential Danfoss Link® used in heating solutions and BELT telematics used of innovative technologies, for example solutions used for power and commercial buildings will be massive. Moreover, the urban in off-highway machinery, providing customers additional data conversion in wind turbines and solar. Several of our technologies growth will entail new infrastructure for transportation, water, and analytics for optimal management. Furthermore, we are can also be seen in automotive applications, for example customized power, heating, cooling, and waste handling. improving the digital customer experience with better end-tosilicon carbide (SiC) power modules, which are used in electric and end processes between our supply chain and our customers, hybrid cars. In the off-highway market, we help manufacturers to In all this infrastructure, Danfoss has the technologies, which can enabled by the new common IT system, One ERP, in combination meet goals related to efficiency and to meet strengthened emissions save energy and increase efficiency – and by adding the digital with the corporate website, danfoss.com. regulations by providing electric solution technology for hybrid and dimension to our solutions, and contributing to connecting the electric vehicles with integrated and smarter systems. In the marine world’s energy systems, we are part of making the urbanization In our innovation, we use digital technology to bring speed into and offshore industry, we help shipyard and vessel owners to optimize sustainable. A few examples are our skillfully engineered Research & Development, for example by using simulation and 3D operational performance and minimize environmental impact by components, solutions and services used in road-building printing, and we optimize our production by implementing smart providing flexibility in design and installation. machinery and district energy systems, for heating and air technology. Just one example is the Danfoss refrigeration and airconditioning of buildings, refrigeration in supermarkets, as well conditioning compressor factory in Wuqing, China, where operators As we have seen customer demand grow, we are investing heavily as precision motor control in elevators, lifts and escalators. are supplied with components by autonomous robot vehicles and to further strengthen our capabilities within electrification. For use intelligent bluetooth-connected tools, which automatically example, with the acquisitions of the technology businesses Visedo detect if an assembly process is being incorrectly performed. The in 2017 and AXCO-Motors in 2018, which have made Danfoss the factory has been recognized as one of the world's smartest factories world’s number one in electric solutions for off-highway and marine by the World Economic Forum from among 1,000 candidate sites. transport technology. Sources: Digitalization & Energy, International Energy Agency, 2017 Sources: Bloomberg, New Energy Outlook, 2017 Sources: NOAA, Global Climate Change Indicators, 2018 Peter Asmus, Principal Research Analyst at Navigant Research, 2017 International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Perspectives, 2017 International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Perspectives, 2016 Sustainability Report 2018 5/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Examples of what we do Food supply Climate change High efficiency in construction Operating in urban environments drives an increased demand for highly efficient and more productive construction machinery with minimal environmental impact. What we do What we do Available Danfoss electric solution technology deliver improved productivity, increased energy efficiency and Danfoss products and solutions play a vital role in food supply, Danfoss contributes to combatting climate change through our significant reductions of noise and emissions. from helping to optimize the harvest on farms and the efficiency energy-efficient and electrification technologies, allowing the world to in the food production to making refrigerated transportation and get more from less. This mindset is built into all our technologies. No storage of food possible worldwide. matter what we produce, the goal is always to optimize performance, increase efficiency, and minimize impact on the environment. Danfoss offers a broad range of digital techniques to monitor and optimize agricultural production processes. By combining sensors, Through our innovative technologies, we have a huge impact on robots, GPS, mapping tools and data-analytics software, farmers the solutions needed for the world to mitigate the most serious receive feedback in real time and can then deliver water, pesticide effects of global warming. Just one example is the technology we or fertilizer in calibrated doses just to the areas that need it. provide, which enables off-highway machines, ferries and cars to go hybrid or electric. Furthermore, our cold chain solutions help to secure that products remain at the correct temperature and humidity, Furthermore, Danfoss delivers technologies and solutions for optimizing food safety and security – while lowering the CO2 connected smart energy systems, creating enormous opportunities footprint. One example is our cost-effective and energy-efficient to reduce carbon emissions. A few examples are connecting Improved energy flexibility cold-room solutions, saving up to 20 percent in energy costs. electricity, heating and cooling, and the integration of various Connected smart energy systems can contribute to create Or take our food retail solutions, which offer highly efficient energy sources, such as renewables and recovered energy from the synergies needed to move the world towards a low refrigeration systems optimized for CO2 refrigeration and other data centers or supermarkets. This will contribute to creating the carbon future. In a supermarket in Germany, Danfoss natural refrigerants. They provide a low total cost of ownership, synergies needed to increase efficiency and deliver on the United demonstrates energy flexibility by combining energywhile at the same time reducing the carbon footprint of the Nation's global action plan to keep global warming below two efficient cooling, solar energy, battery storage, heat recovery supermarket refrigeration system. degrees Celsius as set out in the Paris Agreement. and electric vehicle charging, leading to high flexibility and a reduced energy bill. Sources: FAO, Global Food Losses and Waste, 2014 Sources: United Nations, World Population Prospects, 2017 / World Resources Institute, FAO, Food wastage footprint, 2013 Accelerating Building Efficiency, 2016 / United Nations, SDG facts & figures, 2015 Sustainability Report 2018 6/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials The SDGs tie it all together The Sustainable Development Goals take a broad perspective and are relevant worldwide. For the Paris Agreement and the SDGs to become a reality, all countries, businesses, and organizations must contribute to achieving the goals. Although our business is most directly linked to four of the 17 SDGs, they cannot be considered in isolatation, and we impact all of them in one way or We have a broad range of products within climate and energy another. and the Global Goals fit well into our business context. Many of our products contribute to achieving the goals, and we focus on how we can actively – globally and locally, commercially and politically – contribute to the fulfillment of the Global Goals. 6: Clean water and sanitation 7: Affordable and clean energy Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern One of the ways we have chosen is to focus on four of the Global sanitation for all. We provide solutions for water and wastewater energy for all. Danfoss is a world leader in energy-efficient Goals that relate most to our core business. For Danfoss, SDG 6, handling to optimize and reduce energy consumption. This leads technologies. Improved energy efficiency will help us meet the SDG 7, SDG 11 and SDG 12 are at the heart of our efforts. to increased energy efficiency and lower operating costs in, for growing demand for energy and ensure access to reliable and example, a wastewater treatment plant, ensuring sustainable modern energy, which all can afford. At the more social level, the work on sustainability and the Global management of water for all. Goals creates value directly or indirectly through our activities. Society benefits from companies taking responsibility for 11: Sustainable cities and communities 12: Responsible consumption and production vulnerable people in the labor market, for training employees or Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. contributing to increasing the share of green energy. sustainable. By 2030, an additional 1.5 billion people will live in Our sustainable technologies and service concepts ensure the our cities. We help build roads, buildings and energy systems perfect conditions for food in temperature-controlled environments How we contribute to achieving the SDGs is outlined to the right, for the world’s growing cities and support progress for people, and help achieve near-zero downtime on store applications to and examples of our impact are given on the following pages. communities and businesses across the world. improve food safety and reduce food loss and waste. 2018 2018 2019 What we said What we did What we want Strengthen Danfoss’ engagement in the Sustainable The SDGs have been part of internal and external Increased ownership and commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals. communication, webinars and events throughout the year. Development Goals in Danfoss' global organization. Danfoss’ CEO appointed member of the advisory board Engage in more projects and partnerships to advance the of the Confederation of Danish Industry's initiative UN's SDGs. Global Goals – from philanthropy to business . Sustainability Report 2018 7/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Examples of our impact on the SDGs Energy-efficient wastewater Waterborne heating in management multi-family homes Water treatment and distribution is vital for Buildings consume energy. Our digital human wellbeing. Our variable speed drives solutions provide energy savings, for example help reduce energy use for water supply and by using sensors, integrated cloud connectivity wastewater treatment plants. and artificial intelligence. Water leakage reduction Electric vehicles and charging Worldwide, we face increased water demand We design, develop and manufacture and water loss. Our solutions with drives and customized power modules. Our range of sensors offer 30-40 percent leakage reduction innovative technologies can already be seen by controlling water pressure in the pipes in a wide range of automotive applications, related to water distribution. such as electric traction inverters, electrical power steering and chargers. Irrigation Air conditioning of buildings Food production in many countries relies on The Danfoss oil-free Turbocor® series of irrigation. With our accurate pump control, the centrifugal compressors use environmentally resulting energy spend can be reduced. friendly refrigerants and deliver the highest energy efficiency on the market. Sustainability Report 2018 8/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Examples of our impact on the SDGs District heating Productive harvesting District heating is the most sustainable Danfoss mobile hydraulic systems and approach for the mitigation of climate changes electronic controls for powering off-highway and improving energy efficiency is more vehicles help to ensure efficient and efficient than individual heating while enabling productive farming practices, increasing the reuse of otherwise wasted process heat. productivity of every acre of land. Mobile hydraulics solutions Cold rooms Our mobile hydraulics solutions for the We ensure food safety and minimal food construction and off-highway vehicle markets loss from farm to fork. Danfoss cold-room keep machines and operators working at peak solutions are cost effective and energy efficiency; increasing reliability and speed, and efficient, reducing operational expenditure by getting the work done with the least resource saving 15–20 percent in energy costs vis-à-vis consumption and lowest emission. conventional cold stores. Safety in the heights Smart Store supermarket Cities grow up and down, when they cannot Danfoss Smart Store provides 24/7 temperature expand sideways. With altitude comes control on refrigeration equipment to reduce elevators, lifts and escalators. Dedicated food loss and improve food safety. We offer frequency control ensures optimal energy solutions, which reduce CO2 emissions by efficiency, while keeping safety at the highest up to by 60 percent by replacing synthetic level. refrigerants with natural refrigerants. Sustainability Report 2018 9/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Our commitment Danfoss sustainability program to sustainability Business and products People and community Sustainability is an important and integrated part of the way, Energy and CO2 emissions Health and safety we operate our business. While our products and services are helping the world to grow in a more sustainable way, we also Resource efficiency Environment look inwards to optimize our own production and services. This Products and materials Ethics and human rights is an integrated part of our sustainability program, which aims to Sustainable Development Goals Compliance programs ensure a sustainable and responsible business conduct and is a guideline for the entire organization, when it comes to corporate responsibility. The responsibility resides with the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group Executive Team. The distribution of roles and Desired outcome responsibilities in our sustainability program is consistent with the general governance and risk management principles, and the sustainability function is mandated with responsibility to support Cost and resource Risk assessment and Business opportunities Employee engagement and challenge the organization’s actions in pursuit of its strategy. optimization mitigation and reputation and commitment In 2018, we revised our sustainability program to reduce complexity and increase the focus on the importance of working with the Sustainable Development Goals – contributing to an improved knowledge of sustainability in society. The aim of our Sustainability Policy is to ensure We aim to further strengthen and develop our sustainability a sustainable and responsible business conduct program in line with requirements under the Paris Agreement and science-based targets. We believe that a carbon-free world • We comply with UN Global Compact and support the can be developed today to the benefit of climate, companies and Sustainable Development Goals citizens. • We will be a reliable and trustworthy business partner by As a family-owned business, we are in for the long run, and acting responsibly while balancing financial, environmental we want to lead to make the transformation of our society a and social ssues successful one. We will explore how to make our operations • We focus on resource efficiency, risk mitigation, reputation and processes carbon neutral in the coming years and develop and people initiatives that support resource efficiency in every way possible. For more information about our business model, strategy, and financial performance, see the Annual Report 2018 on www.danfoss.com. Read more about Danfoss’ management structures and governance mechanisms in the Statutory Report on Corporate Governance 2018 on www.danfoss.com. Sustainability Report 2018 10/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Energy, climate We enable our customers and the world to use less energy, and we have not forgotten and environment our own footprint. Our ambition is that by 2030, we will spend half as much energy running our business as we spent in 2007. The relevant UN Global Compact principles guiding us on energy, climate and environment Climate change is the largest global challenge of the modern world. Since 1990, global greenhouse gases have increased by Global Compact principles require us to: 50 percent. Even though almost all countries in the world • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; committed to address climate change when they signed the Paris Solar cells on overtime in May to July • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Agreement, energy-related CO2 emissions are on the rise again. technologies. The Danish 2018 summer went into the history books as one We have very little time to curb the trend; if we want to change of the best ever. May 2018 was the sunniest May month ever Our policies supporting the Global Compact principles: the course of global warming, we need to act today. recorded in Denmark. And July was extremely sunny as well. • Environment, Health and Safety Policy • Sustainability Policy Danfoss’ strong focus on quality, reliability and innovation allows us So, the solar park at Danfoss headquarters, Nordborg to help our customers create a more sustainable world by delivering in Denmark, worked overtime from May through July Further documents supporting the Global Compact principles: smart and energy-efficient products, services and solutions. producing 24 percent more electricity than in the same • Danfoss Sustainability Program period in 2017. The extra electricity is equivalent to the • Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030 An ambitious climate strategy annual consumption of roughly 50 private homes. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com With the Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030, we set ambitious targets for our own business. Our aim is to halve the energy intensity On an annual basis, Danfoss’ solar park in Nordborg (MWh consumed energy per EURm net sale) of our operations as produces 2.2 million kWh which corresponds to the well as to halve the CO2 intensity (tons of CO2 emitted per EURm consumption of all office areas in the Nordborg facility. net sale) of the energy actually used, in both cases measured against the base year 2007. 2018 2018 2019 What we said What we did What we want Further reduce energy intensity and CO2 intensity through Since 2007, we have reduced our energy intensity by 43 Further reduce energy intensity and CO2 intensity in the global energy-saving project in the largest factories. percent and our CO2 intensity by 25 percent. largest factories. Further strengthen processes for validation of products’ Impact assessment methodology deployed and tested as Explore what radical steps we could take to accelerate the climate-performance claims. part of the World Alliance for Efficient Solutions. decarbonization of our energy consumption. Sustainability Report 2018 11/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials To achieve our climate targets, we have implemented many measures to reduce our energy consumption and drive greener technology investments in buildings and processes, and we are well underway. In 2018, Danfoss’ energy consumption was 638 GWh compared to 594 GWh in 2017. Acquired Sondex and White Drives are included for the first time causing the energy consumption to increase. Danfoss’ energy intensity fell to 105 MWh/EURm in 2018 against 106 MWh/EURm in 2017. The energy intensity has been reduced by 43 percent since 2007. In 2018, the energy productivity remained unchanged from 2017 at 9.5 EURm/GWh. The energy productivity has increased by 73 percent since 2007. Renewable energy in India The wind and sun together cover 60 percent of the power In 2018, Danfoss continued the energy-saving projects at the 27 needed by Danfoss in Chennai, India. CO2 footprint shrinks largest factories worldwide, accounting for 84 percent of Danfoss’ total energy consumption. The annual energy consumption for The factory has solar cells installed supplying 14 percent of the thanks to new refrigerant heating, ventilation and lighting in these buildings amounts to factory’s annual power needs. And now, wind supplies another more than 285 GWh, of which 30 percent is expected to be saved. 46 percent of the power needed to keep the factory running. Danfoss Cooling is a front runner in the refrigeration industry. Our cooling technologies and solutions are energy CO2 emissions That’s the result after the factory signed an agreement with efficient, encourage the use of natural refrigerants, help to In 2018, Danfoss emitted 264,000 tons of CO2 against 244,000 tons a private wind-power company. In the area where the wind reduce overall emissions and minimize the impact of cooling in the previous year. The sources were generation of electricity and turbines are located, the wind blows enough to supply on global warming. heat in our own facilities as well as the purchase of electricity and Danfoss' factory in Chennai with electric power for roughly heat from external sources. eight months a year. The Cooling factories in Denmark, Mexico and China have exchanged a previously used refrigerant with a new one, In 2018, the CO2 intensity of the energy used remained unchanged This means that the Chennai factory can substantially cut leading to a reduction of 86,000 tons of CO2 at end-of-life, from 2017 at 43 tons CO2/EURm equal to a reduction of 25 percent its use of electricity generated by traditional powerplants, the same as what is emitted annually by 45,000 average from 2007. The CO2 intensity in 2018 is impacted by increasing which burn fossil fuels such as coal, oil or diesel. The amount passenger cars. electricity consumption in countries with high carbon intensity of fossil fuel, which Danfoss saves thanks to the agreement, in the electricity supply. In 2018, customer demand grew faster equals 157 tanker trucks worth of gasoline. That’s 5,100 tons The reason is that new refrigerants have a much lower for products produced in factories depending on a more CO2of CO2 saved. Global Warming Potential (GWP) number than the one intense electricity supply. We remain committed to the 50 percent previously used. This leads to a significantly reduced carbon reduction target by 2030. The factory in Chennai is Platinum LEED certified. LEED is short footprint in supermarket refrigeration systems, while for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, which is helping to ensure food safety and security. Danfoss’ electricity consumption was the source of 89 percent of one of the most widely used green building-rating systems. the Group’s total CO2 emissions, corresponding to 234,000 tons. Other energy (e.g. used for heating) led to 30,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Sustainability Report 2018 12/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Electricity accounted for 75 percent of total energy consumption. 15 percent of the electricity came from renewable sources, such as solar, water, wind and biomass. Electricity from nuclear power plants accounted for 16 percent of the Group’s consumption, and the rest derived from fossil sources, such as coal, oil and gas. Compared to the previous year, energy consumption for heating fell by 1 percent , primarily due to the reduction in our consumption of natural gas and district energy; 96 percent of the energy used for heating came from fossil sources. Supply chain emissions As a global company, we have a global and diverse supply chain. Approximately 3,500 suppliers of direct materials supply their products to Danfoss, driving energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The global emissions are estimated to 950,000 tons of CO2, which is 3.5 times the emissions from Danfoss’ own energy consumption in processes and buildings. The largest sources of emissions are from the manufacturing of turned or cast metal parts, electronics Partnership for green growth Women unite for Climate Action and electromechanical parts, and plastics. The P4G (Partnering for Green Growth and Global Goals Environmental management 2030) Summit in Copenhagen in October, 2018, emphasized In January 2018, Danfoss participated in the Global Goals For many years, Danfoss has worked systematically to reduce that partnerships between the private and public sectors are World Cup (GGWCup) in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. the environmental impact of the operating activities, including necessary to fight hunger, inequality and climate change. production and transportation. It is still a Group target for all The women-only football tournament was the first of its kind production companies to maintain certified environmental Danfoss participated to show how our solutions and our being held in the Middle East and aimed to raise awareness management systems according to the ISO 14001 standard to focus on the UN Global Goals makes a difference. for the United Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. manage performance and identify potential environmental improvements. In the center of Copenhagen, a genuine city apartment was The team from Danfoss, the Danfoss Climate Champions, created to show what changes we can all make in our own was made up of women from nine different countries, who Consumption of materials, chemicals, energy, and the generation homes and daily lives to become more sustainable. were promoting Climate Action. of waste and wastewater is monitored locally to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations. In the kitchen, a box of bananas told a story about the The interest and mindfulness in the Middle East concerning importance of the cold chain to keep our food fresh from climate change and the increasing power and role of Environmental due diligence field to fork. In the living room, the Danfoss Link® thermostat women, are some of the reasons why initiatives like the We follow a strict due diligence procedure when dealing with taught visitors how much they could save on their heating GGWCup have such high levels of engagement and potential environmental risks from the acquisition of land and bill. And in the bathroom, a toilet flushed to demonstrate how participation. However, there's still a long way to go, before companies. Thorough reviews of potential land acquisitions are smart wastewater systems can end up producing energy. we have reached our goals for Climate Action. conducted, examining the site and the environmental history of the surroundings. Regional hydrogeological and geotechnical Sustainability Report 2018 13/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials conditions are evaluated as field surveys to discover ground pollution or historical deposits. Water In 2018, consumption of water for processes and sanitary purposes increased to 1,162,000 m3 from 962,000 m3 the previous year. The water consumption intensity measured as cubic meters of consumed water per EURm net sales increased to 190 m3/ Less plastic project in Danfoss Poland EURm from 171 m3/EURm in 2017. The increase is mainly caused by the acquisitions of Sondex and White Drives and increased Massive plastic waste water use in a facility in China due to building projects. Danfoss' In our factory and office in Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Poland, global water consumption intensity has been reduced by 32 the team found that each employee uses and then – a few percent since 2007. minutes later – throws into a trash bin about 250 PET bottles on average per year. On average it is 8.6 tons per year of PET Initiatives are taken to reduce the consumption of water over the waste. coming years, especially in water stressed areas. Less plastic project Danfoss Poland has come up with the project “LessPlastic” to reduce and eventually eradicate single-use, consumptionlinked plastics, starting with PET water bottles. The big change The big change comes by applying the five Rs: • Reduce plastic waste • Reuse – employees receive reusable water bottles • Recycle – these reusable water bottles will be collected Mexico green week and recycled at end of their life cycle • Rethink – we switch to drinking tap water instead of What do you do to live in a greener way? In 2018, the bottled water Environment, Health, and Safety organization in Danfoss • Refuse – we refuse PET bottles and plastic cups Mexico recently asked employees to consider this question – and then write their answers on a piece of paper. All answers This initiative has been met with huge support and were put up on a big inspirational poster shaped like a tree. enthusiasm from colleagues, who are proud to be initiating the change they want to see. The event was part of an entire week in which the factory put extra focus on environmental consciousness. External experts The future delivered speeches on how to help the environment at work The “LessPlastic” project was implemented at the end of and at home, and employees could participate in different 2018 in Poland. In 2019, Danfoss teams in the entire East activities, including tree-planting. Colleagues who planted a Europe Region will also take up the initiative, and after that, tree were given responsibility for watering and fertilizing it. By the initiative is expected to move on to Danfoss teams in doing this, we are contributing to building a more sustainable other regions of the world. mindset as part of our efforts to build a better future. Sustainability Report 2018 14/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Our people We are building a better future and talents are playing a vital part. Danfoss opens great opportunities to make a difference and develop a career, for example by working across functions and borders, exploring different cultures, and being part of the Danfoss has a strategic focus on people Danfoss family. and the power of having high-performing, To succeed with Going Great, we have sharpened our focus on diverse teams to create better innovation three behaviors: Frontline Passion, Run the Business – like your and results. own, and Think Danfoss. Our behaviors are a guideline for how we want to run the business, and everything we do and every decision we make should reflect our behaviors. The behaviors are described on page 17. The relevant UN Global Compact principles guiding us on Our people Read more about the Core & Clear Going Great strategy in the Annual Report 2018. Global Compact requires us to: • Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Great leadership and talents • Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; It takes great leadership to attract and develop talents and create • Uphold the effective abolition of child labor; a great performance culture. Therefore, we invest in our people • Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment managers, as we see leadership as one of the most important and occupation. enablers for achieving our long-term business goals. Our policies supporting the Global Compact principles: To be successful, it is key that people managers understands • People Policy the strategy and the role they play in making it happen. That Talent hackathon is why we regularly ask our employees how their immediate Further documents supporting the Global Compact principles: manager is leading performance and whether regular dialogues Danfoss is growing – we continue to need more leaders • Global Recruitment are taking place. The feedback given helps us spot what works and we are continuously looking for better ways to develop • Performance management • Manage Employee Performance and Competences well and where improvements are needed to continue to them faster. Facing this challenge, Danfoss invited 40 have a strong performance culture. The most recent survey on employees with different nationality, seniority and job levels performance management carried out in 2018 had a steady across the business to come together at a talent hackathon. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com high response rate of 93 percent participating. The overall score was 80 on a 100-point scale, showing that Danfoss leaders have Within 24 hours, the hackathon participants worked on set a clear direction and had an ongoing dialogue with their ideas on develop talents, so they could add even more value teams. to the business. At the end of the hackathon, the ideas were In 2018, Danfoss initiated a new phase of the Core & Clear pitched in front of a committee of six senior leaders. strategy: Going Great. The name of this phase reflects our As fas as we are concerned, a great leader not only delivers ambitions to significantly grow and develop Danfoss. Highstrong results, he or she also encourages and enables our Engaging the potential of our people gave us a lot of new performing, diverse and engaged teams are the foundation for people to develop and take on new responsibilities across the learnings in only 24 hours. The winning idea challenges achieving these ambitions. Therefore, a key focus of Going Great organization to ensure that Danfoss has the right people and the way we do things today and could be implemented is developing our people and future leaders as well as ensuring talent to grow and to be successful. This is the responsibility of immediately, taking us another step forward in the that Danfoss is a great place to work. all leaders in Danfoss. development of future leaders within Danfoss. Sustainability Report 2018 15/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Global mentor program University program Each year, 34 leader talents with significant potential are We want to attract the most skilled talents to Danfoss. That handpicked to take part in the Global Mentoring Program, is why we cooperate with many universities worldwide and preparing them to become the leaders of tomorrow. participate in workshops with students – to get in touch, to learn from each other and to discuss our sustainable growth During the one-year program, the mentees are carefully journey. paired with experienced senior leaders from different parts of the organization. They meet on a regular basis, discussing One example was a workshop held in 2018 at Aarhus challenges, purpose, and strategy. The mentors share their University in Denmark with 80 students from the master's experiences with the ambitious young talents, helping them degree course in IT, Communication and Organization. Danfoss become better leaders. provided three cases, and the students had the chance to work with challenges from real life in a global company. On average, seven out of ten new leaders in Danfoss come from within the organization. This is not only important for The workshop gave Danfoss the opportunity to get fueling our growth, but also to keep our strong Danfoss academic feedback, the latest knowledge, and fresh input culture. We expect most of our mentees to grow into more from the talented students. Afterwards, Danfoss was senior leadership roles. contacted by several ambitious students, who found our Postgraduate program journey interesting and asked to write their master thesis in collaboration with Danfoss. There is no better way to kickstart a career than by being part of our two-year development program as a Inspired by the many good discussions, we plan to do similar postgraduate. The participants can look forward to working workshops next year. across our global organization to learn from colleagues with different skills and cultures. Along the way, they build a network, which can benefit them throughout their career. Each year, a new team of postgraduates joins Danfoss in our two-year Postgraduate Program. Every postgraduate teams up with a mentor, who follows their progress and helps them learn and develop their personal and professional profile. Together, they select four different projects, each of six month's duration, in which the postgraduates are given the opportunity to play a key role. At least one of these projects is completed in a different country than the postgraduate is based in. The Danfoss Postgraduate Program is designed to offer talents an intensive development process, which prepares them to make a valuable impact on our business. Sustainability Report 2018 16/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Our Behaviors Frontline Passion Run the Business – like your own Think Danfoss Frontline Passion is about getting even closer to our customers, Run the Business – like your own is a mindset. How would Think Danfoss is about living up to our values, acting with listening to them and making them the center of everything we you do things, if it were your business? We have a framework, integrity and staying compliant. We safeguard the trust that do. Every Danfoss employee plays a role in this. Some in sales or and within that framework we are able to take risks, try new our customers and employees have in the company. Thinking other customer-facing teams. Other colleagues make a difference things, make investments and make the right decisions for the Danfoss also means developing our people to ensure that the to the customers from behind the scenes, by supporting and business. This is about reducing complexity, taking action and entire company has the people and talents it needs to grow empowering our frontline staff, so they can make even more spending wisely. and be successful. things happen for our customers. Sustainability Report 2018 17/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Diversity of Directors consists of persons with diverse backgrounds in Our high-performing, diverse and engaged teams are the terms of professional skills, nationality and age. foundation for achieving our ambitions to significantly grow and develop Danfoss. Gender composition targets similar to that of the Board of Directors have been implemented in the relevant subsidiaries of We aim to employ a diverse workforce that reflects society in terms a certain size and type. Danfoss meets the gender composition of culture, nationality, gender and age. In 2018, employees of more target for the Board of Directors of Danfoss Power Solutions than 100 different nationalities worked in the Danfoss Group. We ApS, but not of Danfoss Power Electronics A/S (Danfoss Drives), focus on diversity both in our recruitment processes and when Danfoss International A/S and Sondex A/S, as the composition we bring colleagues together to take on a new project, as we of the boards did not change during the year. However, Danfoss believe that diverse teams drive innovation and better results. We Drives has a female board member elected by the employees. In take pride in creating an inclusive working environment, which these relevant subsidiaries, the gender composition target for the Diverse teams deliver improved embraces diverse backgrounds, skills and perspectives. Board of Directors is expected to be met in 2021. innovation and results The target has been to increase the percentage of female We have a bold ambition to implement our new common managers to 20 percent by 2017 from 18 percent in 2014. In 2018, One ERP platform as quickly as possible. This requires a diverse the percentage of female managers was 19 percent , which is the Age distribution 15-24 years 25-34 years team with a broad variety of competencies from different parts same as in 2017. We recognize that we need to make further steps 35-44 years of the organization to deliver the right solutions. and are still aiming for the 20 percent ratio. In 2019, the target will 5% 45-54 years be reviewed. 13% 55+ years More than 200 experts with different know-how, experiences and skills have been brought together under Gender composition in Board of Directors one roof in Flensburg, Germany, to work on Danfoss' One Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) requires 25% 27% ERP project, which will become the backbone of Danfoss' that corporate entities of a certain size and type report on the digital transformation. In addition to bringing a crucial gender composition in management. Danfoss aims at a gender package of competencies to the project, the participants composition in the Group's Board of Directors, which reflects can also enjoy being part of a team, which consists of that of the rest of the Group, and has a target of having at least 25 different nationalities, representing a wide scale of one female member of the Board of Directors, who is elected at 30% ethnical and cultural backgrounds, different educational the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Danfoss meets this target. backgrounds and very different career paths. In 2018, the Board of Directors had three female members, one ww AGM-elected and two employee-elected. Furthermore, the Board Seniority 0-1 year 1-3 years By using each other’s experiences and strengths, the team will 3-5 years ensure that customers, suppliers and colleagues will be able 14% 5-10 years to benefit from Danfoss having a common One ERP system. Employees 14% 10-20 years 20+ years It’s all about the people and high-performing diverse teams. Facts about One ERP Females Males The One ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) project 30% 70% 26% 17% consolidates the current ERP systems within Danfoss into one common IT platform across Danfoss. This will enable improved customer experience and reduced complexity in Female managers Male managers 9% our customer service and processes. 19% 81% 20% Sustainability Report 2018 18/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Health and safety Taking care of our people and improving health and safety on an ongoing basis is a top priority across Danfoss. Everyone should The relevant UN Global Compact principles guiding feel safe at work and no one should become us on Health and safety injured or sick from working with Danfoss. Global Compact requires us to: • Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Safety First! • Uphold the effective abolition of child labor; Danfoss' “Safety First!” program was established in 2015 as • Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Danfoss’ systematic approach to a safe workplace. Focus is on and occupation. clear, aligned procedures and processes to ensure a safe working environment and avoiding accidents across all Danfoss sites. Our policies supporting the Global Compact principles: Safety training room • Environment, Health and Safety Policy An important element in “Safety First!” is the mandatory use of • Health and Wellbeing Policy safety shoes and safety glasses for anyone entering the shop floor Danfoss Power Solutions' factory in Bielany Wroclawskie, in any Danfoss factory worldwide or performing gardening or Poland, constantly strives to improve the safety skills and Further documents supporting the Global Compact principles: outdoor maintenance work. Hearing protection is also mandatory awareness among all employees. In 2018, the factory created • Safety at Danfoss • Manage EHS incidents and hazards for employees working at machines with high noise levels, and a new safety training room designed as an interactive safe walkways have been identified and marked in all factories. learning space offering hands-on learning. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com Work-related incidents In the safety training room, the employees are introduced to The total Group LTIF – Lost Time Injury Frequency – ended at potential hazards in the workplace and trained in managing 2.8 in 2018 from 3.4 the previous year. Most segments reduced them. By doing so, we reduce the exposure to harmful their LTIF significantly from 2017. Danfoss Heating segment and situations and substances, which might end up in an accident. Danfoss Drives segment have still some way to go before the target for 2019 is met. 2018 2018 2019 What we said What we did What we want Drive Global Incident Management System for workGlobal Incident Management System implemented Reduce global LTIF with a step change to 50 percent below related injuries and incidents, including root cause according to plan. All incidents are now registered and achieved 2017 level equal to 1.7 lost time incidents per analysis, training and statistics. analyzed through GIMS. million hours worked. Reduce LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) by 10 percent The LTIF ended at 2.8 which equals a reduction of 18 from achieved 2017 level. percent from previous year. Sustainability Report 2018 19/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Danfoss Heating segment acquired Sondex in 2017. The LTIF of Global incident management this business unit is higher than the rest of Danfoss Heating and In 2018, Danfoss implemented a Global Incident Management special initiatives are being implemented to reduce the LTIF to System – called GIMS in all factories around the world. It is a Danfoss average. Danfoss' global LTIF ended in 2018 at 2.2 not risk and incident management software solution with focus on including Sondex. environment, health and safety. The solution is used for reporting and assessing incidents, tracking actions and analyzing trends We aim to be amongst the leaders when it comes to safety. using a common approach. Achieving this requires a step change, as the LTIF has only shown incremental improvements since 2015. We have set an ambitious With super users appointed and trained at all sites globally, it is goal of reducing the Group LTIF by 50 percent by the end of 2019 ensured that the entire organization is comfortable using GIMS as from the 2017 result. the future tool for registration and analysis of all incidents as well as for sharing knowledge about risks and potential incidents. The Lost Day Rate (LDR) in 2018 was 57 (the number of days of absence, due to LTIs per million hours worked). This is an increase All leaders play an important role in using the system to ensure from 36 in 2017 but at level with 2013-2016. The 2017 Lost Day proper and timely reporting of incidents. Plant managers and site Rate was exceptionally low. In 2018, the injured employees were directors are engaged in the incident management process at their absent for a total of 2,546 days, corresponding to an average respective sites as they have the responsibility to review and approve absence of 20 days per Lost Time Injury. specific incident assessments, actions and closure of actions. Safety campaign in Danfoss Drives While the overall incidence rate on injuries was reduced, a fatal Health and safety 2017 2018 incident tragically occurred in 2018, when a Danfoss operations “StaySafe@Danfoss. We care about you – and we want you employee in the US suffered injuries while at work. to be safe”. That was the key message in a safety campaign Lost time injuries (LTI) 135 123 run in 2018 at Danfoss Drives’ factories in Vaasa, Finland, Halving the LTIF Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 3.4 2.8 and Graasten, Denmark. The campaign emphasizes the To achieve the ambitious target of halving the global LTIF in only importance of everyone to be safe – always. two years, priorities will focus on enhanced safety processes and tools. Danfoss’ One EHS Steering Committee has identified a set of Throughout the campaign, employees, management, and requirements to form the building blocks for a future EHS toolbox. safety staff were actively involved in various activities, LTIF – Lost Time Injury Frequency while conveying key messages to increase safety In 2018, Danfoss continued to align policies, internal standards (Injuries with absense per million hours worked) awareness and what to do to prevent future incidents. The as well as the EHS organization to build a resilient and ambitious campaign was spiced up with posters, banners, badges EHS model; driving significant improvement in all areas, while 6 and small candy boxes with the campaign slogan. The at the same time reducing costs. Shared processes within the campaign was kicked off by management handing out management of environment, health and safety has been 5 reflective vests and headlights to wear if walking or biking developed to ensure consistency. to work. 4 In 2018, further programs focusing on hand & finger injuries, trips The StaySafe@Danfoss safety campaign is one of many & slips, and machine safety were developed and launched. 3 elements of the work with health and safety in Danfoss Drives segment. Maintaining a strong safety mindset and Programs for safety leadership, powered industrial vehicles, 2 culture is an ongoing activity, where management takes general safety awareness and management of changes to the lead and demonstrates visible leadership. production processes and equipment is being developed and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 implementation will commence in the first quarter of 2019. Sustainability Report 2018 20/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Compliance, ethics It is important to Danfoss that all learned and anonymous examples from the Ethics Hotline formed an important part of the training. employees act with integrity and and human rights comply with legislation and internal policies. Transparency about ethical issues is important to maintain an ethics culture in Danfoss. Danfoss monitors the number of dismissals due to unethical behavior. The relevant UN Global Compact principles guiding Growing international focus on regulation and legislation within In 2018, 39 employees left Danfoss due to unethical behavior, us on Compliance, ethics and human rights anti-corruption, competition law, data privacy, export control, compared to 51 in 2017 and 32 in 2016. The figure includes both and good business ethics triggers a high internal awareness and dismissals and voluntary resignations connected with ethical Global Compact requires us to: motivation to ensure that internal compliance programs and issues. The main reasons for the dismissals are fraudulent behavior, • Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed control mechanisms are in place and well-functioning to minimize disloyal behavior or other violations of company policies. human rights; the risk of rule violations. • Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the All our compliance programs include clear ownership, policy right to collective bargaining; • Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; setting, operational procedures, as well as recurring training and Ethics Hotline awareness activities. • Uphold the effective abolition of child labor; • Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Danfoss has a whistle-blower function, where employees occupation. Ethical guidelines and others anonymously can report violation of internal • Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Danfoss has its own ethical guidelines, The Ethics Handbook, guidelines or legislation. It operates independently of which include mandatory e-learning for all managers on ethics. Danfoss, and in 2018, a total of 77 new reports were Our policies supporting the Global Compact principles: This program, as well as other compliance programs continues received from all parts of the world where Danfoss operates. • Ethics and Compliance Policy to get updated with the newest legislation and stakeholder Corrective actions have been taken for all substantiated • Human Rights Policy expectations. allegations ranging from stopping inexpedient behavior to termination of employment. Further documents supporting the Global Compact principles: Taking ethics to the next level • Ethics Handbook In 2018, Danfoss continued the initiative “Taking Ethics to the next Additionally, Danfoss’ employees can find answers to • Anti-Corruption Manual • Competition Compliance Manual level , where focus is on identifying, preventing and counteracting questions or doubts regarding ethics and compliance using • Export Control Manual unethical behavior in Danfoss. In 2018, training was carried out the “AskUs”-function. This inquiry function was established in • Data Privacy Handbook on Danfoss sites in Russia and Latin America. To provide tailor2012 to minimize uncertainty and prevent unintended nonmade training material, which translates into a local context, compliance, when making managerial or business decisions. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com interviews were carried out with local managers to understand the business environment and culture. Furthermore, lessons 2018 2018 2019 What we said What we did What we want Deploy the initiative Taking ethics to the next level and human In 2018, “Taking ethics to the next level” has been carried out Conduct human rights due diligence project and ethics rights due diligence processes in Latin America and Russia. in Russia and Latin America according to plans. training in Turkey and Middle East. Sustainability Report 2018 21/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Data privacy Furthermore, we conduct training of all Danfoss employees, In 2018, the new and stricter European Data Privacy regulation who have contact with suppliers on an ongoing basis to ensure Ensuring compliance became effective. To enable all employees to process personal that they are familiar with our Code of Conduct and their roles with new Data Privacy data correctly, we developed a Data Privacy Handbook. It is based and responsibilities. The training consists of multiple modules, on our Binding Corporate Rules, approved by the Danish Data primarily as online training, and we expect to introduce a new regulations Protection Authority, which forms the basis for how personal improved e-learning training course in 2019. data is processed at Danfoss. Furthermore, we implemented the In 2018, the Group compliance team received many Data Privacy Handbook, developed trainings and completed In 2018, the compliance was measured on all suppliers with a questions from the colleagues in the organization regarding other elements required by the new legislation – because, just score of 90 percent against a score of 85 percent measured on various data privacy issues, showing that the business as Danfoss does business in an ethical and open manner, we also the top 90 percent spend suppliers in 2017. wanted to be compliant and that employees sought respect the right to privacy. information to make the right choices. As a new initiative and to have a pragmatic approach to This applies to our employees and external partners as well as in low spend suppliers, Danfoss introduced self-assessment Data Privacy community our processing of personal data. It is essential that the world knows questionnaires for these suppliers in 2018. The compliance team wanted to be sharing unified answers that the personal data entrusted to Danfoss is safeguarded, and that with the colleagues in a fast and convenient manner to personal data is used in accordance with applicable legislation. If we Human Rights ensure that everyone was aligned on how we conduct do not adhere to the rules, it may have serious consequences in the In 2018, as part of our commitment to live up to the UN Guiding business. Therefore, a Data Privacy community was launched form of heavy fines and loss of reputation. Principles for Human Rights, Danfoss deployed processes for at an internal social media platform, which has global reach. human rights due diligence in Russia, Brazil and Mexico. Building Not only did the community allow to share the answers Export control capacity and training the local management in the human rights on the hot issues and speed up the process, but also to In 2018, the export control compliance program was further due diligence process and handling of human rights aspects, announce important news and learnings. strengthened by including processes for secondary sanctioned create strong ownership at local level. party screening. Furthermore, with the roll-out of the One ERP Keeping high awareness of Data Privacy solution, all import and export transactions will be screened Assessment of legislation and actual practices in the countries Our colleagues reacted enthusiastically to the new community against sanction lists. Additionally, Danfoss extended the where we operate is an important and integral part of our by voluntarily joining it, engaging with the content as well as compliance program to include rules and guidance on antihuman rights due diligence process. Based on this, we conduct spreading the word about it to their peers. The community money laundering. a thorough process where human rights issues are identified, makes their lives easier when navigating the data privacy assessed, prioritized and mitigated. Action plans addressing the regulations, from questions about how to deal with a passport Responsible sourcing actual or potential impacts on human rights are drawn up with copy when arranging business trips, to what constitutes a In 2018, Danfoss continued the systematic work with supplier local management and regular follow-up meetings ensure that personal data breach. Driving the community and engaging management. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers defines our the process is maintained. our colleagues, keeps the awareness of Data Privacy requirements on environmental, social and ethical issues. In regulations high and creates ambassadors in the organization. 2018, the Code of Conduct was updated according to the antiRegulation like the UK Modern Slavery Act and California corruption clause and the UK Modern Slavery Act. Transparency Act require Danfoss to handle issues like forced Tools to stay compliant labor, if we were to be faced with them. More than 3,500 suppliers Besides the Data Privacy community, other tools helping us All existing and new suppliers are required to accept and sign our of direct materials used in our products and 10,000 suppliers to stay compliant are the Data Privacy Handbook, e-learning Code of Conduct, and we perform regular supplier audits to verify of services and indirect materials, make assessment of human and face-to-face trainings, and an intranet page. Customized compliance and to ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. rights issues quite complex. To gain more understanding of training is offered to those employees who handle personal Follow-up audits are conducted to follow up on matters such as this, outsourced facility management services, like cleaning data on a daily basis, such as in IT, HR, Finance, Sales and inadequate safety measures, missing or blocked emergency exits, and construction, were included in the due diligence process in Marketing. missing or malfunctioning fire extinguishers, lack of personal Russia, Brazil and Mexico in 2018. protective equipment, incorrect handling or storage of hazardous chemicals and discharge of wastewater. Sustainability Report 2018 22/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Companies are required to report which of the human rights are most salient to them; meaning which of the rights could be most Human right Example of potential salient How we mitigate severely impacted by the operation of the company. human rights issue The table shows which human rights are most salient to Danfoss, examples of what the salient rights could entail and how we mitigate them. Right to life Few Danfoss products are so-called ‘dual use’ products, All Danfoss companies must live up to which are subject to export control regulations. The legislation and internal rules on export See videos and read more at www.danfoss.com about how Danfoss salutes the issue is that the products potentially can be built into control. To support this, Danfoss has a human rights. military equipment or surveillance technologies. training program for relevant parts of the organization, especially sales people. Right to land, right to Danfoss is present in countries where relocation of In countries where this is the case, land adequate standard of people can take place to provide land for industrial use. management is part of Danfoss’ due living. If local people are not adequately compensated, they diligence process on human rights. Action do not only lose housing, but also their livelihood (land plans were issued to establish a process for We mitigate caste for farming) ensuring early awareness and action. discrimination in India Right to freedom from International research shows that forced labor can be We have updated our Code of Conduct for In India, caste discrimination is one of the most salient forced labor an issue in industries where lowor un-skilled workers Suppliers with more specific requirements human rights issues on country level and is therefore part seek employment; e.g. cleaning, catering, construction, for avoiding forced labor. Furthermore, of Danfoss’ due diligence process. The issue of caste has clothing and transport. Furthermore, recruitment is a action plans on forced labor issues are part cultural, social, economic and religious implications and high-risk area for forced labor because of fees in the of our due diligence program. is sensitive as it deals with hierarchical structures in the hiring process. society. In countries where discriminations is the The most exposed group is the SC/ST (Scheduled Cast/ Right to freedom from Discrimination due to ethnicity, caste, gender, sexual case, action plans to address the specific Scheduled Tribes), which is a marginalized group. This group discrimination minorities etc. can be a problem in some of the issues are made. Examples are building can be exposed to discrimination in terms of lack of access countries where Danfoss operates. awareness and establishing processes to to employment, discrimination in the workplace and a avoid discrimination. general lack of equal rights. When conducting the due diligence process in Danfoss in Right to health A safe workplace is fundamental for ensuring the right Safety is a key priority to Danfoss, and all India, we worked with the four Es; Education, Employment, to health. factories are covered by our Safety First! Employability and Entrepreneurship as a framework as it can program. be a good way of dealing with the many aspects uplifting marginalized communities. Danfoss in India has taken several initiatives in this field, e.g. by supporting a rural Right to fair working Excessive working hours can challenge health, safety During peak seasons, a few Danfoss factories college in an area where the vast majority of students are conditions, including and family life. experience a high number of working hours. SC/STs. More than 500 students have been trained so far. leisure time When excessive hours are experienced, local action plans are made to reduce overtime. Sustainability Report 2018 23/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials Products and Integrity and compliance are key to Danfoss. Regulatory foresight Danfoss tracks and complies with product regulations and In 2018, we continued to strengthen standards at national, regional and international level. We materials our focus on product compliance as an important enabler for growth. monitor and communicate existing and upcoming regulatory requirements to our business segments and functions to ensure on-going compliance. The relevant UN Global Compact principles guiding Conflict minerals Danfoss wants to make safe and sustainable products and Danfoss complies with the Conflicts Minerals Rule issued by the us on Products and materials proactively meet compliance obligations to customers and US Securities and Exchange Commission. We review whether Global Compact requires us to: regulators. For that reason, we run a Product Compliance tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold (3TG) in our products originate • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Program, which is integrated in our management systems. The from conflict regions in and around the Democratic Republic of • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental purpose is to align competencies, processes and tools as well as Congo. In 2018, we collected smelter reports from 1,400 tierresponsibility; sharing best practices across Danfoss. one suppliers identified as potentially delivering materials or • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally components containing 3TG materials. These suppliers report to friendly technologies Product compliance platform an external service provider, who ensures that conflict minerals Our policies supporting the Global Compact principles: Danfoss is committed to increasing customer loyalty by providing reports are delivered timely and with the correct content. Danfoss • Product Compliance Policy fast, easy and relevant product compliance information. supervises the process and facilitates customers’ requests for • Quality Policy To improve our capacity to generate transparent product specific reports. In 2018, the average response rate from suppliers information for our customers, we defined key requirements and was 69 percent, which is satisfactory. However, in 2019, we aim Further documents supporting the Global Compact principles: process flows and investigated data exchange platforms in 2018. to increase the response rate by further engagement with the • Supplier Quality Manual In 2019, we will implement a solution as a pilot test in one of external service provider. • Negative List of chemicals and substances our business segments. The solution is anchored in the Danfoss • Positions on RoHS, REACH, WEEE and Battery Directives • Position on conflict minerals One ERP project, and once deployed, the solution will enable Danfoss Negative List our businesses to deliver fast reliable compliance information to The Danfoss Negative List is the back-bone of our continuous Read more about our policies and positions on www.danfoss.com customers and authorities, including full material declarations efforts to avoid the use of harmful elements and substances in (FMD) with complete breakdown of materials and substances. products and production processes. The list is based on European 2018 2018 2019 What we said What we did What we want Implement strengthened processes and tools for Process for monitoring and communication of regulations to Strengthen approach that support resource efficiency and monitoring, communicating, and implementing new all business segments defined. A monitoring solution platform circular economy. product-related regulations. is defined and selected for implementation in 2019 and 2020. Build concept for Group Product Chemical Compliance Pilot project has been anchored in the Danfoss One ERP Conduct Product Chemical Compliance pilot providing platform. project with defined key requirements, process flows and relevant information to customers. data exchange platforms. Sustainability Report 2018 24/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Global mega-trends The SDGs tie it all together Examples of our impact on SDGs Our commitment to sustainability Energy, climate and environment Our people Health and safety Compliance, ethics and human rights Products and materials chemical legislation, but the bans and restrictions are applicable worldwide and can only be replaced by stricter local legislation. All suppliers, tenants and contractors working with Danfoss must comply with our negative list. REACH regulation Danfoss is committed to protecting human health and the environment through compliance with the European REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemicals) and similar regulations in our markets. In 2018, we have reviewed our processes and tools to ensure compliance with customer and regulatory requirements across the Group. In 2019, we will review our processes and tools to ensure compliance with the upcoming reporting requirements from the European Chemical Agency. RoHS, WEEE and Batteries Directives Many Danfoss products are in direct or indirect scope of the EU's Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive or similar regulations in other countries restricting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. In 2018, we strengthened Group processes to ensure compliance with substance regulations around the world. In 2019, we will train employees globally within research and development, procurement, and sales to comply with the requirements. Danfoss supports the objectives of the European WEEE Directive (Waste Electric and Electronic Equipment) and the European Battery Directive to improve the environmental management of electronic waste. We contribute to resource efficiency by improving the collection, treatment and recycling of electronics and waste batteries at the end of their life. In 2019, we will deploy aligned Group processes to further strengthen our compliance in these areas. transition from our current take-make-waste linear economy more efficient materials and means (including use of renewable Circular economy to a more circular one that views waste as a resource, where we resources) and looking at new business models. Circular Economy promotes the sharing, leasing, reusing, can use resources more efficiently and for longer periods of time. repairing, refurbishing, and recycling of existing materials and For several years, we have included circular thinking in our waste in an almost closed loop. The traditional linear model of As a leading expert within energy technologies, we are product design, focusing on the reduction of in-process waste the economy draws regularly on resources to create products committed to making this shift easy, efficient and productive for and on the reduction of material use in products. We continue that eventually end up as trash: raw materials are harvested, our customers. This requires that we view the entire value chain our work to understand the potential opportunities for Danfoss transformed, sold as goods and wind up in landfill. through the glasses of circular economy with the entire life cycle in circular economy and to build this principle into our design of It makes long-term business and environmental sense to in mind (including ease of reuse, repair and recycling), finding products and processes. Sustainability Report 2018 25/26 The Danfoss Group Our legacy and values • We build our business on trust and integrity • We are innovative in our ambition to exceed expectations • We are global and embrace diversity • We treasure sustainable results Further information available on Danfoss’ website: www.danfoss.com Date of publication: February 28, 2019 Contact address: Danfoss A/S Nordborgvej 81 6430 Nordborg Denmark Tel.: +45 7488 2222 CVR no. 20165715 (registration number with the Danish Business Authority) Email: danfoss@danfoss.com
