COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 EASTERN PRODUCE KENYA LTD Scope This Communication on Progress Report covers the operations of Eastern Produce Kenya Limited. It focuses on company’s activities in the year 2018 with a purpose of providing information about our ethical, social and environmental work. It also plays an important role in helping us monitor results step by step as they are achieved, thus, helps us shape our future social, ethical and environmental activities. It sets out the standards that our business strives to achieve, in the interests of all of our stakeholders, in the areas of: o Business Integrity o Workplace o Environment o Consumer o Community Statement of Continued Support Eastern Produce Kenya Limited is committed to implement the United Nations Global Compact as part of our continued belief in sustainable development, responsibility and accountability in our business. We ensure that our operating standards are of a consistently high level, and that our policies are translated into practical actions. Through this report on our progress, Eastern Produce Kenya Limited expresses its willingness to support and advance the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through our policies, processes, actions and products. Christopher Flowers Group Managing Director ABOUT EPK of tea production, soil and leaf Eastern Produce Kenya Limited analysis, nursery practices and (EPK) is part of Camellia Plc., fertilizer regimes. The department is (www.camellia.plc.uk), one of the also active in providing Technical world’s largest private producers of advice on Environmental, Ethical, tea. The Camellia Group owns tea Food Safety and Occupational gardens in India, Kenya, Malawi, Health and Safety aspects of the and Bangladesh producing around business. Photo1: Employee housing units 80 million kg of tea annually. Linton Park Regional office situated in one of our estates Eastern Produce Kenya Ltd (EPK) in Nairobi performs the company’s We believe that good management engages in tea growing and marketing and promotional of employment and environmental manufacture in Kenya, with tea functions. A team of experienced issues is essential in ensuring the estates centered in the beautiful and dedicated individuals are based long-term success of our business. Nandi Hills area, west of the Great at these premises, providing a solid We are therefore committed to Rift Valley. It employs over 10,000 marketing foundation for the devoting the resources necessary to employees at any one given time. operations. continually improve our The equatorial climate, good soil performance with the same vigor conditions and fairly consistent STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS that we apply to other aspects of rainfall means that tea is produced Our Approach managing our business. throughout the year and is of a very The board of Camellia Plc. is high quality with well-rounded responsible for establishing the Development 2018 flavor. Through continuous group's policy on Corporate Social The year 2018 was a good year for investment in the land, factories and Responsibility and has given the our operations. Thanks to all the human resources, EPK produces Executive Committee responsibility employees, management and all some of the highest quality teas for ensuring that the policy is other stakeholders that made the Kenya has to offer. implemented across the group in a year a success. Due to sustainability EPK tea estates comprise of; manner appropriate to those measures taken in previous years, Kibabet, Kapsumbeiwa, Kipkoimet, countries and sectors in which our we have remained fit to tackle the Kepchomo, Kaboswa (Managed)*, businesses operate. challenges and respond very Kipkeibon (Managed)*, Siret In 2009, the board adopted a new effectively, whilst remaining (Managed)*, Kaprachoge Corporate Social Responsibility focused on our business philosophy. (Managed)*, Kibwari (Managed)*, Policy to replace the Statement of A key theme in our business is the Chemomi, Savani and Sitoi. Good Business Principles that had been in drive for environmental stewardship agricultural and manufacturing place since 2005. The Corporate and waste water management. We practices and the methodology Social Responsibility Policy is are among the leading players in behind production and quality also available on the Camellia plc.’s this field and our efforts were play an important part in the gradual website. rewarded in 2017, after we won the progression of the company. Gold medal for Environmental Technical, strategic research and Sustainability in the North development teams have been set up American Tea convention, Bronze under the Technical Department is medal from Kenya Forest Service dedicated to improving all aspects and 3rd Runners up on climate change from Tea Directorate of to the more frequently tracked • Be proactive in our focus areas of Kenya in 2018. We upgraded the operational performance indicators. business integrity, social factory machinery in a bid to We aim to integrate all performance responsibility, product and improve on quality and catch up indicators, financial and nonconsumer safety, community with technological advancement. financial, into one set of data that involvement and environmental Food Safety Management Systems will allow us to monitor and manage management worked well in all the units with performance to set targets • Measure, report and communicate excellent results from the FSSC continuously. We expect to enter the The responsibilities for 22000 external audits. Housing next level of awareness of sustainability issues are aligned with improvement in all the estates was sustainability issues by actively our organizational and hierarchical also given priority. using the data as part of our regular structure at the estate level. The We fine-tuned our marketing management review process. General Manager Corporate operations focusing on customer EPK will in 2019 continue to Affairs, coordinates and advises on service, “customer intimacy”, and implement and audit CSR all CSR issues, senior management cost efficiency. Best practice and requirements for supply chain as is responsible for the social and knowledge sharing was enhanced by part of total quality management. environmental performance of the creating teams, focused on finding This will be done by sending out company. First line management is solutions to specific issues at the supplier questionnaires and visiting aware of sustainability requirements estate level. selected suppliers premises for and is encouraged to integrate and verification. implement the sustainability Outlook 2019 initiatives in the day to day EPK is committed to consistently CORPORATE GOVERNANCE operations, while living our core deliver incremental improvements The responsibility for managing the values. in the areas that drive our Company at the top level rests with sustainability goals. We aim to the Board of directors, which meets Risk Management and maintain our leading market every quarter of the year. We have Organizational Engagement position, both in terms of quality defined Key Performance Indicators Sustainability for us means products and improved service by (KPIs) to measure the impact of assurance of long-term success anticipating consumer and industry sustainability actions on our within a stable economic, social and trends, and remain focused on operations. Through the board, the natural environment. We believe ethical business, environmental Regional Director, Operations that, with the values we have management and product Director, Production and Technical established, and the policies and improvement using innovative Directors determine the detailed business practices developed from programs. actions to be taken in order to: these, we are well prepared for the We will continue tracking • Act with integrity, adhering to move towards sustainability. sustainability indicators monthly high standards of behavior, Our success is greatly dependent on and report to the Board quarterly. encouraging leadership by senior climatic conditions, plant disease, This will not only improve the management, responsible decision the cost of labor and the market reliability and transparency of the making and dialogue with price for the produce. In addition, data, but will also enhance the link stakeholders exports from Kenya are subject to foreign exchange fluctuations as the consistent quality of our provision, roads and other products are priced in US dollars. products and sustainability of our infrastructure improvement and Developing countries such as Kenya businesses. maintenance. We continue to invest tend to be politically less stable, and in increasing farmers’ skills and there are also long-term issues Supporting Employment knowledge in the use of fertilizers, concerning land ownership over EPK directly supports over 10,000 pesticides and tea varieties best which the company has little control jobs in a wide variety of positions suited to local climactic conditions but monitors closely. involving tea plucking and tea bush and infrastructure development. Our aim is to manage these risks management, specialist skills, and control our activities costdifferent crafts and the full range of Working with Suppliers effectively. Our precautionary business activities and machinery While focused on the commercial approach enables us to take up operation in the tea factories. need to procure goods and services profitable business opportunities, However, the people depending on of the required specification and avoid or reduce risks that can cause our business for their livelihood are quality on the most favorable terms, loss, reputational damage or much more than listed above. we work collaboratively with our business failure, support operational suppliers to ensure that availability effectiveness and enhance resilience is sustainable in the long term and to external events. that contracts are fair and business We apply the principle that where relationships are mutually there are threats of serious or beneficial. irreversible environmental or social damage, lack of full scientific Photo 2: Aerial view of employees certainty shall not be used as a housing units in our estates in reason for postponing measures to Nandi Hills prevent environmental degradation or negative social impact Paying taxes In 2018, we paid duty and taxes to the government as required by the Photo3: One of the 15 primary countries legislation. The company schools constructed by the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE is recognized as a distinguished company for employees and OUR ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT taxpayer by the Kenya Revenue surrounding communities 2018 Authority. children of school going age to Through the taxes we paid, the jobs prevent child labor we provided and the supply and Impact on Small Holders As part of good governance, we distribution businesses we Another significant financial impact encouraged our suppliers to work supported, we were a significant of our operations on the economy is towards the same corporate contributor to the economy of the support to the smallholders that citizenship standards as our own country. The sum total of these supply green leaf and other raw business. All major suppliers positive impacts comprises our material required by the Company. confirmed that they operated economic footprint. Assistance is provided in the form environmental, business ethics and In the last year we invested capital of training in good farming health and safety policies and in factories and equipment to ensure practices, extension service operated a system of performance monitoring to ensure continuous environmental impact from follow up, measurement improvement. In the coming years transportation. and analysis, including we will be working with smaller The operations progressively that of claims by workers suppliers to ensure a similar introduce tougher demands in the or other persons or commitment to corporate area of environmental management, groups, to evaluate the citizenship principles. such as energy consumption and functioning of our social waste management. They also and environmental ENVIRONMENT demonstrate that they have effective management system. The We recognize that our activities and reliable methods for monitoring results of these processes have the potential to affect the progress. There are monthly are recorded and environment either positively or reviews, focusing on issues related incorporated into the negatively hence aim to improve all to environmental management setpolicies through a environmental aspects of our up and evaluation of actual continual improvement business. In addition to using performance. plan and program. resources wisely, we strive to Furthermore: minimize any negative Description of our Processes or o We ensure that the environmental effects that could be Systems environmental effects of caused by our business activities. We support the principle of “wiseour investments are We focus our environmental efforts use” through hands on management assessed and monitored in on activities that we believe have and see this as key to sustainability the planning, the greatest impact. Today we work and the long term preservation of implementation and on an overall level in major areas our natural resources. operational stages. such as reducing carbon dioxide As part of our business objectives o The business is designed emissions, using alternative energy we therefore: and operated to comply sources, managing waste water, and o Seek the efficient use of with national and reducing energy consumption. natural resources; international legislation. o Seek investment o We do not knowingly Environmental Activities Coopportunities where sound support businesses and ordination economic development is practices which Each business unit has a senior coupled with the contravene any relevant manager in charge of planning and protection and international conventions implementation of measures to improvement of the to which the country is a ensure that stores, factories, living environment; signatory. quarters and engineering workshops o Avoid investments where o We assess the take environmental responsibility impacts on communities environmental standards seriously. Each unit has its own and the environment have and practices for planned action plan detailing the work not been properly projects and achieved by towards achieving the goals set for considered and mitigated operational projects with social and environmental training, in their design reference to local waste management, saving energy o The Company has the regulations. This is to and water, as well as minimizing necessary processes for enhance sustainability and encourage a long term and type of work carried with biological indicators such as perspective in the way we out. fauna and flora showing good conduct our business. o Records are kept that growth and diversification in o All existing natural include the participants’ species proving that it is effective. ecosystems, both aquatic signatures, topics covered Ashes and clinkers generated from and terrestrial, have been and the instructor’s name the combustion of firewood are identified, protected and for each training or placed on the compost heap. Solid are being restored through educational event. The factory waste i.e. tea leaves are a conservation program. employees attending the placed on compost heap for The program includes the trainings are as part of the recycling i.e. used as organic reforestation of areas normal workday. compost, an alternative fertilizer within the farms that are source. unsuitable for agriculture. Waste management Office refuse is sorted and the o EPK maintains the Our operations have an integrated combustible materials are burnt in integrity of aquatic or waste management program for the boilers and other material disposed terrestrial ecosystems waste products we generate. This is of in a pit. The metal scraps are inside the farms and do based on the concepts of refusing or collected and sold to a scrap dealer. not permit their reducing the use of products that Paper and plastic is disposed of by destruction or alteration as have actual or potential negative recycling where possible, but a result of management or impacts on the environment or following the ban by National production activities. human health waste as well as Environment Management o Production areas are reusing and recycling waste. As part Authority NEMA on plastic bags, located in places that of this program, the sources and the company has since been abiding cannot provoke negative types of waste have been identified by the regulations and currently effects on national parks, and the quantity (weight or volume) sourcing biodegradable tubes for her wildlife refuges, estimated. The activities of the tea tree seedlings and other tree biological corridors, integrated waste management seedlings. Solid factory waste forestry reserves, buffer program are in accordance with the consists mainly of tealeaves, zones or other public or types and quantities of waste plastics, paper, textiles, cotton wool, private biological generated. glass, pieces of wood etc. Litterbins conservation areas. We have appropriate treatment are provided at each factory for o The farms implement a systems for all of wastewaters we collection of waste with separation training and education generate. The treatment systems at source. program in order to comply with applicable national and The hospital waste is handled with guarantee the effective local laws and have the respective the due care. Incinerators are execution of the social operating permits. There are available to dispose of tissues and and environmental operating procedures for industrial contaminated combustible material. management system and wastewater treatment systems. The ash from the incinerator is its programs. The training Our Factory waste water is handled buried accordingly. The company topics are identified through Constructed wetlands. has a License to operate a waste according to the position These are currently working well treatment plant namely an order to improve efficiency and as hoped. New designs are under incinerator. raise awareness among workers. review. Waste oils and greases from the For lighting purposes, solar factories are collected and returned Transport lightning is the major source, with to Group Central Workshops for The impact exerted on the electricity taking up the rest. disposal by Shell Oil Company (on environment as a result of transport Further efforts have also been put to contract) and greases from the wash activities related to our operations rehabilitate the sites where clay and down are handled by a system of oil cannot be overlooked. We invested marrum for the roads are mined. and grease traps. in acquiring a greater insight into Human waste from management this relationship, not least to Water Management houses and factories are collected in stipulate environmental criteria We have instituted a water septic tanks. The human waste from when negotiating the future conservation program that ensures the village is handled by use of the provision of transport and goods the rational use of water resources. pit latrines, which are properly forwarding services. A plucked The program activities make use of decommissioned when full. The leafs route from field to Factory can the best available technology and ‘VIP’ pit latrine types are well be long. Smart route planning, full resources. ventilated for reduction of bad odor utilization of the volume capacity in We consider water re-circulation and flies. a trailer as well as the filling with and reuse, maintenance of the water The compost heaps for the right weight of goods is the most distribution network and the biodegradable rubbish generated in effective weapon to reduce the minimizing of water use. We keep the estate villages are built environmental impact and cost of an inventory and indicate on a map according to a very specific design transport. the surface and underground water from our social/ environmental sources found on our farms. The consultant. Households operations record the annual water As a further waste management Within the households the main volume provided by these sources strategy a waste classification report sources of energy are Fuel Wood, and the amount of water consumed. has been compiled and the analysis Kerosene, Liquefied Petroleum Gas We have obtained the relevant conducted. (LPG) and Coal. The conversion to permits for the abstraction of water energy efficient firewood stoves is for all extraction points. Energy Consumption reducing the village’s requirements We have maintained riparian The tea production consumes both for cooking fuel material. Trials vegetation along the rivers and thermal, electrical energy and have just been undertaken to see streams in its estates. Areas energy derived from fuel oils. how much more efficient jikos previously under Eucalyptus within Our goal is to reduce the energy (cook stoves) are than open fire these areas have been rehabilitated consumption in relation to the cooking. with indigenous. The wetland quantity of products produced at Although energy efficient jikos have sections within the estates are each unit. Energy use is been installed across the estates, we conserved accordingly. No negative continuously monitored at each are looking at the best way of impacts have been reported factory and estate. Action plans maintaining them, as the clay used regarding the alteration of ground based on these results are made in in the original design has not lasted water movement from surrounding communities due to the agricultural Air pollution may be caused by The total quantity of the different activities. emission from the combustion of pollutants emitted from the factories Monthly water quality analysis is fuel wood. The main pollutants of depends on the production capacity carried out and the verification of concern are carbon dioxide, carbon and operational efficiency of the the parameters done by External monoxide, Sulphur dioxide, factory. This can be expressed in laboratories. The parameters nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, dust, terms of specific pollution load i.e. analyzed for include chemical, fly ash, and particulate matter, the total quantity of a typical physical, Microbiological and which are produced during pollutant generated per quantity of nutrient composition. A possible combustion. Indoor pollution may tea produced. source of contamination of the lead to negative impact to occupants Due to the publication of Kenya surface water is the factory washand exposed workers. gazette supplement down effluents, runoff and the Common effects are respiratory No 74 of 13 October 2006 legal nutrients in the form of the disease including allergies and notice 131 Fossil fuel emission fertilizers applied in the fields. bronchitis. Mitigation measures controls. Vehicles are serviced Fertilizer runoff has been monitored including proper ventilations, tall regularly as per Manufacturers in recent years. No pollution of stacks, provision of chimneys in guidelines and the fuel usage water courses or swamps has been kitchens, and fuel efficient Jikos are monitored on a monthly basis. detected. The other possible sources practiced on the estates. No of contamination of the surface evidence of any significant air Soil management and water are incorrectly established pit pollution from the factories or conservation latrines and spillage or leakages vehicles is apparent and no High rainfall and undulating hills from the underground petrol and complaints have been received. favor erosion. Isolated areas are diesel storage tanks. Regular audits, A dust analysis was conducted in prone to erosion but these are of fuel pumps are conducted to the factories by an independent identified by conducting soil profile determine deviations and enquiries consultant and remedial actions analysis prior to fields being done to ascertain whether the implemented as recommended. uprooted and replanted. storage tanks are leaking. No Factories use dried eucalyptus wood The Company implemented erosion extension or upgrading of current as a fuel source in their operation. control measures to combat the water resources is planned in the The calorific value of the wood is problem in all fields that were near future. high and smoke emissions are replanted which included, contours, reduced. Moisture content of the soak pits, vetiver grass, oats etc. Air Quality management eucalyptus is monitored on weekly The operating policy of the The estates emissions into the air basis to ensure conversion ratio is management is to leave 30 m from include smoke from the boilers, optimal. water bodies/courses uncultivated, gases from maceration, dust from Households within the villages are to retain its natural vegetation. This tractors, vehicle emissions, as well using improved cooking stoves for policy has been continued with as smoke from within the energy conservation efficiency and felled areas in riverine areas being households (Charcoal stoves) and ventilation. The use of improved rehabilitated. Erosion control firewood across the estates. The jikos’ has reduced fuel consumption measures have been put in place to point sources of emissions are the and ensured that there is less smoke secure areas that are unstable and on generators and the boilers. in workers homes. steep slopes. The management has continually carried out rehabilitation on any of the estates. Due to our LABOUR PRACTICES AND of riparian vegetation river environmental requirements DECENT WORK catchments as a way of conserving certification by Rainforest Alliance Our core value in relation to labor the environments while protecting was obtained in 2007 for the first practice and decent work is to the riverbanks and hence controlling time and recertified in 2016 and respect the dignity and well-being erosion and flooding incidences 2018 respectively to ensure of all those people who work for us. downstream. No flooding or sustainable agricultural practice and Looking after the people who work landslides have been reported on the sound environmental practices. To in our businesses, wherever they estates since the inception of the tea prevent any chemical degradation may be based, is our priority. plantation project. due to the use of pesticide the As we aspire to be the leading All pruning are left in the field as in necessary precautions are taken as player in the tea growing and previous years to improve organic per the Premier foods pesticide production arena, we continued to matter, water retention, soil audit. invest significantly in our people in cohesion and fertility. Vegetative Murram is mined for construction 2018. To retain this leadership protection to prevent soil erosion at and repair of roads which is done position it was critical for us to the edges includes Lemon grass, mostly by contractors. Most of our develop our people by means of Agapanthus and vetiver grass. estates have quarries on their land, formal and on the job training. Sediment traps, spillways and from which stones are collected. Our managers learnt how to lead barriers are dug in the gutters to Blasting for new stones has not been and not just manage. In 2018 we reduce the velocity of water and done for some time but when continued to expand our leadership prevent erosion from the roadways needed; the services of a licensed development and training programs. into the tea fields. Comprehensive explosives operator are utilized. This, we hope, will make us a more soil fertility databases are available attractive employer, creating a on request for each field, which is Audits sustainable competitive edge. used to monitor changes in soil Annual Environmental audits are fertility done within our operation and environmental management and EMPLOYMENT Natural Resources integration plans developed. The In 2018 our farms continued to plans have indicators and clear directly hire the workforce, except implementation timelines. when a contractor was able to Any new developments with provide specialized or temporary anticipated major impacts are only services. We strongly discouraged implemented after Environmental use of mechanisms to avoid the Impact Assessment has been done direct hiring of workers and the Photo 4: Aerial view of the tea and an elaborate environmental obligations normally associated field intertwined with forestry management plan put in place. with labor contracts. Employment cover in a bid to enhance In addition, we work closely with of foreign workers in our operations biodiversity. certification bodies to develop is subject to a work permit issued by Apart from the indigenous forests standards and implementing the responsible government agency. there are no other natural resources baseline and pilot studies. We do not ask for money from of significance in the area. No workers in return for employment. mineral resources have been found All our employees, apart from accident investigations and or contracts with third parties in members of management, are instituting recommendations among order to avoid directly hiring unionisable and are free to join a other measures. We will continue workers or related obligations, such union of their choice. our efforts and focus in as social security payments, occupational safety and health in accident and injury insurance and Total workforce by employment 2019. medical services that normally are type, employment contract, and the responsibility of the employer. region Employee Development Our Employment Principles make In 2018 we employed an average of Developing our employees is key clear our strategy of ensuring that 8055 Employees, down by 6% for us: we want our employees to our reward levels are highly compared to 2017. continuously grow in their current competitive within the local area. roles and responsibilities and We are confident that through Absenteeism develop their potential, skills and regular external benchmarking with In 2018 we remained focused on competences. This is reflected in legal provisions and other players in health and safety programs and many different initiatives and the field we remain a generous increased our communication aspects of our business. We have benefit provider. In 2018, the around these issues. Examples invested in our employees’ capacity salaries and wages paid to all include safety training for building and training. In 2014 we categories of our employees employees, focusing on physical rolled out our new corporate values exceeded the national legal minima safety and employees’ wellbeing through training programs across for the various territories. and welfare, and procedures to the operations that have been maintain a healthy and safe working ongoing to date. Another theme that LABOR/MANAGEMENT environment etc. remains important is the continuous RELATIONS We also focused on absenteeism, development of our leadership Percentage of employees covered casual leave and sick leave capabilities, within departments and by collective bargaining monitoring. The figures were across the group. agreements monitored on a monthly basis and In all our businesses, all workers discussed at the various board Benefits provided to full-time have the right to freely organize and meetings on a quarterly basis. employees that are not provided voluntarily negotiate their working to temporary or part-time conditions in a collective manner as Lost Time Incidents Frequency employees, by major operations. established in ILO Conventions 87 Rate Temporary and part-time workers and 98 and local legislation. We A reduction of the lost time (both national and foreign) have the have and continuously divulge a incidents frequency rate (LTIFR) by same rights and benefits as policy guaranteeing this right and paying attention to and preventing permanent workers. They have been we do not impede workers from accidents remains an important item informed of and are familiar with forming or joining unions, on our agenda. their rights, responsibilities, salaries collective bargaining or organizing We have taken several initiatives or pay, work schedule and other for ideological, religious, political, including rejuvenating the Joint subjects normally forming part of a economic, social, cultural or any health and safety committees, legal work contract. All our other reasons. We periodically building their capacities, conducting operations do not maintain relations provide opportunities for workers to make decisions regarding their equipment used on the farms is in quarterly basis as a guarantee that rights and alternatives to form any good condition and does not pose a we complies with our occupational type of organization for negotiating danger to human health or the health and safety program their working conditions. environment. objectives. The members of these committees are elected according to Minimum notice period(s) an established procedure. The regarding operational changes, employees elect their including whether it is specified in representatives, while the collective agreements management representatives are As a practice, we formally and appointed by the Top Management. regularly consult and inform Photo 5: Inside one of the The representation to the committee workers and general community factories. Note the housekeeping, is on a fifty-fifty basis and is regarding any planned technical and marked walkways, guarded dependent on the number of organizational changes and their machinery and fire extinguishers employees at each workplace and potential social, environmental and provision. national guidelines on Occupational economic impacts. All workers receive training on how safety and Health Committees. Our Employment Principles make to do their work safely, especially Issues raised in the meetings are clear that, where restructuring is regarding the application of dealt with by the Management necessary, we are committed to agrochemicals and carrying out any representatives and any policy or doing so in a responsible manner. hazardous work. capital expenditure issues are Where such situations do occur, our Measures are taken on our farms to forwarded to the Top management companies adopt responsible local avoid the effects of agrochemicals who gives a response within Twenty approaches and procedures to on workers, neighbors and visitors. One working days. Our employees address each instance, including We also conduct risk assessments confirm that they participate, either severance pay and any other and identify potential emergencies by direct communication with the measures as may be appropriate to and are prepared with plans and administration or through the the situation and location, including equipment to respond to any event occupational health and safety extensive outplacement support to or incident, as well as to minimize committee, in verifying that help displaced employees to find the possible impacts on workers and policies, procedures and other alternative employment. the environment. activities indicated in the occupational health and safety OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH program are being complied with. AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce All our farms have an occupational represented in formal joint Education, training, counseling, health and safety program to reduce management–worker health and prevention, and risk-control or prevent the risk of accidents in safety committees that help programs in place to assist the workplace. monitor and advice on workforce members, their We provide the necessary occupational health and safety families, or community members equipment to protect workers and programs regarding serious diseases guarantee that the tools, On our farms all the Joint Health We have a permanent and infrastructure, machinery and all and safety committees meet on a continuous training program to educate our workers on how to carry emphasize the importance of development for employees in our out their work correctly and safely, personal responsibility for growth. companies is managed locally. For especially regarding the handling of Our training and learning strategy is other employees, careers are machinery and agricultural to build capabilities through a focus stipulated in the Collective equipment. on coaching and by enhancing our bargaining agreements. These Our employees are familiar with the ability to connect, collaborate and systems enable objectives to be set training requirements for their job, share. We do not limit learning to for each employee for the coming and must be trained before starting ‘off the job’ education activities but year and record achievement against work on the farms (induction we provide comprehensive those objectives. The systems also program). We also maintain written frameworks for development contain development and career records of each training session, planning as well as performance planning information which feeds including its objectives, subjects management. through to our training and covered, workers required to attend, We place considerable emphasis on administration department. materials used, frequency and creating a coaching culture duration, and a list of those who throughout our operations, as we HUMAN RIGHTS participated. believe that training and The Company respects the ILO We are also good neighbors and development should take place as Convention and the UN Global relate in positive ways with our close as possible to the work being Compact Principle on Human neighbors, surrounding done and that coaching is the right Rights. communities and local interest way to develop leaders at all levels, (Eastern Produce Kenya is among groups. We periodically inform the to share knowledge and to build the pioneer Global Compact surrounding communities, better business solutions. signatories in Kenya having signed neighbors and interest groups about We expect any restructuring to be on in 2005). Our business units do our activities and plans, and consult carried out in a responsible manner. not tolerate human rights abuses, with interested parties about Any of our companies and are not engaged or party to any changes that could have potential implementing closure or downsizing activity that encourages human impacts on the social and are encouraged to make a social rights abuse. environmental well-being of assessment and to consider ways of We have a social policy that surrounding communities. We mitigating the impact. We expect declares our commitment to contribute to local economic them to be as considerate as complying with labor laws and development through training and possible with severance pay and international agreements that Kenya employment and try to prevent redundancy support and, wherever is a signatory to. The policy negative impacts on the areas, possible, to support employees in summarizes the rights and activities or services that are gaining alternative employment responsibilities of the management important for local populations. through a mix of counseling, and workers, with emphasis on outplacement services and skills human rights, labor aspects, living TRAINING AND EDUCATION retraining. conditions, basic services, Our Principles specifically cover All management employees are occupational health and safety, Learning and Development and the expected to complete the training opportunities and provision of opportunities. We also performance appraisal process. The community relations. The social approach to performance and career policy has been approved by the top management and divulged and made the farm, or as a disciplinary responsible adult in order available to the Company’s measure. to guarantee that they workforce. This policy is clearly We prohibit direct or indirect understand how to do displayed on every estates main employment of fullor part-time their work safely. entrance. workers under the age of 18 within Our business units do not All our employees have the right to our business units. A Register is discriminate in labor and hiring freely organize and voluntarily maintained of any person on policies and procedures along the negotiate their working conditions attachment. Students on attachment lines of race, color, gender, age, in a collective manner as established are guided by the following: religion, social class, political in ILO Conventions 87 and 98. We o There must be a tendencies, nationality, syndicate have in place and divulge our policy confirmation from a membership, sexual orientation, guaranteeing this right and do not recognized institution that civil status or any other motive as impede workers from forming or the person in question is a indicated by applicable laws, ILO joining unions, collective bargaining student. Procedures are in Conventions 100 and 111, and or organizing for ideological, place to be followed Global Compact. We offer equal religious, political, economic, before attachment is pay, training and promotion social, and cultural or any other confirmed. opportunities and benefits to all reasons. o The students have the workers for the same type of work. We periodically provide right to one rest day for We do not influence the political, opportunities for workers to make every six days worked and religious, social or cultural decisions regarding their rights and rest breaks during the convictions of workers. alternatives to form any type of workday the same as or In 2018, EPK won the Humanitarian organization for negotiating their more frequently than Corporate Award 2018, from the working conditions. contracted workers. Kenya Red Cross Society in Any type of forced labor is o They do not form part of recognition of our exemplary prohibited, including working under the farm’s contracted service, continued support and the regimen of imprisonment, in workforce. contribution to alleviation of human agreement with International Labor o They must not work at suffering. Organization (ILO) Conventions 29 night. and 105 and national labor laws. We o They must not handle or Cultural Diversity do not withhold any part or all of apply agrochemicals or be Cultural diversity has proven to be a workers’ salaries, benefits or any in areas where agro great advantage, despite the rights acquired or stipulated by law, chemicals are being challenge in terms of language, or any of the workers’ documents, applied. behavior and integration. This has in order to force them to work or o They must not carry resulted to synergies, which have stay on the farm, or as a disciplinary heavy loads nor do work led to a strengthening of the entire action. The units do not use that requires physical company. extortion, debt, threats or sexual exertion unsuitable for We employ workers of different abuse or harassment, or any other their age. tribes and nationalities. The cultural physical or psychological measure o They must be under the diversity in relation to gender, age, to force workers to work or stay on supervision of a ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, disability/illness, religion, ideology, Awareness creation to the general remuneration and benefits to career, lifestyle and performance community and our suppliers was employees. not only improves our company’s done through trainings, field days In 2018, employees were engaged in image, but will certainly increase and community outreach programs a one week awareness program on the company’s potential. Our goal is through the Managed Clients Sexual Harassment Awareness, to increase and take advantage of Department. Suppliers were sent Reporting and Prevention (SHARP). the potential, which is a result of the questionnaires to assess their human During this time, they were engaged differences and similarities within rights practices and conformance to in enhancing our Sexual harassment the workforce. national and international policy which was reviewed and regulations. Contracts were also made more comprehensive to Trainings and Awareness creation reviewed to capture aspect of address concerns in a holistic human rights and environmental manner. The SHARP program is responsibility. now an annual one where the company will be hosting a week’s Human Rights Risk assessment awareness outreach for all A general human rights risk analysis employees new and old to find ease was conducted and areas within our in reporting Sexual harassment Photo 6: farmers and neighboring operations with high risk identified cases in the workplace. communities during one of the and mitigation measures put in Communication of the Field days place. The internal audit department comprehensive Sexual harassment In all our businesses, employees and Technical Departments carry policy was done to all employees were trained on various aspects of out scheduled and ad hoc through display on the notice boards Human rights and their rights as inspections and report to senior and holding sessions with employees. This included management on positive and employees to discuss its contents communication on their right to join negative findings. As a result of and implementation. a recognized workers union, right to freedom of association policy, the We continued the verification of a safe work environment and right workers unions remained vibrant, National Identity Card as a to be considered for employment with new employees being informed confirmation of someone being over without discrimination. EPK of their right to join a union. the age of 18 years before enhanced this communication by Meetings between union and engagement into the company. The erecting notice boards at strategic employees and union and same was applied to all our points for communicating policies management were held with issues contractors and service providers related to social, environmental and raised by both parties sorted out. and their employees. Employees safety issues. Trainings and capacity The company continued to honor with children of school going age building for employees on human the current Collective bargaining encouraged to take their children to rights issues were conducted and Agreements and relevant labor laws. schools. These schools are refresher trainings will be conducted Employment continued to be freely constructed and equipped by the in the coming year. Security chosen in the year, with employees Company but open to both company personnel were trained on leaving and joining at will. We employee’s children and children conducting body searches to continued to be the leading from the surrounding community. enhance humane treatment of employer in the regions, with good Education and training of the colleagues. employees on need to co-exist and any issues of concern with the throughout our supply why we need each other were concerned and reports to the Top chain. There is good conducted in collaboration with management. working relationship Non-governmental institutions. between union and the All of these courses and trainings company and the were free of charge to the employees. Improved employees and community and the wages and salaries to company even encouraged the staff employees, which is well to go for additional training courses above the national during working hours. recommended wage for the industry. Grievance Mechanisms and Photo 7: One of the many o No complaints on forced Whistle Blower System consultative meetings held by labor or sexual Eastern Produce Kenya Limited has Management for planning harassment received in the a grievance procedure in place. The purposes, grievance hearing, and year. Monitoring policies established stipulate how monitoring and evaluation continued. grievances are to be raised and purposes o All the employees and handled with the company Every year external auditors both contractors engaged by representatives. The procedures financial and social auditors carry the company have cover both internal and external out audits for our operations. national identity cards. grievances including from all our Corrective Action Requests are Children of school going stakeholders. A whistle blower raised and measures taken to correct age in school system has been established where and prevent the recurrence of the o There were reduced crossany human rights abuses are raised issues raised. cultural conflicts. The through a secure and confidential cultural differences and way to the top management who Measurement of (expected) the effect on collaboration then conduct investigations and outcomes and value added for our and contact is portrayed in disciplinary procedures instituted. company the quality and diversity We are working with Typhoo foods o Employees’ knowledge on of the products. on piloting a Gold Standard with a their rights increased. o An increase of strong focus on whistle blowing and o Improved relationship innovational ability. reporting. between management and Different perspectives of employees and between creative problem solving Monitoring and Evaluation the employees themselves are the result of the All human rights aspects are o Closely working with diversity of the staff. monitored on a daily basis and suppliers to improve their o A higher level of reported by the businesses on a human rights and sociotolerance in the entire Monthly basis. The Technical environmental practices business area departments and Internal audit o Generally improving the departments carry out impromptu company image and visits, checks and audits and raise transferring responsible business practices COMPLIANCE conditions, including child labor, on rectified. An action plan must be Business integrity the environment and on other sociosent to the Audit department or Our Core value: To act honestly, environmental aspects. Technical Departments, within one fairly and with integrity and respect month following the audit. in all business dealings. Acting The Corporate Social The action plan includes a lawfully and honestly is Responsibility (CSR) Office description of the corrective action, fundamental to our business In order to make sure that the same the person responsible and timelines philosophy. The management of standards are followed throughout for each non-compliance issue to be each unit is responsible for the organization, Linton Park rectified. The Top Management and compliance with the company Regional Office has a Corporate auditors then follow up to make sure codes, thereby ensuring that social Affairs Manager. The Manager is that the necessary corrective actions and environmental issues are responsible for calibrating sociohave been completed according to integrated into daily business. The environmental assessments in the the approved action plan and codes are in form of confidential region, for training and support of timelines observed. standing instructions referred to as the auditors and units, and for Supplier assessments have been Company Blue, Red, Green, conducting own compliance audits. initiated. Our major suppliers are Yellow, white and black books. Third-party auditors conduct their issued with a supplier questionnaire own audits and also verify the which checks on various socioresults of internal audits by environmental requirements. If one interviewing the employees, is found to deviate from the checking records and practices to requirements, we are willing to secure that company policies, local work with them to rectify the law and standards are followed. The situation. Only if there is no work is done together with the willingness from the suppliers to Technical and internal audit improve, is the business relationship Photo 8: Copy of the certificate departments. terminated, within the terms of the awarded to the Company as a contract distinguished tax payer in Kenya External and third-party auditing in 2011 In order to ensure objectivity and Anti-corruption We have internal auditors verification, we use external We are a British company and as (Financial, environmental, Social auditing companies to verify our such subjected to the new Antiand Food Safety Management working methods and results. These Bribery and Corruption legislation System) at the units. The auditor’s are PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers), in the UK which is attributable to task is to support the operations, SGS, Africert, Kenya Bureau of businesses owned by UK companies including agreeing on action plans Standards, government officers etc. but not situated in the UK. for improvements as well as Various policies and procedures explaining the requirements, Corrective actions have been rolled out to ensure performing monitoring and When deviations are found, the compliance with this UK consultation visits and offering and auditors require – in writing – an legislation. executing training. The auditors action plan from the unit detailing We also participated in the have checklists with detailed criteria how the non-compliance will be development of the Code of Ethics on financial management, working for Business in Kenya and were integrity of the whistle blower respectively, to ensure the among the pioneer companies to system is maintained. Cases of promotion of awareness of legal, have adopted the code. corruption are raised through a regulatory and customer We have developed and adopted a secure and confidential way to the requirements throughout the Code of Conduct, which complies top management who then conduct organization. with the highest standards of investigations and disciplinary Senior Management in all our integrity, honesty and ethics in procedures instituted. operations are responsible for dealing with all our stakeholders, allocating the necessary resources including directors, managers, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY and infrastructure to ensure the employees, customers, suppliers, Overall Product quality and Safety effective performance of our competitors, shareholders and responsibilities business and to ensure product society at large. Product safety is paramount in all safety and quality is maintained. The Code also stipulates policies operations from farm, Every individual employee of and guidelines regarding the transportation, processing, Eastern Produce Kenya Ltd is personal conduct of employees. All packaging and freighting to responsible for meeting agreed new staff receives a copy of the customers destinations. The requirements and for conducting Code and a presentation on the Operations Director has the overall themselves in accordance with our Code as part of the induction responsibility for ensuring that the principles and the code of conduct. process. They are required to sign a objectives on food safety are met. declaration stating that they have This responsibility has been Quality and Food Safety received it, have read and communicated to the management Management Systems understood it, and will comply with in charge of the units. All our tea Our programs are designed to it. factories have attained FSSC reduce and manage risks, and to A general corruption risk analysis certification and currently in the promote the safe production, was conducted and areas within our preparation phase for FSSC 22000 distribution, use and disposal of operations with high risk identified surveillance audits waste. and mitigation measures put in As a manufacturer and marketer of place. The internal audit department black tea, we generally do not and Technical Departments carry provide products to end-users, but to out scheduled and ad hoc inspection other players in the industry who and report to senior management on later extracts constituents, blends or positive and negative findings. repackages the products for the end All our business operations have a user. We therefore base our whistle blower procedure in place. advertisements on word of mouth Photo 9: Hygienically packed teas The policies established stipulate backed by strong evidence of with correct labeling and all how corruption cases are to be business integrity, ethical trade, and relevant information indicated. raised and handled with the safety with assured quality. We The Marketing and Technical company representatives. The comply with legal requirements, Department represent the Company procedures cover both internal and sector regulations and customer on all quality and food safety external cases from all our requirements, designed to assess matters. They report to the stakeholders. The effectiveness and Operations and Regional Directors product safety and also participate opportunities to improve products in voluntary initiatives. and services. All our products are transported in packaging material labeled with product information that follows the legal, regulatory and customer requirements. In 2018, we did not receive any documented noncompliance concerning our products and services or health and safety impacts associated with our products. In this regard, there were no fines for noncompliance with Photo 10: Safety signage within laws and regulations concerning the the factories promotes awareness provision and use of our products. and enhances food handling We did not receive any complaints practices. from customers regarding breach of Using an internationally recognized their privacy or lose of customer risk assessment methodology, our data. products are evaluated and prioritized for potential adverse effects, and risk reduction and mitigation practices are implemented at all stages of production. END We have documented our product stewardship process which assesses health and safety impacts of our products and we conduct ongoing analysis and tests to assure quality and product safety. Through the marketing and technical departments, we provide services to process owners and customers. For internal requirements and in association with maintaining FSSC certification, the Marketing department conducts annual visits to buyers annually, reviews the results of these visits, and identifies
