SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENTS Orica Global Presence Major Offices 3 About this Report Technical Centres 4 Our Charter 5 CEO Report 6 Our Sustainability Issues 8 FY18 Sustainability Scorecard 9 FY19 Sustainability Scorecard 10 1. Workplace Safety 14 2. Product Stewardship and Security 18 3. Environment and Community 26 4. Climate Change 32 5. Ethical Business Practices and Good Governance Major Manufacturing Sites 36 6. Our People and Human Capability 40 About the Data and Report Ammonium Nitrate 41 Orica’s Tax Position 44 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Sodium Cyanide 48 Our Stakeholders Ammonium Nitrate Emulsion Minova Packaged Explosives Initiating Systems OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE OUR BUSINESS Orica is the world leader in providing commercial explosives and blasting systems. We build wealth for our shareholders, deliver success for customers in more than 100 countries, and make a positive contribution to the development of our people and the communities where we operate. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 1 2 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the 15th annual Orica Sustainability Report. It supplements the Orica 2018 Annual Report and information at www.orica.com, for the 12 months to 30 September 2018. It reports on the sites we wholly own and operate, and those we operated in a 50% or more joint venture during the year. The information covers sites we operate irrespective of equity share, unless stated. The joint venture projects we don’t operate are excluded. The list of investments in controlled entities is in the Annual Report. The data for energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste is only reported for the operations we wholly own and operate, with the exception of the Bontang Indonesia joint venture, which is included because we control the operation and its significant carbon emissions profile. The reporting period is referred to as FY18 throughout the report. All monetary amounts refer to Australian dollars unless stated. The report contains standard disclosures guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. An index cross-referencing the text with GRI requirements is at the end of the report. You can download previous sustainability and annual reports at www.orica.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 3 OUR CHARTER WE ARE ORICA, THE GLOBAL LEADER IN MINING AND CIVIL BLASTING OUR PURPOSE TOGETHER we succeed Our purpose is to make our customers successful, every day, all around the world. We take pride in operating Collaboration makes us better, individually safely, responsibly and sustainably. Together, these enable and collectively. us to grow and create enduring value for our shareholders. • We freely share information and ideas OUR STRATEGY with our colleagues. We aim to be the trusted partner of choice for our • We are a team. We take accountability and customers, by creating, developing and delivering mining responsibility for our team’s performance. and civil blasting and ground control solutions that help • We partner with our customers for a better them be more productive and manage their critical risks. understanding and result. We do this by bringing together the best people; high quality products and services; safe, secure and reliable supply; and unmatched technology that creates value We act with INTEGRITY for our customers, today and tomorrow. We are open and honest, and we do what is right. OUR VALUES • We are transparent in all our communications. • We always demonstrate ethical conduct and SAFETY is our priority. Always sustainable practices. The most important thing is that we all return home, • We are trusted because we do what we say we will. safely, every day. • We care and take accountability for everyone’s safety We are committed to EXCELLENCE and wellbeing, including our own. We take accountability for our business and for delivering • We recognise the risks we face in our work and follow outstanding results. all safety controls. • We bring our best effort every day and trust our • We speak up when we see hazards or causes colleagues to do the same. of potential harm. • We understand our tasks and how we contribute to Orica’s overall success. We RESPECT and value all • We look for ways to deliver higher performance Our care for each other, our customers, communities and adapt swiftly to changing needs. and the environment builds trusted relationships. • We treat everyone fairly, with dignity and we value diversity. • We work with our local communities to contribute positively. • We find ways to minimise our impact on the environment in all our actions. 4 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO REPORT BUILDING MOMENTUM I am pleased to report on Orica’s progress toward a more resilient business. Over the past few years we have gained greater insight into The work we completed last year to better define our the expectations of our stakeholders, more clearly defined approach to climate-related risk has been followed up with our sustainability risks and developed mitigation plans and the conduct of carbon emission abatement trials. This work performance targets to build a more resilient business. will inform our investments in carbon reduction into the next decade. We have increased our focus on water, In 2018, we made progress toward our targets and waste and energy management. continued to improve how we integrate sustainability risk into our management frameworks and day-to-day Expectations for disclosure on non-commercial operations. A major focus has been lifting employee performance are increasing and we will see enhanced understanding of our sustainability risks, their obligations, regulation and best practice standards emerge over and how they contribute to achieving our goals. the coming years. This year we have released the data we provided to the Carbon Disclosure Project. We will “ also continue to analyse opportunities presented by the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure and assess our on-going participation in sustainability surveys and indices. SAFETY REMAINS OUR Our approach to sustainability is evolving and we NUMBER ONE PRIORITY acknowledge the challenges ahead of us, but I am pleased AND WE ACHIEVED with our progress. This report reflects on our achievements OUR MOST IMPORTANT for the year and outlines our priorities for the coming year. I look forward to updating you next year on our journey. TARGET OF ZERO We could not have achieved all this without the hard work FATALITIES IN 2018. and commitment of our people, and I thank them all for their contribution. “ The work we have done to understand our major hazards and ensure all key controls are in place has touched every part of our organisation. There is more work to do to ensure Alberto Calderon every employee returns home safely every day, but I am Managing Director and CEO confident we are making Orica a safer place to work. We also made considerable progress in strengthening our governance framework with the enhancement of ethics and compliance controls and training, and a refreshed Code of Business Conduct that clearly communicates to employees how we work and expectations of their personal conduct. We have also developed a whole of company position on product security and further work to embed the implications of this review will occur over the coming year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 5 OUR SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES REPORTING THE THINGS THAT MATTER Orica’s first external evaluation of sustainability issues identifying priorities for disclosure to stakeholders was in 2016. Since that assessment, analysts and non-government organisations have provided further insight into expectations for sustainability reporting. This report is guided by sustainability issues impacting the business and the priorities of external stakeholders. It is also influenced by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our material sustainability issues are consolidated under these themes: 1. WORKPLACE SAFETY 4. CLIMATE CHANGE 2. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 5. ETHICAL BUSINESS AND SECURITY PRACTICES AND GOOD GOVERNANCE 3. ENVIRONMENT 6. OUR PEOPLE AND AND COMMUNITY HUMAN CAPABILITY 6 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals This report includes icons at the beginning of each chapter to align Orica’s efforts with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. For more information about these goals visit sustainabledevelopment.un.org SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 7 FY18 SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD Workplace Safety FY18 Outcomes and Performance Fatalities 0 fatalities in FY18 2 fatalities in FY17 All Worker Recordable Case Rate 0.48 in FY18 against target of ≤ 0.38 Performance in FY17 was 0.39 Distribution Incident 1 severity 2+ incident under Orica control in FY18 against a target of ≤ 3. Performance in FY17 was 3 9 severity 2+ incidents under contractor control in FY18 against a target of ≤ 8. Performance in FY17 was 14 1 Product Stewardship and Security Product Security Orica Policy on Product Security developed and new targets established for FY19 Licence to Operate Environmental Incidents 0 severity 3+ environmental incidents for FY18 Performance in FY17 was 0 Total Waste Generated 20.9kT total waste generated in FY18 Performance in FY17 was 18.6kT Fresh Water Consumption Intensity 1.36 kL/t against a target of 1.6 kL/t in FY18 Performance in FY17 was 1.47 kL/t Community Partnerships Programs > 90% of community partnership programs progressed to plan Climate Change Carbon Emissions Intensity 1.81 tCO2 -e per tonne sold against a target of 2.0 tCO2 -e Ethical Business Practices and Good Governance Ethical and Compliance Risk Mitigation Plans 100% of mitigation plans in place for identified high risk countries People and Human Capability Women in Senior Management 21% in FY18 Performance remains on target for >25% by end of 2020 Retention of People in Enterprise Critical Roles Target achieved with >90% retention of people in enterprise critical roles Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Senior Leadership 53% of senior leadership roles are held by individuals with ethnic/cultural backgrounds outside of Australia and New Zealand Target Achieved Limited Progress Made Not Achieved * Severity definitions can be found on page 40. 1. FY17 figure of 14 distribution incidents has been adjusted from 13 reported in last year’s scorecard due to late reporting. 2. New metric for FY18, see page 12. 8 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FY19 SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD Workplace Safety FY19 TARGETS Fatalities 0 Serious Injury Case Rate (SICR) 2 0.17 All Worker Recordable Case Rate 0.38 Distribution incident Incidents under Orica operational control ≤ 3 severity 2+ Incidents under Contractor control ≤ 8 severity 2+ Product Stewardship and Security Product Security Incidents 0 severity 3+ Licence to Operate Environmental Incidents 0 severity 3+ Total Waste Generated K Tonne 19.8 (5% reduction on FY18) Fresh Water Consumption Intensity kL/tonne 1.50 Climate Change Carbon Emissions Intensity tCO2-e per ≤1.95 tonne sold Ethical Business Practices and Good Governance Ethical and Compliance Monitoring Develop and implement a risk-weighted framework for monitoring implementation of key Ethics & Compliance controls Execute framework in 10 countries People and Human Capability Women in Senior Management 25% by end of 2020 Retention of Key Talent >90% Ethnic and Cultural Diversity Senior Leadership roles held by individuals with ethnic/cultural backgrounds outside of Australia and New Zealand in line with Orica’s revenue profile SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 9 1. WORKPLACE SAFETY Our priority is to return home safely every day. The safety and health of our people is paramount – it’s one of our core values and Orica’s Code of Conduct puts the safety and health of our people, visitors and communities first, every day. This is demonstrated through visible leadership, rigorous systems and verifications of key controls. Our people have access to training to understand their work and our leadership team creates an environment that empowers people to take action if they see hazards or causes of potential harm. We all share the responsibility for delivering a safe workplace. 10 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Orica’s approach to safety is centred on eliminating PROGRESS IN 2018 fatalities and serious injury while reducing injury rates. It is guided by our Safety, Health and Environment In FY18 our focus was embedding the major hazard (SHE) Policy, Standards and Procedures. The SHE Policy program in the business. This was designed to eliminate empowers people to stop work if they feel it’s unsafe fatalities and serious injuries. More than 90,000 key and affirms the aspiration to be an industry leader in control verifications (KCV) across 105 major hazards were SHE performance. Our Standards and Procedures outline performed as part of this program which has transitioned how we identify risks and apply and assure controls. from a campaign to become standard workplace protocol at Orica. Management accountability for SHES (safety, health, environment and security) performance is led by the There were no fatalities this year and sustaining this CEO and executive committee. These executives and performance will remain our primary goal and focus for senior leaders are accountable for performance against FY19. The ‘all worker recordable case rate’ did not achieve SHES targets. its target. The analysis on the drivers behind this will see specific actions at targeted sites. We are confident that The Orica Board Safety, Health, Environment and we will see improvement in FY19. Community (SHEC) committee meets quarterly to review performance against targets, monitor implementation We believe safety leadership interactions (SLIs) are the of SHES initiatives and programs, and to consider material most important safety cultural activity. The SLI program is SHES issues. built on humility, curiosity and empathy. It enables leaders to gain insight into how they can support their people The SHEC committee is informed by the SHES assurance to find better ways of working safely, efficiently and program, which provides insights into compliance productively. with the SHES management system, which includes applicable SHES legal requirements. Technical experts Our leaders completed more than 24,000 leadership and management representatives also participate in interactions since the launch of the program. It’s a nominated SHES audits. practical way to live and demonstrate Our Charter values. Our major hazard program is the core of safety Transport safety is one of Orica’s major risks. This is management. Launched in 2016, it defines major managed through regional initiatives guided by the global hazards and ensures key controls are in place distribution expert panel that governs driver training, and effective. equipment specification and emergency response. Transport and distribution incidents within the network controlled by Orica remained stable this year. There were four fatalities from road accidents in FY18 involving contractors transporting Orica product. In response, the Orica Expert Panel on Transport Safety will review and make recommendations on existing controls of our transport contractors and verifications internally and externally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 11 WORKPLACE SAFETY Number of 2 2 Fatalities 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 All Worker 37.7 35.3 Recordable 32.2 31.43 32.99 Case Rate 0.48 0.41 0.38 0.39 0.37 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 All Worker Recordable Case Rate Million Hrs Recordable 34 17 7 21 Cases by 2018 Region APA EMEA Latin America North America Lost 5.61 5.4 5.1 Workday 4.5 4.04 Rate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Distribution 24 Incidents 14 12 8 9 3 2 3 1 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Orica Controlled Distribution Incidents (Severity 2+) Contracted Third Party Controlled Distribution Incidents (Severity 2+) 12 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRIORITIES FOR FY19 Our focus for safety reporting is to support sustained fatality free operations. To support this, a new performance metric, serious injury case rate (SICR), has been added to the FY19 Sustainability Scorecard to monitor trends in the frequency and severity on serious injury events. Fatalities and serious events have different causes and characteristics than less serious injuries (e.g. slips). A key step in reducing fatalities and life-altering serious events is establishing and reporting on a metric on the exposure to these incidents. We have designed our company-wide metrics to focus our attention on material events (major hazards) and provide greater transparency and visibility over performance in the management of major hazards. In FY19 we have set a performance target of 0.17 for SIRC which is aligned to our historical rate and benchmarked against industry. We continue to promote the reporting of high potential injury events, which provide insights for the development of enhanced safety measures. The SHE focus for FY19 is: • Embedding and building awareness of our Global SHES Management System, including verification and assurance programs at a site, regional and group level. • Major hazards and verification of key controls. We will build on our success with the aim of achieving sustained fatality prevention through standardisation and global alignment. • Development of front-line leadership capabilities to drive visible and impactful leadership. • Development of a global framework by the Transport Expert Panel to strengthen approvals, performance requirements and reporting. Our mission is clear. Safety is our priority. Always. SAFETY AND HEALTH STATISTICS BY REGION Europe, Middle Australia East and Pacific Latin North Region Total Africa Asia America America All Worker 0.48 0.49 0.49 0.21 0.77 Recordable Case Rate # RC 79 17 34 7 21 OUR MISSION IS Million hours worked 32.99 7.00 13.80 6.70 5.48 CLEAR. SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY. ALWAYS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 13 2. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SECURITY Orica’s global manufacturing and supply chain footprint is extensive and complex and the business faces additional security responsibilities as a producer of explosives and chemicals. We have processes in place to identify and manage these challenges to maintain the safety and security of our people and the communities we operate in. 14 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 At Orica, a comprehensive understanding of the risks and Product security opportunities resulting from our products and services starts with annual Self-Assessments & Life Cycle Risk In FY18 we reviewed the management of product security Assessments (LCRA), as part of our responsible product risk and identified a performance metric for inclusion in stewardship practices and SHES requirements. the annual Sustainability Scorecard. This work was done because we: LCRAs help ensure our products are used as intended by responsible users safely and ethically, from order and • recognise product stewardship and security as shipment through to end-use and disposal. LCRAs are a material risk in annual sustainability reporting mandatory at the beginning of product development following consultation with analysts and a materiality and are maintained by accountable product and assessment, and services managers. • regularly engage security agencies and NGOs on civilian sourced inputs in the production of improvised explosive PROGRESS IN FY18 devices used by terrorist and criminal organisations. The Global Product and Services Sustaining Group and A key outcome was the release of the Orica Product SHES systems team developed a new LCRA process in Security Policy. To track performance against this policy, FY18 through the company’s central Enablon reporting metrics for product security were added to reporting database. It helps managers and stakeholders with: to the Orica Board Safety, Health, Environment and Community Committee, and a sub-set of these metrics 1. product risk management was included in this year’s Sustainability Scorecard. 2. process summaries, and The product security metric for the scorecard is the 3. creating and completing self assessments. number of security incidents involving Orica products of severity 3 or higher split between those incidents within This process provides the foundation for the identification Orica control and those outside of our control. The target and management of risks across Orica’s supply chain. in FY19 is set at zero incidents. While many actions to strengthen product security at Orica remain confidential, the priority areas for critical controls are: • customer screening and vetting • site and transport security • employee vetting, and • on-going engagement and collaboration with national and international security agencies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 15 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SECURITY FY19 PRIORITIES Over the past 12 months, our focus on product stewardship was on ‘downstream’ issues concerning the end use and end users of our products. The implementation of the recommendations of this work will continue in FY19. The priority for FY19 is consolidating insights on the broader ‘upstream’ stewardship issues facing Orica as a global manufacturer and procurer of raw materials and inputs. The analysis will have a particular interest in environmental and human rights risks in the supply chain as we source goods, human capability and resources from multiple markets 16 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA PRODUCT SECURITY POLICY Orica researches, makes, transports, sells and uses dangerous and explosive products. It has rigorous safety, health and environment systems and mitigations in place to protect people, customers and communities and to reduce the risk of incidents and accidents. Our commitment to safety extends to the responsible and intended use and ownership of products throughout their lifecycle. The misuse of civilian explosives and chemicals by criminals and terrorists can cause severe harm and loss of life. As global market leader, Orica’s culture and actions: • reduce the potential for harm • reduce legal, commercial and reputational risks for Orica and the broader industry, and • help develop and implement responsible standards and regulation in partnership with governments, security agencies, industry peers and NGOs. Orica’s approach on product security is to: • emphasise to governments and customers the benefits of smarter initiating system technology with enhanced user controls and the potential of harmonised track-and-trace technology created by advancements in meta-data management • highlight to the broader mining and mining services sectors that product security is an industry-wide responsibility requiring industry-wide solutions in collaboration with regulators • develop clear governance arrangements and rigorous product security and compliance frameworks within Orica that are updated as required, including controls across product development, manufacture, storage, transport and handling, sales, employee screening, customer and distributor accreditation, and, sanctions compliance • cooperate with requests from security agencies to assist with product security investigations, and • provide our stakeholders with an annual update on our actions and performance in the Orica Sustainability Report and Sustainability Scorecard. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 17 3. ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY Orica strives to be a responsible operator and welcomed presence in the communities we operate in. Our priority is to minimise the environmental impact of our operations and be active corporate citizens. 18 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENT PROGRESS IN FY18 AND FY19 PRIORITIES Orica’s environmental standard is applied globally and mandates what sites and regions must Water do to manage environmental risk. Site-specific environmental management plans (EMPs) must We continue to identify feasible opportunities to: be developed and maintained, as well as detailed • improve operational efficiency to reduce freshwater environmental aspect and impact assessments. consumption To further strengthen the implementation • source water more sustainably wherever practicable, and of the environmental standard, we will complete detailed environmental risk assessments • be less reliant on water for operational tasks. (‘bowties’) in FY19 to analyse acute and chronic Water is a crucial resource for our operations. It is used risk scenarios at multiple sites with nitrate-based as a raw material in products, within manufacturing technologies. This requirement will also be and safety processes, and for site amenities. Water is also extended to other technologies within Orica’s critical to the health and viability of the ecosystems and broader manufacturing base. communities where we operate. We track consumption of potable, surface, rain, recycled and groundwater in global operations. The constituent water types that make up each site’s water use are analysed and help identify opportunities for improved efficiency. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 19 ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY We continue to reduce our reliance on potable water Gross water consumption by using more sustainable options and sourcing recycled water where possible. We have reduced our reliance 2.25 on potable water by more than 10% in FY18 from the 2.00 2.05 2.12 1.97 previous year, helping conserve valuable drinking water 8.60 8.90 8.59 resources. We will continue to use more sustainable 8.13 7.61 water sources for site operations and collaborate with local communities to minimise our environmental impact. In FY18, Orica consumed 8.59 million kilolitres (kL) of gross water. While this is an increase on last year, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 it is consistent with historical averages. In the same Gross Water Consumption Water Intensity (kL/tonne) 12 months, Orica increased overall use of recycled water (million kL) Adjusted (more than one third total water volume consumed) and groundwater (more than a quarter). Our Kooragang Island facility increased its consumption of recycled water to approximately 2.5 million kL this year. Water consumption by source (%) Gross water intensity has increased from last year to 2.25 kL/tonne. This is due to increased water usage 2% at some of our key manufacturing sites resulting from 13% 20% 25% 25% 34% a shift in production volumes. 19% 11% 11% 11% 20% 13% 23% 24% 26% 66% 49% 41% 40% 28% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Potable Groundwater Surface Water Recycled/ Water wastewater Fresh water consumption Freshwater consumption by source In FY18, Orica consumed 5.7 million kL of fresh water (derived from potable, surface, rain and groundwater), 1.99 which represents a reduced volume on last year. The 1.70 rate of fresh water usage also continued to decrease 1.39 1.47 1.36 as recycled water options were optimised or introduced. 13% 14% 15% 15% 19% Our global freshwater consumption intensity was 19% 25% 31% 32% 39% 1.36 kL/t in FY18, which is also a reduction on last year. 67% 61% 55% 53% Approximately 95% of the fresh water used was 43% consumed by six of our major manufacturing plants 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 in Canada, Brazil, Australia and India, and the Botany Potable Groundwater Surface Freshwater intensity site (groundwater extraction). Of these plants, one is Water Water (kL/tonnes) in a water stressed catchment, as defined by the World Resources Institute. Three additional plants are also in water-stressed catchments and used less than 0.3% of Orica’s overall Fresh vs recycled water consumption (%) annual water consumption. All of these sites are closely monitored to ensure water use is optimised. 2% 20% 25% 25% 34% Orica’s global fresh water consumption intensity for operations located in water-stressed catchments was 0.48 kL/t for FY18, which is comparable to FY17 figures. 98% 80% 75% 75% 66% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fresh water Recycled/wastewater 20 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Waste Waste disposal by destination (%) Orica minimises waste generation wherever practicable. In FY18, our focus was on ensuring improved reporting and clear data to ensure responsible and sustainable 31% 27% 32% 32% 34% waste management practises can be implemented across 10% 3% 3% 3% 1% the business, and to identify opportunities to reduce 25% 17% 21% 24% 17% waste volume. 42% 45% 48% 44% 40% Orica generated 20.9 thousand tonnes (kT) of waste in FY18, which is an increase on 18.6kT generated in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY17. The increase was largely attributed to inclusion of additional sites in the reporting program identified Landfill Treated/Destroyed Reused Recycled through deployment of the SHES Management System, as well as many sites undergoing ‘clean-ups’ where previously stored wastes were appropriately managed and subsequently disposed. Of the waste volume generated, 12.5kT (60%) was Waste diverted from landfill (%) diverted from landfill by being treated or destroyed on-site or off-site, incinerated, re-used or recycled. 58 55 56 60 52 This is Orica’s best diversion rate reported to date. 48 42 45 44 40 Through FY19, we intend to work with regions to identify opportunities to minimise waste volumes generated and implement feasible targets. More waste will be diverted from landfill in each region wherever practicable by reusing, recycling and otherwise managing waste in more sustainable ways. This will mitigate the potential impact 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to the ecosystems and communities in which we operate, Landfill (onor off-site) Diverted through responsible waste storage, handling and disposal. In FY19, we have set a target of 19.8 kT of waste which represents a 5 percent reduction on FY18 levels. Energy 2018 net energy allocation (%) Orica’s operations are energy intensive with electricity 12.31 8.36 and fuels used in various manufacturing processes. This includes gas and petroleum-based products as 2018 feed stock and raw materials in the production of Energy consumed Ancillary energy goods for customer use. in Product (million GJ) consumed (million GJ) Orica also uses significant quantities of electricity, gas, petroleum fuels and other energy sources in ancillary operations at offices and operational facilities, including heating, cooling, lighting and operation of plant and vehicles. 2018 ancillary energy use source (%) In FY18, Orica used a net total of 20.67 million gigajoules (GJ) of energy, of which 12.3 million GJ (59%) was energy used in the production of Orica products. The increase 2018 in energy consumed from FY17 can be attributed to increased production at sites, reflected in increased energy Natural gas 70 Electricity 15 Steam 10 Fuels for transport 2 incorporated in product and ancillary energy consumption. Fuels for operations 2 Coal & wood 1 Other 1 Ancillary energy consumption (95%) was attributed to liquefied natural gas (LNG, 70%), electricity (15%), and steam (10%). Other fuels and energy sources accounted Net energy consumption (Million GJ) for the remaining 5%. Net energy intensity has increased from last year, to 22.50 20.97 21.60 5.41 million GJ/tonne. Orica manages energy efficiency 20.67 18.00 through operational improvements at the operating plant. In FY19, we will be working with our material energy consumption sites to identify opportunities to gain efficiencies where plausible. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 21 ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY Remediation Orica manages environmental issues across the globe associated with current and historical operations. To lead CASE STUDY this work, we have a centrally-based team of technical At the Deer Park site in Melbourne, we are remediating specialists with expertise in environmental management contamination caused by the manufacture of ammunition and remediation, including nutrients, chlorinated solvents, up until the late 1970s. Ammunition production used perand polyfluoroakyl substances (PFAS), trinitrotoluene chlorinated solvents, primarily trichloroethene (TCE), (TNT), nitroglycerin and hydrocarbons. They engage with for degreasing cartridges. Unfortunately some of the technical resources globally to ensure sites have robust TCE was released to ground and impacted the underlying support to manage issues resulting from historical or groundwater. current products and processes that may have impacted the land or groundwater. Many remediation technologies are energy intensive and have poor sustainability credentials. However Orica’s program for the safe destruction of the at Deer Park, we enlisted the help of the natural hexachlorobenzene (HCB) stockpile in New South Wales environment to treat the TCE contamination. It has been has progressed with the successful destruction of the shown that there are bacteria capable of biologically 1,500 tonnes shipped last year to be completed by the destroying chlorinated solvents in situ, provided the end of 2018. Applications for the destruction of a further appropriate conditions for their population growth 2,440 tonnes are being progressed. exist. This method is referred to as bioremediation. Following a successful field test, the method was applied Compliance to the main zone of impact over an area 50mx150m at Orica manages its environmental licences and 15 metres below ground. A 25 tonne combination of permits through the Enablon Regulatory Compliance fine grain iron particles and mulched or liquified plant Management application. In FY18, it was applied globally material was injected into the aquifer. This created the and translated for use in non-English speaking countries. optimal groundwater conditions for bioremediation and provided food for bacterial proliferation. A bacterial In FY18 there were no reported breaches of our culture harvested from an Orica Botany TCE plume was environmental permits and licences that resulted also introduced to enable complete bioremediation in significant environmental impact. to safe end products. The bacteria were left to multiply. Ongoing monitoring shows that after four years, contaminant concentrations within the treated area have been reduced by two orders of magnitude. The project cost to achieve this is in the vicinity of $2.5 million. 22 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY Orica’s community relationships are guided by group standards setting out how we identify and manage community concerns and opportunities, and form long-term community partnerships. Community Partnerships Program The Orica Community Partnerships Program (OCPP) was first introduced across global operations in 2014 and in FY18, 18 new projects were endorsed worth more than $1.8 million. These initiatives include: • a three-year science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) program in African high schools delivered by US-based NFP Funzeleo, which was piloted around Chambishi in Zambia in September, with local Orica managerial support. • equipment for a hospital in the Ekibastuz region of Kazakhstan. • an Aboriginal youth entrepreneur program with First Nations groups in the North Eastern Ontario region of Canada. • enhancements to a reserve in Sydney in conjunction with the local council, continuation of the long-term engagement process at the Botany site, where remediation of legacy contamination continues successfully. Details of our top community partnerships are at CASE STUDY www.orica.com Education – a continued partnerships focus With Orica’s support, leading Australian children’s education charity The Smith Family, brought its signature Learning for Life program to Gladstone in Queensland, Australia this year. As a founding partner, we helped provide 100 scholarships in 2018 for disadvantaged children and young people. A further 200 Gladstone students will be brought on to the program by 2020. This achievement developed from an Orica-funded feasibility study conducted in 2016 and builds on a partnership founded in the Pilbara in 2014. In FY18, 26 educators near the Orica Limay facility in the Philippines participated in pilots of digitised teaching materials for The Smith Family’s Let’s Count early numeracy program. The Smith Family’s national lead facilitator trained a group of educators to become Let’s Count trainers in Limay in February and March 2018, to ensure sustainability of the program. The first round of locally led training started in September 2018. This partnership was extended to India in August 2018, with 15 educators from the Pitts Modern School and Gomia playgroup near the Gomia plant starting Let’s Count training. The Let’s Count program partnership between Orica and The Smith Family facilitates deeper connections between these locations, local education departments and schools, and complements existing engagement activities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 23 ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY FY19 PRIORITIES Measuring community sentiment Several of Orica’s key strategic sites confront urban encroachment and demographic change in surrounding communities. Expectations and legal obligations of manufacturers continue to intensify as public health and environmental protection issues advance as key priorities for local communities. Our aim is to respond responsibly to these heightened expectations. To better understand our performance, in FY18 we developed a process for measuring community sentiment towards operations at key sites. This analysis requires consideration across several metrics that collectively shape reputation and community goodwill. To quantify these insights into risk measurement and mitigation, a method using key indicators will be applied in FY19 and reviewed annually. Data will include: • environmental and safety performance • outstanding legal and regulatory issues • legacy issues • extent and trend of socio economic footprint • industrial relations • local media sentiment and landscape • status of relationships with local stakeholders • level of urban encroachment, changing demographics and trends towards alternate land use • physical proximity of site to community • predisposition to industry/manufacturing, and • current community investment projects and sponsorships. In FY19, key sites will be responsible for site-specific analysis using the recommended framework as part of annual stakeholder planning. This will measure the status of the relationship between our operations and the surrounding communities and help identify opportunities for targeted engagement and action. 24 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 25 4. CLIMATE CHANGE Orica’s manufacturing processes result in the release of greenhouse gases. As the global economy decarbonises and adopts new technologies and sources of energy, the business will also face long-term shifts in commodity demand and customer mix. We are identifying and minimising risk in anticipation of these longterm trends and we are committed to meeting evolving disclosure requirements on climate-related issues. Our approach to these challenges is guided by the Orica Climate Change Policy. 26 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 The Orica Board, through the Safety, Health, Environment 1. Base Case and Community Committee oversees the implementation of the Orica Climate Change Policy. Advice to the Base Case combines the modelling of Wood Mackenzie and the International committee is considered and endorsed by the Orica Energy Agency (IEA) ‘New Policies Scenario’. It takes into account the broad Executive Committee. The accountability for Orica’s policy commitments and plans governments have made to tackle climate response to climate change rests with the Group change, and assumes that thermal coal will gradually lose market share to gas and renewables as a source for power generation in developed economies. Executive, Corporate Services and Company Secretary. Our base case for forecasting, using a range of external sources, indicates that these competing forces deliver flat, seaborne, thermal coal demand Transition and scenario planning for the coming decade, as the decline in its share of the energy mix is offset There is significant variance in analyst opinion on the pace by increasing overall energy demand in developing Asia. The demand for and scope of transition towards a low carbon future and higher quality, Australian-sourced coal will continue to remain strong with the role fossil fuels will play. In this environment, we will the shift to ultra super-critical, coal fired power generation. At some point continue to develop our own position regarding future this balance will tip, and absolute thermal coal demand will decline at a commodity demand. rate that is dependent on the costs and integration of variable renewable energy power systems and energy storage. Climate change is one of the six defined strategic risks for Orica and climate-related issues are formally considered in 2. Scenario 1 the Orica Board’s annual risk management and planning processes. This work identifies material risk, causes and Scenario 1 is based on Bloomberg New Energy Finance data sets. impacts, signposts for monitoring, and the long-term Key assumptions include: strategic response. • >50% of global electricity from renewables by 2040, primarily solar To inform the board’s consideration of the scope of PV and wind supported by batteries and other storage technologies risk associated with changing commodity demand and • coal remaining a dominant fuel through to 2030, but coal plant emergence of carbon markets, Orica considers three retirements will outpace coal additions, with coal increasingly replaced climate-related scenarios. by renewables and, in the case of the US, gas, and • higher capacity factors and utilisation rates for renewables compared to the base case scenario. 3. Scenario 2 Scenario 2 is based on the IEA’s ‘Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS)’ and aligned with the Paris Agreement’s goal to limit global temperature rises to well below 2°C and ~450ppm of CO2 in the atmosphere. In this scenario: • An integrated approach to achieving globally agreed objectives on climate change, air quality and access to energy. • Global energy demand is relatively flat through until 2040 as energy consumption patterns changes, driven by energy efficiency and increased direct use of renewable energy. • A replacement of fossil fuels by renewable energy sources to meet global emission reduction targets, with scalable carbon capture and storage and significant cost reductions in renewables and energy storage. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 27 CLIMATE CHANGE As a subset of this climate-related scenario planning, we undertake modelling of our potential direct exposure to the costs of carbon emissions. Assumptions include carbon pricing ranging between $25 and $50 per tCO2 -e over the decade beginning 2020. The business continues to confront significant policy uncertainty in the two key jurisdictions of Australia and Canada. However, we anticipate modest direct carbon costs for the near future. Orica’s scenario analysis continues to indicate the transition risk over the coming decade remains low, given forecast commodity and energy demand, immaterial direct carbon costs, and minimal impact on physical assets. Over the longer term, the pace of transition towards a 2°C future will enable Orica to maintain a profitable balance in its customer and portfolio mix. We will continue to consider and capture growth and diversification opportunities, as we have done in recent years through: • the acquisition of GroundProbe and our joint venture with Yara to build a technical ammonium nitrate plant on the Burrup peninsula of Western Australia next to iron ore customers • our expansion into civil infrastructure and tunnelling, and • re-entry into the Australian agriculture market. 28 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY Through our Charter, we are committed to working safely and with integrity and respect for each other, our customers, communities and the environment. Our production processes and operational activity result in the emission of greenhouse gases and we remain committed to finding ways to reduce our impact. In doing so, we will also prepare the business for emerging carbon markets, reduce exposure to direct carbon costs and drive operational efficiencies. Our efforts to reduce emissions will prioritise abatement at major production facilities where we can make the most difference by lowering direct nitrous oxide emissions. We will also continue to assess opportunities to reduce direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions across all our sites and value chain. We are also preparing the business for the longer-term transition to a net zero emissions future by: • assessing physical asset risk and putting in place any appropriate mitigations • incorporating scenario analysis in our planning, including the impact of a 2°C increase in average global temperatures on our business, and • putting in place clear governance arrangements and accountabilities to identify, analyse and respond to climate change risks and opportunities. The global transition to a lower carbon future will also impact our customers, however we believe demand for our core products and services will remain strong while emerging areas of the business continue to grow. The impact of climate change may also change the physical environment impacting local, national and global socio-economics. We will continue to monitor the leading indicators of change to assess the impacts that may ensue. We will disclose our planning and actions on climate change through: • annual sustainability reporting • climate change targets linked to our material risks and the release of greenhouse gas emissions data provided to the Carbon Disclosure Project, and • updates on our Climate Change Policy as our planning and activities evolve. Orica will be an active participant in policy development at the regional and national level. We will advocate for climate change policies based on the following principles: • open and transparent international carbon markets • managed transition for the energy sector towards low emissions generation • consideration of trade exposed businesses and the priority of maintaining relative competitiveness between trading nations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 29 CLIMATE CHANGE PROGRESS IN FY18 Net Greenhouse Gas Emissions Over the last 12 months Orica achieved the inaugural annual carbon intensity target of less than 2 tCO2 -e per tonne of product sold. 1.86 1.81 1.70 1.77 1.77 Orica continued to incorporate assumed scope 3 emissions in calculations of total carbon emissions as 4.4 4.6 4.1 4.7 4.4 a more accurate reflection of Orica’s carbon footprint, regardless of whether we made or bought the inputs 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 from other producers. 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.8 2.2 In FY18 Orica achieved a greenhouse gas emission 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 intensity of 1.81 tCO2 -e per tonne of AN product sold Scope 1 – million tCO2-e Scope 2 – million tCO2-e against a target of less than 2.0 tCO2 -e. This remains Scope 3* – million tCO2-e GHG Emissions Intensity – tCO2-e/ta similar to the previous year’s intensity with a small * Material scope 3 emissions associated with purchased ammonia and AN improvement compared to FY17. This was attributed to realising improved performance of the Kooragang Island Ammonia plant post maintenance turnaround for a full year and an update of scope 2 accounting through the use of updated global emission factors. Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions by Scope and Gas In FY19, the intensity target has been reduced to 1.95 tCO2 -e. This target has been set above actual FY18 intensity levels due to on-going concerns with degrading Scope 1 N2O 63% abatement at some sites. We are currently undertaking technical trials to address this challenge (see below) and this work will inform the business on the best approach Scope 1 CO2 26% to achieve sustained reductions in future intensity target levels and our annual emissions footprint. Scope 2 CO2-e 11% Over the longer term, Orica’s focus is on abating nitrous oxide emissions, given the global warming potential of N2O is 298 times that of CO2. 30 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Abatement trials FY19 PRIORITIES Operational trials and scoping studies for potential N2O abatement technology applicable for Orica were Disclosure conducted throughout FY18, consistent with the Over the coming year, we will assess anticipated changes commitments made in the Orica Climate Change Policy. in market disclosure on climate-related risk. The focus will be on recent recommendations from the Taskforce The initial pilot trial at Kooragang Island proved successful on Climate-related Financial Disclosure, the ASX Good and the abatement is now operating in the two relevant Practice Guidelines and initiatives from NGOs aimed at nitric acid plants on-site. Kooragang Island will look to informing stakeholders. We want to enhance disclosure further improve abatement performance with additional as market expectations increase and as the business trials using a different N2O abatement catalyst in 2019 builds momentum. to achieve further emission reductions. A scoping study for longer-term abatement investment has also been Consistent with this approach, we have released our completed for six of Orica’s nine nitric acid plants, report to the 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project, which which will help Orica respond quickly to global climate you can read at www.orica.com. change-related risks. On-going advocacy in the energy Physical asset risk debate in Australia An assessment of climate-related physical asset risk was Orica actively participates in energy and climate change undertaken across 14 of our key sites in FY18 spanning policy development. FY18 saw significant public debate Australia, Asia, North America, Latin America and the in Australia about how to reduce emissions from electricity Middle East. generation and achieve sustainable natural gas pricing for The potential impact of climate change on Orica domestic consumers. operations include: We engage in these debates based on the following • increased temperature extremes affecting foundation principles: performance, reliability or integrity of equipment • open and transparent international carbon markets • rising sea levels causing increased frequency of storm • managed transition for the energy sector towards surge or tidal flooding events low emissions generation, and • increased frequency or severity of windstorm and • consideration of trade exposed businesses and the flooding events priority of maintaining relative competitiveness • increased frequency of droughts and impacts between trading nations. on availability of water Our advocacy activities in our two priority markets • increased severity and frequency of wildfires. of Australia and Canada are: The current climate-related physical asset risk to our • Australian Industry Group operations is low. In the short-to-medium term, with • Business Council of Australia existing controls and practices, it’s not expected that the risk will increase with the effects of climate change. • Carbon Market Institute (Australia) Some sites are expected to experience the impact of • Chemistry Australia climate change over the longer term and the impact • Fertilizer Canada. will likely increase progressively through increased frequency and intensity of events combined with changes in seasonal patterns. EMISSIONS The impact of climate change on long-term rainfall patterns and water scarcity is an issue of particular (T/year) NOX SOX VOC’s importance for Orica and is a key driver behind our efforts to more effectively use our water supply across 1260 19 207 our global operations. More information on our use of potable and fresh water can be found on page 20. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 31 5. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES AND GOOD GOVERNANCE How we do business is as important as what we do. Integrity and discipline around compliance in our work is a reflection of our commitment to excellence and risk mitigation. It minimises the potential for business disruption and secures our reputation as a trusted partner of choice for customers and other stakeholders. We act ethically and in compliance with national and international law. 32 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Orica’s approach to governance is detailed in the Board and Board Committee Terms of Reference and in various corporate governance documents, which “ outline governance policies, processes and systems. AS THE WORLD’S LARGEST These documents are reviewed and updated regularly and can be read at www.orica.com. PROVIDER OF COMMERCIAL Under Orica’s operating model, parameters for company EXPLOSIVES AND INNOVATIVE performance are set at group level. The four regional BLASTING SYSTEMS, WE management teams have accountability for end-to-end customer service delivery and on-the-ground operational OPERATE IN A COMPLEX and financial performance. Supporting the four regions GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT. is a small number of group functions designed to retain functional excellence. THE WAY WE ACT Each function’s role is articulated in a Group Function INFLUENCES WHAT OUR Mandate. The functions are responsible for the group CUSTOMERS, COMMUNITIES, strategy and group documents – the policies, standards and procedures that govern Orica. These documents SUPPLIERS, GOVERNMENTS, ensure the group operates as one organisation SHAREHOLDERS AND OUR throughout the world, with common processes and systems underpinning operations. The operating model COLLEAGUES THINK OF US. is designed to provide balance between empowering WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE teams with the freedom to deliver on their accountabilities, while providing the framework to drive consistency DO WHAT WE SAY WE WILL, and simplicity. AND THAT WE DO THE RIGHT Orica established new group standards over FY16 and THING, BY ACTING SAFELY FY17 and will complete new group procedures by the end of 2018. Considerable effort is put into the deployment AND BY FOLLOWING THE LAW and self-assessment against the group standards and, AND OUR CODE ALWAYS. after a transition period, they become mandatory. Compliance is assessed through a formal self-assurance process and included in the internal audit framework. “ Alberto Calderon Managing Director and CEO Excerpt from the Orica Code of Conduct which can be found at www.Orica.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 33 ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES AND GOOD GOVERNANCE Code of Business Conduct Of these reports: In FY18 we refreshed our Code of Business Conduct, • 24% originated from Europe, Middle East and Africa which outlines the expected behaviours of the people • 21% from Australia, Pacific and Asia who work for, or on behalf of Orica globally. • 20% from our Manufacturing & Supply business The scope of the code includes expectations around compliance with regulations, our values and group • 15% from Latin America policies and standards. It is a condition of working for, • 8% from North America or with, Orica that people abide by Our Charter Values and the Code of Business Conduct. • 6% from group functions, and If a breach of the Code of Business Conduct is suspected, • 5% from the global monitoring business. employees and contractors can report directly to Orica When allegations were substantiated and non-compliance line management or other management teams such as with our code occurred, appropriate action was taken to Human Resources. apply a remedy and prevent reoccurrence. In some cases, Concerns can also be raised confidentially and disciplinary action or termination of contract was justified anonymously through the Orica Speak-Up service. The and occurred. Speak-Up service is available globally and is operated by The business conduct program is overseen by a Business an independent provider. It is now also available to any Conduct Committee that meets regularly to ensure: external parties such as partners, customers and suppliers. • people understand what is expected When a concern is raised, the facts are reviewed and a response is determined according to the framework in the • the channels to raise concerns are effective, and group procedure. In FY18, the reports received through the Speak-Up service or direct to management included: • the response to reports is appropriate and commensurate, and • allegations of bullying, harassment or discrimination (34%) • significant issues are reported to the Board Audit and Risk Committee. • health and safety concerns (21%) Orica’s Internal Audit function is responsible for site • ethics or integrity issues, including conflicts audits and analysis of financial information to identify of interest (5%) possible breaches. Orica’s management of reported matters is audited six-monthly against the group • theft, fraud and false accounting or financial procedure. The outcomes are reported to management, claims (31%), and the Business Conduct Committee and Board Audit and • misuse of equipment or workplace grievances (8%). Risk Committee. 34 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Ethics and Compliance Framework and Group Standard Orica’s Ethics and Compliance Group Standard sets out clear requirements and controls to support compliance with anti-corruption, trade sanctions and competition (anti-trust) laws. These include notification and approval requirements designed to ensure higher risk activities are subject to review and approval by a dedicated Ethics & Compliance team. These requirements, with associated resources, training, risk assessments and other measures, are intended to embed a compliance framework that reflects global best practice and meets the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the Australian Criminal Code. Online compliance tool: To underpin the Ethics & Compliance Group Standard, Orica has a multi-lingual, online compliance tool available to all employees on the global intranet. The system records due diligence, notifications and approvals required by the Ethics & Compliance Group Standard. The system provides an alternative to the Speak-Up service and another channel for reporting of Ethics & Compliance concerns (anonymously), and is available in multiple languages. Roll out and implementation program completed: During FY18 the Ethics & Compliance team continued the implementation of the new Ethics & Compliance Group Standard including joint ventures and new acquisitions. This program involved numerous country visits by the Ethics & Compliance team, incorporating briefing and training sessions for management and relevant stakeholders, with risk assessment discussions to identify local risks and challenges. This included the development of risk mitigation plans, with mitigation plans now in place for all high risk countries where Orica has established operations, following completion of risk assessments by the Ethics and Compliance team. Ethics & Compliance have undertaken focused monitoring of compliance with trade sanctions controls. In FY19 we have set a target to develop and implement an expanded risk-weighted monitoring program across 10 countries, to better assess implementation of the enhanced Ethics & Compliance controls, and this is referenced in our public scorecard. Training and communication: Orica has a risk-based, tailored training program to build and maintain awareness of Ethics & Compliance requirements. During FY18, separate training modules covering anti-corruption, trade sanctions and competition law were allocated to more than 1,500 employees globally in multiple languages. UK Modern Slavery Act: Orica opposes any form of slavery or human trafficking, and is committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes to avoid complicity in slavery or human trafficking related to our own operations, and our supply chain. We respect and support the rights of our workforce to a healthy, safe and secure working environment, to a workplace free of discrimination, to freedom of association and to preventing the use of all forms of forced, compulsory or child labour in Orica’s operations. Orica supports the policy behind the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015, and publishes an annual statement pursuant to that legislation setting out steps taken to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in Orica’s supply chain, or any part of our business. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 35 6. OUR PEOPLE AND HUMAN CAPABILITY We’re powered by the expertise and skill of our people. Together we create, develop and deliver solutions to help our customers be more productive and manage critical risk. 36 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 As a global company, we seek to attract and retain the To enable movement and development of talent across best people at all levels around the world. We provide the business, the Global Mobility Program was reviewed workplaces where people from diverse groups are as was the approach, policies, processes and providers respected, included and supported to succeed. that support it. To create success for customers every day, we inspire, The Enterprise Graduate Program was expanded in motivate and challenge our people. This means worldEurope and North America. In FY18, the target to retain class leaders who develop outstanding people in roles more than 90% of employees in enterprise critical roles critical to delivering our strategy. It means motivating our was met, with 3% attrition. people to succeed through meaningful recognition and In an environment of significant and continued change, rewards and bringing the Orica Charter to life by ensuring we must inspire, motivate and empower our people to everyone clearly understands the business strategy, their succeed and create an environment where they can give role in delivering it, and our cultural values. their best. Our Charter and values are the cornerstones Orica’s policies, standards, training, development and of culture and engagement at Orica. supporting systems develop and embed capability, culture Orica’s transformation program, culture and engagement and competitiveness across the business. are measured using McKinsey’s Organisational Health Index (OHI) survey. In FY18, a second OHI survey was PROGRESS IN 2018 completed, following the 2016 survey. There was a 75% A key priority this year was deploying global HR processes, participation rate (up 60% from the previous year) and systems and structures. the overall health score improved significantly. People who participated in the transformation program were Orica implemented an HR information and expense strongly engaged. Against other companies in McKinsey’s management system globally, supporting more than global health database, Orica’s overall ‘health’ (quality of 11,500 employees across more than 400 sites and 50 management practices) moved from the third quartile countries. The system enables consistent recruitment, (just below the global median) to second quartile. onboarding, training, performance management, succession planning, and other HR processes. Orica made progress against priorities including strengthening alignment and purpose, and driving We simplified the business structure, implementing accountability and performance. The feedback from a consistent customer-facing model. The new model our people is to maintain this focus. The regions and has a single-point of accountability for meeting functions executed plans to increase communication, customer needs and consolidated consistent recognition and involvement in business improvement structures in manufacturing and support functions. initiatives. Globally, the focus was on refreshing the Code We also continue to embed talent and succession of Business Conduct. The Code aligns with Our Charter management practices into the business. The Enterprise values and is as much about creating a workplace culture Leadership Program, launched in FY17, continued this where our values are lived as it is about managing risk year. This targets the development of potential successors to Orica. to senior leadership roles. More than 90% of participants In the final OHI survey, a participation rate of 80% in the first program were promoted or are in new roles, was achieved. The responses will shape our work to to gain broader business or geographic leadership strengthen Orica’s culture in FY19. experience. The second group has started the program, drawing from Orica sites globally. The participants are 25% female. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 37 OUR PEOPLE AND HUMAN CAPABILITY To strengthen training governance and delivery of training backgrounds outside of Australia and New Zealand, to frontline team members, we finalised and launched with women representing 21%. The aim continues a multi-year transformation of learning. The governance to be for women to represent at least 25% of senior framework was established and training management, leaders by end FY20. records and programs are migrating onto the new HR Internal promotions and appointments have resulted in system to ensure a systematic approach to technical and an increase in gender diversity in critical talent pipelines. functional capability training. This work will continue in Regional activity has increased to promote Orica as a FY19. More than 3% of payroll was invested in training place to work and established networking groups to and development, focused on systems and safety training provide support and mentoring in developing careers and development of area and territory managers, who at Orica. Reflecting Orica’s ethnic and gender diversity lead relationships with customers in region. goals, the Enterprise Graduate Program now operates Several specialised safety training programs were in all regions, with 35% female participation and launched following the ongoing Major Hazards Initiative. 67% of current participants from outside Australia These include training on permit to work and safe pump and New Zealand. operation, explosives awareness training, and responsible engineer training for manufacturing sites. These programs FY19 PRIORITIES will be extended across relevant sites and regions in FY19. In 2019, global processes, systems and structures will be We continue to focus on improving diversity and implemented for finance, manufacturing & supply and inclusion by employing people of different genders, ages, commercial operations. The day-to-day activities of many ethnic and cultural backgrounds and giving them the of our people will change, requiring significant investment opportunity to apply their diverse skills, experiences in training. In addition, safety programs launched in 2018 and perspectives to create value for the organisation will continue, and we will complete migration of training and for customers. management onto the new system. The Human Rights at Work and Diversity and Inclusion Orica is resourcing for growth, particularly in the policies protect peoples’ workplace rights. Approximately Australia Pacific Asia and CIS regions, and will continue 40% of Orica’s employees have chosen to be part of to develop talent in critical talent pipelines: technology collective bargaining agreements. (digital), regional business leadership and manufacturing Reflecting Orica’s diverse operations, 79.5% of the global and supply. workforce is based outside Australia and New Zealand. Strengthening Orica’s culture is as important as the Contractors make up 10% of the total workforce. During results we generate. The Code of Business Conduct FY18, turnover was 17%, the majority was managed due training will be rolled out across the business globally. to business structuring. We will continue to drive initiatives to improve alignment, Focus during the year was also maintained on the gender accountability and performance. and ethnic/cultural diversity of our senior leadership The focus on gender and ethnic and cultural diversity will team. This year diversity stabilised. Senior leadership roles be maintained, driving regional and functional ownership were held by 53% of individuals with ethnic/cultural and accountability. 38 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TALENT ATTRACTION, DIVERSITY AND CULTURE Total Male Female Employees by Gender and employment type % % % Full-time 93.77% 82.92% 17.08% Part-time 1.11% 31.58% 68.42% Fixed term full-time 4.03% 88.61% 11.39% Fixed term part-time 0.24% 58.62% 41.38% Casual 0.84% 93.07% 6.93% Total 100.00% 82.61% 17.39% Gender % Age group % Total Male Female Employee by category and diversity % % % Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Senior managers 0.52% 79.03% 20.97% 0.00% 46.77% 53.23% Managers 2.04% 79.51% 20.49% 0.41% 68.44% 31.15% Supervisory and professional 28.06% 79.55% 20.45% 9.55% 67.29% 23.15% Operators and general support 69.39% 83.96% 16.04% 15.09% 62.05% 22.86% Total 100.00% 82.61% 17.39% 13.16% 63.57% 23.27% Total Male Female Employees by Gender and employment type % % % APA 36.88% 82.64% 17.36% EMEA 24.26% 77.90% 22.10% LATAM 18.97% 88.86% 11.14% NA 19.89% 82.33% 17.67% Total 100.00% 82.61% 17.39% Gender % Age group % Region Employee by new Total Male Female hires and turnover % % % Under 30 30-50 Over 50 APA EMEA LATAM NA Employee new hires 16.79% 16.40% 18.68% 40.65% 14.13% 10.52% 16.36% 20.78% 14.16% 15.67% Employee turnover 16.90% 16.43% 19.17% 25.03% 15.15% 17.12% 12.96% 15.66% 24.07% 17.83% CASE STUDY We are committed to making our customers successful, every day, all around the world. Our organisation is structured to ensure great customer experience every time, at every location. Our Area Business and Territory Managers understand customer needs and deliver superior products and services. In FY18 we invested in building the capability of these business-critical leaders through week-long, face-to-face workshops in our four regions. These workshops provided strategic and practical skills, including safety and people leadership, technical knowledge of our products, and commercial acumen. They also enabled relationship building and shared customer knowledge. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 39 ABOUT THE DATA AND REPORT DATA DEFINITIONS, CORRECTIONS DATA ACCURACY AND AND RESTATEMENTS VERIFICATION Independent verification wasn’t sought for the Incident severity categorisation information in this report, with the exception of: This report includes reporting incidents by severity • financial information, which is drawn from the rating, a measure to categorise the impact of an 2018 Annual Report incident on people, the environment, the community and Orica’s reputation. • N2O emissions data from Orica’s nitric acid plants at the Carseland, Kooragang Island and Yarwun facilities. Severity 1 incidents are recordable incidents with minor or reversible short-term impact. Examples may include a: Independent reasonable assurance reports were provided with the company’s 2018 submissions. • first aid injury While every effort was made to ensure the accuracy • minor spill or gaseous emission restricted to the of this report, you shouldn’t rely on this information immediate vicinity of equipment/incident or draw conclusions from the data before contacting • fire that causes limited damage to equipment, or a Orica for verification first. • minor spill of product during transportation ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND to a customer. GOVERNANCE INDICES Severity 2 incidents are more significant with shortIn 2018 Orica was a constituent member of the following to-medium term impact, generally requiring some environmental, social and governance (ESG) indices: treatment or remedial action. • Dow Jones Sustainability Index of Australia, and the Severity 3 incidents are serious, that are severe or widespread, and have medium-to-long-term impact • FTSE4 Good Index Series, an equity index series requiring significant remedial action. designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility High Potential Incidents (HPI) are incidents with the standards. potential for a very serious (severity 4) outcome. Incidents may be captured under a variety of classifications. REPORTING OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Orica reports greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy production from the company’s Australian facilities under the Australian Government’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 and appropriate guidelines. Greenhouse gas emissions from the company’s non-Australian sites are reported using the same general framework, with the application of local energy and emission factors. The reporting of non-Australian data is based on materiality thresholds. 40 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA’S TAX POSITION TAX TRANSPARENCY REPORTING Compliance Orica believes that enhanced tax transparency is a critical Orica is committed to complying with all relevant revenue element of ethical business behaviour. laws in a responsible manner, with all taxes properly due, accounted for and paid. A tax standard and relevant Tax Policy – Orica’s approach to tax procedures are in place to ensure tax compliance obligations are managed. Orica’s tax policy and approach to tax is published on orica.com. Some important aspects of that policy There is an in house global tax team that manages are in this report. Orica’s tax affairs which is supplemented with external compliance support where required. As an Australian mining services company with global operations, Orica generates a substantial amount and variety of taxes across its jurisdictions including income Structure taxes, stamp duties, employment taxes and other taxes. Orica does not support the use of artificial structures Orica also collects and remits a number of taxes on trust that are established just to avoid paying tax and have including employment taxes and indirect taxes such as no commercial purpose. Orica will not enter into any GST/VAT. tax avoidance activities. The taxes Orica pays and collects form a significant part of the economic contribution to the countries of operation. Relationships with tax authorities Orica aims for open, transparent and respectful Tax strategy and governance relationships with the Australian Taxation Office and other tax authorities globally. Orica seeks advance rulings from Orica’s tax strategy is reviewed by the Board of taxation authorities on transactions where appropriate. Directors annually. The tax strategy is aligned with the overall corporate strategy and supplements the Risk Management Policy. Use of tax havens The Chief Financial Officer has oversight responsibility Tax havens are not used for tax planning purposes. Orica over the tax risk management framework. Operational has operations in countries that are ‘low tax’ jurisdictions. and governance responsibility for the execution of There is genuine operational substance in these locations, the Group’s tax strategy rests with the Vice President or the entities are dormant. Taxation, supported by a team of tax professionals. Orica’s overseas companies are subject to Australia’s External tax expertise is used where required. international tax rules (Controlled Foreign Corporation The Vice President Taxation reports on tax matters rules). bi-annually to the Board Audit and Risk Committee. Transparency Orica’s approach to tax is applicable across the Orica Group and is reviewed and updated annually. Orica supports the ongoing global development of improved tax transparency to increase understanding of tax systems and build public trust. On 3 May 2016, the Treasurer of Australia released a Corporate Tax Transparency Code. The Code was developed by the Board of Taxation in Australia and Orica has signed the Corporate Tax Transparency Code Register and is committed to applying the principles and the details of the Code. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 41 ORICA’S TAX POSITION Tax contribution summary In 2018, Orica paid $69 million (2017 $189 million) globally in corporate income taxes and $56 million Global (12) Australia Pacific and Asia (2017 $48 million) globally in payroll taxes. Orica collected Corporate Tax 25 Europe, Middle East and Africa and remitted $124 million (2017 $120 million) globally and WHT on in GST/VAT. Income by 16 Latin America Region 2018 The charts show 2018 corporate income tax paid/(refunded) A$m 40 North America in each region (including withholding tax and trade taxes), and an analysis of total tax paid by type. In Australia, Orica received corporate income tax refunds of $42 million relating to tax on prior years and resolution of a tax dispute with the Australian Taxation Office (Orica paid tax in 2017 of $91 million). Orica also paid $19 million (2017 $17 million) in payroll tax and $2 million 69 Corporate Tax (2017 $2 million) in fringe benefits tax. Orica collected Global Tax and remitted $43 million (2017 $48 million) in GST 124 GST/VAT Paid by and $105 million (2017 $92 million) in ‘pay as you go’ Type 2018 56 Employer payroll taxes withholding taxes. A$m A reconciliation of accounting profit to income tax payable Consolidated Consolidated 2018 2017 A$m A$m Before individually material items: Accounting profit/(loss) before tax 496.8 563.4 Prima facie income tax expense/(benefit) calculated at 30% on accounting profit 149.0 169.0 Material non-temporary differences variation in tax rates of foreign controlled entities (16.3) (38.6) tax under provided in prior years 2.0 8.0 de-recognition of booked tax losses 3.5 4.0 taxable/(non taxable) gains on disposal of assets (3.2) 12.3 other foreign deductions (3.7) (23.0) non creditable withholding taxes 11.2 13.8 non allowable interest deductions 11.3 14.9 non allowable share based payments 4.4 3.0 utilisation of unbooked prior year tax losses (8.0) (6.4) sundry items 7.8 7.0 Income tax expense/(benefit) before individually material items 158.0 164.0 Individually material items: Individually material items before tax (375.3) – Prima facie income tax expense/(benefit) calculated at 30% on individually material items (112.6) – Material non-temporary differences variation in tax rates of foreign controlled entities 2.1 – impairment of Minova business 60.6 – write down of US deferred tax assets 47.9 – Income tax expense/(benefit) on individually material items (2.0) – Income tax expense/(benefit) 156.0 164.0 Material temporary differences deferred tax (6.3) (26.9) write down of US deferred tax assets (47.9) – Tax payments more/(less) than tax charges (18.6) 14.2 Tax payments/(refunds) on matters in dispute with tax authorities (13.9) 37.8 Income tax paid per the statement of cash flows 69.3 189.1 42 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Effective tax rate for Australian and global operations Consolidated Consolidated Notes 2018 2017 Before individually material items: Australia 1 39.9% 34.5% Global operations (including Australia) 31.8% 29.1% 1. The tax rate is the percentage of income tax expense to accounting profit/loss before tax (before individually material items) adjusted to exclude exempt dividend income. International related party dealings • The sale of raw materials and finished products to related parties in Peru, Singapore, Papua New Guinea, Orica prices its international related party dealings to Russia, Panama and New Zealand. The products sold reflect the substance in its operations in accordance with include bulk explosives, packaged explosives, and the ‘arm’s length principle’ as defined in the Organisation initiating systems. for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines and in accordance with the laws in both • The provision and receipt of services from entities Australia and the countries in which it operates. resident in Singapore, Chile, the Philippines, Germany, the United States, Canada and South Africa. The nature Orica has transfer pricing procedures which govern of the services include general management, information the pricing of all international related party dealings. technology, sales and marketing and logistics. These procedures require all international related party dealings to be priced in accordance with the arm’s length • The use of intellectual property held by a related standard. Orica maintains contemporaneous records party in Singapore. The nature of the intellectual to support the pricing of its international related party property includes technical knowhow related to the dealings and benchmarks and documents the outcome manufacture of Orica’s products and the Orica name of its material dealings on an annual basis. and trademarks, and The material international related party dealings • The provision of contract research and development impacting Orica’s Australian taxable income may activities for a related party in Singapore. be summarised as follows: Orica has a treasury function based in Melbourne which • The purchase of raw materials and finished products provides loans and accepts deposits from in excess from related parties in Singapore, Indonesia and China. of 40 group companies at market interest rates. The The products purchased are ammonia, caustic soda, material transactions are with related parties in Germany, gas, bulk explosives and initiating systems. Indonesia, Russia and Mexico. It also has a subsidiary in Singapore which acts as the Group’s captive insurer. Australian Tax Return Data 2017 2016 Notes A$m A$m Total income 1 1,999 2,629 Taxable income 2 108 95 @ Tax Rate 3 30% 30% Tax liability 32 29 Offset reductions 4 (26) (23) Tax payable 6 6 1. Total Australian income (includes sales, dividends, interest income etc.) before all expenses (for example, Interest, employee costs, depreciation etc.). 2. Taxable income after allowing for all deductible expenses and tax exempt income. 3. Australian Statutory tax rate. 4. Offset reductions of $26 million (2016 $23 million) relating to franking credits, foreign income tax credits and research and development. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 43 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX This report contains standard disclosures guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. For additional information refer to the 2018 Orica Annual Report at www.orica.com GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Number Disclosure Title Cross-Reference/Direct Answer Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Pg 1–4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pg 1–4 102-3 Location of headquarters Pg 1–4 102-4 Location of operations Pg 1–4 102-5 Ownership and legal form Pg 1–4 102-6 Markets served Pg 1–4 102-7 Scale of the organisation Pg 1–4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pg 39 102-12 External initiatives Pg 23 102-13 Membership of associations Pg 31 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pg 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pg 6 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Pg 4 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Pg 34 44 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES continued GRI Standard Number Disclosure Title Cross-Reference/Direct Answer Governance 102-18 Governance structure See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-19 Delegating authority See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-25 Conflicts of interest See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-33 Communicating critical concerns See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-35 Remuneration policies See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-36 Process for determining remuneration See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio See Orica 2018 Annual Report at www.orica.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 45 GENERAL DISCLOSURES continued GRI Standard Number Disclosure Title Cross-Reference/Direct Answer Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pg 48 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Pg 36 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pg 23–24 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pg 23–24 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pg 23–24 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Pg 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Pg 6 102-47 List of material topics Pg 6 102-49 Changes in reporting Pg 3 102-50 Reporting period Pg 3 102-51 Date of most recent report Pg 3 102-52 Reporting cycle Pg 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Pg 3 102-55 GRI content index Pg 44 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg 6 Economic Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Pg 24 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Pg 32–35 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Pg 32–35 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Pg 32–35 Environment Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Pg 18–22 301-2 Recycled input materials used Pg 18–22 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Pg 18–22 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Pg 21 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Pg 21 46 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES continued GRI Standard Number Disclosure Title Cross-Reference/Direct Answer Environment continued Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Pg 20 303-3 Water recycled and reused Pg 20 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pg 26–32 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Pg 26–32 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Pg 26–32 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Pg 26–32 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Pg 26–32 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant Pg 31 air emissions Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Pg 21 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Pg 21 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Pg 19–22 Society Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Pg 10–13 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Pg 10–13 403-9 Work-related injuries Pg 10–13 403-10 Work-related ill health Pg 10–13 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pg 36–39 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Pg 36–39 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Nil SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORICA 47 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Orica understands that effective engagement and communication are fundamental to gaining the trust and support of our key stakeholders. The company seeks to tailor engagement to each stakeholder group. A summary of key issues raised by, and responded to, those stakeholder groups is listed below. Stakeholder Concerns and interests Engagement mechanisms used Employees and Career and development opportunities, Direct engagement at company work locations; intranet; regular internal contractors performance management and written or face-to-face communications about changes that could impact senior leadership. employees; leadership forums; leadership development programs; internal workshops and conferences. Customers Performance of product, cost, Direct engagement, including commercial and contract negotiations and reliability of supply, ability to add extensive interactions as part of Orica’s customer engagement initiative; value to customer performance, the Mining Services Global Feedback Database (Salesforce), a formal sustainability impacts of products mechanism for capturing compliments and complaints relating to products and services. and services; customer technical workshops; presentations at industry events, forums and conferences. Suppliers and business Performance of product, cost, Direct engagement; supplier engagement processes; supplier questionnaires; partners reliability of supply, sustainability regular meetings with joint venture partners. impacts of products and services. Shareholders and the Company performance, delivery on Annual General Meeting; half-year and end-of-year results presentations and investment community company strategy and governance. webcasts; investor road show meetings; direct shareholders engagement, including site visits, calls and meetings, with feedback to the board where appropriate. Sustainability performance is disclosed on the website and the annual Sustainability Report. Orica reports its performance to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (materials sector), FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project. Orica also responds to a number of investor and analyst queries, including ESG analysts. Community and local Employment opportunities, Site-specific stakeholder plans and programs for community contact and residents socio-economic contribution information sharing; direct engagement with individuals and key opinion to local communities, local leaders; community investment and partnership programs; posting of operational impacts such as noise, employment opportunities on the website; systems to register, investigate odour, emissions and contamination. and promptly respond to community complaints; community meetings, site visits and tours by local community members including local school groups. 48 ORICA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 orica.com
