Redefining packaging for a changing world Sustainability Report 2019 Our performance highlights Highlights from 2018/19 Global Partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation announced 100% 97% chain of custody certified across recycled or chain of custody DS Smith sites certified papers used by in Europe DS Smith Packaging 23% reduction in our Accident Frequency Rate <1% 6.1 % waste sent to landfill from like-for-like reduction in carbon, DS Smith Packaging division per tonne of production CO2e MSCI 81% sustainability score improves to A-grade of sites engaged in 10% 82% community activities annual increase in female uptake, for the last three of DS Smith’s energy is consumed by sites with years of graduate programme ISO 50001 certification Contents 1 An introduction from our 8 Our sustainability strategy 42 Our performance in benchmarks Group Chief Executive 10 Our performance against targets 44 Data and performance 2 Our changing world 36 Our next challenge 45 Report index 4 DS Smith at a glance 38 Ethics, governance and risk 6 Our sustainability journey 40 Our stakeholder engagement An introduction from our Group Chief Executive Packaging must be redefined “Above all else, packaging must be redefined in the face of global sustainability challenges. From recyclability, to climate change, to pressures on water sources, packaging must play a role in facilitating a more circular global economy.” The world has always been changing. Now, I would also like to draw your attention to our facilitated by new global networks built on industry leading position on recyclability, discussed technology and communication, the world on pages 2, 13 and 15. It is because of our leadership is changing faster than ever before. in the industry that I think our new Global Partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation is such a Nowhere is this more visible than in the ways we natural fit. They will not only continue to challenge now shop. Where we shop is changing, as bricks our thinking, but also connect us to other and mortar retailers compete with the growth of sustainability leaders, so we can drive genuine, e-commerce. What we shop for is changing, as the systemic change. rise of digital consumption drives the rental and subscription economy and the rise of conscious Each chapter showcases global challenges we all purchasing decisions drives demand for sustainable, face, our contributions to tackling these issues recyclable, low waste and reusable products and and our progress on targets. Our performance tells packaging. How we shop is changing. From premium a positive story, but there is still more to do, both in meal recipe kits to mailbox flowers to subscription our core business and in establishing a strong culture shaving packages, in our busy lives shopping is of sustainability in our new acquisitions. I hope you either an experiential and recreational activity enjoy reading this Sustainability Report. or something to be automated. Packaging is being redefined continually to cope with these changes. At DS Smith, one of our four strategic goals is to MILES ROBERTS, lead the way in sustainability. This is why we believe Group Chief Executive that above all else, packaging must be redefined in the face of global sustainability challenges. From recyclability, to climate change, to pressures on water sources, packaging must play a role in facilitating a more circular global economy and we Download our Sustainability Report 2019: must tackle systematic sustainability challenges . dssmith.com/company/sustainability/sustainabilityreport We have ambitious, long-term sustainability targets Download our Annual report & accounts 2019: to address these issues; many of which are featured dssmith.com/investors/annual-reports in this report. I particularly wanted to highlight our carbon target, which we are currently reviewing Access results, presentations, investor and shareholder information: in line with the Paris Accord. dssmith.com/investors Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 1 Our changing world Sustainability challenges In a rapidly changing world, four key sustainability trends stand out to us as crucial challenges for the packaging industry to address in the coming years. Circularity and recyclability Climate change Dubbed the “Blue Planet effect”, the past 18 months has seen The world needs an 80 per cent reduction in emissions increasing public dissatisfaction with plastic. Numerous global by 2050 to limit warming to 1.5°C. Warming above this brands, retailers and manufacturers have committed to use threshold would result in catastrophic climate change, 100 per cent reusable, recyclable or compostable packaging as evidenced by the United Nations’ Intergovernmental by 2025. As the momentum around transitioning to the circular Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, 2018. The next economy grows and phrases such as ‘single-use’ have become decade will be crucial. increasingly widespread, the packaging industry in particular has become deeply engaged in a debate about the definition Across the world, students are walking out of classrooms of recyclability. ‘Technically recyclable’, used by many plastic on climate strike and the public are frustrated that current manufacturers, is now seen as an avoidance of responsibility. commitments fail to deliver real change. Employee activism ‘Likely to be recycled’ provides some assurance but depends on is forcing global companies to consider their own carbon the lottery of local authority waste collections (read our report reduction plans. Over 550 companies have set science-based ‘Tipping Point’). The ideal solution, ‘certain to be recycled’, emissions reduction targets to align their own carbon is difficult to guarantee with current infrastructure but is reduction strategy to limit warming to 1.5°C. In the UK, pivotal if we want a future of fully circular material flows. the independent Committee on Climate Change (CCC) has called for the government to commit to net zero emissions by 2050. Organisations like the Ellen MacArthur Foundation have been fundamental in driving the transition to a circular economy. The requirement is clear. Rapid, widespread decarbonisation It is clear that we need universal definitions,standards and of our economy is needed. New technologies and financial measures of recyclability and circularity. Companies can no mechanisms will increasingly drive change as investment longer stand up to scrutiny if their product and packaging in low-carbon technologies must become more attractive. is recyclable in Europe but not in Asia. We need to harness The green bond market grows each year (source: World Bank) alternative materials, create systemic change in collection and the price of carbon credits continues to rise (source: infrastructure and consider opportunities for radical redesign Bloomberg). Under shareholder pressure investment funds (read our report ‘Transforming the supermarket aisle’). are reducing fossil fuel holdings (source: Morgan Stanley) Defining recyclability in a way that is realistic for brands, and the allocation of capital is beginning to move in a direction retailers and manufacturers; credible for the public; that supports rapid decarbonisation of our economy. As the and ambitious enough to protect the environment is vital. IPCC report says: there is time, but we need to move fast. See how DS Smith is tackling this issue on pages 12-15 See how DS Smith is tackling this issue on pages 20-24 What if society went beyond recyclability to fully Could the growing power of the digitally connected, embrace the circular economy? Watch Scenario video: ethical purchasing decisions drive more sustainable, Materials passport local economies? Watch Scenario video: It’s personal Up to 29% 39% 170kg of supermarket of online shoppers are concerned The average European generates packaging is by excess packaging 170kg of packaging waste per year not recyclable Source: Mintel Source: Eurostat Source: Which? 47% of online shoppers want the delivery 50% of e-commerce packaging of their parcels to be carbon-neutral is more than a quarter empty Source: International Post Corporation Source: DS Smith, Empty Space Economy 2 What are the 2030 scenarios? As part of our continued strategic planning we have created four plausible scenarios of the world in 2030. These are not predictions. Scenarios like this are used to rehearse the future and stress-test strategies by extrapolating emerging trends we see today. Protecting forests Urban air quality In 2010, the Consumer Goods Forum approved a resolution The impacts of poor air quality on our health are truly shocking, to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020, focusing on the causing an estimated 400,000 premature deaths per year in responsible sourcing of palm oil, soy, beef and pulp and paper. Europe (source: World Health Organisation) and placing a Some view the pending 2020 deadline as a watershed moment. significant cost on strained healthcare systems. As a result, a What happens if companies fall short? What enforcement growing number of world cities are banning, restricting or options exist? What role does the investment community taxing the use of high emitting vehicles and creating ultra-low have in holding companies to account in the same way it emission zones in urban areas. Postal companies are trialling would regarding share price, working capital or EBITDA? e-bikes, sales of electric cars are booming as the sales of diesel cars continue to fall sharply. Even the iconic London bus is Chain of custody certification schemes have been the trialling the use of hydrogen fuel. key mechanism used by organisations seeking to ensure deforestation-free supply chains. However, according In parallel, the global e-commerce market is booming, growing to The State of The World’s Forests report, only 38 per cent at a rate of 17 per cent annually (source: ACEA) and the world of global industrial wood production is certified and the latest is becoming increasingly urbanised. However, to meet the report by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform insatiable need for on-demand consumption, urban roads on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) suggests are becoming increasingly congested by a growing fleet 10-15 per cent of global timber comes from illegal forestry, of e-commerce delivery vehicles. Unsurprisingly in the face particularly from Asia. of these environmental, social, and new financial implications of running delivery vehicles in cities there is rapidly increasing Forests are recognised as one of a few global carbon sinks, scrutiny on the efficiency and impact of last mile deliveries. absorbing over 2.4 billion tonnes of carbon from the atmosphere per year (source: CSIRO). As such, the protection, With more than half of global packaging filled with 25 per cent restoration and growth of forests is crucial in combatting air (read our report ‘Empty Space Economy’), how can we climate change. Although global forests have lost more than use packaging to minimise space and weight and minimise 120 million hectares since 1990, the net loss of forest area has vehicles on the road? What does the future of last mile delivery, slowed to 0.08 per cent over the last five years and European or collection, look like? Could delivery vehicles also be used forests have increased in size by over 3 per cent since 2010 as mobile e-commerce packaging recycling points so that the (source: FAO). The challenge is to balance demand for fibre return journey is not a wasted one? against the preservation of forests’ natural capital value. See how DS Smith is tackling this issue on page 14 See how DS Smith is tackling this issue on pages 16-17 Is it possible that cities could ban e-commerce What if the value of virgin and recycled materials was deliveries from city centres? Watch Scenario video: transformed? Watch Scenario video: Better green than dead Your planet needs you €24bn 81% 90% 2bn 37% investments in low-carbon of the world’s energy of pulp used by Forests absorb of the public believe technology are needed in the mix still comes from European paper mills 2 billon tonnes of there is a joint pulp and paper industry to fossil fuels originates from carbon from the responsibility between reach Paris Accord ambitions forests in Europe atmosphere per year governments, brands and Source: International manufacturers to reduce Source: CEPI Energy Council Source: CEPI Source: FAO unnecessary packaging Source: Ipsos Mori Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 3 DS Smith at a glance Our vision Our culture To be the leading supplier of sustainable We have a clear set of values that we expect all our packaging solutions. employees to own and live by. Our purpose • Be caring: we take pride in what we do and we care about our customers, our people and the Redefining packaging for a changing world. world around us. • Be challenging: we are not afraid to Our strategic goals constructively challenge each other and ourselves to find a better way forward. To redefine packaging for a changing world. • Be trusted: we can always be trusted to deliver To delight our customers. our promises. • Be responsive: we seek new ideas and understanding and are quick to react To realise the potential of our people. to opportunities. • Be tenacious: we get things done. To lead the way in sustainability. Find out more at dssmith.com/people/culture To double our size and profitability. Our global footprint A leading provider of corrugated packaging supported by paper and recycling operations. Europac acquisition The integration of our newly acquired, North America Packaging and Paper integration ex-Europac sites in France, Portugal The past year has been focused on building the necessary and Spain is ongoing. Therefore they organisational structure, governance and accountability will not yet be included our sustainability required to embed our sustainability targets. This report reporting. We will include their contains explanations about the performance of our North performance data in our 2020 report. American operations. However as they are in the middle of being integrated into our sustainability programme, this year their performance data is not included in our target key Plastics division disposal performance indicators, only in our full data disclosure on In March 2019 the sale of our Plastics page 44. Greenfield development will be a key growth area division was announced. We have included in this region. Wherever we explore greenfield sites, we will their performance data in our reporting, ensure environmental considerations are embedded into the but it is not focused on in the descriptions. design and build programme. 4 Our business operations Packaging Paper Recycling We are a leading international We are a leading global We are Europe’s largest packaging company, manufacturer of sustainable cardboard and paper recycler: delivering sustainable corrugated case material, managing circa five million packaging solutions and the operating 14 recycled fibre tonnes per annum. We provide highest quality service across mills, two virgin fibre mills, integrated recycling and total Europe and North America. and over 14,270 ha. of forest. waste management services. c. 24,000 c. 3,100 c. 900 employees employees employees 34 11 15 countries countries countries Our circular business model Be caring Be challenging Ma Our integrated Recycling, Paper and Packaging divisions n uf ht work together to drive fibre around the circular corrugated Ins ac ig system. The recycling rate for corrugated board is 85.8 per tu r cent in Europe (source: Eurostat) and fibres can be recycled ing to create value up to 25 times (source: Technische Paper Universität Darmstadt). Be tenacious Be trusted Across Europe, we harvest quality paper and cardboard Packaging for recycling from a range of sectors, including retailers, manufacturers, local authorities, print, recycling and waste I nn es management companies. This provides raw material for our Recycling ign ovat D ion 14 recovered fibre mills where we manufacture 100 per cent recycled papers. These papers become the primary raw material for our packaging sites, who source 97 per cent recycled or chain of custody certified papers. Across Europe Be responsive the average recycled content of corrugated fibre packaging in Europe is 88 per cent (source: FEFCO). Sustainable design Watch our ‘Follow the fibre’ video: ensures the packaging protects the product, uses no more youtube.com/watch?v=wkOePLDJp9c material than is necessary, optimises logistics and can be fully recycled at end of life. Find out more, download the Annual report & accounts 2019 This is the journey of a Box to Box in 14 days at DS Smith. dssmith.com/investors/annual-reports Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 5 Our sustainability journey Our past, present and future Interview with Emma Ciechan, Director of Planning, Performance Management and Sustainability In the last review you launched nine new papers used is so important, as our stakeholders targets. Tell us where you are, one year on. target zero deforestation by 2020. We have also had resounding support for our ambition and the pilot Over the past year we have made excellent study conducted for our Packaging Impact target. progress regarding roles, responsibilities, internal performance reporting and on developing What challenges have you faced, and how our long-term roadmaps to achieve each target. have you tackled them? Embedding accountability mechanisms into Growing rapidly through acquisition provides many established business processes is essential if we challenges. As the number of sites in scope for are to achieve the long-term progress we desire. targets changes, our goal-posts move. Year on Having sustainability firmly cemented as one year perceived progress can be impacted quite of our four strategic goals and as a core theme significantly. Establishing sustainability as a of our Purpose ensures that it is front of mind workstream in our acquisition and integration for everyone. process has therefore been an important step. What has been your biggest success, or the We have embedded a procedure and agreed achievement you are most proud of? timelines for bringing all integrated businesses into scope for our targets and core projects. I am particularly pleased with the success on our Fibre Sourcing target. Achieving 100 per cent chain of custody certification and 97 per cent sustainable Our sustainability journey 1986 2012 First recycling SCA acquisition operations purchased. completed. 2014 2015 1998 First annual First DS Smith 2013 sustainability sustainability team 1940 First paper mill purchased. First sustainability review. is formed. David Smith starts DS Smith signs up DS Smith becomes policy. to UN Global a Sedex A/B member. 2010 manufacturing cartons in London. Compact. First Carbon Disclosure Project submission. 6 Find out more about our partnership: dssmith.com/company/ellen-macarthurfoundation-partnership Visit the Ellen MacArthur Foundation website: ellenmacarthurfoundation.org Our new partnership with the streams, to create solutions that Ellen MacArthur Foundation are aligned with the principles of What does the next year hold? Where will In May 2019, we were the circular economy. your team focus their efforts? delighted to announce that we would be becoming a Global By applying innovation and We have three goals with a 2020 deadline. As these Partner of the Ellen MacArthur creativity, and taking a whole become business as usual, we will be exploring Foundation. Through the systems approach, we have a what new targets we can set and how we can partnership we will be huge opportunity to redesign extend the level of ambition in these areas. exploring opportunities to our economy so that it can As always, we continue to review whether our redefine packaging together. work in the long term. focus areas are appropriate, especially in light of our rapidly changing industry and the profile of our I look forward to exploring “We are delighted to welcome business. Therefore, we will also formally refresh what our partnership can DS Smith as a Global Partner our materiality assessment. Finally, we excitedly do to accelerate this shift.” of the Ellen MacArthur await the new opportunities our global partnership Foundation. Building on the with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation will bring. DAME ELLEN MACARTHUR, company’s strong history of Founder of the Ellen MacArthur innovation across its supply Foundation. chains, our partnership will focus on identifying opportunities to redesign materials, business EMMA CIECHAN, models, and problematic waste Director of Planning, Performance Management and Sustainability. 2019 DS Smith launches Purpose. 2018 2016 2017 DS Smith sets new DS Smith becomes Global Partner of the Ellen DS Smith sustainability DS Smith achieves carbon sustainability targets. MacArthur Foundation. review receives ‘Best reduction target three sustainability report in Board-level Health, Proposed sale of Plastics years early. FTSE250’ award by PwC. Safety, Environment division announced. DS Smith is highly and Sustainability First cross-functional committee formed. Europac acquisition commended by World Sustainability Steering completed. Economic Forum in ’The Group is formed. Interstate Resources Circulars’ awards. First European virgin paper acquisition completed. First materiality analysis. mill owned by DS Smith. DS Smith achieves First virgin paper mill EcoVadis gold for the first New sustainability owned by DS Smith. time. policies published. First forestry and timber DS Smith becomes a operations owned by FTSE100 organisation. DS Smith. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 7 Our sustainability strategy Leading the way in sustainability At DS Smith, sustainability is the foundation of our overall business strategy. We want to become a trusted and strategic partner to our customers, providing innovative, sustainable packaging solutions for all their needs. Our strategic goal to lead Our pillars of the way in sustainability sustainability One of our four strategic goals is to lead the way To us, truly sustainable value is found in sustainability. Last year we launched ambitious, when balancing the needs of Our Business, long-term targets to underpin this strategic goal Our Environment and Our People. and focus on the areas where we believe we can have the greatest impact. By aligning our targets equally against the three pillars below, we ensure our activities deliver long-term sustainable value to all stakeholders. To lead the way in sustainability • Building sustainability into our decisions • Growing our recycling platform • Delivering against our range of longterm sustainability targets Our Business Creating shared value Our Purpose through responsible recycling, paper and packaging. Our Purpose, launched earlier this year, is ‘Redefining packaging for a changing world’. It is our reason for being, it is why we exist as an organisation and it captures the value we bring to all our stakeholder groups and the wider world. Our Environment Minimising our impact, All our sustainability targets link back to at least one from design to production of the core ways we will deliver our Purpose: and supply to recycling. Thinking differently. Innovating together. Our People Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development Putting sustainability at the heart. of colleagues and contributing to our communities. Developing the right strategies. 8 “Our sustainability targets demonstrate our ongoing commitment to building sustainability into our core business processes. From sourcing to operations, from human resources to how we integrate acquisitions and from designing packaging to dealing with suppliers, these targets put sustainability considerations front and centre.” MILES ROBERTS, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our targets Our ambitious, long-term targets underpin our strategic goal to lead the way in sustainability. Ownership, measurement and progress reporting are embedded into each division and core functions to provide a robust and transparent accountability framework. Packaging impact Manufacture 100 per cent Responsible employer reusable or recyclable packaging Build a diverse, engaged and by 2025 and grow our net respected workforce positive recycling position1 Responsible neighbour Fibre sourcing Engage in community Use 100 per cent programmes at 100 recycled or chain per cent of our sites3 of custody certified by 2020 papers by 2020 Our Our people business Health and safety Our Supplier standards Zero accidents Ensure 100 per cent environment Vision Zero Harm of our suppliers comply with our sustainability standards by 2025 Waste and recycling Carbon and energy Send zero waste to Reduce our CO2e landfill by 2030 Water stewardship emissions by 30 per cent Create zero water impact2 per tonne of production by 2030 by 2030, against a 2015 baseline 1. Involved in all or in part of collecting, sorting, reprocessing, managing and/or transporting a greater tonnage of material through our Recycling division than we place on the market through our Packaging division. 2. To include water quality, water stress improvements and water reduction (where feasible). 3. Sites with greater than 50 employees. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 9 Our performance against targets 10 Performance summary Over the past year we have made great progress in many areas. Having launched new sustainability targets last year, this is the first time The following pages of the report provide a more we are reporting comprehensively detailed description of key performance indicators on progress. and a robust explanation of status and performance. A summary can be found below. You may not have noticed, but this year we are referring to this document as a ‘report’ . In previous years we have called it a ‘review’, however given our increased focus on performance reporting against our range of targets we felt that ‘report’ was more appropriate. A small but important change. Theme Target Status Page(s) Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or recyclable packaging by 2025. on track Packaging 12-15 impact Grow our net positive recycling position1. on track Use 100 per cent recycled or chain of custody certified papers by 2020. exceeding Fibre 16-17 sourcing Maintain 100 per cent of sites holding chain of custody certification. complete Supplier Ensure 100 per cent of our suppliers comply with our sustainability on track 18-19 standards standards by 2025. Reduce our CO2e emissions by 30 per cent per tonne of production by 2030, on track Carbon and against a 2015 baseline. 20-23 energy Ensure 100 per cent of our energy is consumed by ISO 50001 certified sites. on track Create zero water All recycled paper mills to perform at or below our on track impact2 by 2030. benchmark of 6.5 m3/tonne of production. All virgin paper mills to perform at or below our new target Water benchmark of 30 m3/tonne of production. 24-25 stewardship All operational sites in water stressed areas to have on track a mitigation plan in place. Zero non-conformances with consents to discharge. behind Waste and Send zero waste to landfill by 2030. behind 26-27 recycling Health and Zero accidents. Vision Zero Harm. on track 28-29 safety Responsible Engage in community programmes at 100 per cent of our sites3 by 2020. exceeding 30-31 neighbour Responsible Build a diverse, engaged and respected workforce. on track 32-35 employer 1. Involved in all or in part of collecting, sorting, reprocessing, managing and/or transporting a greater tonnage of material through our Recycling division than we place on the market through our Packaging division. 2. To include water quality, water stress improvements and water reduction (where feasible). 3. Sites with greater than 50 employees. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 11 Our performance Packaging impact Context More than ever before, the role of packaging in society is being scrutinised. We are seeing rapid change in public sentiment, customer expectation and legislative drivers. Across Europe, new measures to incentivise good and deter bad packaging are being proposed, from bans on single use plastics to taxes for hard to recycle materials to higher mandatory recycling rates. Packaging must adapt. The packaging of tomorrow must be simple, mono-material, recyclable in theory and recycled in practice. How we apply our Purpose: Innovating together. Thinking differently. The average European generates 170kg of packaging waste per year Source: Eurostat Of all the plastic waste produced since 1950, only 9 per cent has been recycled Source: Royal Statistical Society 85.8 per cent of corrugated packaging in Europe is recycled Source: European Paper Recycling Council 12 Our targets: Performance Reflecting the shift to a more circular economy 100 per cent and our focus on creating sustainable value-adding packaging for our customers, we have set an Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or recyclable Grow our net positive ambitious goal that not only drives the sustainability packaging by 2025 recycling position of our packaging but reflects our commitment to making recycling real. In the past year our work Our Key Performance Indicators: towards our packaging impact target has focused on definitions and data. Recyclability of fibre packaging across the industry (%) (source: CPI Paper and Board Packaging Recyclability Guidelines) Definition of recyclability Across the packaging value chain there are • 97% packaging ongoing discussions regarding the recyclability of various materials. One of the key factors in these readily recyclable discussions is the difference between ‘technically • 3% packaging recyclable’ and ‘likely to be recycled’. difficult to recycle DS Smith is leading industry conversations to determine consistent, accurate and authentic definitions, such as the development of the Confederation of Paper Industries (CPI) Packaging and Paper Recyclability Guidance and similar discussions at a European level. We are also Tonnes of material managed by our Recycling supporting multiple customers develop their division versus tonnes manufactured by our own internal guidance on packaging materials Packaging division Ratio: >1:1 and recyclability. Data 18/19 During the last year, we have conducted a data collection pilot at several of our manufacturing sites, representing a cross-section of product mix 17/18 and geography. Building our technical expertise on the definition of recyclability has been crucial during this time and we are leading the industry by moving • Recycling • Packaging away from ‘recyclable in theory’ to ‘recycled in Our next steps: practice’. This is a fundamental principle of the 1. Review data and definitions from pilot study, circular economy. ensuring alignment with industry guidance. Based on our initial data pilot and projections, we are 2. Roll out data collection to rest of business, encouraged to report that we anticipate our baseline including North America. to be very close to the percentages reported by the 3. Innovate with partners and customers to find CPI in the Paper and Board Packaging Recyclability alternatives for unrecyclable products. Guidelines. We plan to undertake a full data collection exercise during the next 12 months. Any products in our portfolio which do not meet our high standards regarding recyclability will be “The overwhelming majority of our focus going forward to 2025. the packaging we manufacture We will harness our expert designers, deploy our is 100 per cent recyclable. As a innovation, research and development workstreams and utilise our partnership with the Ellen MacArthur leader in sustainability, our target Foundation to find innovative solutions to any recyclability challenges we identify. is focused on actively challenging the areas that are not recyclable and working with our customers to identify viable alternatives.” ALAN POTTS Design and Innovations Director Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 13 Our performance: Packaging impact (continued) Net positive recycler DS Smith continues to grow a strong net positive recycling position. During 2018, over 5.1 million tonnes of recyclable material was collected, sorted, reprocessed, managed or transported by our Recycling division. This outweighs the packaging we put on the market. C  ase studies: Plastic replacement Beyond our targets Plastic replacement Corrugated tray DS Smith is actively working to reduce plastic In Greece, our designers have packaging by innovating and focusing research partnered with a customer to and development on sectors where fibre-based replace single-use plastic trays alternatives can create real value. Some of the with a corrugated alternative. challenges and opportunities of this workstream These fully recyclable trays bring greater are explained on page 15. stability, improve recycling rates within retail stores and offer new opportunities for a larger PackRight Centres marketing canvas. Through our network of PackRight Centres we are working closely with customers to maximise the Reusable corners opportunities to use packaging to protect products, DS Smith has developed a simple, optimise supply chains, and find unique solutions reusable and 100 per cent recyclable to replace plastic on-shelf and in the supply chain. packaging solution which can replace Reducing cost, the carbon impact of the just-in-time expanded polystyrene and other supply chain and reducing the end-of-life impact plastic protection materials inside of their packaging are top priorities. Food safety exterior packaging. is a key concern at this stage, and our teams are working extra hard to ensure the highest safety Zero tape standards are upheld whilst we innovate. In Germany and the UK our teams have been working on box designs which eliminate adhesive Impact Centres plastic tape – innovating with different closure The innovation days we hold at our Impact Centres mechanisms. Implementing of these designs with challenge the status quo, exploring how packaging one of our customers has already eliminated can perform better for our customers and their 18,000km of plastic tape, enough to stretch brands. With the sustainability of packaging at the halfway around the world. forefront of public awareness, on-shelf impact and the sustainability credentials of packaging Fruit punnets are inseparable. In the UK, collaboration between DS Smith, Performance packaging retailers and fruit suppliers Our focus is on packaging specified by performance, has led to the development of not by weight, which enables us to use no more a corrugated plastic-replacement material than necessary. Using our cutting-edge fruit punnet. This solution is predicted to save performance packaging technology and 12 tonnes of non-recyclable plastic packaging understanding specific supply chain variables per year, for just one of our customers. we can more scientifically identify the most appropriate specification for a particular pack. With More information and policies ever increasing scrutiny on the use of packaging in • Confederation of Paper Industries (CPI) Paper and society, optimisation and efficient use of resources Board Packaging Recyclability Guidelines are key. Our PACE offering ensures our customers protect their products without waste or excess, • DS Smith PackRight Centres supports them to achieve their corporate goals on • DS Smith Impact Centres packaging sustainability and to prepare for likely • PACE performance packaging future legislation in this area. • Chemicals management • Product safety 14 Recyclability and innovation Interview with Alex Manisty, Group Head of Strategy DS Smith has a target to manufacture recycling infrastructure. We should be looking to 100 per cent reusable or recyclable leverage existing infrastructure and proven packaging ­— is not all corrugated recyclable? technologies without delay. Fibre-based packaging provides an obvious choice. At DS Smith we estimate The majority of fibre-based packaging is fully that, using current capabilities, over 1.5 million recyclable. DS Smith was a major contributor to the tonnes (70 billion units) of plastic packaging in our Confederation of Paper Industries’ Paper and Board supermarket aisles could be replaced with fibreRecyclability Guidelines, published in February 2019, based alternatives. which found that approximately 3 per cent of fibre-based packaging is difficult to recycle How do you see your partnership with — usually because of plastic layers, metallic or the Ellen MacArthur Foundation plastics laminated packaging and moisture-resistant complementing your work in this area? coatings – for example wax coated boxes. In North One of the key challenges with plastics replacement America, our Greencoat® boxes are hugely is avoiding the tendency to get distracted with successful in offering a recyclable alternative short-term innovations. No single part of the supply to wax coated boxes. In Europe we are advising chain can hope to solve these truly global problems our customers on how to minimise laminates down alone. Change must be coordinated, must be led to less than 5 per cent of pack weight — the by experts across the industry and must be truly threshold at which the CPI guidelines state paper systemic. This can only be achieved through mills can effectively recycle a piece of packaging multi-stakeholder partnerships, like the one we — or design-out these features completely. have begun with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Plastic packaging has been a key topic and in due course with the many other world-class in the media – is this an opportunity organisations that align with the Ellen MacArthur for DS Smith? Foundation vision. Our focus will be on designing for circularity – something we are already very strong on According to our recent white paper, over 80 per – and creating and improving systems for high cent of industry leaders say reducing plastics is their quality collection and reprocessing, especially in top packaging sustainability priority. Plastic will cities. Improving recycling will not solve the problem clearly always have a role to play in a world of alone, we are working to develop products and convenience, however with 8 million tonnes of systems where we retain the full value of materials waste plastics already entering the sea every year, for re-use time and time again. it is not going to be enough to wait for reforms to 1.5 million 81% tonnes market of UK public are focused on opportunity for plastic reducing plastic packaging replacement with fibre purchases in fresh fruit and alternatives by 2030 vegetables (YouGov Poll) (DS Smith white paper) Download our white paper: dssmith.com/company/ ellen-macarthur-foundationpartnership Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 15 Our performance Fibre sourcing Context As with any manufacturing process, the quality of materials used has a significant bearing on the quality of the finished product. The same is true of the manufacture of quality paper and packaging. Both the quality and the sustainability of our core raw material, fibre, are key to our operation. With a significant number of brand owners – including many of our customers – committed to zero net deforestation by 2020, it is critical to preserve threatened forests globally. It is important to make the distinction between those forests threatened by deforestation and the use of sustainably managed forests that provide vital social and economic benefits. How we apply our Purpose: Putting sustainability at the heart. Developing the right strategies. 3.2 million seedlings are planted every day in the United States of America Source: American Forest and Paper The world would run out of recycled fibre in 6-18 months without virgin fibre Source: Two Sides North America 90 per cent of pulp used by European paper mills originates from forests in Europe Source: CEPI DS Smith performance highlights 100 per cent of sites hold chain of custody certification 100 per cent recycled or chain of custody certified papers bought by our central paper sourcing function 16 Our targets: Beyond our targets Forestry 2020 100 per cent Since the acquisition and integration of Interstate Resources and more recent acquisition of Europac, DS Smith now owns Use 100 per cent recycled Maintain 100 per cent or chain of custody of sites holding chain over 14,270 hectares of forest assets across North America, certified papers by 2020 of custody certification Portugal and Spain. The overwhelming majority – 88 per cent – of the forest holding in Portugal and Spain has a sustainable forest management certification and we are in the process of Our Key Performance Indicators: obtaining certification for our forests in North America. Percentage of papers used that are recycled or We are now developing an internal standard on forestry and chain of custody certified (%) will soon launch a new target to achieve sustainable forest Target: 100% management certification across all our owned forests. 97 18/19 Quality recycled fibres Our network of paper mills predominantly use old corrugated case (OCC) material and other fibre recyclate which has been Percentage of sites holding chain collected by our Recycling division. This raw material must of custody certification (%) meet high quality controls, especially in the face of Chinese Target: 100% restrictions on OCC imports, which has been increasing contamination in Europe. Near Infra-red technology in our mills 100 18/19 has been introduced to measure fibre quality more accurately. 95 In our recycling depots, introducing an ‘eight must haves’ quality 17/18 process has allowed us to reduce contamination in OCC bales 85 to 0.5 per cent and maintain our exports to China. New shift 16/17 patterns have also transformed depots, handling capacity, rising to 60,000 tonnes per annum (up by 50 per cent since Our next steps: 2018). DS Smith will continue to drive improvements in 1. Continue our ambition to buy all papers sustainably local recycling infrastructure and challenge the industry, through our centralised paper sourcing function participating in consultations on recycling reform and by focusing on the remaining three per cent. publishing thought leadership pieces such as the most 2. Maintain the same standards as newly integrated recent ‘Tipping Point’ report. businesses in North America and France, Spain and Portugal are brought in scope of the targets. More information and policies • DS Smith Group Sustainable Fibre Sourcing Policy • DS Smith Recycling division report: Is the UK reaching Performance a recycling ‘tipping point’? We are delighted to report that we have achieved • Paper mill certifications our target of ensuring 100 per cent of in-scope sites hold chain of custody certification. Significant progress has also been made towards our target of using 100 per cent recycled or chain of custody certified papers by 2020. An internally audited, data gathering process has confirmed that 100 per cent of the papers bought by our central paper sourcing function are sustainably sourced from recycled or chain of custody certified sources. We have established firm procedures in our central paper sourcing function to achieve this, however the challenge remains in the balance of papers which are bought locally by recently acquired box plants in the Packaging division. This is why our Group performance for this target remains at 97 per cent. We are confident we will meet this target by 2020. Based on preliminary data, we believe the remaining three per cent are sustainably sourced papers. However we need to verify this and establish robust local controls over the next year to confirm. Forestry assets in Portugal (source: CentroPinus) Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 17 Our performance Supplier standards Context As organisations’ efforts to operate more sustainably mature there is increasing focus on supply chain impact. Much like an iceberg, the most visible elements of an organisation’s environmental impact only tell part of the story. Even the supply chains of small and medium sized businesses can have vastly complex international supply chains. To that end, efforts to operate sustainably must involve using scale and purchasing power to influence suppliers and drive the highest social and environmental standards. How we apply our Purpose: Developing the right strategies. Largest retailer in the world DS Smith performance has over highlights 100,000 EcoVadis suppliers established as method to assess supplier sustainability Source: Forbes performance 18 Our target: Performance Strong progress towards the long-term target has been 2025 made over the past year. Initial work focused on categorising suppliers. Given the scale of our supply chain Ensure 100 per cent of our suppliers comply with our sustainability standards by 2025 and the variety of suppliers within it we have decided to drive our sustainability standards into our supply base using Our Key Performance Indicators: a variety of tools, with suppliers subject to an assessment commensurate to their categorisation. Our supplier Percentage of critical suppliers that comply with categorisation process was a key foundation to build from. our sustainability standards (%) Following on from this, we engaged with several third parties in order to find new or existing software solutions Target: 100% that will enable us to embed sustainability factors within 50 a broader supplier relationship management programme. 18/19 Two software systems have been identified; one to act as 19/20 interim target: a general supplier qualification system, and EcoVadis to 75% act as a rigorous sustainability rating system for suppliers categorised as either high or critical risk, or strategic. Percentage of strategic suppliers that comply with Both systems are currently being rolled out. Our Global our sustainability standards (%) Supplier Standards and Global Supplier Requirements are Target: 100% also becoming embedded as standard in our new supplier onboarding processes. 30 18/19 19/20 interim target: Beyond our targets 75% Palm oil In our North America Packaging and Paper business Our next steps: we use very small quantities of palm oil, approximately 1. Ensure all strategic and critical incumbent suppliers 3,000 tonnes per annum, as a substitute for wax coatings digitally sign up to our supplier standards. for boxes. Whilst wax coating renders a box unrecyclable 2. Assess sustainability performance of strategic and due to the problems it causes in the pulping process, critical incumbent suppliers via EcoVadis. our alternative coating is fully recyclable. To ensure 3. Embed sustainability standards into all business sustainable sourcing of this material, over the course of the procurement processes and assess effectiveness past year we have developed and implemented a palm oil across geographies. policy stipulating the use of segregated palm oil wherever possible. Unfortunately, in the US we do not purchase palm oil in sufficient quantities to qualify for segregated volumes. As a result, we source palm oil to the mass balance “Ensuring our supplier base is standard, the next most sustainable option, and will review this as availability changes. managed in a responsible manner More information and policies is of the utmost importance to • DS Smith Group Supplier Standards Policy us. We have set an ambitious • DS Smith Global Supplier Standard • Supplier landing page target and our stakeholders can have complete confidence that C  ase study: DS Smith is only working with supplier reduction suppliers who match our high ethical standards.” Since its launch in 2018, DS Smith’s supplier reduction initiative has had excellent results. The programme is live in eight countries: UK, Nordics, Germany, France and Spain. To date, over 11,000 suppliers have been made MARTIN SPICE unavailable to purchase from as part of the drive to have Procurement Director fewer, more responsible suppliers. In addition to bringing significant working capital benefits to our business, it has also reduced the sustainability risks associated with sourcing. This will allow us to focus on the sustainability standards and performance of the remaining suppliers. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 19 Our performance Carbon and energy Context Climate change is one of the biggest global issues of this century. It presents policy makers and businesses of all sizes and in all industries with both a unique range of market opportunities and a significant array of challenges. Public demand for action continues to be on the rise, with an estimated 1.4 million pupils going on school strike across the world in the past year, a swathe of citizen-led lawsuits and continued increases in emissions. A combination of efficiency, financial and moral incentives to reduce emissions exist, but access to finance and investment cycles continues to pose the biggest challenge to the paper industry. The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) has recently published a 2050 Roadmap; mapping the decarbonisation pathway to 80 per cent emission reduction. They estimate an extra €24 billion of low-carbon investments will be required across energy efficiency, fuel switching, demand-side flexibility and emerging technologies to meet this target. How we apply our Purpose: Putting sustainability at the heart. €24 billion DS Smith performance highlights investments in low-carbon technology are estimated to be needed in the pulp and 6.1 per cent like-for-like reduction in paper industry to reach Paris carbon emissions per tonne Accord ambitions of production 82 per cent Source: CEPI 81 per cent of DS Smith’s energy is consumed by sites with of the world’s energy mix comes ISO 50001 certification from fossil fuels Source: International Energy Council 20 Our targets: Performance At DS Smith we are committed to reducing our 30 per cent 100 per cent emissions. Our approach to achieving our ambitious emissions reduction target is split into two areas: Reduce our CO2e Ensure 100 per cent of emissions by 30 per cent, our energy is consumed by • fuel switching per tonne of production, ISO 50001 certified sites by 2030 against a • energy efficiency initiatives. 2015 baseline On a like for like basis our net carbon figures for 2018 fell by 5.1 per cent on 2017 values, with Our Key Performance Indicators: emissions relative to production falling by 6.1 per cent. Energy efficiency initiatives continue to make CO2e emissions per tonne of production strong progress. The global programme to replace (kg CO2e/tonne nsp) high bay lighting with LED lamps is complete in the UK, Italy, Iberia and Poland, with progress continuing Target: 146 across Germany, France and Eastern Europe. 193 Fuel-switching projects take much longer to 2018 implement but have higher carbon returns in the 206 long term. 2017 209 Our strategic goal to lead the way in sustainability 2016 drives investment in low carbon technology. For example, our UK paper mill, Kemsley, is installing a Percentage of energy consumed by ISO 50001 new Combined Heat-Power (CHP) plant which will certified sites (%) save 36,000t of CO2e per annum and is in the Target: 100% process of switching to a third-party heat supplier 82 which will save 62,000t of CO2e per annum. ISO 18/19 50001 is our management mechanism for monitoring progress against targets at a site-level, Our next steps: whilst we also look to identify breakthrough 1. Continue implementation of energy efficiency technologies in collaboration with the industry. programmes including LED lighting, CHP installations and fuel switching projects. It is of note that the increased outputs of lighter, higher performance packaging have a negative 2. Complete roll out of ISO 50001 in Europe and impact on carbon emissions relative to production North America. tonnage. Required energy inputs, the single biggest 3. Conduct scoping exercises and collaborate with component of our carbon figures, do not change in CEPI on breakthrough carbon reduction direct correlation with the grammage of paper technologies to identify opportunities. outputs. In this context the past year’s reduction is an excellent achievement. As expected, our absolute CO2e emissions have risen “Reducing our carbon emissions by 13.2 per cent since the inclusion of North America Packaging and Paper division in our carbon reporting. is not just about meeting legal The two paper mills in this division are now scoping targets or moral imperatives; it is out investment opportunities for carbon reduction. Our approach to acquisitions means we often just good business. The cost of integrate businesses that have not had the same environmental focus, which can have a negative energy and carbon is significant; impact on our net and relative emissions. We view it makes financial sense for this as a healthy challenge, and part of our Purpose, to implement the right strategies and put us to invest to operate sustainability at the heart of newly acquired sites. more efficiently.” Long-term confidence We remain confident in our ability to reach our long-term target which we believe to be aligned with the Paris Accord – however we are in the JIM MORGAN process of verifying this and will amend if necessary. President and CEO, North America Packaging and Paper Our carbon intensity like-for-like is 7.5 per cent lower (6.8 per cent lower including North America) Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 21 Our performance: Carbon and energy (continued) against a 2015 baseline, although we expect this to increase next year as new paper mills come in scope. The energy intensive nature of paper mills remains Case study: paper power a challenge for the whole industry, therefore the next steps of our strategy are crucial. DS Smith’s Kemsley paper mill in Kent, which reprocesses 30 per cent of the UK’s recycled paper and card, has Beyond our targets signed an agreement with energy provider E.ON to construct a state-of-the-art Combined Heat and Power Climate-related Financial Disclosures (CHP) facility. The new plant will reduce carbon emissions DS Smith supports the recommendations by 36,000 tonnes per year and will have an electrical published by the Financial Stability Board’s Task capacity of c. 75MW. The mill has also recently installed a Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures new Anaerobic Digestion plant which will turn waste into (TCFD). These are a series of recommendations, gas and grow the site’s renewable energy consumption. aimed at addressing the financial impact of climate change on businesses worldwide. Our analysis (see table below, or page 35 of DS Smith Annual report More information and policies and accounts 2019) confirms that we are delivering • DS Smith Carbon and Energy Efficiency Policy against seven recommendations and expect to meet • DS Smith CDP Climate Change submission more next year. • CEPI Investing in Europe for Industry Transformation 2050 Roadmap The principal climate-related risks we identified are carbon pricing regulation and customer behaviour, • TCFD website which are now integrated into our Group risk practices and governance structure. We are now working to quantify the financial impacts of these risks, based on several climate change scenarios, and will set plans to mitigate them. Disclosure Reference Governance Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Annual report and accounts 2019 pg 34, 55 Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and Annual report and accounts 2019 pg 34 opportunities. Strategy Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified Website article on climate risks Website over the short, medium, and long term. CDP Climate Change Website Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s Website article on climate risks Website businesses, strategy, and financial planning. CDP Climate Change Website Describe the potential impact of different scenarios, including a 2° c scenario, on the – – organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. Risks and opportunities Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related Website article on climate risks Website risks. Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks. – – Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks Annual report and accounts 2019 pg 49 are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management. Sustainability Report 2019 pg 39 Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and – – opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) CDP Climate Change Website emissions, and the related risks. Sustainability Report 2019 pg 44 Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate‑related risks and Annual report and accounts 2019 pg 32 opportunities and performance against targets. Sustainability Report 2019 pg 9, 21, 22 22 Financing the low carbon economy Interview with Adrian Marsh, Group Finance Director What are the pressures driving increasing industry must invest in four areas: energy efficiency; investor and business interest in demand-side flexibility and price hedging; fuel climate change? switching; and breakthrough technologies. DS Smith is aligned with this roadmap, including the 80 per Investors and insurance companies are increasingly cent by 2050 target, and is already implementing aware of these emerging risks which have the most of these strategies. However we are potential to disrupt operations or create stranded dependent on long-term technological innovation. assets. This requires a much longer-term and holistic It is also interesting to see the growth of outlook on investments. Investors are therefore sustainability-related financing, such as green increasingly moving beyond only financial measures, bonds and other ringfenced funds, which could and are increasingly integrating ESG (Environmental, provide future opportunities. As the price of Social and Governance) factors into their portfolios. renewables achieves cost parity with fossil fuels At DS Smith, we perform well in these, including our and carbon prices rise, the roadmap to operating low recently improved score of A-grade in MSCI and carbon or carbon-neutral facilities becomes clearer inclusion in the FTSE4Good indices again. and more feasible. Pressure from governments is also a significant People often focus on the challenges driver, through regulations such as the Nonof climate change. What opportunities Financial Reporting Directive and through bespoke do you see? institutions being formed to tackle climate change issues, such as TCFD and the UK Green Finance We are ready to capitalise on the growing demand Institute. In Europe, the carbon price has tripled for more carbon efficient products and packaging. since this time last year. This is a significant financial Our partnership with the Ellen MacArthur driver for our energy and climate change strategies. Foundation will help us maximise these. As an industry based on biomaterials, we believe there is You have a carbon reduction target for a great opportunity to become more sophisticated in 2030. How are you thinking beyond this? our understanding of carbon cycles. We are continuing to evolve our understanding of how our Given the long capital cycles of equipment in the ventures into forest ownership provide new paper industry, it is imperative for us to have a much opportunities in carbon sequestering and offsetting. longer-term outlook with regards to energy and low In the US, we have a huge opportunity to lead the carbon investments. The CEPI ‘2050 Roadmap to a way in sustainability through greenfield sites; to low-carbon bioeconomy’ report articulates this very build state-of-the-art, efficient, low carbon facilities well. To achieve the required emission reduction which are resilient to future climate-related risks. pathways mapped out in the Paris Accord, the $1 trillion 75% capital secured by ESG of investors are seeking portfolios to date (Reuters) to address climate change in their funds and portfolios. (Global Impact Investing Network) Download the CEPI 2050 Roadmap: cepi.org/publication/investingeurope-industry-transformation2050-roadmap-low-carbonbioeconomy Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 23 Our performance Water stewardship Context From drinking and growing food to mixing cement and cooling data centres, water is a vital and increasingly strained resource. By 2050 about 500 million people are likely to be living in water-stressed areas, according to the Stockholm Resilience Centre. Such issues are not likely to be confined to commonly perceived arid regions of the world. For example, the World Wildlife Fund has recently reported that the UK could run out of freshwater in 25 years, Spain and South Africa have both faced water emergencies in the last five years. In the paper and corrugated production process, water is critical. Fibres are suspended in water as they are transported through production, from pulp into paper and then superheated steam is used to dry the paper. In our corrugated plants, water is also used to dilute starch and bond layers of paper together to create corrugated board. How we apply our Purpose: Putting sustainability at the heart. 25 years DS Smith performance highlights C  ase study: copper-free inks until the UK could run out of freshwater 40 per cent Source: World Wildlife Fund of our mills are at or below our Green and gold inks lead to higher copper water consumption benchmark levels in wastewater. Growing awareness 500 million of this environmental impact has led DS Smith sites in the UK and Nordics to people are likely to be living in alter their sales and specification strategy. water-stressed areas by 2050 These sites are now offering copperless Source: Stockholm Resilience Centre and EKO-gold inks to customers. 24 Our targets: Performance As a water-intensive business, it is important that Water stewardship we consume, recycle and treat the water we use responsibly and efficiently, so that we minimise Create zero water impact by 2030 —— Water efficiency: all paper mills to perform our impact when we return water to the natural at or below our benchmark of 6.5 m3/tonne environment. To that end we have specific targets of production for recycled paper mills and on water efficiency, quality and stress. 30 m3/tonne of production for virgin paper mills Based on industry Best Available Techniques (BAT), —— Water quality: zero non-conformances with we have identified an efficient level of water use of consents to discharge 6.5m3/tonne of production for recycled mills and —— Water stress: all operational sites in water 30m3/tonne of production for virgin mills. Against stressed areas to have a mitigation plan in place a long-term target of 100 per cent, 40 per cent of our mills operate at or below this benchmark. Our Key Performance Indicators: There is a delicate and technical balance to be maintained, as reducing water, offset with chemical Percentage of paper mills performing use, can lead to an increase in energy consumption. at or below our benchmark (%) Sites operating above the benchmark are now Target: 100% exploring water efficiency opportunities and developing three-year plans. 40 18/19 Over 80 per cent of the water we extract for our own purposes is returned to be treated via our own or Number of non-conformances with municipal effluent treatment. The remaining water consents to discharge is lost by evaporation or through starch dilution. Target: 0 During 2018 we had no major non-conformances 59 with consents to discharge and 59 minor non18/19 conformances. Incidents are reported centrally and to local authorities where appropriate. Percentage of water stressed sites Investigations are carried out and lessons learned with mitigation plans in place (%) disseminated through the business. An ongoing Target: 100% challenge we faced across multiple sites was to 70 reduce copper levels in wastewater, caused by 18/19 certain printing inks – this has been a focus of our efforts this year. All our sites monitor COD, BOD and Our next steps: AOX levels, pH and suspended solids to ensure the 1. Develop three-year plan for each paper mill waste water is purified, ecologically safe and meets to reach the target, including new virgin mills. regulatory requirements. 2. Initiate projects in paper mills operating above Our final water stewardship priority is water water consumption benchmark. stress. Using the World Resources Institute (WRI) 3. Develop methodology to stress-test the water methodology, we have assessed all of our sites contingency plans. through this robust methodology and created a water stress map. It has been identified that 24 out of 250 our sites (four mills and 20 corrugators) are located in current or potentially future water “Water is a limited resource in stressed regions. In line with our target, 70 per cent Italy. Our mitigation plan focuses of our sites have already created water stress mitigation plans. on implementing the most efficient water treatment and Beyond our targets In addition to managing our own wastewater, recirculation technology whilst we also provide additional wastewater treatment maintaining strict controls on services to local communities at some of our sites. In 2018, we treated over 556,690m3 on behalf connected issues.” of third-party organisations. More information and policies • DS Smith Water Stewardship Policy LIDO FERRI, • DS Smith CDP Water Security submission Environmental Manager, Lucca Paper Mill • WRI Water Stress methodology Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 25 Our performance Waste and recycling Context Rising raw material prices, landfill taxes, the growth of energy-fromwaste, ambitious legislative and voluntary recycling targets; changing shopping habits and public outrage over ocean plastic pollution; it is a period of intense focus for recycling, waste and resource efficiency. As a manufacturer, we are acutely aware of our responsibility to reduce waste and create closed-loop systems which extract the maximum value from resources through the waste hierarchy of reduce, reuse, recycle and recover. How we apply our Purpose: Putting sustainability at the heart. OECD countries generate DS Smith performance 4.6 billion highlights tonnes of waste, per annum <1 per cent waste to landfill in the DS Smith Source: Accenture Strategy, Waste to Wealth Packaging division $1 trillion 63 per cent of total waste arisings sent annual lost value through for recycling waste which could be recycled but is not Source: Accenture Strategy, Waste to Wealth 26 Our target: Performance Waste is a resource at DS Smith. We apply this Zero waste to landfill principle not only to our circular business model, but also to our everyday operations. Zero waste to landfill by 2030 As a Group, we sent 63 per cent of our waste to Our Key Performance Indicators: recycling, 16 per cent to landfill, 11 per cent to incineration and 10 per cent to landspread during Total waste to landfill (kilotonnes) 2018. Whilst we have a developed roadmap of Target: 0 strategic projects, we have not made the progress 164 towards our zero waste to landfill ambition that 2018 we would have liked. Our net landfill figures have 118 increased by 39 per cent like-for-like. 2017 97 Most of this impact comes from our paper mills 2016 where we have several difficult to recycle waste streams – including approximately 32,000 tonnes Our next steps: of plastic contamination which is extracted from our 1. Create a common set of standards for waste pulping process every year – and some unanticipated segregation, reuse and recycling to implement disruptions from old waste-handling machinery. across all locations. As has been widely reported in the media, Chinese 2. Develop three-year road map for all paper mills. waste import restrictions have had a significant impact on waste management in Europe, resulting in an increase of higher contamination fibre bales. Group waste management, by end destination (%) Inclusion of the North America Packaging and Paper division has also had a significant impact on our net and relative landfill figures, as we have inherited an • 63% recycling on-site landfill at the paper mill in Georgia. National • 16% incineration recycling infrastructure is more limited in the US, • 11% landfill compared to Europe. In our Packaging division, • 10% landspread performance is much stronger. Waste to landfill is less than one per cent of total waste arisings as these facilities have well organised waste streams and are equipped with underfloor conveyor belts, which transport pre-consumer off-cuts back to paper mills as high-quality pre-consumer feedstock. We continue to strive towards zero waste to landfill. Despite the results, we firmly believe in our “Colliding market factors – social, responsibility to minimise our impact and believe our Recycling division is a key part of the solution. economic and geopolitical – Recognising that waste challenges are often best addressed locally, our focus next year is to create continue to have a lasting impact paper mill-specific, long-term zero waste to landfill on the waste performance of our roadmaps in Europe and North America. own facilities, and the state of More information and policies • DS Smith Zero Waste to Landfill Policy recycling in the countries where we are based. The UK in particular  ase study: unrecyclable C is facing a tipping point as plastic transformed recycling performance stagnates.” We are closing the loop on plastic waste streams from paper mills. Our De Hoop mill has partnered with Fermacell, a subsidiary of James Hardie, which uses paper JOCHEN BEHR and magazines as a raw material to produce their gypsum Head of Recycling boards. As these types of paper are getting more scarce, this partnership has been investigating the use of 4,000 Find out more, download our report: tonnes per year of paper mill rejects as a substitute. dssmith.com/recycling/insights/recycling-tipping-point Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 27 Our performance Health and safety Context With global consumption of products growing at a rate of three per cent per year over the last 30 years (source: World Bank), and e-commerce experiencing exponential growth, industry has never had to work harder. Meeting high expectations around on-time delivery in full, speed to market demands, quality and profit expectations without exploiting energy, resources and employees is an enormous challenge. There is a changing mindset. The average person spends 90,000 hours of their life working (source: Forbes). However, growing research and awareness around wellbeing, mental health and happiness is now driving businesses to consider the softer impacts which the workplace can have on human health. Employers are recognising their responsibility to not only prevent physical harm, but also to provide advice and support on health and wellbeing. How we apply our Purpose: Developing the right strategies. Thinking differently. Mental health problems DS Smith performance in the workplace cost the highlights 23 per cent global economy €900 billion reduction in our Accident per year in lost productivity Frequency Rate Source: World Health Organization 3 per cent improvement in positive Every year in the European employee survey responses Union, there are around to “My Manager shows 5,600 a commitment to H&S” fatal work-related accidents Source: EU-OSHA 28 Our targets: Performance Welcome to our renewed health and safety strategyZero Accidents. Vision Zero! At DS Smith we aim to foster a culture Vision Zero Harm. where both health and safety are an integral part of our business activities and where we strive to ensure people are not harmed. The health and safety of all Our Key Performance Indicators:1 people – employees, agency workers, contractors and visitors – is our top priority. Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) Our Vision Zero strategy consists of four key areas Target: 0 – leadership; engagement; processes and systems; 112 and culture. Each of these has a goal, with annual 18/19 activities and KPIs. The Leadership Goal – ‘All 146 17/18 Managers Lead by Example’ – resulted in more than 170 of our existing site managers completing our bespoke health and safety Leadership on-boarding Programme this year. The learning from this Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) programme contributed to a Group-wide 3 per cent Target: 0 improvement in positive employee survey responses to “My Manager shows by his / her behaviour, 2.3 18/19 a commitment to health and safety”. 3.0 17/18 This year we have also implemented our first Groupwide auditing programme, created and deployed four new technical health and safety minimum standards and introduced a new pro-active KPI – our HS Number of sites with zero LTAs Engagement Rate. This measures the number of near 265 misses and safety observations per person across the 18/19 Group – hence our people’s engagement with seeing 239 and raising health and safety issues. 17/18 207 This activity, commitment and drive have resulted 16/17 in us achieving all our annual Vision Zero Goal KPIs for the year and a 23 per cent reduction when Our next steps: including businesses acquired in our Accident 1. Integrate pro-active indicators, designed to achieve Frequency Rate. In addition, 265 sites achieved a zero zero harm, into health and safety award criteria. accidents award and we are seeing exceptional 2. Focus on line manager ownership and accountability. progress in our North America Packaging and Paper 3. Introduce cross auditing. division. Our aim is to continue the journey towards 4. Implement our Zero Harm cultural tool to encourage a sustainable world-class performance. However, sites to assess their current state and provide a tragic accident in our Tallinn plant, that resulted in guidance on how to move to the next. the fatality of a colleague, has overshadowed all our performance improvements. Our thoughts are with 1. Based on inclusion of North America. their family, colleagues and friends as we support them and the local authority investigation. “Everyone who comes to work in our sites should go home healthy Case study: Health MOTs and safe. Aspiring to Zero Harm for employees means expanding our vision to For the third year running our UK paper mill, Kemsley, include accidents, incidents, has set up a best practice ‘Health MOT’ programme for its employees. This consists of regular cholesterol health and wellbeing.” and glucose testing, BMI measuring, and blood pressure checks. All employees receive a personalised report with their results and advice to support them in any areas JULIE WESCOTT, highlighted or in their overall health. Group Health and Safety Director Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 29 Our performance Responsible neighbour Context The digital age, and in particular social media, has given every member of the public a voice and the opportunity to hold business, politicians and institutions to account. This has led to much higher expectations on business. In communities, companies – particularly large manufacturing operations – have a significant impact on local life through many areas including employment, transport and infrastructure. Businesses are expected to clearly communicate the nature of their business, the scale of their operations but critically what they are giving back to society. A company will draw on local skills, infrastructure and resources to build a successful, profitable business so it must show how it also contributes to a prospering community. Communication with all stakeholders in the community is vital in creating strong relationships and shared objectives in a growing and thriving local economy. How we apply our Purpose: Putting sustainability at the heart. C  ase study: 53 per cent DS Smith performance highlights poster challenge of Americans expect companies to improve the local community 81 per cent In 2019, DS Smith held a global poster of sites engaged in challenge for school-age children of our Source: Mintel community activities employees and their families. This kickstarted our Communities Programme 25 per cent and raised awareness of the programme, of charitable giving in Europe generating a buzz of activity. Across the comes from corporations business we received 694 poster submissions from 23 countries across Source: Ernop Europe and North America. 30 Our target: Performance To be a responsible neighbour we want to empower 100 per cent employees to solve sustainability challenges and inspire future generations within our local Engage in community programmes at 100 per cent of our sites by 2020 communities. Our Purpose puts sustainability at the heart, which not only applies to our own operations, Our Key Performance Indicators: but also by using our expertise and knowledge to support and educate our customers, local schools, Percentage of sites taking part in governments, friends and families. community activities (%) This is another area in which we have had great Target: 100% success over the past year. Almost doubling our 81 performance from the previous year, 81 per cent 18/19 of our sites are now active in their local communities. 43 In January 2019 we launched the DS Smith 17/18 Community Programme which has received great Our next steps: internal and external support with an informal 1. Implement divisional action plans to achieve network of divisional leads. The consistent, Group100 per cent and share progress via a calendar wide community programme is facilitated by local of Group-wide activities. budgets set aside at each site to develop activities in two key areas: 2. Provide support to regions, countries and sites with lower engagement. • Environment: supporting the improvement and 3. Work closely with newly acquired businesses protection of the environment to integrate them into the programme. • Future generations: inspiring and educating future generations in a growing digital world by using our industry expertise and knowledge “As a business that operates During the first six months of the new programme, over 30 sustainability and recycling school sessions in hundreds of communities have been organised, engaging children around the across the world, we have world in protecting the environment. Encouraged by this achievement in a short space of time, we a responsibility to clearly eagerly await the continued growth of this initiative. communicate what we do, Beyond our targets how we do it and vitally, what DS Smith also operates a Charitable Foundation we are contributing to local life. which provides financial support to charities that align with our own activities and values. The Our employees’ skills and foundation primarily supports individuals and groups with charity and community activities outside the knowledge can contribute scope of the official DS Smith community significantly to many of the programme. These include groups which are: communities where we operate. • engaged in improving or conserving the environment We actively participate with • providing training and educational opportunities schools, governments and In 2018/19, over £250,000 was donated. In May partners to tackle environmental 2019, to reinforce the value of sustainability education, DS Smith Charitable Foundation issues and support local causes.” announced it will be making over £1 million available. This will provide a significant boost to current funding and will kickstart more local projects that will make a real difference. GREG DAWSON, Corporate Affairs Director More information and policies • DS Smith Group Community Engagement Policy • DS Smith Charitable Foundation website • Announcement on £1 million fund Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 31 Our performance Responsible employer Context The global workforce is changing. Today, people expect to enjoy several different careers, with a variety of companies often across geographies. Today’s workforce demands responsible employers, and companies need to respond in order to attract and retain the best talent by creating working environments in which everyone has equal opportunities, feels valued and can fulfil their potential. How we apply our Purpose: Developing the right strategies. Putting sustainability at the heart. 10 per cent DS Smith performance highlights of the workforce of FTSE 100 companies are of BME (black or minority ethnic) origin >50 per cent female uptake in 2018 Source: Hays graduate programme 88 per cent of millennials want to work for purpose-driven companies whose values reflect their own Source: PwC, Workforce of the Future survey 32 Our target(s): Performance At DS Smith, we provide direct employment and Our workforce livelihoods for over 28,000 people. However, Build a diverse, engaged and respected workforce the impact we have is much more wide-reaching, —— Annual improvement in the diversity of senior extending out to the communities in which our management employees live and work, and to our contractors, —— Continuous improvement in employee engagement suppliers, customers and charitable partners. and enablement We are connected to a truly global community. —— Embed best practice ethical, labour and Our Responsible Employer target is split into three employment standards focus areas which address diversity, engagement and treating our people with respect. Our Key Performance Indicators: Diversity In our business, we seek to attract, recruit and retain Gender diversity of senior management people from diverse backgrounds and build upon (number of persons) their range of skills and strengths. Whilst metrics 128 18 around gender are relatively well established, this is 18/19 not the case for a wider range of diversity topics. 118 16 17/18 Therefore, over the past year we have challenged 118 14 ourselves to focus on identifying relevant metrics 16/17 beyond gender, establishing our baselines and • Male • Female determining methods for measuring progress. The measures we will take forward are: Ethnic diversity of senior management • Improvement in the gender, ethnic origin • British 32% and nationality diversity of our Board and • French 13% senior management • Italian 11% • Improvement in the Hampton Alexander Review • German 9% Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) forum has • Spanish 7% representatives from every division, and our • American 7% Minorities Working Group within the European Works • Belgian 4% Council (EWC) has been set up to grow knowledge, • Dutch 4% drive awareness, challenge the status quo and • Danish 3% develop recommendations for future activities. • Other 10% In addition, we are delighted to report that our Our next steps: graduate programme has increased female 1. Develop new measures to track diversity of talent representation by approximately 10 per cent per attraction and recruitment processes. year, reaching over 50 per cent female uptake in 2018. Similarly, our Global Leadership Programme 2. Roll out unconscious bias awareness training to senior has increased female representation to 31 per cent. management and embed this into the Management Fundamentals course for all new joiners. We have not set targets for female representation, 3. Develop employee engagement action plans for all in order to avoid positive discrimination. However divisions and regions. we see these results as an encouraging sign that 4. Embed employee engagement common and core our hiring and career progression opportunities objectives into the Personal Development Review are unbiased and are genuinely focused on the of all people managers. best talent. 5. Establish accountability structures for new target on zero non-conformances in ethical audits. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 33 Our performance: Responsible employer (continued) Gender diversity of the Board (number of persons) “We are building a diverse, 18/19 7 2 engaged and respected 17/18 6 2 workforce who are agile and 16/17 6 2 forward leaning to innovate • Male • Female and deliver for our customers. In order to create meaningful Gender diversity of the Group (number of persons) 23,271 6,879 change, this needs to be role 18/19 22,020 6,284 modelled at the highest levels 17/18 of our business.” 20,036 5,607 16/17 • Male • Female JACKY WEARN, Hampton Alexander Review score Group Head of Talent 24.0 2018 Engagement 15.2 Evidence shows that an engaged workforce leads 2017 to a more productive, happier, safer workforce. Our biennial employee survey is a crucial measure Two years ago we launched our Employee Charter, for how engaged our workforce is and provides which was a huge step forward in employee valuable insight into how we can continue to build relations and provides greater clarity in what is a culture of engagement. expected from employees of DS Smith – and what they can expect in return. This continues to be the Everyone in the business has a part to play in bedrock of all our activities in this area. building a culture of engagement and our continued focus is on addressing the feedback from the survey This year, we worked closely with the 43 EWC across all divisions, regions, countries and sites. members to review and revise our joint voluntary agreement to create a simpler EWC model that is Respect more closely aligned to our business, with flexibility DS Smith and its subsidiaries are committed to the to adapt as we continue to grow to meet the highest ethical standards and full integrity in the changing needs of our customers. This revised way in which we engage with each other and our voluntary agreement will last five years. customers, staff, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders. This is the first and foremost way we Code of Conduct show respect. As a strategic supplier to many of the The DS Smith Code of Conduct sets out one most recognisable FMCG brands, we have a duty to common ethical standard for our business. provide the highest level of assurance that their It describes common rules which apply to all of our packaging is ethically sourced and that we operate employees, and provides guidance on our approach in line with the International Labour Organization. to ethical business practices, environmental values, We have a number of different ways in which we and human and labour rights. It is made available to embed respect for our people into our business. all employees as part of their induction, and has These are detailed below. been translated into 27 languages. European Works Council The purpose of our European Works Council (EWC) is to bring together employee representatives from the different European countries where we operate and discuss business decisions which affect the workforce and impact on the interest of employees. Representatives are informed and consulted by Group management on transnational issues. 34 Verifying our ethical standards For all 3,000 line managers across DS Smith, alignment with our company values and Code of Conduct is monitored via self-assessment against our nine Management Standards. For sites, alignment against these standards is monitored via the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Download our (Sedex), on which 100 per cent of our sites are Code of Conduct registered and are required to complete the self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). This provides direct and transparent insight into the ethical management practices at every site. Next year we will be taking this target to a new level of ambition. We will be aiming towards zero nonconformances in third party ethical audits. These audits currently take place across a third of our sites and, modelled on our approach to health and safety, we are confident that this new approach will drive a culture of best practice in ethics, labour and Download employment practices. DS Smith UK Modern Slavery Gender Pay Gap Our approach is governed by the DS Smith Antireport 2018 Slavery and Human Trafficking policy and a Modern Slavery Committee which meets once per quarter, and our progress is outlined in our annual Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. Activities are focused on two areas: our own business and in our suppliers’ businesses, where we seek to implement and enforce effective controls to ensure Modern Slavery is not occurring. The resulting projects are tightly aligned with and embedded within the action plans for the Download sustainability targets: Supplier Standards (see pages DS Smith Modern 18-19) and Responsible Employer. Slavery Statement 2017/18 More information and policies • Code of Conduct • DS Smith Modern Slavery Policy • DS Smith Modern Slavery statement • DS Smith UK Gender Pay Gap report Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 35 Our next challenge 36 “The pressures to operate sustainably across the value chain are greater than they have ever been, from sourcing paper in a way that protects forests, minimising emissions from manufacturing to ensuring our products are recyclable and recycled in practice. Our targets and the progress we have made in the past year are evidence of our focus on managing these issues. However, as a leader in our sector, our aim is to take advantage of the opportunities, not just manage the risks. How can we use our skills and expertise not just to align with, but to facilitate, the shift to a circular economy? That is the next challenge.” SAM JONES Sustainability Strategy and Communications Manager Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 37 Ethics, governance and risk Transparency and good corporate governance “DS Smith’s sustainability activities have reached new levels of maturity over the last couple of years. We are challenging ourselves every day, across the whole business, to put sustainability at the heart of what we do.” Letter from Iain Simm, Chairman of the As part of the wider business community, I am Sustainability Steering Group pleased to reaffirm DS Smith’s commitment to the DS Smith’s sustainability activities have reached following high-level international standards: new levels of maturity over the last couple of years. This is reflected in our excellent progress against • United Nations Global Compact sustainability targets; through the launch of our • United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Purpose and the announcement of our new and the Convention on the Rights of the Child partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. • International Labour Organization Eight We are challenging ourselves every day, across the Fundamental Conventions whole business, to put sustainability at the heart • Organisation for Economic Co-operation of what we do. and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises In particular, we continue to make progress on • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals carbon reduction and our work on chain of custody certification and purchasing sustainable papers has Looking forward, three of our sustainability targets been better than expected. Our engagement with have 2020 deadlines. As these become business local communities has also had incredible traction as usual, we will go through the exciting process both internally and externally. I am also particularly of setting new ones. Therefore, in late 2019, we will pleased with how we continue to integrate newly conduct a full materiality refresh to give us valuable acquired businesses and bring them into line with insight into further topics and trends we need to our high sustainability standards. Our North America address. The Sustainability Steering Group will then Packaging and Paper division will begin to deliver assess and advise on the next projects required to against our targets in financial year 2019/20 and our further embed and improve the maturity of our ex-Europac sites in Iberia and France will come in to programmes to bring us ever closer to our goal to scope the following year. lead the way in sustainability. Once again we have maintained or improved our scores in a range of customer and ESG benchmarks, including EcoVadis, CDP and MSCI, and I am proud that we have again produced a Sustainability Report that is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative IAIN SIMM, (GRI) best practice sustainability reporting Chairman of the Sustainability Steering Group guidelines, reflecting both our commitment to operating ever more sustainably, and to being transparent about the progress we make. 38 Sustainability governance of trading. Building trust in our mitigation plans, report on and monitor Since the launch of our sustainability stakeholders and protecting our the adequacy of management controls, targets in July 2018, we have reputation are crucial, as they lead and assign roles and responsibilities. strengthened the governance of to repeat business and sustainable sustainability in our divisions, embedding financial growth. Monitoring ethics and With these practices, we are becoming accountability for performance across compliance and providing annual training ever more resilient. We also see the business and ensuring decisions on to our employees are the responsibility a growing interplay between how key issues are made at the correct level. of our legal teams. All employees are we manage our principal risks and our encouraged to report suspected sustainability priorities. Specifically, At DS Smith, the ultimate accountability misconduct or unethical behaviour our efforts enable us to: for our sustainability strategy and via our SpeakUp! policy. performance is with the Group Chief • minimise business disruption due Executive. However, responsibility Managing sustainability risks to tightening regulations on energy, for making certain strategic decisions, At DS Smith, sustainability-related risks water and fibre usage achieving targets and progressing are embedded in everything we do. Our • avoid the impact of prolonged labour projects is delegated to various other management teams in legal, risk, safety unrest, or failure to maintain groups as described in the chart below. and sustainability within the Corporate satisfactory labour relations Services function provide guidance and • prevent reputational damage due Sustainability topics discussed by the oversight on such topics which allows to the increasing public concern Board in financial year 2018/19 include: the Group to respond to the complexities surrounding packaging of operating in an ever-changing world. • minimise the increased costs arising • Purpose The creation of the HSES committee last from climate change, extreme weather • Performance against targets year is an example of the importance and events and the impact of our approach • Performance in benchmarks the increasing internal and external to energy management. • Performance in health and safety stakeholder interest in not just what we • Sustainability maturity do but how we do it: our ethics, how we Using the above criteria and our • Carbon pricing manage emerging risks such as water biennial materiality analysis, our risk stress and the impacts of climate change, management and sustainability teams • Modern slavery the way we deliver our results and live up work together to apply the precautionary • Gender pay gap to our sustainability commitments. principle. Through the guidance of our Managing compliance executive management, including the We support the TCFD recommendations Group Operating Committee and Group Ethical business conduct and compliance and have integrated climate risk into Strategy Committee, we identify and with local, national and international our Group risk practices and governance. classify sustainability risks which could legislation are fundamental to our way Through our business processes, impact the integrity of our operations, of doing business. Embedding an ethical we routinely look to identify risks whilst seeking to harness opportunities approach to business is increasingly and uncertainties and gather timely to operate more sustainably. a licence to operate and a condition information allowing us to implement Sustainability governance framework Board Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability (HSES) committee Our Group Chief Executive and Group Operating Committee oversee and review divisional and Group sustainability performance processes, standards and strategies and monitor compliance with responsibilities and commitments. Sustainability Steering Group Core Sustainability Team Cross-divisional and multi-functional group which leads Creates, facilitates and coordinates delivery delivery of sustainability strategy. Contains Director of framework for achieving strategic goal to lead level membership from multiple divisions. the way in sustainability. Divisional and functional management Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 39 Our stakeholder engagement Understanding and influencing Communication with our stakeholders is an essential building block of our sustainability strategy and activities. Engagement with a wide range of stakeholders enables us to highlight key topics to further develop or validate, and enables us to influence policy, standards and expectations across our industry. Stakeholder Who we engaged with What they told us Customers DS Smith has seen brand and retailer interest in Driven by consumer trends and government sustainability double over the last three years. regulations, customers are digging deeper into As a result, the sustainability team has gained the sustainability comparisons of different insight from over 150 companies per year across product specifications. Technical expectations FMCG, pharmaceutical, industrial, electronics and around sustainable design are on the rise. retail sectors. Investors We have engaged with a significant portion of our Investors’ top priority is honest and transparent largest shareholders, as well as some smaller communication. Their primary focus has been shareholders, on topical issues of particular on plastics, forestry and carbon. interest to them. Regulators and • President of Croatia Driven by consumer trends, the primary focus • European Commission representatives, including of regulators and policy makers has been on: policy makers Director General Environment, and various • plastic Ministers of the European Parliament • waste • UK Ministers of Parliament • eco-design • Policy advisors and researchers • Extended Producer Responsibility for packaging • Local councillors Trade associations • FEFCO (European Federation of Corrugated Driven by government and policy makers, Board Manufacturers) trade associations have been focused on: and cross-industry • CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industries) groups • CPI (The Confederation of Paper Industries) • plastic • waste • The Packaging Federation • recyclability • INCPEN (Industry Council for Research on • awareness of the benefits of corrugated Packaging and the Environment) • implications of the above on product design • EUROPEN (The European Organisation for Packaging and the Environment) • WRAP (Waste and Resources Action Programme) • BPF (British Plastics Federation) • FCCG (Food Contact Coordination Group) • National trade associations Media, consultancy • Forbes Our interactions with media and consultants have • University of Arts London (UAL) been focused on: and education • White Space • company financial performance • CNN, BBC and other reporters and editors • company acquisitions • trends in plastics, e-commerce and recycling Non-governmental • Ellen MacArthur Foundation The charities which we engaged with have been • British Heart Foundation focused on environmental education; biodiversity organisations and and monoculture; healthy lifestyles; and • Keep Britain Tidy charities encouraging future generations. 40 What we did What matters most Our sustainability strategy (see pages To complement the strategy, we also Experts across DS Smith have been 8-9) is based on a range of strategic conduct a biennial stakeholder formalising sustainability positions on: measures with medium-term targets, engagement exercise, called a materiality • biodegradability and compostability priority projects and relevant action analysis. This allows us to recognise • recyclability claims and labelling plans. These measures were developed areas for further development and • inks and adhesives based on the top current concerns of our identify emerging issues and trends. customers, investors, banks, regulators Our first materiality exercise was and employees in relation to our refreshed in last year’s report. However, Our Capital Markets day, in October 2018, business. Their opinions enable us to with three of our targets ending in 2020, showcased our latest plastic replacement challenge and validate our priority areas next year will be a crucial time for us to projects and innovations. of activity and focus, or even initiate, re-evaluate our priority projects. We are developing a forest management new projects. Therefore, DS Smith will be conducting policy as we deepen our understanding a complete overhaul of our materiality of current management practices. in financial year 2019/20. DS Smith responded to a range of government consultations, including: Materiality analysis • EU Consultation on single-use plastics • UK Consultation(s) on Waste and Very high Resources Action Plan and Plastics Tax Health and Sites also hosted over 20 visits for safety regulators and policy makers. Fibre Packaging impact sourcing Technical experts across our business were heavily involved in the following: Supplier standards • the ‘Paper and Board Recyclability Importance to external stakeholders Supply cycle thinking Recommendations’ (CPI and CEPI) Human rights and labour • the life-cycle assessment of corrugated board 2018 (FEFCO) Business ethics Carbon and energy • the ‘Food Contact Guidelines for the compliance of paper and board materials Legislation and Recycling and waste and articles’ (FCCG) compliance Responsible employer • multi-departmental teams hosted various workshops, including Eunomia Other responsible Water stewardship workshop on modulated recycling fees sourcing and FEFCO Influence the Influencers day Transport and Our campaigns this year focused on: logistics • ‘The Empty Space Economy’, Biodiversity Responsible neighbour in collaboration with Forbes • ‘Tipping Point’ white paper, in collaboration with UAL Medium Our community programmes have Medium Very high Priority for DS Smith supported and donated to more than 50 charities during financial year 2018/19. Our Business Our Environment Our People Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 41 Our performance in benchmarks Performance in benchmarks We value the chance to have our performance assessed by external organisations and benchmarks. It is important to maintain a balance between reviewing our own performance, being assessed through external benchmarks and sharing our leadership expertise. Performance in benchmarks Aligning with the Increased assessment score to A-grade. DS Smith participates in the annual MSCI global goals assessment, demonstrating good corporate The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable governance to investors. Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in September 2015, uses 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aimed at tackling some of the world’s more pressing issues for people and the planet. Maintained a leading position in EcoVadis, achieving Gold once again and putting us in Whilst not formally integrated into our the top five per cent of all manufacturing overall business strategy, our ongoing companies who submitted. work in sustainability aligns with a number of the UN’s SDGs. Following a prioritisation analysis of how our operations relate to the SDGs, we have explored which of the goals Maintained performance with a strong score we can make the greatest contribution to. of ‘Management B’ in CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project) for each of the At DS Smith, we are committed to operating three assessments (climate change, forests sustainably, supporting our customers, and water). and collaborating with our stakeholders to achieve the best results. Therefore we hope to integrate these fully into the sustainability strategy and programmes next year, after a deep analysis of stakeholder interest Included in the FTSE4Good Global Index, during the full materiality refresh we will indicating DS Smith as a long-term, conduct in financial year 2019/20. sustainable investment. DS Smith’s sustainability activities are most strongly aligned with the following SDGs: Continuously utilised the Sedex platform to ensure compliance with international labour standards. 42 Data and performance About this report This report provides a comprehensive description of the governance of sustainability issues within DS Smith, and how our strategy, targets and performance are monitored. Commitment to transparent reporting and benchmarking Assurance Statement DS Smith remains committed to transparent Bureau Veritas UK Limited (Bureau Veritas) reporting on progress to stakeholders. This year, has been commissioned by DS Smith Plc. in the lead up to reporting on progress against our (DS Smith) to provide an independent opinion nine targets for the first time since their launch in on the following environmental performance July 2018, we have once again been challenging indicators: total energy consumption; total ourselves on our data process and robustness. energy exported; Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; raw material usage; Statutory data is reported in both the Annual report water consumption; total water effluent; & accounts 2019 (see page 34) and Sustainability landfill waste; discharge to air and water; Report 2019 (see page 44), and further data and and total production, for calendar year 2018. breakdowns by region and country can be found in The reporting boundaries cover DS Smith’s our online environmental databook, Modern Slavery global operations. Statement and Gender Pay Gap report. Based on our verification activities and For the third year running, this report has been scope of work, nothing has come to our prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting attention to suggest that the reported Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option, in line with data do not provide a fair representation best practice. We also continue to submit to a wide of environmental performance across the range of highly reputable third-party platforms DS Smith group for the defined period. including CDP, EcoVadis, FTSE4Good and Sedex, which allow us to sense-check our performance DS Smith should be commended on its against the industry. approach to environmental data collection, including the use of a central reporting Statistics and scope system, clear responsibilities at Head Office Unless otherwise specified, any statistical and site levels, frequent data gathering, and information referred to in this report covers the the existence of an audit trail from source calendar year January to December 2018 and refers evidence to reported data at the sites visited. to all 248 manufacturing sites that we have owned since January 2018. The following indicators have A full verification statement including been externally verified: methodology, limitations and exclusions can be found on the DS Smith website. • energy consumption • greenhouse gas emissions DS Smith website: • raw material usage dssmith.com/company/sustainability/ • water consumption our-environment/performance • waste • discharge to air and water; and • production Data not in scope of the Bureau Veritas audit has been subject to a robust internal audit by the Group Finance team. Environmental incidents Bureau Veritas UK Limited During the year, we received notification of May 2019 breaches or minor environmental incidents at 41 sites. There were two major incidents (defined as incidents of significant impact reportable to local or national authorities, or incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution) reported for the period of this report. Sustainability Report 2019 | dssmith.com/sustainability 43 Data and performance Environmental indicators A summary of our environmental performance can be found below. For further detail, please find our data book available to download: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our-environment/performance 2015 2017 2018 2018 % variance % variance Indicator Unit of measurement (baseline) (like-for-like) (with acquisitions) (like-for-like) (with acquisitions) Scope 1 Kt CO2e 1,678 1,660 1,604 1,750 -3.4 5.4 Scope 2 (market) Kt CO2e 355 352 385 527 9.5 49.7 Emissions from energy exports Kt CO2e 348 317 381 381 20.1 20.1 Total CO2e (net) Kt CO2e 1,686 1,695 1,609 1,897 -5.1 11.9 Total energy exported GWh 962 892 861 905 -3.5 1.4 Total energy consumption (net) GWh 8,667 9,396 10,947 8.4 26.3 Total production Kt nsp 8,059 8,234 8,325 9,734 1.1 18.2 Total waste to landfill Kt 87 118 164 210 39.1 77.6 CO2e per tonne of production kg CO2e/tonne nsp 209 206 193 195 -6.1 -5.4 Comments on the data: 1. Based on data from 248 in-scope sites. There are 126 sites which require fossil fuels for their production process (paper mills, corrugators, plastics plants) and the remaining 122 smaller sites use just electricity in their processes (sheet plants, recycling and logistics depots and warehouses). 2. Figures from all years are based on data from sites we owned for the entirety of that year. The 2018 data is based on sites we have owned since 1 January 2018. We have shown the 2015 published figure, as it is the baseline year for our targets, and the published figure for 2017 to show the performance of the business from last year. 3. Total production is the sum of printed reels and paper reels from our paper mills; plastics production (all types) from our Plastics sites; recovered fibre and other materials collected and processed through our Recycling depot network; finished wood products from our timber business; and boxes and sheets sold to third parties from our Packaging sites and other types of packaging production from these sites. 4. DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is practicable. 5. The CO2 and CO2e emissions were calculated using the UK DECC 2017 factors for all fuels. 6. Where available, we use the emissions factor for bought electricity from the supplier of energy to our business (Scope 2 Market Value). If this figure is not reported, the country emissions factor from the IEA is used instead (Scope 2 Location Value). Emissions from national grids use the AIB Residual Grid Emissions Factors for those European countries for which they are available, otherwise they use the previous location emissions factors from the International Energy Agency (IEA) 2017 v1.03 (AR5 Applied). 7. The CHP that supplies our Witzenhausen paper mill with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels. The emissions factor for this site has been estimated as 32.77 kg/MWh of CO2e. 8. The CHP that supplies our Belišće paper mill and corrugator with steam and electricity is fired by a combination of natural gas and flare gas. The emissions factor for flare gas is estimated to be 240 kg/MWh of CO2e. 9. The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling. 44 Report index GRI and SDG Index 2019 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The content index below refers to the relevant disclosures contained in the DS Smith Sustainability Report 2019 and the DS Smith Annual report & accounts 2019. General Standard Disclosures Page Number External Page Number External and Links Assurance and Links Assurance Organisational profile Stakeholder engagement 102-1 AR pg. 157 Yes 102-40 SR pg. 40-41 102-2 AR pg. 3-5, SR pg. 4-5 102-41 GRI report* 102-3 AR pg. 160 Yes 102-42 SR pg. 40-41 102-4 AR pg. 4-5, SR pg. 5 102-43 SR pg. 41 and GRI report* 102-5 AR pg. 157 Yes 102-44 SR pg. 40-41 102-6 AR pg. 25 Reporting practice 102-7 AR pg. 36-37, SR pg. 5 Yes 102-45 AR pg. 38, 39, 98-168 Yes 102-8 AR pg. 26-29 and GRI report* 102-46 SR pg. 5, 43 102-9 GRI report* 102-47 SR pg. 41 and GRI report* 102-10 AR pg. 22-33, 38-39 Yes 102-48 SR pg.44 Yes 102-11 AR pg. 34-35, SR pg. 39 102-49 SR pg. 44 Yes 102-12 AR pg. 34, SR p. 42 102-50 SR pg. 44 Yes 102-13 SR pg. 40 and GRI report* 102-51 GRI report* Strategy 102-52 SR pg. 43 102-14 SR pg. 1 102-53 SR back cover and website Yes Ethics and integrity 102-54 SR pg. 43 Yes 102-16 SR pg. 4, 35, AR pg. 3 102-55 SR pg. 45 Governance 102-56 SR pg. 45 Yes 102-18 SR pg. 38-39 Key SR = Sustainability Report 2019, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on SR pg. 44 AR = Annual report & accounts 2019, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on AR pg. 34 ** Our Sustainability Report 2019 content is defined by the topics which our internal and external stakeholders collectively found to be most important, during our materiality analysis in 2017. However, there are some further aspects and indicators which are also material to our business. We have reported our actions on these aspects in our GRI disclosure report which can be found at: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/sustainabilityreport/GRI-disclosure-report Relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our business Packaging impact Fibre sourcing Supplier standards Our environment Carbon and energy Water stewardship Waste and recycling Our people Responsible employer Responsible neighbour Health and safety DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road London NW1 3AX Telephone +44 (0) 20 7756 1800 Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd www.dssmith.com on Revive 100% recycled offset and Revive 100% recycled silk. Paper manufactured at a mill certified to Keep in touch both ISO 14001 and FSC® accredited. @dssmithgroup Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management @dssmith.group System and FSC® accredited. DS Smith Designed and produced DS Smith by Black Sun Plc (London) www.blacksunplc.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
