2019 Yokogawa Sustainability Report Since its founding more than a century ago, Yokogawa has aimed to contribute to society. Our key mission now is to make our beautiful, abundant planet into a better place before passing it on to future generations. We will continue to work with our many customers all over the world as we hasten our efforts to build a sustainable society. Founding Principles The Yokogawa Philosophy Quality first As a company, Pioneering spirit our goal is to contribute to society Contribution to society through broad-ranging activities in the areas of measurement, control, and information. Dr. Tamisuke Yokogawa, founder Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the courage to innovate. 1 Message from the President 3 Corporate Culture 16 People and Society 26 Management 44 Customer Support 17 Diversity and Inclusion 27 Code of Conduct 45 Community Involvement 18 Human Resources Development 28 Risk Management 47 Highlights 4 Diverse Interaction 19 Decent Work 29 Compliance 49 Three Goals of Sustainability 5 Global Operations 20 Human Rights 33 Supply Chain Management 52 Stopping Climate Change 6 Involvement with Local Communities 34 Information Security 54 Quality Life for All 9 Research and Development 56 Circulation of Resources and Efficiency 12 Goals 21 Quality Assurance 58 FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets 15 Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals 22 Environment 35 Value Creation Process 23 Environmental Management 36 Sustainability Governance 25 Climate Risks and Opportunities 37 Data/Company Overview 59 Environmental Practices 38 Sustainability Data 60 Eco-Design 39 Third-Party Verification 61 Environmental Commitments at Offices 41 Company Overview 62 2 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Message from the President Through energetic and open business management, we will increase Yokogawa’s corporate value by providing value to our customers that greatly benefits both society and the environment. Pursuing transformation to achieve our “Three goals” Everyone can make a difference. Based on its core competences in the measurement, Yokogawa's strength is its ability to win the trust of and control, and information fields, Yokogawa is making major build long-term relationships with its customers by seeing contributions to sustainable growth and development in a every undertaking through to a satisfactory completion wide range of industries and society. Recent sustainability and meeting expectations. Utilizing the know-how that we initiatives such as the adoption of the Sustainable have cultivated in Japan, we are expanding our businesses Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement in emerging countries and many other parts of the world. represent a significant opportunity for Yokogawa to expand Many of our people have global business experience and its efforts in this area. Climate change is an issue that is have been given opportunities to develop these capabilities having a great impact on our world, and Yokogawa is taking as our business has grown around the world. We have a long-term approach as it seeks to face this issue head on. a diverse workforce, with employees of different races, In line with the Transformation 2020 (TF2020) mid-term nationalities, genders, and cultural backgrounds, and the business plan that commenced in fiscal year 2018, Yokogawa differences in their value systems are often a source of will also be focusing on the renewable energy business. innovation. Our younger employees have a strong interest in Furthermore, we are working to establish a life innovation making the world a better place, and are not only motivated business that will help people lead healthier and more by immediate personal gain, and their vigor will be an asset productive lives. in Yokogawa’s push to transform itself. A core aim of TF2020 is digital transformation. The transformations that Yokogawa has set out in its TF2020 A transformation at Yokogawa and in our customers’ plan can be achieved if everyone takes full responsibility for businesses is underway thanks to the use of artificial their achievement and makes full use of all our capabilities. intelligence, the cloud, and other cutting-edge Through our work each day on the job, we will provide technology platforms. In February 2019 we endorsed the industry and society our firm support, earn the trust of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related communities in which we operate, and make Yokogawa Financial Disclosures (TCFD). With this transformation, a company that is valued by all its stakeholders, including Yokogawa is not going it alone; rather, this is a joint effort at our customers. Through energetic and open business co-innovation with many different stakeholders. Guided by management, let’s leave no one behind as we work with our our three sustainability goals for making the world a better stakeholders to make the world a better place for future place for future generations, we will add value for society and generations. – That is my firm intention. the environment by such means as reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving health, safety, and resource efficiency. We will accomplish this through our efforts to enhance our customers’ corporate value by transforming their businesses and enhancing their productivity. President and Chief Executive Officer 3 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Highlights Achieving our “Three goals” Yokogawa has defined the society it aims to achieve by 2050 in terms of three sustainability goals. In fiscal year 2018 we took the first step toward achieving our Three goals by setting sustainability targets linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Yokogawa Sustainability Goals for the Year 2050 Environmental Social Economic Make Achieve Ensure transition to net-zero circular well-being emissions economy Three goals Universal Goals for the Year 2030 4 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Three Goals of Sustainability Our Three goals cover three aspects of sustainability related to the environment, society, and the economy, namely, net-zero emissions, well-being, and circular economy. Three goals Net-zero emissions Stopping Climate Change Climate change is an urgent issue that requires a united global response. Our goal is to reach net-zero emissions through the use Environmental Social Economic of renewable energy and greater energy efficiency. By net-zero emissions, we mean a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and absorption, preventing an increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Make Achieve Ensure transition to Well-being net-zero circular well-being Quality Life for All emissions economy Well-being means a state of physical, mental, and social contentment. Yokogawa supports people's health and prosperity through the achievement of safe and comfortable workplaces and our pursuits in such areas as the pharmaceutical and food Statement on Yokogawa’s Aspiration for Sustainability industries. We promote diversity and inclusion, providing education, training, and employment in local communities. Yokogawa will work to achieve net-zero emissions, ensure the well-being of all, and make a transition to a circular economy by 2050, thus making the world Circular economy a better place for future generations. Circulation of Resources and Efficiency We will undergo the necessary transformation to achieve these goals by We are seeing a movement that rejects the one-way take, make, 1. becoming more adaptable and resilient, 2. evolving our businesses to and dispose economy. This new economy circulates resources and engage in regenerative value creation, and 3. promoting emphasizes services over physical products. Yokogawa aims to make co-innovation with our stakeholders. a transition to a circular economy that uses resources without waste and makes effective use of assets. (Statement released in 2017) 5 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Sustainability Target for 2030 Net-zero Emissions Stopping Climate Change CO2 emissions avoided: Under the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21* in 2015, the signatories agreed to 1 billion tons (FY2018–2030 cumulative) In the renewable and low-carbon energy business area, hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 ºC above prewe set the amount of CO2 emissions we and our customers industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further would avoid as a KPI (key performance indicator) for 2030. to 1.5 ºC. To limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5ºC, it is thought to be necessary to maintain a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and absorption (net-zero emissions) by the year 2050. * The 21st Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Yokogawa’s Value Creation Themes Global Challenges ● Expand use of renewable energy Renewable energy ● Use energy even more efficiently Contribute to the growth of renewable energy through solutions for the monitoring, control, data collection, and facilities maintenance for the stable 30 trillion US dollars Additional energy-related investment and efficient operation of wind, biomass, and other sources of renewable energy. Low-carbon energy necessary by 2050 to meet target of 1.5ºC Create a safe and efficient LNG (liquefied natural gas) supply chain in concert with customers and partners to respond to increasing demand for LNG, Impacts on Investment of Targeting an Increase of 1.5ºC (Averages for 2016–2030) a source of low-carbon energy. Here, we will bring our wealth of experience (Billion USD2010/yr) and history of success in the natural gas and LNG instrument industry to bear. 200 Fossil Fossil fuel electricity extraction and 100 and hydrogen conversion w/o CCS 0 Energy Renewables Nuclear Electricity -100 efficiency and T&D CCS* and storage -200 * CCS: Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage Source: Special Report—Global Warming of 1.5ºC; IPCC 6 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Net-zero Emissions Stopping Climate Change FY2018 Progress and Performance Renewable Energy since the 1970s. We have supplied our proprietary 12.19 CO2 emissions avoided Contributing to the LNG Supply Chain products and services including distributed million control systems (DCS) and advanced process Biomass: 4.86 million tons-CO2 tons-CO2 Natural gas is sometimes transported by gas control (APC) solutions for many liquefaction and Wind: 4.84 million tons-CO2 pipeline from the area where it is mined to the area regasification plants and LNG carriers. We help to where it will be consumed. Alternatively, it may be ensure that LNG is supplied safely and efficiently Geothermal: 2.50 million tons-CO2 liquefied by cooling to minus 162 ºC, transported by monitoring and controlling flow, temperature, Renewable energy is a target industry for Yokogawa by carrier as LNG, then turned back into gas at its and pressure during the various processes involved in which it can leverage its advantages, from power destination. With growth in demand anticipated, in liquefaction, transportation, and regasification. plant control systems to energy management systems particularly in Southeast Asia, LNG projects are Even once a supply chain is established, we including remote monitoring. We are expanding our planned all over the world. continue to be involved in a reliable supply of business portfolio by collaborating with companies Yokogawa has been contributing to the LNG by providing services such as production that have power generation technologies such development of safe, efficient LNG supply chains management, simulations, and optimization of as wind, photovoltaic, biomass, and geothermal energy use. to contribute to the growth of various forms of renewable energy. Liquefaction plant Low-Carbon Energy LNG carrier 11.78 CO2 emissions avoided million Regasification plant tons-CO2 (receiving terminal) Yokogawa supplies instrument systems that underpin large LNG production plants. One example is its involvement in the Yamal LNG Project, one of the Liquefaction plants LNG carriers Regasification plants largest natural gas development projects in the world, 90 79 50 which increased its shipping volume in August 2018 with the completion of its second train. With new trains vessels terminals projects planned in North America, Asia, Africa, and elsewhere, we are striving to make an even greater contribution in LNG, which is the lowest-carbon energy (Figures above refer to cumulative orders received until fiscal year 2018) source among all fossil fuels. 7 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Net-zero Emissions Stopping Climate Change Case Studies of Co-Innovation District Heating System for a Forest-Friendly “SDGs Future City” Voice of Customer The town of Shimokawa, around 100km north of the city of Asahikawa on Japan’s northernmost island, Hokkaido, is Shimokawa’s challenge was to establish located in an area of natural beauty benefitting from abundant forest resources. Forest occupies 88% of the town’s an economically sustainable community total land area of 64,420 ha (equivalent in size to the 23 cities making up the metropolis of Tokyo). Shimokawa’s forest heating business, and with the extensive resources have been passed on from previous generations over the past half century; utilizing those resources efficiently help provided by Yokogawa, I now have has revitalized the town’s key industries of forestry and forest products and supported its economic independence. high hopes that this can be achieved. Shimokawa has established a sustainable, cyclical forest management system of repeated logging and tree planting Ichinohashi Bio-Village I’m sure that the outcomes of this research (photo supplied by in 60-year cycles. This has resulted in its designation as one of Japan’s few “environmental future cities.” Since 2016, the Shimokawa town) will help to solve the challenges posed Yokogawa has been collaborating with the Shimokawa town authority to conduct joint research into a district heating by numerous heating systems within system based on woody biomass at Shimokawa’s Ichinohashi Bio-Village, aiming to supply district heating more efficiently. Shimokawa, as well as all over Japan. Development of a Community Energy Management System and Further Efficiency Improvements Ichinohashi Bio-Village supplies heat to warm rooms and supply hot water to several dozen buildings nearby, Toshio Yamamoto including community facilities and homes. The heat is generated by woody biomass boilers using local wood. We Director introduced a community heating energy management system, and as a result of studying existing issues and Biomass Industry Strategy Office potential for improvement, it became apparent that potential existed for improving the supply-demand balance; the Forest Chamber of Commerce and seasonal, daily, and hourly operation of the boilers; and the temperature and amount of heat supplied. We realized Industry Promotion Section Monitoring screen for Shimokawa Town Authority that implementing these improvements would offer considerable potential for reducing the volume of woodchips community heating energy required and the electricity costs for the equipment. At the same time, quantification of such issues would clarify management system the return on investment and payback period, leading to new investment in equipment and more efficient implementation of improvements. We are intending to use these research outcomes to improve the heating systems in other districts in future. Singapore Energy and Sustainability Hub Voice of Employee KBC/Yokogawa have begun ramping up our Energy and Sustainability Co-Pilot Hub in I’ve worked at KBC for 11 years and recently joined the Singapore, which is supported by a grant from the Singapore Economic Development Singapore Co-Pilot Hub as its Business Operations Head. Board (EDB). The hub provides cloud-based support for Digitalized energy management The hub’s ambition of making expertise accessible via solutions and R&D innovation activities such as AI and data analytics for energy digitalisation truly excites me and I am proud to be part of the minimization and the smart-grid. Our energy solutions are expected to save 10-20% CO2 at team driving the creation of the next page of our customers industrial plants, a 15% reduction in industrial energy would be equivalent to taking all of history – bringing together Energy Management expertise, Singapore’s cars off the roads. Cloud and analytics, and applying it all to improve energy and Sharon Zhou, KBC Advanced Technologies Limited sustainability to benefit society as a whole. 8 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Sustainability Target for 2030 Well-being Quality Life for All Safety and Health Value Creation: It is predicted that by 2050 the world population will increase to 10 billion, 1.3 1trillion yen (FY2030) In the life innovation and safety business area, we set our times its current level, and the increase in the number of senior citizens will be contribution to customer/social safety and health as a KPI faster still. In more developed regions, one in four people will be aged 65 or older, for 2030. while even in less developed regions, one in seven will be in that demographic. To ensure well-being in aging societies such as these, it will be necessary to Value Creation Themes generate new forms of value aimed at improving safety and health. Global Challenges Improved productivity in manufacturing/ ● Dramatically improve productivity in food manufacturing/processing processing of pharmaceuticals/foods ● We leverage our technologies in measurement, control, and information, Develop more advanced medical technologies and produce reasonably priced pharmaceuticals combined with our experience across a range of industries, to enhance productivity ● Make societies safer and less stressful throughout the entire value chain, from basic research to logistics and services. 2.2 times Support development of drugs and biopharmaceuticals Ratio of population aged 65 or older (from 2019 to 2050) We support efficient development and production of highly safe pharmaceuticals through drug discovery support technologies including World Population Forecasts 65 or older confocal microscopes, cell image analysis, and bioreactors. More developed regions Improvement of safety 2019 We contribute to improved safety at customer plants through integrated Less developed regions process control and safety instrumented systems, operating training simulators, cyber security solutions, and other safety solutions. More developed regions 2050 Less developed On-site maintenance solutions regions We provide facilities management and consulting that result in low-workload, 0 2 4 6 8 10 safe, and efficient plant management. 9 (billion people) Source: World Population Prospects 2019; UN Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Well-being Quality Life for All FY2018 Progress and Performance Improved productivity in Improvement of safety manufacturing/processing of Solutions for Cell-Based Manufacturing Safety instrumented systems pharmaceuticals/foods shipped to date: +60% 2,543 Recently, the pharmaceutical field has focused Customer productivity on the research and development of biological improvement: products such as antibodies and protein drugs VS. FY2017 systems made from living cells, in addition to conventional drugs produced by chemical synthesis. Having launched our new life innovation business We provide sustainable SIS (safety instrumented Yokogawa is developing products that enable the during fiscal year 2018, we are now increasing the system) solutions that maintain and improve the stable and efficient operation of the cell culture resources available to this business to hasten its safety of customers’ plant across its entire life cycle, process. The conventional culture process involves development. We increased the number of staff from contributing to safe operation over the long term. constantly monitoring the environment where around 100 to 300, and added NKS Corporation to the Guided by the concept of approaching safe plant cell cultures are prepared, including the pH level Yokogawa Group in November 2018. NKS specializes operation systematically, we started providing the and oxygen concentration of the culture medium. in the validation of facilities for pharmaceuticals, relevant services and systems during fiscal year 2017. However, Yokogawa is currently helping to enhance medical equipment, and food products, and also the In December 2018 we followed this up by launching a the production efficiency of cell culturing by using calibration of measuring instruments. new risk assessment and consulting service. its predictive control technology cultivated over the years to predict changes in cell conditions resulting from cell proliferation. This enables nutrients to be provided whenever necessary to keep the culture Support development of drugs On-site maintenance solutions environment in optimum condition. and biopharmaceuticals On-site maintenance +70% 339 Increase in drug discovery solutions provided: systems provided: VS. FY2017 Solutions During fiscal year 2018 we progressed with building In fiscal year 2018 we started holding user events to our infrastructure for product development discuss maintenance of facilities and management of by installing clean rooms for experiments and such maintenance work with a view to implementing increasing staffing levels and other resources. We improvements and transformations. Giving our are also contributing to a diverse range of R&D customers opportunities to share their reasons for using single-cell analysis methods in the drug adopting our solutions and the benefits experienced development and life science fields. A notable has led to more active communication. It also enables example is our collaboration with the University us to offer our solutions more widely by rolling out of Shizuoka to establish the Single Cellome Cosolutions that were successful in Japan on a global Experiment in a clean room innovators’ Consortium in April 2018. scale. 10 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Well-being Quality Life for All Case Studies of Co-Innovation Single-Cell Analysis Solutions Contributing Voice of Partner to Research in the Life Science Field School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Shizuoka The life sciences are of use in a great many fields, including in selective breeding of crops and If we could gain an understanding of how the various molecules pest control, manufacturing of biofuels and bioplastics, production of drug ingredients derived within a cell move and change at the same time as observing cell from cells and microorganisms, and in the substitute foods business. The biopharmaceuticals phenomena, this would provide important clues for understanding field, too, is making progress in developing groundbreaking personalized medical care, such as the mechanisms of cell phenomena in detail. Then these could treatment that involves enhancing or activating cell function and repairing cells at the genetic be used as the basis for explaining the phenomena of life and the level. Living organisms ingest substances they need and excrete those no longer necessary to mechanisms of pathology. Until now, we have been working on them; the substances they need are made, transported, broken down, discarded, and reused as the development of single-cell mass spectrometry that enables and when necessary. When spatial or temporal variations in such substances occur within a single us to undertake comprehensive molecular analysis using mass cell or between cells, such variations interact with other biochemical reactions, affecting the way Dr. Hajime Mizuno spectrometry on samples of cell constituents present at the very other cells function. Meanwhile, bacteria and other microorganisms that live within the body also Assistant Professor, moment when we are observing a cell. In recent years, we have perform crucial roles, helping to create the ecosystem that supports life. Laboratory of Analytical and also been involved with Yokogawa in developing an automatic Bio-Analytical Chemistry cell sampling device. Our aim is to develop unprecedented, To understand such complex phenomena of life, both a macro perspective and a micro perspective are essential. In the case of drug discovery, for example, in addition to confirming the efficacy revolutionary imaging devices that enable us to conduct various of a drug, a macro perspective would require assessment of the constantly changing physical forms of molecular analysis while keeping cells alive. reactions of the subject, such as pulse, blood pressure, and body temperature. Meanwhile, a micro perspective would necessitate tracking the drug as it is ingested and metabolized, monitoring Voice of Partner how its concentration in the blood and organs changes over time, and observing the route and timing of its excretion. However, even if drugs appear to behave identically at the micro level, the Hiroshima University degree to which they are effective or harmful varies from one person to another. What is more, a Yokogawa’s automatic cell sampling device is indispensable single organ is made up of many different types of cells, and even cells of the same type may show to single-cell analysis methods for extracting and analyzing different characteristics as time passes or as their surrounding environment changes. As a means a single target cell itself in order to discover details of cancer to elucidate such differences through individual investigation of the smallest units comprising cells and reproductive mechanisms. We are contributing living organisms, single-cell analysis is now the focus of high expectations. to advances in high-precision medical care through our Yokogawa’s confocal microscope technology helps to accurately view and investigate a single joint development with Yokogawa, which has resulted in cell in a known position and environment. We helped set up the Single Cellome Co-Innovators’ Dr. Eiso Hiyama (right) the successful development of a technology for quickly and Consortium in order to explore single-cell analysis methods using this technology, as well as Professor, Natural Science accurately extracting a target cell and analyzing it in detail. other applications of the technology. The consortium was established as a collaborative endeavor Center for Basic Research Such analysis can now be used as an important guide in and Development determining treatment plans according to the type of cancer between industry and academia in the Shonan Health Innovation Park, where companies involved Director, Division of diagnosed, the malignancy level determined, and the degree of in the pharmaceutical industry have gathered. We will use the knowledge acquired through Life Science this consortium to improve our equipment, as well as our measurement and research methods, response to the medications administered. thereby advancing R&D in the life science field and contributing to quality life for all. 11 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Sustainability Target for 2030 Circular Economy Circulation of Resources Resource efficiency improvement 1trillion yen and Efficiency /year (FY2030) Global material resource needs are predicted to increase 3.5 times by 2060. Even if We have set a KPI for 2030 to improve the resource we take into account improvements facilitated by technological progress, we will efficiency of our customers by offering consulting and still require twice the amount of resources used today, and witness growing calls to solutions in the fields of energy and resource conservation. establish a circular economiy through innovation. Global Issues ● ● Secure safe drinking water Switch business focus from products to services Yokogawa Value Creation Themes ● Further improve resource productivity ● Reduce input of new resources through circular recycling of Improvement of water environment current resources We offer water environment technologies and solutions such as leak 35 kg/day 45 kg/day monitoring and operational systems for water and sewerage networks that 2017 2060 ensure the security and efficiency of water supplies while at the same time promoting effective water usage. Per capita resource use Advanced solutions We optimize temperature, flow rate and pressure parameters in complex Global material resource use production processes to maximize product yields while minimizing energy Metals 32% and resource consumption. Fossil fuels 10% Sand, gravel, and crushed rock Consulting to improve productivity 17% Our consulting and solution services optimize production processes to 2017 improve overall plant efficiency and operational stability. 24% 49% Long-term stable operation of plant Biomass Non-metallic minerals We provide products and services to maintain ongoing operational stability throughout the plant life cycle, encouraging the efficient use of resources. 12 Source: Global Material Resources Outlook to 2060, OECD Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Circular Economy Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress and Performance Improvement of Advanced solutions/ Long-term stable 144 +10% water environment Consulting to operation of plant Number of water environment improve productivity Steady Maintenance service improvement solutions provided solutions Amount of improvement effect VS. FY2017 sales amount VS. FY2017 proposed to customers Yokogawa received orders for integrated asset FY2018 generated a similar performance to FY2017. Our operations and maintenance services business management systems designed to optimize water To secure greater future growth, we intend to expanded in Southeast Asia, Europe, and India. resources and improve services in Myanmar, as well accelerate our business by combining our problemWe use the data acquired from providing services as control systems for the desalination project in solving business, optimization and other advanced throughout the entire lifecycle of the plant to help Peru. As demand for water expands and concern over solutions, and our energy management systems optimize customer business management. We also water risks increase, we intend to help secure water more deeply than ever before. We also intend to contribute to the long-term stable operation of and sanitation by providing solutions to ensure stable expand our solution range that seeks to unearth and customer plants by continuous proposals and support water supply. solve issues with a focus on customer value. over the long term. using big data to ascertain the special characteristics Data Driven Modeling for Optimization (DDMO) Industrial Wastewater Treatment of the sewer network process data and pinpoint It is possible to optimize the operation of a production and Energy Saving special operational characteristics to turn into a model plant by modeling a customer’s facilities for ultimate for full automation and facilitate advanced control. control. Yokogawa’s DDMO technology automatically We helped extend the functionality of a customer’s The model carved new value not only by helping to creates an equipment model to suit customer existing system by installing a Yokogawa distributed conserve energy, but also to optimize control, improve requirements using data on a plant’s operational control system (DCS) in an industrial wastewater operational efficiency, and reduce operational costs. performance. The technology creates a model by extracting treatment facility dealing with daily volumes of 79,000t The data accumulated during the evaluation period the facility’s special characteristics as a comprehensive in the industrial belt of Jiangsu Province in China. We showed that the new processes both met drainage relational expression from multiple data, including fuel and managed to create an optimal treatment process by standards, and achieved an energy saving of 25%. raw materials flow rates and characteristic values, energy supply and product flow rate, quality, and operational DDMO conditions, as well as facility status. One key feature of the Process characteristics DDMO technology is its ability to automatically translate Mathematical tools Process this model into a program that calculates optimal values. Optimized model Operational data Modelling Historical data control system Filtering Eliminates outliers in the data Blower characteristics Clustering data Automatic Divides data into groups that display control similar trends and patterns Real-time data Analysis of operating characteristics DCS Creates a characteristic formula to Industrial wastewater treatment facility (Jiangsu, China) express the operational data 13 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Circular Economy Circulation of Resources and Efficiency Case Studies of Co-Innovation Facilitates Long-Term, Stable Plant Operation Voices of Partners by AI Analysis of Audio Data Hmcomm Inc. One of the significant problems in chemical plants that needs to be addressed is pipeline blockage. The occurrence of such a blockage represents a large lost opportunity for the plant. Not only does it interrupt the By employing our strengths in sound analysis technology, immediately preceding and subsequent processes, but it also halts entire production. There are also times we have been able to evaluate the sounds emerging from when the blocked pipeline has to be removed and repaired. To date, operators and maintenance personnel the immediate vicinity of industrial plant pipelines and the applied operating data and on-the-ground information as well as their own experience to judge process nearby environmental sounds to a high level of accuracy. We conditions and maintain pipelines, but it was difficult to anticipate or foresee potential blockages. have also been able to correlate the relationship between the Yokogawa is currently working with the customers to develop a technology that can automate the superior pipeline sounds and flow volume and speed, and confirm the skill of experienced maintenance personnel who judge the state of the pipelines with their ears. How? By difference in sounds before and after pipeline maintenance. focusing afresh on listening to and analyzing the sounds that emerge from the pipelines using AI information Furthermore, we aim to create a highly applicable technology technology, and then creating a model that includes operating data using operational technology. Combining by using the changes in pipe sounds over time to surmise IT and OT in this way facilitates efficient maintenance that is not reliant upon the level of skill and experience conditions inside the pipes, and predict and preempt of operators and maintenance personnel. blockages. We intend to continue working with Yokogawa For this challenge, Yokogawa Solution Services, ZEON CORPORATION, and Hmcomm Inc. applied jointly to Solution Services and ZEON Corporation to promote the the Industrial Data-sharing Promotion Project. This project, supported by Japan’s Ministry of Trade, Economy utilization of audio data in maintenance operations. and Industry, aims to promote the creation of data cooperation and sharing platforms in companies. Our application was selected, and we set about creating our FY2018 Manufacturing Industry Pipeline Blockage ZEON CORPORATION Prediction and Pre-diagnosis based on Audio Data Business. Being able to detect changes in the pipeline flow through This involved building a new model that digitizes and visualizes the audio data that was previously used by sound analysis means you can surmise when a pipe is operators to evaluate pipeline health based on their own experiences. It achieves even greater improvements starting to get blocked and take appropriate action at a by analyzing the relationship between the audio data and production process data, such as flow rate and convenient time rather than react to an emergency blockage. pressure, and environmental data such as temperature and vibration. By predicting and sensing blockages Furthermore, by combining information on fluid conditions caused by different factors, we seek not only to help improve the operation of a customer’s production with other process data, we also hope to apply this technology processes, but also to improve quality and optimize those production processes over time. to quality-related monitoring such as the size of any particles and the viscosity of the fluid, and to analyzing the cause of any Prediction and pre-diagnosis framework using audio data changes. 1.Collect audio 2. Preprocessing 3. Extract feature quantity 4. Study feature quantity 5. Application ・16bit LtoR: Yamamoto, ZEON Detect CORPORATION, ・44.1kHz ● Predict Yamamoto, Hmcomm Inc., ・1 channel ● Analyze Matsushita, Yokogawa ・…etc. ● Solution Service Corporation Audio data Processed audio data Feature quantity Studied model 14 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Three Goals of Sustainability Stopping Climate Change Quality Life for All Circulation of Resources and Efficiency FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets FY2018 Progress on Sustainability Targets Net-zero Emissions Well-being Circular Economy FY2030 target CO2 emissions avoided Safety and health value creation Resource efficiency improvement 1 billion t-CO2 1 trillion yen 1 trillion yen Contribution to SDGs Improved productivity Support development Advanced solutions/ Value creation Renewable energy in manufacturing/ of drugs and Improvement of safety On-site maintenance Improvement of Consulting to improve Long-term stable theme Low-carbon energy processing of biopharmaceuticals solutions water environment productivity operation of plant pharmaceuticals/foods CO2 emissions avoided Customer productivity Drug discovery Safety instrumented On-site maintenance Water environment Customer Maintenance service KPI (Cumulative from improvement systems provided systems provided solutions provided improvement solutions improvement effect sales FY2018) (VS. FY2017) (VS. FY2017) to date to date provided (VS. FY2017) (VS. FY2017) FY2020 target 60M t-CO2 Doubled 20 times 3,200 systems 850 solutions 190 solutions Doubled +30% FY2018 performance 23.98Mt-CO2 +60% +70% 2,543 systems 339 solutions 144 solutions steady +10% Common platform Human resources management Environmental management Contribution to SDGs Transformation of business Reduction of Value creation model with infrastructure Diversity and inclusion Talent attraction and Elimination of Promotion of efficient Reduction of energy greenhouse gas themes and tools utilizing IIoT engagement occupational accidents use of water resources consumption emissions Female ratio out Disability Occurrence of accidents Greenhouse gas Co-creation environment Engagement survey Energy consumption KPI users of total number of employment ratio score accompanied by Water consumption (VS. FY2013) emissions managers (Japan) lost work time (VS. FY2013) FY2020 target 1,500 users 12.0% 2.3% Implementation of engagement improvement measures Reduce Strengthen measures to efficiently utilize water resources 13.0% reduction 20.0% reduction FY2018 1,021 users 9.4% 2.27% (scheduled for 0.28 case 561K m3 11.1% reduction 18.9% reduction performance (June 1, 2019) FY2019) /million work hours 15 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Customer Support Community Involvement Diverse Interaction Global Operations Corporate Culture Yokogawa’s Mind Since its foundation in 1915, Yokogawa has worked hard to develop business in all corners of the globe. Customer partnerships that span many decades, the operation of business with deep local community ties, human resource interaction that transcends national and ethnic borders. These are the font of Yokogawa’s unique strength. 16 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Customer Support Community Involvement Diverse Interaction Global Operations Ensuring safety is the most important issue for industrial plants that handle various chemical substances at Customer Support high temperatures and high levels of pressure. Yokogawa works with customers to improve plant safety and protect their most precious assets, namely the lives and health of their staff members. Global Response Center for 24/7/365 Relief are tantamount to the plant’s nervous system, and Training Center Forges Trust in Yokogawa all type of products 24/7/365 throughout a plant’s Personnel and Technology (Singapore) lifecycle. The GRC responds directly to inquiries from The Training Solutions Centre in Yokogawa Engineering customers in Japan, while queries from international Asia allows experiences across all channels in customers’ customers are first received by regional response ecosystems for a more efficient and safe plant operation centers, and are only referred to the GRC if any issues and reduced energy usage. The Life Cycle Training with cannot be solved locally. The GRC has nearly all of Augmented, Virtual and Mixed Reality enables to save Global Response Center the control systems created by Yokogawa right back 30 – 40% of training time and budget; reduce start-up and The Global Response Center (GRC) is a comprehensive to its original system retailed in the 1970s on standby shutdown time by 15 to 20%. customer service center for all the products and in its backyard, so that it can recreate the exact same systems that Yokogawa has supplied to its customers. circumstances that a customer is experiencing on The GRC seeks to protect the control systems, which actual equipment and solve problems. GRC Employee Interview Voices of Employees Job responsibility attitude to our international bases as well. Sekiguchi: I receive the calls from customers and try to get Sekiguchi: Different people are responsible for different a clear grasp of the situation so that I can pass them onto products, so I am always trying to improve my knowledge the appropriate product manager. of various products so that I can assure a swift and Matsuo: I respond to calls from customers and group accurate response to a customer’s first call. VR-enhanced training bases. We work shifts so that we can cover the phones Moments of joy Industrial customers are making significant investments 24/7/365 to deal with queries that come in at nighttime, Matsuo: I feel really happy when a customer says, “I’m into digital transformation and increasingly adopting on the weekends and from international markets in counting on you.” and feels comfortable getting in Internet of Things (IoT), machine learning and cloud different time zones. touch with us. I used to work in the Okayama base, and technologies. Many organizations are in the process to Yamamoto: As the technology specialist, I support customers there sometimes consider how to shift employees’ day-to-day activities customers maintenance response, and conduct global greet me in a friendly way to effectively maximize the usage of new technology education and training. when they call the GRC. I and capture the associated ROI (Return of Investment). Attentive customer care feel I can use my experience Training is the key success to operational excellence. Yamamoto: In order to increase the accuracy of the working closely with When people’s training is the focus of an organization telephone operation, we work hard to listen carefully customers on the ground to – when employees feel included, represented and heard – what the customer really wants, so that we can develop a better imagine what is going everything falls in place. swift action plan and solve problems as soon as possible. on there even when I am in Also, we place great importance on providing customer the GRC and to maintain a Members of the Yokogawa with the most superior service, and I want to convey that solid bond of trust. Solution Services GRC 17 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Customer Support Community Involvement Diverse Interaction Global Operations Yokogawa proactively employs local staff in all of its regional bases, and seeks to build long-term Community Involvement relationships of trust with local communities. We strive to create comfortable working environments by both respecting local culture and customs, and conveying our own Yokogawa culture. Contributing to Education and Economic approximately 10 students as interns every year and Local Base Management Incorporates Development of Local Communities (South Africa) assign skilled mentors to teach them engineering to Local Employee Opinion (China) a world-class standard. Many of the students who Education gap and high unemployment rate Ever since setting up one of the Group’s major participate in this program go on to work permanently The South African government uses its Broad-Based Black production bases, Yokogawa Electric China, back in 2002, at Yokogawa. Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) scheme to strengthen the we have sought to create a comfortable environment economic power of the nation’s historically disadvantaged within the company by respecting the local culture and black people. South Africa’s unemployment rate, which stems the opinions of local staff. Local managers participated from low levels of education, is one of the biggest problem. in the 2008 revision of our human resource systems to Yokogawa South Africa has earned B-BBEE certification for its ensure local working conditions were taken into greater strong employment record and other activities. consideration. The company boasts a low turnover rate, Internship training and a system for employing retired staff. Educational circumstances Donating to Educational Establishments Voice of Employee The percentage of people with university entrance qualifications 21% among 18-year old students who registered for the final exam in Our warm working environment is like their schooling educations. $70,000 Helping renovate elementary schools Mathematics and science program levels in 148 countries a big happy family The lowest rank *World Economic Forum survey Yokogawa supported the renovation of classrooms I entered Yokogawa Electric China in 2010. It is a and sewage systems at the Cothoza primary school in wonderful company with strong human relations. Unemployment rate Mpumalanga region to enable children to learn in a safe My colleagues are kind and we all progress our Unemployment rate Unemployment rate and sanitary environment. work as a team. Our bosses not only guide us in 55% among 15-24 year-olds 34% among 25-34 year-olds our work, but are also attentive to our mental and physical health. When working together with other Yokogawa Internship Program departments, we also communicate well. Our workplace feels like one big happy family. Every The number of students participating 89 the internship program day, I enjoy myself and feel engaged at work. Our Classroom renovation union also plans lots of different events, such as The number of participants employed by 22 Yokogawa after their internship Supporting Startup Businesses sports days, karaoke events, charitable activities, (through end FY2018) and health-promotion drives, Every year since 2009, Yokogawa South Africa has run $35,000 Supporting entrepreneur workshops which are all useful ways of an internship program primarily for students from encouraging interaction among underprivileged families. The one-year long program is We supported workshops run by the Ngeqoma authorities employees. I enjoy all my life at accredited by six of the top universities in South Africa, for local people launching an embroidery business. Two highYokogawa, not only my job. Ping Fang and we hold job interviews with the aim of employing quality embroidery machines were purchased to automate Yokogawa Electric China Co., Ltd. interns every year in May and November. We employ the production line with a volume of high-grade fabrics. 18 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Customer Support Community Involvement Diverse Interaction Global Operations Our human assets are the font of all value creation at Yokogawa, which works to solve social issues together Diverse Interaction with customers using advanced control technology. We encourage transformation through interaction between people of different genders, ethnicity and nationalities, and offer various opportunities for forging innovation. YOKOGAWA Innovation Fair (Japan) Promoting Understanding of People with Internal Volunteer Initiative: PiCK! (Japan) Disabilities (Brazil) 2,210 Participants 120 Presentations Yokogawa South America is working in a partnership with 18 No. of times 532 Aggregate participants Osasco city town hall in Sao Paulo, to develop a booklet The Yokogawa Innovation Fair is an annual opportunity entitled “Live with Difference Tips for social relationship Our Pioneer’s Innovative Challenge and Knowing, for employees to get together and exchange views from a with the disabled person”, with information about autism or PiCK!, is an internal voluntary activity launched in diverse range of perspectives across their organization or job and mental disorders people, including tips about people FY2018, which encourages employees to take the first description, based on presentations ranging from the latest with physical, hearing, visual, intellectual and cerebral progressive step by listening to experienced people who technologies and ideas, to process improvements and key palsy disabilities. The latest edition of the booklet was have tackled challenges, or the ideas of those who want customer issues. The FY2018 Innovation Fair started with launched in June, 2019. to attempt a challenge. We hope this activity can help keynotes speeches from Yoshinori Ohsumi, winner of the For the company, the idea is sharing the content and instill the courage to innovate advocated in our corporate Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, and Masaki Takeuchi educate employees so they know how to deal with people philosophy more deeply into our corporate culture and from Shimizu Corporation, who devises future city concepts, with disabilities, besides to publicizing for society the company atmosphere. which were followed by free employee-led presentations Yokogawa’s support in this kind of matter. Because a lot At PiCK!, it doesn’t matter what the theme is, as long as it and workshops. We introduced various initiatives designed of difficulties and prejudices, people with some type of comes with a challenge. For instance, we held a debate for to encourage vigorous interactive communication, and disability normally give up looking for a position in the mid-careers on What’s Strange About Yokogawa as one of experiment with setting up our first Talk Together space where market for lack of opportunities. Information sharing corporate transformation challenges. Instigating various presenters and visitors could come and go as they please and seeks to help social inclusion happen naturally in the activities will help improve visibility of the activity and chat over drinks. We also held a hackathon in which small work environment for people with disabled can work with encourage more employees to participate. It also helps teams created prototypes of internal systems in an attempt quality and respect. This project is part of the company’s expand the scope of interaction between employees, and to solve immediate issues at an event designed to spur strategy in providing opportunities for all, regardless of the challenges they are prepared to tackle. competitive short-term development called the Noncoding their physical or mental limitations within their abilities, Hackathon: Formulating New Ideas Using IoT Sensors. The seeking to encourage diversity, combat prejudice and event seeks to encourage personal growth and idea-creation work to eliminate disparities inside and outside Yokogawa. skills by getting teams to concentrate on developing services and applications. Participants enjoyed the event with some saying the interdepartmental communication was refreshing and fueled new discoveries, and a sense of something new. 19 Noncoding hackathon Distributing the published guides The 11th PiCK! session’s What’s Strange About Yokogawa workshop Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Customer Support Community Involvement Diverse Interaction Global Operations Global Operations Global human resources Subsidiaries and Affiliates Service centers Service engineers 17,848 persons Japan: 12, Outside Japan: 100 230 in 80 countries 2,000 persons Europe Russia China World Headquarters Regional Headquarters Manufacturing Response center Offices/services ￥34.2 billion ￥18.1 billion ￥47.0 billion Sales (FY2018) Employees (2019/3) Manufactured products 2,033 persons 475 persons 1,936 persons The Netherlands Yokogawa Electric CIS Analytical instruments (Russia) Japan (Komine, Kofu, Komagane, Kanazawa) China (Shanghai) Field instruments, measuring instruments, North America Russia analytical instruments, silicon sensors, ￥31.8 billion Yokogawa Europe Field instruments life science-related equipment (The Netherlands) Field instruments China (Suzhou) Field instruments, Korea meters Controllers, measuring instruments Yokogawa Corporation of America (United States) 782 persons Bahrain Field instruments Japan ￥128.1 billion China Yokogawa Electric (Sichuan) South & Central America (Tokyo, Japan) ￥8.3 billion Field instruments Germany Field instruments Yokogawa Electric Korea 6,502 persons Saudi Arabia (Korea) 372 persons Field instruments United States Yokogawa China Yokogawa Field instruments, (China) analytical instruments Middle East & Africa Yokogawa India Brazil (Bahrain) (India) Southeast Asia & Far East Field instruments ￥72.6 billion India Field instruments Middle East & Africa ￥49.8 billion Singapore/Indonesia 3,423 persons Control systems, analytical instruments, measuring instruments, field instruments, 939 persons aviation instruments Yokogawa America do Sul India Yokogawa Electric International/ (Brazil) ￥13.8 billion Yokogawa Engineering Asia (Singapore) 1,591 persons 20 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals Value Creation Process Sustainability Governance Goals We will incorporate sustainability goals into our business plan and make progress a step at a time toward the Three goals. In this chapter, we highlight the processes undertaken to meet our sustainability goals. Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals 22 Value Creation Process 23 Sustainability Governance 25 21 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals Value Creation Process Sustainability Governance Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals To achieve the Three goals for the year 2050, which represent the society we are aiming for, Yokogawa has set mid-term sustainability targets in line with our long-term Targets for 2020 Targets for 2030 business framework and mid-term business plan, and we are working to reach these targets. Set specific value creation themes and Show the direction of focus, and set aspirational targets in line with the Transformation 2020 targets based on transformation and growth Business Focus Areas: business plan ● Renewable and low-carbon energy ● Life innovation and safety ● Energy saving and resources 2015 2020 2030 2050 Mid-term business plan From FY2021 Phase1: FY2015-2017 Phase2: FY2018-2020 Establishing a foundation for growth Creating opportunity and consolidating Growth to become an even more by transforming our business structure the foundation for growth profitable company Long-term business framework Environmental Social Economic Make Achieve Ensure transition to net-zero circular well-being emissions economy Sustainability goals “Three goals” Major SDGs to which Yokogawa contributes 22 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals Value Creation Process Sustainability Governance Value Creation Process The value creation story at Yokogawa lies in the specific As a result, social and environmental value is produced, processes that help create a brighter future through the such as improved safety and reduced resource consumpvalue provided to customers. tion. By expanding the value creation story, we contribute We identify the problems of customers spanning a wide to the SDGs and strive to achieve our Three goals. range of industries around the world, and then solve those issues to help customers transform their businesses and improve productivity. Society/ Yokogawa Customers Environment Customer business innovation and productivity improvement A brighter future Input Activity Output Outcome Impact Yokogawa Sustainability Goals Yokogawa Strengths Customer Industries for the Year 2050 Environmental Social Economic Stream Make Achieve Ensure transition to net-zero circular well-being emissions economy Down Stream: the latter stage of oil and gas industry such as oil reﬁning and transportation Oil Pharmaceuticals Life sciences Business Focus Areas Universal Goals for the Year 2030 ● ● ● ● Petrochemicals ● Water/Wastewater ● Renewable energy ● Natural resources, energy, and material-related industries ● Chemicals ● Foods ● Aviation/Aerospace ● Industries supporting health and the enrichment of lives ● Iron/Steel ● Motors/Inverters ● Smart city ● Bio-economy business ● Pulp/Paper ● Automobiles ● Environmental ● Gas/LNG ● Machinery/ measurement ● Power Mechatronics ...and more ● Medical equipment 23 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals Value Creation Process Sustainability Governance ■ Transformation to Achieve Sustainability Goals Value Creation Process Transformation to Achieve Our strengths Sustainability Goals Business Focus Areas and Quality Trust Integrity While continuing to emphasize the quality, trust, and inValue Creation Themes tegrity that have long been a source of strength for YoValue Creation Stories of Yokogawa have been categokogawa, the company will undergo the transformation Areas for improvement Resilience rized and consolidated into several value creation themes. needed to achieve its sustainability goals by becoming Becoming more adaptable and resilient We have evaluated these themes on a scale of customer more adaptable and resilient, evolving its business to engage in regenerative value creation, and promoting co-inRegenerative value creation economic value and contribution to society. Based on our novation with its stakeholders. Evolving our businesses to engage in regenerative value creation evaluations, we set three business focus areas related to Yokogawa Group initiatives and aspirational targets for the year 2030. Co-innovation Promoting co-innovation with our stakeholders Circular Economy Energy saving and resources Make Achieve Ensure transition to net-zero circular well-being emissions economy Long-term stable Well-being operation of plant Resilience Becoming more adaptable and resilient Life innovation and safety Contribute to the realization of safe and sustainable inImproved productivity in manufacturing/ Advanced dustrial and social infrastructure, respond flexibly to and Customer Economic Value Improvement processing of pharmaceuticals/foods Improvement solutions of safety of water show resilience in the face of social change, and be deterenvironment mined to overcome the great challenges that this presConsulting to ents, while remaining rooted firmly in an identity that is Low-carbon energy improve productivity based on our corporate philosophy and vision. Support development Regenerative value creation of drugs and biopharmaceuticals Evolving our business to engage in regenerative value creation Reduce waste, recycle resources, and create robust and durable products by making the needed changes in deRenewable energy sign, production, logistics, and use. Together with cusOn-site maintenance tomers and business partners, make maximum use of solutions Net-zero Emissions assets and increase resource efficiency. Renewable and Co-innovation low-carbon energy Co-creation environment Promoting co-innovation with our stakeholders Through engagement with our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, partners, employees, shareholders, investors, and members of the local community, create Contribution to Society Relevance to SDGs the new value needed to realize a sustainable society. 24 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Roadmap to Achieving the Three Goals Value Creation Process Sustainability Governance Sustainability Governance Sustainability Management Yokogawa regards sustainability as one of its key manInternal Control System Sustainability management is carried out as a part of the agement challenges and is continuously working to imcompany-wide management cycle that includes the midIn order to increase corporate value, Yokogawa has put term business plan, risk management and the internal prove governance. Moreover, with the aim of enacting an internal control system in place to ensure that busithe changes shown in the TF2020 mid-term business plan control system. ness activities are conducted as they should be. To that The two major areas of sustainability activities are: 1) activiand gaining the trust of all stakeholders, we also monitor end, we allocate business resources, such as human resustainability KPIs and critical risks requiring prioritized ties to increase corporate and social value using sustainabilsources, financial resources, and other tangible or intanity KPIs as indicators; and 2) activities to drive the necessary management, in addition to management indicators. gible assets appropriately, and use these effectively. We improvements using ESG (Environmental, Social, Goveraim to increase the corporate value of the entire Group by nance) assessment results as indicators. Separate manageBoard of Directors ensuring that we both improve management efficiency The Board of Directors, which meets once a month in ment cycles are defined for each, and both are subject to and ensure compliant operations. monitoring and supervision by the Board of Directors. principle, is a decision-making body that aims to achieve Non-financial items are reported to the Board of Direcsustainable growth and an increase in corporate value Risk Management of the Group over the medium to long term. To achieve tors as part of reports on important matters and the imThe risk management committee selects critical risks that plementation of each management cycle, and progress these goals, the Board of Directors improves profit-earnshould be managed as priorities, decides the monitoring capability and capital efficiency, and determines the with sustainability activities is also regularly reported. ing methods for these risks, and reports on them to the The Board of Directors monitors and supervises sustaingeneral direction of the Group, including corporate stratBoard of Directors. egies. In addition to monitoring and supervising the exability initiatives in light of changing social conditions, Each organization of the Group clarifies and assesses progress in sustainability KPIs, feedback from stakeholdecution of business by management, including directors risks, and plans and implements countermeasures. The and officers, the Board of Directors develops provisions ers including ESG evaluation organizations, and ESG risk department in charge of internal audit assesses the efassessment results, while incorporating independent related to the execution of duties by directors, and has fectiveness of the Group’s risk management process and established a framework to take responsibility for superviews from outside the company. reports important findings to the Board of Directors and vising the execution of business. the Audit & Supervisory Board members. Main Agenda Items Addressed by the Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board ■Sustainability Governance Structure In order to ensure the Group’s sustainable growth and ・Setting and management of sustainability targets corporate soundness, the Audit & Supervisory Board, Stakeholders General Shareholders Meeting ・Disclosure of sustainability information ・ESG assessment results and improvement measures which meets once a month in principle, makes approEngagement Information priate decisions and expresses its opinions from an inDisclosure dependent and objective standpoint. Audit & Supervi■The Sustainability Management Cycle sory Board members attend meetings of the Board of Nomination Advisory Committee Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members April to September October to March Directors and the Management Board, along with other important meetings. They also hold regular meetings Compensation Advisory Audit & Communication with stakeholders Board of Directors Committee Supervisory Board Stakeholders with departments in charge of internal audits and legal affairs, as well as the department in charge of business ESG assessment responses ESG assessment feedback ethics, which promotes the compliance framework. They Monitoring and ESG risk assessment exchange and share information about the activities of Crisis Management ESG Sustainability President supervision Committee risk activity report each and proactively offer opinions. (Board of report Risk Management Management Directors) Internal control assessment Committee Board Management Board Internal Audit Department Mid-term business plan management The Board of Directors delegates decision-making related Corporate Function / Business to the execution of business to the Management Board to Business Headquarters and Group Companies execution (Management Sustainability KPIs Sustainability KPIs promote swift decision-making. The Management Board, Board) review (annual) review (mid-year) which meets once a month in principle, is required to report Election/Removal Appointment/Resignation Instructions/Orders/Supervision Implementation of the internal control system its resolutions and other matters to the Board of Directors. Audit/Supervision Cooperation/Report/Advice 25 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities People and Society People and society are important pillars of our business activities. Yokogawa tries to encourage its diverse range of personnel to work energetically, demonstrate their skills, and grow with society. This chapter focuses on our initiatives relating to human resources and occupational health and safety. Diversity and Inclusion 27 Human Resources Development 28 Decent Work 29 Human Rights 33 Involvement with Local Communities 34 26 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Diversity and Inclusion Promoting Active Participation by Women Promoting Active Participation by People with Disabilities Yokogawa is promoting female employee's empowerment as a Since it launched a normalization project in 1992, Yokogawa Yokogawa will actively recruit, develop, and promote part of its diversity promotion Electric Corporation has consistently continued its activities to people from a variety of backgrounds who differ in terms activities based on the human recruit employees with disabilities and encourage them to engage of experience, knowledge, sensibility, perspective, cultural asset strategy of the mid-term in various fields, such as engineering, sales, and office work. background, and values, and in so doing will not discriminate Career development program for business plan.In April 2015 We founded Yokogawa Foundry Corporation in 1999, which based on ethnicity, nationality, gender, religion, age, social female employees Yokogawa established a work was certified in the same year as a special subsidiary company position, or disability. By utilizing digital technology and section that is dedicated to the promotion of diversity, and conforming to the Handicapped Person's Employment Promotion cultivating a safe working environment, we make it possible this unit is actively helping employees achieve success in their Law. The company is promoting employment of people with for every employee to demonstrate his or her full potential jobs by means such as formulating career development plans intellectual disabilities, holding up independence, autonomy, and to work comfortably, with a flexible workstyle. Good for female leader candidates. Moreover, we conduct career ambition, and challenging spirit as keywords. communication and constructive collaboration based on development training for female employees as well as seminars We were certified in 2002 for “group calculation” of actual mutual respect facilitates the co-creation of new value. to raise awareness among managers concerning the need to employment rate of the disabled in domestic group companies and empower women. Yokogawa is pursuing its goal of achieving will continue to promote the active participant of employees with The Diversification of Human Resources the female manager rate of 7% (non-consolidated) and 12% disabilities in cooperation with labor-related organizations. The diversity of human resources is our strength as well as a (global) by fiscal year 2020. In recruitment activities, our target requirement for Yokogawa to expand its businesses globally. rate for female employees is 30% or more, with the long-term Not only overseas but also in Japan, we encourage active aim of optimizing Yokogawa's workforce gender composition. participation of human resources of diverse ethnic backgrounds Women made up 34.5% of the new graduates joining the and nationalities. We are expanding the acceptance of overseas company in 2019. To create an environment where various group employees in Japan to promote globalization and build types of employees can comfortably work, keep challenging, careers for them. Also, we actively recruit global staff who and grow, Yokogawa is tackling improvement of its corporate graduated from overseas universities or studied in Japan. In 2018, system and culture, by introducing a flextime system without we sent recruiters to the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad core time, a telecommuting system and a time-unit leave (IIT-H), the top education institutions for science and engineering system, keeping pace with work-style reform activities. In March in India and recruited graduates with advanced IT skills. We have 2016, we formulated a General Employer Action Plan based on An employee in charge of the development of new bio equipment for our prepared the intra-company infrastructures providing company the Act on the Promotion of Female Participation and Career life innovation business regulations, business notices, cafeteria menus, and internal Advancement in the Workplace and disclosed it on the website of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In July 2016, ■ Disability Employment Rate broadcasts in both Japanese and English, and appropriately Yokogawa Electric Corporation was recognized by the Minister 2.5％ offering information to support their livelihood in Japan on the intranet. We have been implementing the training program of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company whose measures Japanese Culture & Communication for promoting active female participation is excellent (stage 3 to understand cultures and customs (three stars) that satisfies all five items to be 2.0％ from both Japanese and overseas evaluated). viewpoints. We expect that advancing the diversification and improving the 1.5％ 2015/6 2016/6 2017/6 2018/6 2019/6 ability to respond will fuse diverse Disability employment rate Legal disability employment rate IIT-H recruiting session sense of values to create new values. Eruboshi mark *The calculation applies to Yokogawa Group companies in Japan. 27 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Human Resources Development A diverse workforce is an indispensable resource and a key driver for Expanding the program content with a focus on Yokogawa's growth and creation of value. To achieve the targets of the business contribution Transformation 2020 mid-term business plan, whose overall goal is the creation of new value through co-innovation with our customers, Yokogawa Programs offered at Yokogawa University are divided into three is pursuing a human resources strategy that is focused on transformation major themes: Business literacy, which is a set of basic skills in through the strengthening of human resources, promotion of diversity and leadership, finance, and other areas expected of a professional; inclusion, and management of health and productivity. Moreover, to be themes based on functional areas of business such as sales a good partner, a good corporate citizen, a going concern, a good brand, and services needed to transform existing businesses and to and a good employer, we will work to establish a productive, healthy, and impart knowledge; and themes based on new technologies and E-Learning course provided by an in-house expert rewarding work environment throughout the Yokogawa Group. other resources needed to create new businesses and transform Creating a Corporate Culture in Which business models. External e-learning resources have also been incorporated to expand the programs. A cross-departmental The Company and Its Employees Work steering committee plays a central role in preparing each program Continue to Grow Together while keeping in mind how an employee will be able to contribute to the Company's business by taking the program. While the Yokogawa University is established University started with some 120 programs when it opened in to realize a “Learning Company” October 2018, the number of programs was increased to about 680 by the end of March 2019, with more on the way. Employees will With the goal of ensuring Yokogawa can continue to create greater apply what they learned from the programs to work and generate value for our customers and society in a fast-changing world, in more value, so as to realize growth for the Company. October 2018 we established Yokogawa University, an in-house Our in-house instructor teaches at a training workshop. institution, to provide our employees an environment to learn and increase the level of expertise and skills in a broad range of areas. E-learning is the primary method of training to give our employees Establishment of a Global Talent Management System around the globe an equal opportunity to learn without any limitations Business Literacy from time or locations. Also, we are developing instructors at each Acquire a set of basic skills region who can deliver the trainings at all our locations. By offering expected of a professional To sustain growth and enhance its corporate value over employees opportunities to take up new challenges and supporting the medium to long-term, Yokogawa is prioritizing the motivated employees to learn while cultivating a corporate culture development of leaders who are capable of achieving where employees can learn from each other ( “Learning Company” ), success in the global business arena. For this purpose, Industry Knowledge IT Literacy ＆ Yokogawa has established a committee to oversee the Yokogawa aims to transform itself into an enterprise that is able to & Specialized Course New Tech Frontier development of global human resources and prepare achieve sustained growth through employee growth and development. By offering all employees opportunities for professional growth and Develop skills required for Learn necessary IT knowledge talented individuals for managerial roles. In fiscal 2018, cultivating a corporate culture in which employees can learn from one the Yokogawa’s business domain and the latest technical trends the committee launched an initiative that seeks through another, Yokogawa aims to transform itself into an enterprise that is the visualization of HR data to identify and develop such able to achieve sustained growth. talented individuals. Yokogawa University's curriculum 28 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Decent Work Workplace Reform The telecommuting system and time-unit leave system Yokogawa Electric Corporation introduced in 2016 are used by many employees, including those who need child rearing From fiscal 2018, we have worked on the introduction or care support, as a work style with no restriction of time Promotion of Work-Life Management and place. In an effort to create an environment in which and improvement of free work spaces. These spaces are intended for many different purposes. For example, it is easier for employees to use these systems, our inCollaboration Space is designed to facilitate internal The environment surrounding employees and sense of house newsletter covers the work styles of the colleagues collaboration; Relaxation Space helps staff members to values are always changing with various life stages. We are effectively using the programs and a message from the come up with ingenious new ideas; and Concentration Space supporting the work-life management of our employees by president. In this way, we have employed many different is for individuals to concentrate on their respective tasks. building flexible work systems, such as a flextime system media channels to encourage the use of the programs. By allowing employees to freely choose where they work in without core time, telecommuting system, and hourly HataLabo (work style laboratory), an information site that accordance with the given situation, these spaces are made leave system, so that they can concentrate on work with no was opened on the intranet to introduce various examples of more efficient and comfortable to work in. worries in spite of such changes. For balancing child rearing work styles and work systems. A campaign to encourage all and work, Yokogawa Electric Corporation has systems that the employees to use telecommuting system was conducted help its workers, such as a child care hour system, which for one month in fiscal 2018. The number of users of the can be used until admission to an elementary school, and system, which was initially about 30 after it was introduced, a care leave system. In addition, a next-generation rearing rose to more than half of the total number of Yokogawa support system that supplies 100,000 yen per child once a Electric Corporation's employees during the campaign year can also be used as an economic aid. Many employees, period. Also, the time-unit leave system was used by 1,192 both men or women, use these systems and almost all of employees, more than half of the total employees, in 2018 those who take a childcare leave come back to the former for a total of 11,411 hours. Yokogawa will promote its workposition after leave, thanks to many support systems after style reform, by providing an environment where each one returning from a leave and to workplace culture of mutual of our various employees can challenge and grow while understanding and support. To make it easier for them to balancing work and life, so that they can create new values. take childcare leave, employees soon after the birth of their child and their superiors are informed of the availability of our childcare programs. Also, we have developed related ta a Ha ikat La ra bo systems, such as fully-paid childcare leave for the first k to ra ry week. As a consequence, the percentage of male workers who take a child care leave increased from 1.3% in fiscal HataLabo mark 2016 to 7.2% in fiscal 2017. Moreover, Poppins Nursery Musashino, a nursery certified by the Tokyo metropolitan government, was invited onto the premises of our head office to help local residents, as well as employees, balance childcare and work. Yokogawa Electric Corporation was recognized Free workspace at the head office of Yokogawa Electric Corporation in 2007 by the director-general of the Tokyo Labor Bureau as a company supporting child rearing. The accreditation mark “Kurumin” 29 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Decent Work lifestyle-related illness and mental diseases, serves as stress Harassment Prevention relief, and also improves job performance. We provide support so that good practices take root, which enables In order to promote diversity and improve the environment Management of Health and Productivity employees to work in their best condition. in which diverse human resources can participate, we As a policy to maintain and promote the health of our employees, created the “Corporate Policy for Harassment” and Yokogawa has been working on creating work styles free from developed the “Harassment Prevention Guidelines” in 2016. time and local restrictions and a comfortable office environment, We encourage employees of Yokogawa Electric Corporation management of working hours and health development programs. and domestic group companies to be respectful of one In September 2016, we established the Health Declaration as a another and inform of the disallowing of any harassment common basic policy of the group on health management in order behavior, including sexual harassment, power harassment, to further accelerate various efforts on employee health from the harassment behavior that interfere with the use of childcare Body composition measurement One-leg stand test and nursing care leave, stalking, and discriminative acts viewpoint of health and productivity management. Yokogawa Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Electric Corporation has been included in the “Kenko Keiei (White against LGBTs, and are making efforts for their compliance 500)” list of large companies with excellent health and productivity and implementation. management practices for three consecutive years. EAP for a healthy, fulfilling company life We have the “Yokogawa Group General Counseling Desk” We offer an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) which in Yokogawa Electric Corporation, where employees of the company and domestic group companies can receive Health Declaration is designed to help employees to exhibit continuously high performance while avoiding a state in which they consultations about various matters including harassment. Yokogawa will support its employees’ proactive efforts to stay cannot demonstrate their original capacities due to health When consulted, we conduct necessary hearings and mentally and physically healthy and create vigorous and energetic problems and change of life stage. In EAP, we establish a investigations on workplace conditions based on consulters’ work environment in pursuit of a company to contribute toward a healthy and abundant society. comfortable working environment while improving the intentions, taking their privacy into consideration. If any system to suit the current situation and support employees harassment case is detected, we take strict actions on from both sides of mental health (e.g. stress care) and the the person who committed the harassment and give career (e.g. reinstatement support). It is our goals to ensure appropriate guidance such as requesting measures to that all our employees stay in good health and have a prevent reoccurrence. We will not provide disadvantageous Kenko Keiei Logo fulfilling company life. treatment to consulters and employees who contribute to Kenko Keiei (management of health and productivity) is a registered the verification of facts. trademark of the NPO Kenko Keiei Kenkyukai. ■ Key Activities Under EAP Health development program Utilize e-mail and web pages to provide relevant information that For the purpose of physical and mental health promotion of employees, Education/PR will help employees gain a better understanding of mental health. we offer health derelopment programs such as improving the living Health In 2015, Yokogawa started a health development program habits and exercise habits. Physical exercise is effective in the prevention development where employees independently check their condition and of mental disorders as well as physical illness, we are supporting the Mental health Implement training for new employees and managers to strive health promotion of employees so that the employees themselves to are encouraged to do self-care and improve their health. The training for mental health prevention and early detection of stress. check their health status and care the body. program includes counting the number of steps in a oneWe have a system to help our employees seek consultation within the Based on the results of the stress check, identify causes of stress in week period, doctor's questions (about exercise, eating, the workplace. Implement employee-led programs and activities, Consultation company or from external institutions specialized not only in mental health Stress check but also in various areas of human relationships, career issues, sexual drinking, smoking, sleep and cognitive habits) and the with the Company's support, in order to prevent, contain and remove these causes so as to ensure a more comfortable workplace. harassment, power harassment, and the discrimination including LGBT etc.. measurement of body composition and physical fitness. In addition, occupational physicians refer to findings from Assistance for To care for the employee who suffers from mental health problems or takes a leave of absence for recuperation, and to ensure the smooth reinstatement of those previous checkups and give each employee tips to improve returning to who return to work after recovery so as to prevent them from falling into the same problems again, we have a system to provide proper support for each individual or lifestyle. For instance, moderate exercise helps to prevent work workplace depending on the seriousness of the condition or situation. 30 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Decent Work Operation of the Occupational Health ■ OHSMS Structure Chart and Safety Management System President of Yokogawa Electric Corporation Occupational Health and Safety (OHSMS) OHSMS Chief Manager: Health and Safety Director of Yokogawa Group The Yokogawa Group has introduced an Occupational Health Improvements are made in phases, with constant OHSMS Promoter: Head of Department responsible for the Yokogawa Group OHSMS and Safety Management System (OHSMS) and is pushing assessments to eliminate or minimize potential risks. forward continuous improvement of levels of activities Regular evaluations and reviews of the activities are also related to occupational health and safety and reduction of done through audits. The effectiveness of the system has risks. It is making efforts to improve the level of occupational Yokogawa Electric Corporation Yokogawa Group companies Yokogawa Group companies improved by combining conventional activities, such as health and safety, including activities to eliminate and Health and Safety Director in Japan outside Japan safety patrols, analysis and countermeasures against Health and Safety Director Health and Safety Director reduce potential risks through risk assessment, as well as OHSMS Manager and occupational incidences and near misses. Committee members OHSMS Manager and OHSMS Manager and periodic evaluation and review of the activities through Committee members Committee members internal audit. Yokogawa is also enhancing the effectiveness Occupational Health and Safety Objectives of its mechanism that combines the activities going on from the past, such as analysis of and countermeasures ● 1. Elimination or reduction of occupational accidents against near-misses and health and safety patrol, with these Secure safety and promote health for personnel involved activities. ● 2. Establishment, maintenance and improvement of occupational health and safety management system Occupational Health and Safety Policy (OHSMS) is; (1) To make continual improvements in OHS activities, through In recognition that occupational health and safety are a basis implementation of PDCA cycle and sharing OHS activities for the management of the Group, Yokogawa shall pursue information the following initiatives to promote, create and maintain (2) To conduct risk assessments in all Yokogawa Group health and safety for all of its personnel involved. Companies, for eliminating or reducing risks (3) To maintain OHS at its current level or improve it by ● Establish and promote an occupational health and safety carrying out OHSMS audits management system ● 3. Observation of laws and regulations ● Observe the laws and regulations relating to occupational Observe all OHS-related laws and regulations health and safety ● 4. Conduct of OHS activities is; ● Seek to eliminate or lessen risks to occupational health and (1) To maintain and/or improve OHS control level safety by first assessing their danger level (2) To build awareness of traffic safety ● Promote open communications with Yokogawa Group (3) To provide OHS training personnel, customers, shareholders, members of the local (4) To conduct fire and evacuation drills community, and contractors to maintain occupational ● 5. Disclosure of OHS information health and safety system Communicate openly with Group personnel and the local ● Provide the education and training to all of the Yokogawa community about OHS activities and results Group personnel ● Invest management resources appropriately, perform audits on a regular basis and make continual improvements in the Yokogawa Group occupational health and safety system. 31 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Decent Work Yokogawa Safety Handbook ■ Frequency Rate of Days Lost To Injury Consolidated Temporary and contract employees Occupational Health and Safety 0.6 As one measure to achieve our sustainability target (for elimination of occupational accidents), the Yokogawa Education and Training Safety Handbook was published in 2019. This handbook, 0.5 To maintain and improve standards throughout the entire for use throughout the Yokogawa Group, is intended as 0.4 Group's activities and eliminate occupational accidents, a reference to help employees ensure safety and behave we offer activities targeting all Group employees to raise in a safe manner. It comprises nine safety principles and 0.3 awareness of health and safety, and we have appointed three tips on occupational health and safety. The nine personnel and a secretariat responsible for health and safety safety principles focus on reducing the risk of occupational 0.2 activities. New personnel are offered education and health and safety committee workshops, as well as on-site safety accidents. The three tips introduce topics helpful in training at customer plants and factories. We also provide building and maintaining a 0.1 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 first-aid/lifesaving training courses, commuter-accident safe workplace environment. Frequency rate of days lost to injury: (number of occupational accidents response drills, and so on The handbook was translated with lost days / total working hours) × 1,000,000 into multiple languages and distributed to all staff members of the Yokogawa Group. ■ Frequency Rate of Occupational Accidents 1.5 Elimination of Yokogawa Safety Handbook Occupational Incidents and Accidents 1.0 To eliminate/reduce occupational accidents and improve the quality of health and safety activities, the Yokogawa Group gathers and analyzes data and information on occupational 0.5 First-aid/lifesaving training (Yokogawa Electric Corporation) accidents on a quarterly basis. The information is provided Group-wide on the intranet to prevent similar accidents. 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Frequency rate of occupational accidents: (number of occupational accidents / total working hours) × 1,000,000 32 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Human Rights Chapter 2 Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct International Standards and Guidelines Relationship between the company and employees Which We Support Yokogawa has explicitly defined respect for human rights as part ● Prohibition of forced and child labor Yo ko ga wa s u p p o r ts t h e h u m a n r i g h ts re co g n i ze d of the Group's policies in the Yokogawa Philosophy, the Yokogawa We do not allow the use of forced or child labor in any internationally by the following standards and guidelines Group Code of Conduct, and the Group Management Standards (GMS). workplace, wherever that may be around the world. and works to promote human rights. Yokogawa has also declared its support for the UN Global Compact; ● Eliminating discrimination and creating a comfortable we pursue initiatives based on respect for the human-rights guidelines working environment ● The UN International Bill of Human Rights (Universal proclaimed in the Global Compact, as well as international humanWe do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on rights standards. religion, political opinion, country of origin, social origin, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and International The GMS, which apply throughout the Yokogawa Group, state in disability, or other circumstances. We also strive to Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) writing the basic policies for the Group's management. These improve the abilities of our employees, foster workstyles ● The UN Global Compact standards provide clear rules and guidelines relating to matters that respect individual differences, and provide a ● The UNHRC Guiding Principles on Business and Human including human rights, obedience to the law, and occupational health pleasant work environment that is healthy and safe. Rights and safety. Regarding human rights initiatives throughout our supply ● Respect of workers' rights ● The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises chain, our Sustainable Procurement Guidelines include provisions We observe labor laws and agreements and respect ● Eight ILO fundamental Conventions (Nos. 87, 98, 29, 105, prohibiting forced labor, inhumane treatment and infringements of the rights of workers, including the freedom to 138, 182, 100, 111) human rights, child labor and discrimination. The guidelines also participate in labor unions. We also strive through good ● The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning cover appropriate wages, legal compliance regarding work hours, and employees’ right to organize. Our suppliers are required to obey these communication to maintain and develop a relationship Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy guidelines. Additionally, Yokogawa has set up compliance hotlines of trust between labor and management. ● The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and for everyone working at the company as a way to proactively avoid ● Prohibition of harassment Rights at Work and its Follow-up human rights violations. We build a corporate culture that encourages employees ● ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct, which provides a basic to treat each other with respect and does not tolerate policy and standards of action to guide the Group and all individuals sexual, power, and other forms of harassment. engaged in Group business to achieve our corporate philosophy, sets the standards regarding human rights shown below and to the right. Relationship with local communities and society (The boxes show excerpts from the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct) ● Contribution to local development As a good citizen, we build cooperative relationships with local communities, and through the provision of Chapter 1 Basic policy of the Yokogawa Group employment and other means, we contribute to the sustainable development of the countries and regions in Respect for human rights which we operate. ● We support internationally recognized human rights standards and respect the dignity and human rights of all people. ● We strive to ensure that our business activities do not infringe on human rights, and if we discover such situations, we will respond quickly. 33 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development Decent Work Human Rights Involvement with Local Communities Involvement with Local Communities Major Corporate Citizenship Activities and Contribution to SDGs 3. Good health and well-being Ensure healthy lives and promote Aware of its responsibilities as a good citizen, Yokogawa Guidelines on Corporate Citizenship Expenses well-being for all at all ages strives for harmonious coexistence with the communities it serves. We not only contribute to society through business The Yokogawa Group undertakes corporate citizenship activities ● Supporting sports organizations and events (Japan) activities, but also implement wide-ranging community (initiatives to give back to society), having laid down Guidelines ● Supporting mother and child health activities (Japan) ● Blood donation (Japan, United States, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia) programs. We at Yokogawa are committed to cooperating on Corporate Citizenship Expenses. We ensured transparency for ● Visiting and supporting elderly communities (Netherlands, Czech Republic and China) with the communities and governments in all countries and activities that involve donations and expenditures by clarifying the ● Supporting a project for the development of a health-oriented society (Spain) regions in which we do business, to thereby achieve their procedures and standards for decision-making and approval. ● Donations to medical institutions (United States, Germany, UK and India) common goals and contribute to their growth. ● Donations to communities’ cultural events (Japan) We also encourage our employees to participate in Corporate Citizenship Activities community programs as good citizens. Specifically, 4. Quality education we run skill-development programs and participate in Our corporate citizenship activities for fiscal 2018 included Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education environmental conservation activities in local communities. financial assistance (194 million yen), donations of goods and the and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all We also provide volunteer programs designed to let our use of facilities (equivalent to 7.4 million yen), and volunteering ● Outdoor education events (Japan and South Korea) employees make use of their various skills and competences by our staff members (equivalent to 20 million yen). Classifying ● Supporting community education programs and activities for the community. our corporate citizenship activities according to the SDGs, Goal 3 (Japan, United States, Netherlands, Germany, UK, Tatarstan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, India and China) (good health and well-being) accounted for the largest number of Our Corporate Citizenship Policy activities. Out of the 17 goals comprising the SDGs, our activities contributed to 16 goals in total. 11. Sustainable cities and communities Based on the Yokogawa Philosophy and the Yokogawa Make cities and human settlements inclusive, Group Code of Conduct, we give back to society mainly in ■ Our corporate citizenship activities in fiscal 2018 safe, resilient and sustainable the areas related to our core business. ● Supporting disaster-aﬀected areas (Japan and United States) ● Local volunteer activities (Japan, Australia and New Zealand) ● Supporting international exchange (Japan, United States and Bulgaria) Focus areas 1. No poverty ● Our regions of operation 25% End poverty in all its forms everywhere ● Our business fields 41% ● Providing ﬁnancial support for community centers (South Korea) ● Disaster relief ● Providing ﬁnancial support for clothes, living expenses and school supplies (Japan, Indonesia, China and South Korea) ● Contribution to the development of society ● Providing ﬁnancial support for meals and 5% living expenses (Spain and South Korea) 9% ● Forestation (Australia, New Zealand and Singapore) 20% ● Supporting biodiversity activities (Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Taiwan) ● Supporting the empowerment of women (Australia, New Zealand and India) etc. See our website for information about the Yokogawa Group's community programs. (Based on the number of projects) Community education program using Yokogawa products (Goal 4 of the SDGs) 34 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environment Climate change and resource-related problems are growing concerns that may affect not only the continued existence of business activities but also the continued existence of humankind itself. Companies must make proactive efforts to protect the global environment. This chapter explains Yokogawa’s environmental conservation activities. Environmental Management 36 Climate Risks and Opportunities 37 Environmental Practices 38 Eco-Design 39 Environmental Commitments at Offices 41 35 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environmental Management Organization The environment management system of Yokogawa Group is managed by the directors of the environment in Yokogawa Electric Corporation. Environmental Policy (2) Develop and produce environmentally friendly green The system promotes the group's global environmental conservation products in consideration of the environmental burden activities and preventive measures against global warming. Based on the Yokogawa Philosophy which states, Our goal throughout the products' lifecycle, from material is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities purchase, manufacturing and distribution, to use and ■ Environment Promotion System in the areas of measurement, control, and information, disposal of the products. President of Yokogawa Electric Corporation Yokogawa will pursue the following environmental activities (3) Supply society with value-added solutions and services Environmental Oﬃcer of Yokogawa Electric Corporation to achieve our Three goals for the year 2050 and realize a for conser ving the earth's environment through sustainable society. measurement, control, and information technologies. Environmental Management Department (4) Encourage its employees to participate in environmental ● Establish its environmental management system, clarify Each Director of Headquarters/ President conservation activities under their own initiative as Business Headquarters its roles, authorities and responsibilities and pursue the Promotion Manager Environmental Oﬃcer good corporate citizens. environmental activities. Yokogawa Electric Corporation ● Provide all working people in the Yokogawa Group Environmental Administrator ● Observe the laws and regulations, set voluntary standard the education and training necessary for promoting Yokogawa Group Companies if needed and strive to prevent pollution. environmental conservation activities. ● Promote the prevention of environment by setting e n v i ro n m e n ta l o b j e ct i ve s a b o u t e n v i ro n m e n ta l ● Disclose information and promote open communications Environmental Management System issues such as climate change, biodiversity and use of with all working people in the Yokogawa Group, We are implementing an Environmental Management System resources. customers, shareholders, members of the local in its group companies to ensure full compliance with the laws, ( 1 ) C a r r y o u t r e s o u r ce r e c y c l i n g m a n a ge m e n t b y communities and contractors to deepen and co-create regulations, agreements for the prevention of environmental endeavoring to reduce, reuse and recycle of resources, environmental conservation actions and initiatives. pollution. Moreover, to reduce the impact on the environment, ● Evaluate environmental performance, conduct audits on we are encouraging energy conservation and a shift to conserve energy use and prevent global warming, and a regular basis, and make continual improvements in the alternative technologies which have lower environmental minimizing the risks of environmental pollution in all of Yokogawa Group environmental management system. impact. Yokogawa has acquired ISO 14001 certification at its the operations. major offices and manufacturing sites as part of its effort to improve the Environmental Management System. Global Environment Internal Audits Sustainable Society Internal audits for ISO14001 are conducted at least once a year. Building a circular society Annual Surveillance Yokogawa Customers Regular inspections (renewal inspection or surveillance) are Environmental Management Environmental Management conducted at each ISO14001-certified group company by a Resource and energy conservation, Resource and energy conservation, Provision of environmental solutions and pollution prevention, certifying organization in order to maintain ISO14001 certification. pollution prevention, waste reduction, eco design products waste reduction, promotion promotion of reuse and recycling, etc. of reuse and recycling, etc. ISO 14001 Certification at Yokogawa Group The Yokogawa Group has achieved ISO 14001 certification primarily at its major offices and manufacturing sites in Japan and abroad. See our website for our certification status. 36 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Climate Risks and Information disclosure change-related risk analysis and financial impact assessment Opportunities and will work toward full information disclosure as follows. We are determined to prepare for the future by facing up ■ FY2018: Expressed support for the TCFD recommendations to the challenges presented by climate change proactively. Accordingly, in February 2019 we expressed our support for ■ FY2019: Disclose financial information relating to climate Response to Climate Change Issues the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related change in line with the TCFD recommendations (see the table Financial Disclosures (TCFD), established by the Financial below) Start an analysis of the midand long-term risks of Climate change due to anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) climate change Stability Board to encourage financial disclosure relating to emissions may present significant risks and opportunities ■ FY2020: Evaluate and disclose the financial impact of climate change. Yokogawa will continue to undertake climate for corporate business activities. The supply chain for energy climate change on our midand long-term business plans resources such as petroleum, LNG and electric power greatly influences GHG emissions around the world; however, the Climate-Related Financial Information Yokogawa Group's business relies on the supply chain's companies as its customers. We help customers reduce Governance Governance around climate risks and opportunities GHG emissions through stable operations and improved TCFD’ s recommended disclosure: The Board of Directors formulates basic policies for dealing with climate change and for developing a risk and opportunity business efficiency overall, as well as through solutions for a) Structure for monitoring and management system. The Board also monitors and supervises the effective operation of the system, as well as the setting of supervision by the Board of sustainability targets and their implementation status. Our executive team manages risk through internal controls with the saving energy. In the midterm, construction of new coalManagement Board functioning as a supreme body. It also sets sustainability targets linked with our mid-term business plan Directors fired power generation facilities has stagnated while demand b) Management’ s role and works toward their achievement, reporting progress regularly to the Board of Directors. Related information ▶ Sustainability governance (P. 25) Risk management (P. 47) has grown for LNG—a type of clean fossil fuel with lower GHG emissions—for use as a temporary alternative until Strategy Impact of climate risks and opportunities on businesses, strategy and financial planning renewable energy becomes widely available. Accordingly, TCFD’ s recommended disclosure: When formulating our long-term business framework, which defines our vision for the next ten years, and the TF2020 midLNG has started to make a positive contribution to Yokogawa's a) Short, medium and long term risk term business plan targeting FY2020, we considered energy resource trends and the pressing need to address social issues business. In addition, markets for renewable energy, b) Impact on businesses, strategy and as climate change-related shifts in our external environment. In light of the trends, we set the Three goals representing the sustainable, low-carbon, and circular society that we should pursue for future generations. In the mid-term, we will make electricity storage, electric power transmission and energy financial planning more use of renewable and low-carbon energy to achieve our sustainability targets of contribution to the overall avoidance of c) Resilience of the strategy to climate supply/demand management, among others, are expected to GHG emissions, improvement of customers’ resource efficiency, and reduction of GHG emissions resulting from our business scenarios activities. The expansion of LNG and renewable energy expected in the mid-term, and the growing need to reduce CO2 grow dramatically and are where Yokogawa’ s accumulated emissions through energy saving, work in favor of our business operations as we pursue business expansion. expertise in measurement and control can be utilized. Related information ▶ Three goals of sustainability (P. 5) Furthermore, in recent years, customers have shifted their business strategies significantly in light of the challenges Risk management How we identify, assess and manage climate risks presented by climate change. These developments are a big TCFD’ s recommended disclosure: To control uncertainty affecting our corporate value, we conduct risk management for the entire Group from two perspectives: business opportunity for Yokogawa. In collaboration with our business opportunities, and compliance and crisis events . The risk management process includes evaluating the risks a) Processes for identifying and partner companies, we will actively propose new solutions assessing resulting from climate change for individual fiscal years and over the medium to long term, and implementing measures such as risk reduction. As Yokogawa pursues business expansion under TF2020, we see a big business opportunity in the and work on business expansion. b) Processes for managing risks shift of our customers’ business strategies based on the growth of markets relating to renewable energy and the challenges As can be seen from the carbon efficient indices selected c) How these processes are integrated presented by climate change. Furthermore, we are committed to improving the carbon efficiency of our business activities. into overall risk management by the Government Pension Investment Fund in Japan, Related information ▶ Risk management (P. 47) institutional investors are increasingly interested in the Metrics and targets Metrics and targets to assess and manage relevant climate risks and opportunities carbon efficiency of companies business activities. As we expect GHG management to take on a greater importance TCFD’ s recommended disclosure: Our target for mitigating climate change is one billion tons of CO2 emissions avoided in terms of business (FY2018–2030), with a) Metrics used for assessment that may influence corporate value, we will push ahead with a 34% reduction of GHG emissions in terms of operations (from FY2013 to FY2030). Our FY2018 performance is disclosed in this report. b) GHG emissions and the related risks reducing GHG emissions in pursuit of targets consistent with c) Targets and performance Related information ▶ Stopping climate change (P. 6) Global warming prevention (P. 41) Sustainability data (P. 60) the Paris Agreement. 37 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environmental Practices Environmental Accounting In accordance with the Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition) , Data of Environmental Practices Conserving Water and Soil Yokogawa calculates the costs of its environmental activities We have conducted soil and water studies at former and quantifies their economic impact. Overview of Environmental Impact production sites in accordance with its proprietary control ■Environmental Conservation Costs (FY2018) (Unit:¥1M) The Yokogawa Group calculates the annual volume of the standards, starting before the enactment of Japan's Soil Capital Related Category Item Main Initiatives energy and material inputs for its business activities (including Contamination Countermeasures Law. Investment Costs Pollution Costs for reducing prevention costs Monitoring and measurement 6.0 56.3 manufacturing, sales, and service) as well as their annual environmental Enlightenment Activities Environmental 1,621.4 725.4 impact of factories Energy savings output of waste and other matter into the air and water. This (areas of operation) conservation costs Resource Waste reduction, 193.0 61.8 analysis helps the Group effectively use resources, improve With the aim of raising employee’ awareness about the recycling costs water conservation Costs for reducing environmental impact of Green procurement 0.0 44.0 energy efficiency, and improve the waste recycling rate. environment, e-learning courses on quality, the environment, procurement and logistics Environmental conservation costs in EMS activities EMS updates, education 0.0 180.0 and safety are given, environmental movies are shown, and Compliance with Laws 0.0 0.8 lectures are held for all employees of the Group. Environmental conservation costs in community activities Environmental events 49.1 In 2018 Yokogawa again endeavored to ensure full compliance Costs for correcting damage to the environment Soil recovery 0.0 with environmental laws, regulations, agreements, and so on, Total 1,820.4 1117.4 and had no major violations and fines. * Data covers ISO14001-certiﬁed manufacturing sites. ■ Environmental Conservation Effects ■ Eco-Balance (Annual Input and Output) Increase / Category Description of Eﬀect FY2017 FY2018 decrease INPUT OUTPUT Total amount of energy 1,038 1,064 26 Item FY2018 Item FY2018 Expenditures consumed (TJ) Total amount of water resources 459 446 －13 Total 1,539TJ GHG 83,886t-CO2e consumed (K m3) Purchased power 131,325MWh Atmosphere NOx 4.2t Global warming 54,915 54,598 －317 Power prevention CO2 emissions (t) Renewable energy 131MWh SOx 0.2t Total amount of waste Emissions 3,466 3,764 298 Heavy oil 89kL Plant waste water 68K m3 emissions (t) Drainage Light oil 482kL General wastewater 430K m3 * Data covers ISO14001-certiﬁed manufacturing sites. Energy Oil Business activity Gasoline 2,961kL Landﬁll 784t Kerosene 18kL Acid and alkali 752t ■Economic Effects of Environmental Conservation Measures (FY2018) LNG 2,264K Nm3 Combustion 126t (Unit:¥1M) Natural gas LPG 363t Segment Amount Heat 108GJ Waste Reduction in expenditure due to recycling (sale of valuable resources, etc.) 30.8 Utility water 319K m3 Recycling Water Ground water 242K m3 3,528t Reduction in expenditures, resource and energy savings (power, water, paper, etc.) 170.2 Papers 269t Total 201.0 Hydrogen ﬂuoride and its water-soluble salt 2t Substances * Data covers ISO14001-certiﬁed manufacturing sites. Ferric chloride 6t Hydrazine 1t 38 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Eco-Design Improvement of Combustion Efficiency High-Precision Power Analyzer and Reduction of CO2 by New Laser Gas Contributing to Power Saving and Higher Yokogawa's eco-design products contribute to environmental Analyzer Efficiency of Next-Generation Vehicles conservation and energy savings in our customers plants and To achieve highly efficient operation of combustion and Renewable Energy Infrastructures development of higher efficiency products. In this page, we introduce furnaces, combustion control based on precise our analyzers as examples of eco-design products. Towards the realization of a sustainable society, development measurement of O2 and CO concentrations in the exhaust of the next-generation vehicles, EV and PHV/PHEV, and of Next Liquid Analyzer Contributing to gas is essential. renewable energy infrastructure networks is accelerating TDLS8100 probe-type tunable diode laser spectrometer Environmental Protection d o e s n ot re q u i re a s a m p l i n g s y ste m a n d m ea s u re around the world. When testing inverters or motors that generate power in simultaneously with high accuracy and high reliability with Liquid analyzers such as pH analyzers, dissolved oxygen analyzers place of an engine in the next-generation vehicles, it is the use of laser light. Measuring NH3 in the exhaust gas can and conductivity analyzers are used for water quality management required to measure various kinds of data with high accuracy control the ammonia injection amount of the denitration and waste water treatment to ensure compliance with environmental in varying conditions. The WT5000 measures with extremely device that removes harmful components in the exhaust regulations. However, controlling water quality involves issues of, for high accuracy such data as motor rotation speed/torque gas to the optimal injection amount. As a result, CO2, SOx example, installing multiple analyzers and exchanging and calibrating output as well as inverter voltage/current/power over a wide and NOx emissions from combustion are reduced and the periodically. range of driving conditions. global environment will be preserved by preventing global Liquid analyzer FLXA402 reduces installed units by measuring from In the field of renewable energy such as photovoltaic and warming and air pollution. Monitoring O2 levels in a plant to up to five sensors in one unit and improve work efficiency by a useful wind power generation, developmental efforts to increase prevent fire and explosion accidents can also contribute to color LCD panel and user-friendly Human Machine Interface. With the the conversion efficiency to the maximum are underway. occupational health and safety. newly added functions for calibration and device diagnosis, the digital For that, it is extremely important to measure power energy Conventional products required installation of the mounting sensors composed of the SA11 SENCOM smart adapter and sensors at various points with high accuracy with power analyzers flange on both sides of the furnace. By being installed at with ID chips facilitate maintenance without requiring expertise. synchronized with one another. A single WT5000 has one side only, TDLS8100 makes measurement easier. Its Enabling the replacement of only sensors leads to a reduction of measurement capabilities from up to 7 power input elements environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle, waste of used parts. Yokogawa will spur the extension of wastewater and multiple WT5000s can be linked and synchronized including manufacture, use, disposal and other stages, treatment by reducing the installation cost and improving maintenance for measurement. This is an ideal power analyzer for was also evaluated, and it was found that it outperformed efficiency and reducing waste, and contribute to achieving Target 6.3 of measurement in this field. conventional products in reducing CO2 emissions. the SDGs: halving the proportion of untreated wastewater. Liquid analyzer FLXA402 SENCOM smart adapter ID chip-built sensor TDLS8100, probe-type tunable diode laser spectrometer WT5000, a high-precision power analyzer FLXA402/SENCOM smart adapter SA11, liquid analyzer 39 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Eco-Design Banned Substance 1: Any substance that is banned from inclusion LCA Label in a product Guidelines for Environmentally Friendly Design Banned Substance 2: Any RoHS command regulated substance Yokogawa began to conduct the life cycle assessment (LCA) in Controlled Substance 1: Any SVHC (substance of very high concern) 1999 in the design phase of all new products as part of efforts Yokogawa actively develops environmentally friendly products through under the REACH regulation to minimize our products' environmental the implementation of its own strict standards of design and assessment impact. Some of the results of the LCA are Controlled Substance 2: Any substance that is banned at certain for longterm usability, energy-saving performance and other aspects. New disclosed on our website. When LCA data concentrations, bound by the limited purposes of use or restricted products are evaluated for energy consumption as well as the emission of is disclosed for a product, the applicable in any way carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) based on product is LCA labeled in the product Controlled Substance 3: Any substance for which the amount webpage and/or sales brochure. our Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) standards . LCA Label contained in a product must be identified (1) Environmental Assessment Standards for Product Design (5) Recycled Product Design Standards Concept/Implementation of the LCA We have established assessment standards in eight areas: ease of These standards encourage the three Rs: the reduction of waste and recycling and treatment, resource conservation, energy conservation, Yokogawa has set its unique LCA standards based on JIS Q the reuse and recycling of used products. long-term usability, ease of collection and transport, safety and 14040 Environmental management -Life cycle assessment environmental protectiveness, information disclosure, and packaging. (6) Energy-saving Design Guidelines -Principles and framework. We compare a new product These standards are used in conducting assessments during each with its previous product for assessment purposes. The These guidelines state that the matters to be ensured energy-saving inspection (initial design, intermediate design, and final design). results of the LCA of the previous product are multiplied by design in product use and manufacturing processes. the functional factor to compare the environmental impacts (2) Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) Standards ■ Environmentally Friendly Design and Assessment Standards based on the equivalent functionality of the new product. The LCA standards are used for preliminary assessments of energy use, ●Environmental friendly product design When the results of the LCA on the previous products clearly CO2 emissions, NOx emissions, SOx emissions, and the like throughout Design ●Management of chemical substances in products suggest how these products would impact the environment, the lifecycle of a product. These standards are used in conducting standards ●Recycled product design we may only conduct LCA on the elements significantly ●Energy-saving design assessments during each inspection (initial design, intermediary affecting the environmental impact. design, and final design). Environmental ●Directive on Waste Electrical and (3) Environmentally Friendly Product Design Guidelines regulations outside Electronic Equipment（WEEE Directive） Requirements for LCA Labeling Japan ●Amendment China RoHS These guidelines state for long-life design, energy-saving design, A product will be LCA-labeled if it meets all the requirements resource-saving design, recycling-disposal design and processing described below: as well as the design considered processing and assembly and the Product design Technical Manufacturing Initial 1. Life cycle assessment has been conducted according to guideline for selecting materials and parts. Inspection prototype prototype production Yokogawa's engineering specifications. (4) Criteria for hazardous substances contained in products 2. The results of life cycle assessment are disclosed on the Intermediary The following criteria are provided to ensure that environmentally Initial design design Final design Yokogawa website according to the company's internal inspection inspection friendly parts and materials are selected during the design phase. inspection rules. Controlled substances are classified into five different levels: The LCA-labeled products are disclosed on the Yokogawa website. ●Environmental assessment standards Environmental assessment guideline for product design ●Lifecycle assessment standards 40 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environmental Commitments at Offices CO2 Emissions in Our Supply Chain We keep updated on and calculate direct emissions from Global Warming Prevention procedures and routes for transporting shipped products in fuel use and industrial processes within the Group (Scope1), an effort to improve transportation efficiency. indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy The Yokogawa Group has set a long-term GHG emissions such as electricity and heat (Scope2) and other indirect reduction target for the year 2030 based on the 2°C target Yokogawa Group's Target for the emissions (Scope3). defined in the Paris Agreement. Aiming to achieve the Reduction of GHG Emissions and ■ GHG Emissions in Our Supply Chain (Scope3) FY2030 target, we are improving the operation of production lines and introducing high-efficiency air conditioning Performance End-of-Life Treatment of (unit: t-CO2e) Purchased Goods & equipment, inverters and LED lights. In offices and factories, Sold Products Services Aiming to achieve the Yokogawa Group's target for 2030 1,007 192,606 we are saving energy by detecting and reducing wasteful Capital Goods and reduce GHG emissions throughout the Group, we practices through visualizing the use of energy. 23,749 push forward with energy-saving measures and switch to Fueland To optimize global logistics, our packaging has been Total Energy-Related Activities renewable energy. Not Included in redesigned and made lighter and smaller. We also review emissions in 2018 Scope 1 or 2 Use of Sold 805,252 7,631 Products Transportation & Distribution 533,414 18,594 Waste Business Generated in Travel Operations ■ GHG Emission Reduction Target for 2020 and 2030 and Performance 19,301 1,000 ■Scope 1 Performance ■Scope 2 Performance ■Target Employee Commuting 120,000 (unit: t-CO2e) 7,950 100,000 Expansion of use of exhaust heat 20% Reduction Komagane Factory, Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation 34% Reduction 80,000 Komagane Factory saves energy by efficiently using exhaust heat. With the use of a heat pump, heat is recovered 60,000 from the warm water of the factory 82,745 83,433 77,326 71,790 69,470 68,871 and is used for different purposes. For example, heat is collected from air40,000 82.432 68,230 conditioning cooling water and used to Komagane Factory heat the raw water for the production of ultrapure water. Heat is also recovered from warm water 20,000 that was used to cool manufacturing equipment, and it's used in an air reheating process. Combining both of them, the 20,666 15,762 12,153 12,580 15,412 15,015 factory's use of LPG is drastically reduced in comparison with 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2020 FY 2030 before the use of exhaust heat, successfully reducing its energy consumption. 41 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environmental Commitments at Offices PRTR Substances Response to Water Risks Reduction of Waste The amount of substances reported under PRTR* requirements In regions where securing water resource is a serious challenge, (1,000 kg/year or more handled) is shown in the table. the companies of Yokogawa group are promoting efforts regarding The Yokogawa Group is working to reduce waste by water resource through measures such as monitoring water usage *PRTR System: The PRTR, or Pollutant Release and Transfer Register, was established and securing alternative water resource. reducing, reusing, and recycling resources in our factories, to enable society as a whole to manage chemical substances through the disclosure of Yokogawa Electric Asia（ Singapore） toxic chemical emissions data and other information. offices, and transportations. ■ PRTR Data (FY18) To support the measures by the Singaporean government such as ■ Total Waste Generation （Unit：t） Amount maintaining drinking water resource and utilizing alternative water Amount Amount emitted (kg) transferred (kg) Factory 7,000 Factory substance used resource, Yokogawa group companies in Singapore implement the (kg) Public Air water Sewage Outside area Soil Landﬁll system 6,000 6,023 site following measures: 5,190 Yokogawa Hydrogen ﬂuoride and 5,000 4,507 4,805 its water-soluble salt 1,500 0 100 0 0 0 1,400 ●Strictly comply with the guideline set by PUB (Public Utilities 4,204 Manufacturing 4,000 Komagane Factory Hydrazine 1,080 0 230 0 0 0 850 Board) to avoid excess use of water. 3,000 Yokogawa ● Use NEWater (recycled water produced from treated used 2,000 Manufacturing Ferric chloride 5,748 0 0 0 0 0 0 water) for air conditioning systems instead of normal tap Kofu Factory 1,000 water. ●Install water-saving devices to lavatories and water utilities. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Water Resource Conservation ● Regularly check water consumption to find water leakage Specifically, we are working to reduce the amount of early. water usage by improving our production processes and Yokogawa Middle East & Africa（Bahrain） by introducing water-saving systems to our office water supplies. In Middle Eastern countries, shortage of water is a serious problem. Yokogawa Middle East & Africa contributes to the government's water protection measures through efforts as follows: ■ Water Input （Unit:K ㎥） Garbage separation at the recycling center ● Sets the target for reduction in water consumption per 800 employee per year, and manages the progress. Chemical Substance Reduction 723 700 617 600 615 ●Use normal tap water for non-drinking purposes. The Yokogawa Group is thorough in managing chemicals that are 600 561 ● Complying with local regulations on water protection harmful to humans and the global environment. Also, Yokogawa 500 including conservation and contamination. is developing and introducing alternative processes in an effort 400 ● Imparting awareness on water protection amongst to reduce chemical use and waste. Furthermore, to comply with 300 employees. RoHS directives restricting the use of certain chemicals in electrical 200 and electronic equipment in Europe, as well as with the REACH 100 ● Inspecting any water leakages during the HSE(Health, Safety Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction and Environment) inspection tour at all facilities and taking immediate corrective and preventive measures on any FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 of CHemical substances), we are implementing efforts for the reduction and management of such chemical substances. detected abnormality in the water supply system. 42 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Environmental Management Climate Risks and Opportunities Environmental Practices Eco-Design Environmental Commitments at Offices Environmental Commitments at Offices Yokogawa Green Volunteer Activities (Japan) Promoting Biodiversity Yokogawa Electric Corporation started Yokogawa Green Volunteer Yokogawa stipulated that the company tackles biodiversity activities run by employee volunteers in 2016. In FY2018, the issues in its Group's environmental policy. Based on company organized events to raise employees’ awareness of the Aichi Goal*, we also promote activities to conserve biodiversity, such as a seminar on common plant varieties. With biodiversity. the cooperation of local governments and NPOs, elementary * An individual goal established by COP10 (10th Conference of Parties to the schoolchildren and their parents were invited to the green area Convention on Biological Diversity) in 2010 to be achieved by the international adjacent to the head office for nature observation. A total of 13 community in the field of biodiversity by 2020 seminars and events were held during the year with a total of Biodiversity Policy about 300 participants. Yokogawa will keep cooperating with local Biodiversity is a foundation of sustainability in society. governments, NPOs, and other local community organizations as it Nature observation tour for local elementary Together with our stakeholders, Yokogawa engages in action engages in activities to rediscover the value of nature and preserve schoolchildren to conserve biodiversity, taking regional characteristics local biodiversity. into account. We will spare no effort to reduce any negative impacts resulting from our various business activities, to improve biodiversity and to contribute to creating a better Supporting a Biodiversity Preservation Activity in Southeast Asia (Singapore) environment in local communities. Yokogawa Electric Asia and its group companies support the Biodiversity Action Guidelines activities of the Garden City Fund (GCF), a Singapore-registered charity established by the National Parks Board. In FY2018, Takashi ● Cooperation with the local community to enhance local value Nishijima, then president of Yokogawa Electric Corporation, led a Take action in cooperation with the local government and team of the local senior management to participate in the PlantNPOs to acknowledge and enhance local value. A-Tree Program, a platform for organizations and individuals to ● Providing employees with educational opportunities and actively participate in the greening of the city. Under this program, a raising awareness total of 50 trees were donated by Yokogawa. In addition, Yokogawa Raise awareness of biodiversity among employees by offering contributed to the GCF to set up the Southeast Asia Seed Bank, them relevant seminars and events. which enables research to conserve genetic resources in Southeast Senior managers participated in the ● Considering biodiversity conservation within business facilities Plant-A-Tree program Asia. Seed banking safeguards plant biodiversity in the region Operate business facilities with consideration for the and acts as an insurance against threats such as disease, climate ecosystem by, for example, managing their green areas. changes and disasters. Stored seeds are a valuable resource for ecosystem restoration and species conservation. 43 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Management Yokogawa implements management in accordance with our philosophy, and strives to achieve sustained growth and enhance corporate value over the medium to long term. In this chapter we introduce Yokogawa’s code of conduct, risk management and management structure, which form the basis for the Yokogawa Group’s corporate activities. Code of Conduct 45 Information Security 54 Risk Management 47 Research and Development 56 Compliance 49 Quality Assurance 58 Supply Chain Management 52 44 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Code of Conduct respect social norms and international guidelines, and act with high (3) Customer entertainment and gifts ethical standards. We neither offer nor receive gifts or money to/from customers or (2) We respect the cultures and customs of each country and region. sales partners that are in violation of sound business practices and deviate from societal and international norms. Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct 1.3 Respect for human rights (1) We support internationally recognized human rights standards and 2.2 Relationship with shareholders The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct sets forth the basic principles respect the dignity and human rights of all people. (1) Timely and appropriate information disclosure and standards of conduct for the Group in order to realize our (2) We strive to ensure that our business activities do not infringe on We actively disclose necessary information to shareholders in a philosophy. In 2019, we completely revised and expanded the human rights, and if we discover such situations, we will respond timely and appropriate manner and aim for highly transparent quickly. management that wins the trust of the market. content of the existing code of conduct, disclosing the new code of (2) Prohibition on the provision of unjust benefits conduct to further enforce the Group's compliance-first policy. The We provide no incentives whatsoever with regard to the exercise main changes to the content are as follows. 1.4 Fair business practices (1) We do not engage in any form of corruption, such as the payment of of shareholders’ rights, and maintain a sound and transparent bribes or kickbacks, and conduct our business in a fair and sincere relationship with all shareholders. Respect for international guidelines on conduct was added in light manner, maintaining sound relationships with all stakeholders. of the SDGs, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human (2) We reject unjust and unlawful demands, and we do not engage in 2.3 Relationship between the company and employees Rights, and so on activities or organizations that pose a threat to the order and safety (1) Prohibition of forced and child labor Revisions were made to treat respect for human rights as a broader of civil society or foster criminal conduct We do not allow the use of forced or child labor in any workplace, concept and a Basic policy of avoiding involvement in improper wherever that may be around the world. conduct such as bribery and corruption was added as a fair 1.5 Contributing to society and the environment (2) Eliminating discrimination and creating a comfortable working environment business practice (1) We contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through our We do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, Contribution to society and the environment was included, and business activities, including developing and providing safe, socially political opinion, country of origin, social origin, disability, or new commitments to achieve the SDGs and a sustainable society useful products and service solutions for our customers. other circumstances. We also strive to improve the abilities of our and address environmental issues were added (2) We understand that realizing a sustainable society is a common employees, foster workstyles that respect individual differences, and concern for all humankind and essential for the continued existence provide a pleasant work environment that is healthy and safe. New content on the relationship between the company and its of the company, and act on our own initiative to address this (3) Respect of workers' rights employees was added, clearly stating that the company will challenge. We observe labor laws and agreements and respect the rights of improve the abilities of employees and foster workstyles that workers, including the freedom to participate in labor unions. We respect individual differences. Content clarifying the responsibility also strive through good communication to maintain and develop a 1.6 Relationship of mutual trust with all our stakeholders of senior management was also added. relationship of trust between labor and management. We disclose information appropriately and fairly to all stakeholders, and (4) Prohibition of harassment build and foster trust-based relationships with them by maintaining a We build a corporate culture that encourages employees to treat Chapter 1 Basic Principles of the Yokogawa Group constructive dialogue. each other with respect and does not tolerate sexual, power, and other forms of harassment. Chapter 2: Yokogawa Group Standards of Conduct 1.1 Realizing The Yokogawa Philosophy We act in accordance with our corporate philosophy of “As a company, our 2.1 Relationship with customers 2.4 Community and Society goal is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities in the areas (1) Providing safe, high-quality products and services (1) Environmental protection of measurement, control and information. Individually, we aim to combine By providing safe, high-quality products and service solutions, we We work with our customers to protect the environment by reducing the environmental good citizenship with the courage to innovate.” aim to build long-term partnerships with our customers and grow impact of 16 our products and services. We also observe environmental laws and together with them. regulations and are guided in our actions by the need to protect the environment. (2) Contribution to local development 1.2 Compliance with laws and regulations and (2) Accurately providing essential information We accurately and appropriately provide essential information to As a good citizen, we build cooperative relationships with local communities, and cooperation with society through the provision of employment and other means, we contribute to the ensure the safe and satisfactory use of our products and services by (1) We observe the laws and regulations of each country and region, sustainable development of the countries and regions in which we operate. our customers. 45 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Code of Conduct 2.9 (Proper use and management of Group assets) business around the world and its actions affect economies, societies, (1) Proper use and preservation of Group property and the environment. Recognizing its role as a global company, it 2.5 (Relationship with suppliers) We make proper use of the Yokogawa Group's tangible and abides by international norms and actively works to address urgent (1) Prohibition of unfair transactions intangible assets in our business activities and do not divert them international issues such as the environment and human rights. We engage in fair business transactions based on trust with for personal or third-party use. our suppliers. We do not discriminate against suppliers or use (2) Thorough information security management advantages to impose unilateral conditions on them. We have the duty to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential Top Commitment (2) Entertainment or gifts from suppliers information held by the Yokogawa Group, including information belonging to any third party that has come into our possession The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct calls for the realization of We refuse to accept offers of entertainment or gifts from suppliers. through the course of our business activities. Confidentiality shall the Yokogawa Philosophy, enhancement of customer satisfaction, be maintained not only during employment but also after one has observance of laws and regulations, respect for human rights, and 2.6 (Relationship with competitors) retired from a position with the Group. maintenance of the order and safety of communities and society. (1) Fair and free market competition With the use and operation of information devices and other Yokogawa is committed to fulfilling its various fundamental We promote fair and free competition by complying with the laws and information systems, we comply with the company's security regulations concerning fair competition and fair trade stipulated in each responsibilities as a company, including maintaining compliance regulations and endeavor to prevent data theft and damage. country and region, and we do not participate in cartels and other anti(3) Prohibition on conflicts of interest and contributing to society through its businesses. Yokogawa signed competitive arrangements or any type of unfair trade practice. We do not harm or endanger the company by acting in our own the Global Compact, an international undertaking advocated by (2) Respecting intellectual property rights personal interests or the interests of a third party. We conduct all the United Nations in 2009. Accordingly, the Company endeavors to Just as we protect our own intellectual property from infringement, business activities in the best interests of the Yokogawa Group. support and practice the Compact's ten principles relating to human we respect the intellectual property rights of others, and ensure that our intellectual property rights do not infringe on others. rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Yokogawa 2.10 (Management responsibility) strives to ensure that its global network of Group companies and The management takes the initiative in conducting sound business suppliers share the same commitment to these 2.7 (Relations with politics and government) operations in accordance with this Code of Conduct. In the event (1) Prohibition on provision of entertainment and gifts to public officials principles. Looking ahead, every effort will be made of any violation of this Code of Conduct, the management will We maintain sound and transparent relationships with politicians promptly take corrective and preventive measures, and strictly to fulfill our corporate responsibilities as a globally and civil servants and never pay bribes or provide anything of value punish the offending individuals, regardless of their position within operating company. that could be construed as a bribe. the company. (2) Regulation of political contributions President and Chief Executive Officer We comply with laws and regulations concerning political Hitoshi Nara contributions and do not make contributions that go beyond legally permissible limits. The United Nations Global Compact ISO 26000 2.8 (Compliance in international transactions) Yokogawa signed UN Global Compact in 2009 and expressed ISO 26000, issued by the International Standardization Organization in (1) Security trade controls its support of 10 principles concerning human rights, labor, November 2010, is an international standard for the social responsibilities We comply with laws and regulations related to security trade control and environment, and corruption prevention. We are promoting efforts to of organisations, presenting seven core subjects including organizational cooperate in maintaining international peace and security. When exporting or uphold the 10 principles with our stakeholders through such efforts governance, human rights, labor practices, environment and fair operating providing goods or technology that may be used or diverted for weapons or the as participation in Global Compact Network Japan, a local network of development of weapons, and when exporting or providing regulated goods or practices. We at Yokogawa, as a company active in the global marketplace, Japan. adhere to ISO 26000 and regard corporate governance as a key principle technology, we observe the relevant procedures and do not commit any act in violation thereof. Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the UN, first proposed of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), which forms the foundation of (2) Proper tax payment the Global Compact at the World Economic Forum in 1999; the UN corporate management. As such, we are committed to the implementation We contribute to public finances by complying with tax laws around the officially launched it in 2000. Participating companies are expected to of socially responsible activities to contribute to society through business world, providing products and services at an appropriate price and properly uphold and practice international standards relating to human rights, paying taxes to the tax authorities in each country. operations, environmental conservation and respect of human rights and labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Today, Yokogawa does meet our shareholders' expectations. 46 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Risk Management Internal Control System As part of independent risk management activities, each organization of the Group clarifies and assesses risks, and plans and implements countermeasures. Each organization At Yokogawa, internal control is a management process The Yokogawa Group has in place a risk management system has a risk manager and a network for the Group's risk for ensuring that business activities are conducted as they to control uncertainty affecting its corporate value, as well management. should be, whereby business resources, such as human as a crisis management system with which to respond We assess the severity of risks from the perspectives of resources, financial resources, and other tangible or promptly to any event that could have serious impact on the impact and likelihood of occurrence. Business opportunity intangible assets, are allocated appropriately and used company's operations. risks include our external environment and strategies, effectively to increase corporate value. and compliance and crisis event risks include product We have a system for effective internal control in place to Risk Management System quality, environmental impact, health and safety, labor, improve management efficiency and ensure compliant risk management and corporate ethics (embezzlement, operations. Group-wide rules have been established and We define uncertainty that might affect the Group's corporate accounting fraud, data falsification, bribery, harassment, units have been designated responsible for each of the value as risk, and categorize and manage this in terms of etc.). When we assess impacts of the risks, we take into following systems: business ethics, decision making, business objectives, and compliance and crisis events. account social and environmental impacts as well as operations management, crisis management, and corporate In order to realize effective risk management in the Group, financial and human aspects. auditing infrastructure. The individuals responsible for we have established the risk management committee The department in charge of internal audits assesses the each system perform a system auditing function and work chaired by our CEO, who is responsible for risk management. effectiveness of the Group's risk management process and to ensure (i.e., maintain and improve) the effectiveness The risk management committee selects critical risks for the reports important matters to the Board of Directors and the and efficiency of all Group company systems. Important Group requiring priority management and regularly checks Audit & Supervisory Board members. matters are reported to the Board of Directors and the Audit the progress of activities. & Supervisory Board members. When implementing the internal control system, the relevant key result indicators ■ Risk Management System and action indicators are clearly defined and a PDCA cycle Corporate value is implemented according to assessments of the extent to which indicators have been achieved. In accordance with the Yokogawa Group Management Internal Audit Code, the Uncertainty Board of Directors effectiveness of the internal control system is audited by the Supervises department in charge of internal audits. Business objectives Compliance and crisis events Yokogawa implements the internal control system to ensure the appropriateness of its business activities and increase the ・External environment risk ・Operational risk corporate value of the entire Group. Management Board ・Strategic risk （Internal control system risk） Decides policy ・Financial and tax risk ・Hazard risk Risk Management Committee Departments responsible for Selects priority risks Internal Control System Division the internal control systems 47 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Risk Management Seminars on Overseas Safety and Dealing with Terrorism Escalation of Information Recently we have seen general crime, terrorism, and violence occurring all over the world, as well as overseas In the event of a disaster, accident, or incident that could seriously travelers falling victim to crimes. In such circumstances, impact the Yokogawa Group companies' management or endanger employees traveling overseas on business need to do more the lives of their employees, the organization involved must minimize to prepare and take appropriate safety measures. the damage by taking prompt initial action and reporting back to Yokogawa invites outside expert instructors to hold the Group's senior management. To address this issue, we have the seminars on self-protection, including specific steps to take Rules regarding Crisis Event Reporting and we ensure that all Group to minimize harm in the event of a terrorist attack, violence employees are made aware of them. These guidelines stipulate details or when falling victim to general crime. such as the information to be reported, as well as reporting routes In FY2018, we held a seminar entitled “Safety and Dealing and methods. Every year we revise these guidelines and take steps to with Terrorism or Trouble Overseas” that comprised a improve the escalation of information. lecture and practical training. Outside security experts BCP training (including former members of the US Special Forces and Business Continuity Management (BCM) the Japanese Self-Defense Force) provided instruction Protecting Employees Working Overseas and demonstrations both in English and Japanese, and Our control business, which is a core segment of the company, from Crises conducted practical training involving the participation of is closely tied to social infrastructure such as electricity, gas, the attendees. water and sewerage. To continue with our business activities in To protect its employees working all over the world from the event of a disaster and take action as quickly as possible to crises (such as terrorism, riots, kidnappings, and crimes in help maintain and restore social infrastructure, we developed the general), Yokogawa gathers information on risks in each Yokogawa Group Business Continuity Plan (BCP). We developed region of the world and sends alerts directly to employees response plans and guidelines assuming risks that could seriously working in that area.Believing it is important to make all impact the Group's management, such as a huge earthquake or employees understand the situation in the area they deal an epidemic of contagious disease, both of which are considered with during their daily work, Yokogawa periodically delivers potential eventualities. We have been collaborating with group international security news to all its employees. Moreover, it companies worldwide to improve these plans and guidelines. provides training on dealing with terrorism overseas to help Moreover, in order to enhance the effectiveness of our BCP, employees keep themselves safe, as well as seminars to regular training is provided by members of the risk management enable them to acquire relevant knowledge. Yokogawa will organization, including senior management, to identify problems, continuously consider various new measures and improve and BCM activities are undertaken to continuously improve on existing measures to ensure the safety of its employees. the BCP. We have also introduced a system to promptly check employee safety, and we provide regular training to enhance proficiency in using the system in case of emergency. These activities were utilized to provide a prompt initial response to the successive earthquakes in Kumamoto and Tottori prefectures in 2016. Our company will continue to review its BCP to respond to disaster Training on safety measures to deal with terrorism and general crime risks. 48 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Compliance Provision of Compliance Promotion Structure ■ PDCA Cycle for Improvement of Compliance To establish “Corporate culture that prevents misconduct” ● Analysis of the awareness survey ● Formulation of an annual action ● After-action review and plan based on the review and the Two Pillars of Activity and “Systems that prevent unethical conduct,” Yokogawa analysis of any problems Act Plan awareness survey results of the group powerfully promotes business management previous year Based on the plilosophy of “compliance first” Yokogawa complying with laws and regulations by setting up a has a basic policy of performing its business activities department in charge of corporate ethics to prepare a ● Execution of the action with high ethical standards, defining the basic principles system of compliance and find and work out problems. It ● Execution of the Check Do ・Training activities awareness survey ・Awareness-raising activities of compliance in Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct, and also moves forward with creation of a global compliance ● Status review of the ・Establishment of rules and manuals following laws, regulations, ordinances, and other social promotion system that is closely related to work places. helpline operation ● Appropriate operation of the helpline norms. Matters of problems one may face in his/her daily On domestic front, a compliance promoter, who also serves work are defined in The Yokogawa Group Compliance as a consultant, is carrying out promotion activities for Guideline and thoroughly disseminated to the group get all the employees to become aware of compliance and companies to observe and spread the corporate ethics to actually act in compliance with laws and regulations. of Yokogawa. To prevent wrongdoings and scandals, two The compliance secretariat and the representative of the pillars, “Corporate culture that prevents misconduct ” and compliance promoter of each organization participate in a “Systems that prevent unethical conduct,” are made up to periodically held “compliance committee meeting” to share promote healthy business activities that every employee is information and manage progress in activities. encouraged to take part in. ■ Two Pillars of Activity ■ Provision of Compliance Promotion Structure Auditor Exchange Yokogawa Electric Business Ethics Headquarters of Awareness transformation Establishing eﬀective rules Audit Compliance & Quality Assurance HQ ●Message from top leaders ●Helpline services information ●Education and training ●Penalties for violation Legal Dept./HR & General Aﬀairs HQ ●Encouraging interaction ●Cultivating a workplace atmosphere ●Measures to prevent recurrence ●Update of regulations Compliance Committee that encourages openness Law ﬁrm Corporate culture Systems that Promoting/establishing Yokogawa electric Each department Subsidiaries and aﬃliates in Japan Subsidiaries and aﬃliates outside Japan legal and regulatory compliance in business operations Compliance Manager Compliance Manager Compliance Manager Japan Outside Japan that prevents misconduct prevent unethical conduct Helpline/ Helpline/ Compliance Secretariat Compliance Secretariat Compliance Secretariat Hotline of each Hotline organization Compliance Coordinators Oﬃce Advisor Compliance Coordinators 49 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Compliance awareness. Yokogawa did not receive any legal action concerning 4.Taking actions in compliance with the international tax anti-competition or anti-trust conduct, or monopolistic practice in standards such as OECD Transfer Pricing Guideline, BEPS Anti-Corruption and Bribery fiscal 2018. (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) Action Plan. 5.Attaining the transactions with foreign affiliates in Yokogawa is grappling with prevention of corruption in any Strict Prohibition of Insider Trading arm's length price by properly allocating profit for their contributions made in accordance with the function and form, including coercion and bribery, in which power is abused To prevent insider trading, we have established the Code of risk analysis of each affiliate. to personal interest, by stipulating in the Yokogawa Group Conduct for the Prevention of Insider Trading as an internal 6.Not utilizing tax planning nor tax heaven aiming for tax Code of Conduct, the relations with suppliers, politicians, and regulation and have included a section on prohibition of avoidance. administrators, and prohibiting conflicts of interest. Specifically, insider trading in the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines. 7.Taking actions in optimizing tax costs by avoidance of rules such as the the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines Additionally, we have established a group-wide compliance double taxation, utilization of tax incentives, etc. and the Anti-bribery Guigelines are laid down and operated, and structure and provide education, to strictly prohibit insider trading. 8.Reducing tax risk by obtaining advices from the external enlightenment activities and surveys into awareness of compliance The directors or employees in each Yokogawa Group company professionals when application/interpretation of the law are conducted as a part of promotion of compliance to spread the who buy and sell the stocks of Yokogawa Electric follow the prior is uncertain. awareness and thoroughly follow laws and regulations. confirmation procedure through the insider trading prevention 9.Building, maintaining and developing sincere and good staff in each company. Moreover, the following people are cooperative relationships with the tax authority in each Anti-Bribery uniformly prohibited from the buying and selling during the period country. Yokogawa follows the bribery prevention law of each country from the end of a quarterly accounting term to each date of the where its group company performs business activities, in order to release of business results. Measures to Counter Anti-Social Forces prevent bribery involving public servants and private citizens both 1.Directors and management in each company of Yokogawa The whole Yokogawa group is taking action to eliminate antiat home and abroad. It also assesses and controls risks of bribery Electric, Yokogawa Solution Service, Yokogawa Manufacturing, social forces, describing in the Yokogawa Group Compliance with the group companies. In addition, the Anti-bribery Guigelines and Yokogawa Test & Measurement Guidelines “responses to anti-social forces that threaten social are established and disseminated to all the employees to prevent 2.Those who are directly engaged in the preparation and order and safety.” Its employees are also informed of the basic bribery and carry out fair and appropriate business activities. The announcement of quarterly account settlement in Yokogawa attitude toward and philosophy of responding to unreasonable Sustainable Procurement Guidelines stipulate how to prevent Electric and its domestic subsidiaries demand through compliance seminars and a company journal. bribery in cooperation with suppliers. No case of bribery, violation Tax Compliance In conformance to the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance for Eliminating of laws, or sanctions was reported in fiscal 2018. the Organized Crime Groups, business contracts include clauses Measures to Prevent Anti-Competitive Practice Yokogawa, due to globalization of our business, shall abide by the concerning elimination of anti-social forces and “Memorandum following promises in taking tax-related actions in order to satisfy on elimination of anti-social forces” is concluded with the existing Yokogawa considers that conformance to the competition law the tax liabilities of the countries and regions where Yokogawa suppliers, contractors, and customers. is important for management of the group and holds up fair, operates, and execute appropriate tax risk management. transparent, and free competition with competitors as a basic policy of the group in the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct. 1.Making tax payment properly in accordance with tax laws To ensure compliance with the competition law, concrete rules are and its related regulations of each country. formulated in the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines and 2.Taking appropriate actions in executing tax-related the Competition Compliance Code and internal education on the accounting treatment and measures. competition law is provided to the employees to improve their 3.Establishing tax governance structure and raising tax compliance awareness. 50 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Compliance Compliance News Consultation and Reporting System “Compliance News” is issued once in two months to improve Enlightenment Activities the employees’ awareness of compliance, choosing timely 95％ Recognition of Consultation and Reporting System topics suitable to the culture of each workplace and recent 210 scandals of other companies. To quickly identify and address compliance issues, a channel No. of Group Training Sessions for reporting and inquiries has been established. In Japan, two Publish of the Misconduct Case Studies hotlines are available: the internal hotline and the external hotline, which is staffed with lawyers. An employee can contact the internal 8,500 We have a handbook called Misconduct Case Studies for the No. of E-Learning Participants purpose of preventing compliance violations. The handbook is hotline anonymously or with his/her real name in order to report updated each year with the addition of new examples that serve or consult on a compliance issue. The personal information of the as real-life lessons collected from inside/outside the group and employee who has contacted the external hotline will not be made 330 No. of Slogan Applied available to all employees. available to the company. Both the internal and external hotline can be contacted by e-mail, over the phone or in writing. Each case will be investigated by keeping the identity of the reporting Compliance Week employee in strict confidence and in an expedient manner, in Yokogawa conducts compliance education and training to foster “Compliance Week” campaign was conducted to spread and compliance with the manual on investigation. employees' awareness of compliance and a corporate culture that emphasizes fair, clear and open business conducts. get compliance mind to take root in all the employees of the domestic group companies and to provide education through Voice of Employee Compliance Training/Education e-learning and invite compliance slogans. My job is to raise the overall compliance level of the Yokogawa Seminars on compliance were held in domestic and overseas Group. We assign compliance coordinators for overseas sites group companies in fiscal 2018 to spread and have awareness of Compliance Awareness Survey and Group companies, have them report on the monthly state of compliance taken root in all the group companies. Domestically, compliance and details of reports submitted to the help line, and training suitable for the role of each employee is provided when More than 95% arrange activity plans and training plans based on their feedback. Survey Response Rate he/she is promoted to a managerial position, travels abroad, There was a case in which e-learning was developed across the and when the newly employed join the company. Moreover, Group in response to proposals by an overseas site. We conduct education using e-learning is provided mainly to overseas group more than 200 face-to-face training sessions a year, but we are not A survey to check all employees’ awareness of compliance is companies so that their employees can learn comprehensively just focused on quantity over quality; we believe it is important conducted every year. From the result of the questionnaire, and acquire knowledge necessary as group employees. to have employees look back on their own actions by speaking to awareness of compliance at each work place and position them directly in person. is visualized and reflected on the annual activities at group Compliance Guidelines When handling help line companies at home and abroad. reports, we always make a The Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines, which concretely point of remaining neutral describe the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct and put together and sincere, and protecting matters to follow are laid down and disseminated to the the privacy of those who employees. This guidelines are distributed to new employees make reports. when they join the company. It is translated into English, Katsuya Yoshino Chinese, and Portuguese from Japanese and used in group Business Ethics Headquarters Yokogawa Electric Corporation companies. 51 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Supply Chain Management Reinforcement of Compliant Procurement Yokogawa has established standards for compliance in procurement to serve as Group-wide management rules and Management Structure as Part of Promotion of Green Procurement strives to enhance compliant procurement across the Group Internal Control Based on an environmental management approach of by maintaining close communication with those responsible at Group companies. We specify provisions concerning As part of the Yokogawa Group's internal control, Yokogawa has developed helping to build a sustainable society in every aspect of its compliance in the business contracts in an effort to reinforce a management structure that governs all business processes, including business activities, Yokogawa has created Green Procurement compliant procurement. its relationships with customers and suppliers. For the procurement Guidelines. We have a system to promote management of the We have set up a help line as a channel for reporting and processes in the supply chain, Yokogawa strives to ensure fair and equitable chemical substances contained in our products, and we also inquiry that can be contacted by suppliers, should they find transactions in accordance with the The Group Procurement Management investigate and manage the chemical substances contained an actual or potential violation of compliance. Code based on the Yokogawa Philosophy and the Yokogawa Group Code in the materials and components we use. We work to raise of Conduct. Yokogawa observes the local laws and regulations of the awareness of this issue by holding briefings for new suppliers. countries and regions in which it does business, is deploying consideration Compliance with the Subcontract Act The Green Procurement Guidelines are published on the Yokogawa website. for environmental protection and human rights throughout its supply To ensure compliance with the Act Against Delay in Payment chain, and is also working on the issue of conflict minerals. In order to of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors (the efficiently and effectively implement supply chain-related measures, we Strengthening of Partnerships with Suppliers “Subcontract Act” ), Yokogawa strives to raise awareness by are participating in committees of industry groups such as the Materials having employees attend outside workshops. In addition, we Yokogawa Electric is reinforcing its partnerships by regularly Committee of JEITA* and working with other companies. offer regular opportunities for purchasers to study our own interacting with the management teams at key suppliers. For *JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association original teaching materials via e-learning, as well as tests example, we host regular Supplier Policy Presentation Meetings, In addition to formulating the Principles of Procurement Activities to confirm their level of understanding. We also appoint at which we explain our management policy, business plan, compliance officers in each department to share information for internal use, Yokogawa created the Sustainable Procurement purchasing strategy and so on to the suppliers. regarding the Subcontract Act and build a compliance Guidelines with reference to the RBA Code of Conduct version 6.0. Additionally, the Purchasing Department organizes component framework. The guidelines are shared with domestic and overseas suppliers; exhibitions and technical seminars by individual suppliers in we conduct briefings on the guidelines for our key suppliers and order to introduce suppliers’ products—along with market ask them to comply. trends, component trends and other relevant information—to Procurement BCP the product development teams of the Yokogawa Group. The Sustainable Procurement Guidelines are published on the Yokogawa website. Having recognized that ensuring a stable supply of the products our customers need is an important social Sustainability KPIs responsibility, we are taking action in line with our To pursue sustainability-oriented procurement throughout procurement business continuity plan (BCP). We can the supply chain, the Yokogawa Group established KPIs, act promptly in case of emergency because, with the which it is addressing. cooperation of our suppliers, we research and manage KPI Target Target Year information on the areas producing the components used in Ratio of employees undergoing sustainable procurement training 70% FY2019 our products. For key components used in major products, we are making efforts to reduce procurement risk by No. of suppliers attending explanatory meetings 70 FY2020 confirming that our suppliers have BCPs and securing safety No. of suppliers given SAQs* 200 FY2021 stock. * SAQ: Self-assessment Questionnaire Supplier Policy Presentation Meeting 52 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Supply Chain Management Initiatives on Conflict Minerals Certain minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nearby nations, and distributed via supply chains might be used to fund armed groups engaged in illicit activities involving humanrights violations, acts of violence, etc., and consequently such materials are referred to as conflict minerals. Recognizing that cutting off the sources of funds for these armed groups is a challenge that the whole supply chain should tackle, the Yokogawa Group aims to become conflictfree by using no conflict minerals for our products. However, we do not prohibit the procurement of all minerals produced in these countries. We will continue procuring traded minerals refined at refineries recognized by an independent organization as unrelated to such armed groups; we will also procure legitimate products derived from such minerals. To meet the aforementioned challenge, the Yokogawa Group is engaged in the following efforts: ● Since 2011 we have had the appropriate internal structure in place and have continuously taken action. ● As a member of the Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group run by the industry group JEITA (Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association) we coordinate our efforts with those of other corporations and obtain the latest information. ● We have been cooperating with our suppliers to investigate the use of conflict minerals in certain products based on customers’ requests etc. ● If an investigation reveals that a mineral procured by Yokogawa is a source of funds for armed groups, we immediately take measures to avoid use of the mineral in question. The Yokogawa Group will continue making the utmost effort to ensure responsible procurement of minerals. 53 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Information Security IT: Protection Behind the Scenes that responses to cyberattacks will be improved and customers can continue their business activities safely and securely. This committee comprises cybersecurity experts in each field where We use IT to prevent human error such as accidental leaks and Yokogawa has products and goes beyond organizational boundaries inappropriate use of information due to lack of knowledge, and also The Yokogawa Group works together with customers to provide to share information and grasp the latest trends. adopt a multi-tiered approach to preparing against cyberattacks solutions. To protect important information entrusted to us by from the outside. People: Information Security Training our stakeholders, we implement information security measures to address three aspects: people, equipment, and information ■ Yokogawa's Security Management technology (IT). Every single employee should be aware of information Security attack security in order to protect information. Yokogawa provides Management Structure training using e-learning to all its employees every year to 【IT】Entry measures Internet Fire wall, prevention of access, etc. IN OUT Web 【IT】Exit measures Yokogawa group conducts information security activities based share up-to-date knowledge regarding information security on the concept of ISO 27001; relevant policies and measures are so that employees can think for themselves about how E-mail Junk mail ﬁlter, URL ﬁlters, etc. notified to each business department, division, and affiliated to handle information they receive and take appropriate virus checking, etc. company by the information security supervisors. A secretariat action. We also offer more practical information in the form 【Equipment】Reinforcing security of premises 【IT】Internal measures monitors whether operations are performed in line with rules and of lectures on information security with experts invited as Access control system with 24-hour locking Yokogawa takes necessary improvement measures. To ensure information lecturers, as well as education and training on responses Security patches, anti-virus software, tool to prevent Clariﬁcation of guest/oﬃce areas mail mis-transmission, encryption tool, etc. security, Yokogawa has set up an information security system at to targeted attacks, and education for line managers. Information security audits check whether the results of 【People】Training each of its departments, divisions, and affiliated companies. In ID cards for oﬃce areas addition, it implements a PDCA cycle, which serves as the key to this training are reflected in day-to-day information security Business PCs Group-wide training and practice, lectures, manager smooth information security activities. In conjunction with the activities. 【IT】Log management education, etc. 【Equipment】Managed Print Service Equipment: Understandable and Secure above, Yokogawa also has an information security committee so Print only necessary documents when needed ■ Information Security Committee (Security of Office Premises) Audit Compliance Information security is required to be understandable. Protection of Customer Privacy Information Security One of the internal controls systems We have clarified the areas that employees and visitors Yokogawa has set out a personal information protection respectively can enter. When a visitor enters areas other than Division in charge of Management System The oﬃcer in charge of the information systems business unit security business policy and rules that its group companies should follow to ISMS Secretariat: General manager of the information systems business unit ・Security Business Market Trends the guest area, the visitor must wear a visitor identification properly manage and use personal information received ・Measures against internal for Information Security Committee card. We protect property and information assets on head from customers. In addition, Yokogawa is making efforts Division in charge of office premises using an access control system that keeps to reduce risks in response to global demand for personal information assets and ・Decision-making oｆ response policy Marketing department human security measures to security incident the office area locked 24 hours a day. Moreover, we have ・Maintenance and management of ・Latest Trends in company-wide security system IT Security Research information protection that changes and differs depending Security Incident Management for Security Incident Management introduced a managed print service that requires personal on the country. In fiscal 2018, no complaint was filed about authentication to print only the necessary documents at the breaches of customers' privacy or loss of customer data via Information Infrastructure for Products CSIRT required time, preventing documents from being left behind Department in charge of product security (Yokogawa PSIRT) ・Grasp the situation of ・Product security management Yokogawa's system that aggregates reports from the Group cyberattack ・Formulation and maintenance of product on the printer or mixed with others. companies. ・Global security activities management rules 54 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Information Security certification promotion organization. PSIRT（Product Security Incident Response Team） System Installation ● We support customers in their security activities by Security Management for extensively gathering information about vulnerabilities Products and Services ● By providing security training to engineers, conducting related to our products, disseminating and investigating investigations and research into security technologies the information obtained throughout the Yokogawa The Yokogawa Group recognizes ongoing measures primarily through security laboratories, and supporting Group, and disclosing the applicable vulnerability to address cyber-threats as an important issue for its the introduction of security measures in our systems, we information and any countermeasures to customers. customers and society, and is committed to addressing endeavor to consistently implement security in system security together with customers through the provision integration and perform secure integration. of its products and services. Since the Stuxnet malware attack, cyberattacks targeting important infrastructure have become a common occurrence. In modern society, which is built upon this key infrastructure, these types of cyberattacks Voice of Employee may have a profound effect on our daily lives and socioeconomic activities. Attacks could even cause social unrest Product development that places an emphasis on security or imperil the environment or human life. Additionally, as activities is necessary to reduce the risks of cyberattacks the example of the Triton malware showed, there are no o n ke y i n f ra st r u ct u re . Cu r re n t l y I a m wo r k i n g o n signs that the technological advances in attacks have stalled. incorporating our basic policy and standards for security In response to these circumstances, the Yokogawa Group has measures into the development process to establish a Security Laboratory pursued various activities to reduce these risks to important secure development lifecycle and allow us to engage in infrastructure that originate in cyberspace. System Operation secure development at an even higher level. By adhering to the secure development lifecycle, we are able to Key Initiatives ● In accordance with industry security standards such implement security measures during each process, such as IEC62443, we have developed a security lifecycle as specification, design, coding and testing, and eliminate We look at the process from product development to approach, and provide security solutions to mitigate security vulnerabilities from the early stages of the system installation and operation as the system lifecycle. By the cyberspace risks to customers with controls system development process. supporting customers’ security activities throughout that security status monitoring services, SOC services specific Moving forward, we will continue to contribute to the lifecycle, we work to reduce risks to important infrastructure to control systems, back-up services and so on. security activities of our customers by developing highthat originate in cyberspace. quality, secure products. Product Development ■ Security Lifecycle ● We have established a basic policy and standards for Assessment and Analysis Design and Implementation security measures. These are incorporated into our Plant Security development process to eliminate vulnerabilities from Lifecycle products and enhance security. Services Satomi Miyazaki ● To ensure security quality, our main products CENTUM Validation Support Operation Support Corporation IA-SS Systems VP and ProSafe-RS have obtained ISASecure EDSA Development Center certification issued by ISCI, an international security Yokogawa Electric 55 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Research and Development ■ Innovation Process ch institutions, partn re sear ers ts, innovation ) ar ke d open an m ty s, er R&D Structure er lp rop s External envi e iti tiv R&D activities at Yokogawa are classified into two types. ron me nt Firstly, product development and applied research activities ac Market needs Standardiza (c ion are geared to meeting customer needs and target a relatively tion us , in to tel foreseeable future. Secondly, innovation activities are m lec Ideation stage conducted from a longer-term perspective, involve greater Inn uncertainty, and are directed toward the generation of new ov tua at New market business opportunities. Whereas business headquarters are opportunities mainly responsible for the former, the latter is primarily the task of the Innovation Center. R&D stage 1. Research and develop new technologies that complement Technology seeds those of each business headquarters and address customer issues, leading to expansion of the business scope. 2. Prepare for an uncertain and unpredictable future and Incubation stage open a path to the creation of new businesses by working with customers to uncover latent issues and find ways of Commercialization addressing them. Innovation Activities 1.Ideation Stage 2.R&D Stage By engaging in innovation activities, Yokogawa not only Yokogawa carries out future insight activities using scenario At the R&D stage, we select promising research subjects from provides systems but also creates technologies and planning and scanning techniques. The scenario planning the various possibilities that emerged at the ideation stage solutions together with customers that prompt them to technique continuously creates multiple future scenarios and and refine them. At this stage, in addition to R&D activities change their perspectives and approaches. The innovation considers them to ensure that we can flexibly adapt to an to pursuing the technologies, researchers also conduct a process consists of three concentric layers as show in the unknowable future. To grasp the signs of change in society 10 to feasibility review and analyze markets, and cultivate the figure. The outermost layer, consisting of information from 20 years from now, the scanning technique engages a variety of markets as necessary. the field and signs of change obtained by scanning the members and experts inside and outside the company in Japan external environment, such as markets and customers, is and abroad in dialogs and utilizes the results and direction of 3.Incubation Stage reflected in standardization, intellectual property and open the dialogs for the R&D activities. In line with a promotion of coWhen an R&D project progresses and the goal comes into sight, an innovation, which constitute the second layer that supports creation activities both inside and outside the company, the incubation stage starts. At this stage researchers develop a strategy innovation activities, the innermost layer. Co-innovation Room (New Co-Innovation Room) set up in our with support from sales and marketing departments to make R&D In innovation activities, we generated ideas, refine the headquarters is a venue for workshops to which participants from projects more viable in the market. In addition, they demonstrate technologies to realize the ideas through R&D, and incubate around the world are invited to facilitate idea generation as shown whether the R&D outcomes offer value to the customer in them. A cycle of these three stages is executed repeatedly to in the photo on the right. collaboration with the customer. When the value is recognized, the achieve commercialization. project progress to the commercialization stage. 56 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Research and Development Activities Supporting the Yokogawa’s intellectual property rights (as of March 31.2019) Innovation Process In Japan Outside Japan Innovation Center's Activity Areas and Total Registered Pending Subtotal Registered Pending Subtotal Research Themes Intellectual Property Patents 1,939 430 2,369 1,111 669 1,780 4,149 Designs 111 22 133 158 91 249 382 Yokogawa positions intellectual property as an essential Trademarks 339 6 345 722 335 1,057 1,402 As a future insight activity, Yokogawa has drawn up a future asset for maintaining the high value of its products and scenario by using the scenario planning technique, which solution services and providing value to all customers. Based Total 2,389 458 2,847 1,991 1,095 3,086 5,933 supposes a high possibility of the shortage of food, energy, on this, we have developed an intellectual property strategy and water in the near future. Based on this insight, the in linked to our business strategies and R&D activities. Open Innovation Innovation Center has defined its main activity areas as Yokogawa will acquire rights for and use intellectual biology, energy, and material. These three areas are also Yokogawa is vigorously promoting open innovation, the use properties created at the Company in accordance with defined as the business focus areas in Yokogawa's long-term of external seeds and resources (e.g. advanced technologies, the above-mentioned intellectual property strategy. business framework. The figure below shows the major R&D know-how, human resources), and collaboration with In the context of these activities, Yokogawa positions themes in each area. other parties for innovation. Instead of relying solely on intellectual property rights not only as legal rights but also our own technologies, we are working to deliver superior as marketable assets. The Company will continue to provide value to our customers by forming strategic relationships unique and unrivaled products and solution services. and collaborating with partner all over the world, including universities, research institutes, and start-ups. ■ Innovation Center's Activity Areas and Research Themes Standardization International standards have an important bearing on our business strategy since they have an impact on whether a product or solution service will be able to establish dominance at the global level. International standards are also an important part of the research and development strategy since they determine whether the technology in which the Company has made prior investment will find support in the market. Yokogawa actively engages in international standardization activities as members of many international standardization organizations such as IEC and ISO in a broad range of fields while linking it activities with the Company's R&D and intellectual property strategies. Due to their inherent nature, however, international standards may conflict with intellectual property and lead to patent disputes. Yokogawa pus priority on enhancing value for its customers and focuses on international standards that set forth requirements on interoperability in telecommunication technologies and software. The Company's policy is to disclose its intellectual property if needed or issue a license through a licensing agreement. 57 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Code of Conduct Risk Management Compliance Supply Chain Management Information Security Research and Development Quality Assurance Quality Assurance A c h i e v i n g U n i fo r m Quality Worldwide QA QI Quality Assurance Activities Quality Quality Since its founding, Yokogawa has built quality management systems in The Yokogawa Group has Assurance Improvement each process from development, planning, design and manufacturing Ever since the foundation of the Company, putting quality satisfied its customers' to sales and service, in order to deliver products and solutions that first has been the fundamental principle of Yokogawa. Quality expectations by satisfy its customers. Yokogawa first obtained ISO 9001 certification Through customer-focused quality management has fueled mind providing products and in 1992, and its major domestic and overseas Group companies have Yokogawa's development. Guided by the quality-first solutions of uniformly Qm also obtained the certification. Specialists stand by 24 hours a day, principle, the Yokogawa Group autonomously implements 365 days a year to swiftly deal with the various issues and trouble high quality everywhere The Three Elements of Quality Management quality management to ensure uniform quality worldwide encountered by customers. Yokogawa has a throughout the world. responding to changing social demands. Offering products service system to continually watch over the The impetus behind this is our founding principle of qualityand solutions that achieve customer satisfaction, the safety of customer equipment on a global first, which we have followed faithfully for more than 100 Yokogawa Group is making a concerted effort to reinforce scale through the Global Response Center. years. Our quality management consists of three basic the image of Yokogawa brand. Yokogawa also ensures the traceability of elements: Quality Assurance (QA), Quality Improvement (QI), Improve Communication measurement instruments used as part of Raise Awareness | Share Best Practices | Reduce Risk and Quality mind (Qm). its quality assurance system. Yokogawa was The Basic Quality Policy the first company in Japan to obtain Japan Quality Assurance (QA) Calibration Service System (JCSS) certification 1. We manage product quality in order to achieve a Continually seeking to provide better products to customers for flow meter calibrators. A poster for Quality customer focus based on the quality-first mindset that Month based on the concept that quality is given the highest is one of our founding principles, as well as healthy priority Yokogawa Quality Months and profitable management through improvements in In Japan, November was set as Quality Month by the Union of management quality. Quality Improvement (QI) Japanese Scientists and Engineers, the Japan Standards Association, 2. We supply products that meet statutory and regulatory Establishing a system to provide products and services the Japan Productivity Center and the Japan Management Association requirements as well as customer requirements. in 1960. Yokogawa has continuously engaged in related activities 3. We establish and implement appropriate quality that are of uniform quality worldwide during November, and has now added June to designate both June management systems conforming to the requirements and November each year as Yokogawa Quality Months, when it Quality mind(Qm) of the international standard ISO 9001. In addition, we implements quality-improving activities across the Group. To help the continually improve the effectiveness of those systems. Each and every employee having the quality-first mind (or quality-first mindset take root, Yokogawa 4 . W e i n c rea s e c u sto m e r s at i s fa ct i o n t h ro u g h t h e Qm) that is one of the Yokogawa Group's founding principles displays posters illustrating the mindset and achievements of all organizations and personnel. communicates the importance of quality in Accordingly, each employee must adopt a quality-first We believe that we can satisfy our customers’ expectations the form of mottos. The quality-first mindset mindset to perform high-quality work. and build long-lasting bonds of trust only when all of these is confirmed by having employees recite the elements are engaged. Yokogawa sees the quality-first mottos each day at production sites. 5. The head of each organization is directly responsible for mindset as particularly important in maintaining high levels the quality of the relevant operations. Responsibilities of quality. All Yokogawa Group employees are aware of the Yokogawa QA Booklet QA Booklet include ensuring that adequate resources are made importance of having a quality-first mindset, and quality is available. In order to maintain and improve quality Yokogawa has prepared built into each operation based on Group-wide rules and a QA Booklet that explains the attitude required during daily work approaches. in easy-to-understand terms. The booklet has been translated into five languages to facilitate implementation across the Group and workers carry it at all times to ensure they are maintaining a quality-first mindset. 58 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Sustainability Data Third-Party Verification Company Overview Data/Company Overview Sustainability Data 60 Third-Party Verification 61 Company Overview 62 59 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Sustainability Data Third-Party Verification Company Overview Sustainability Data Social Data Item 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Item 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of Employees (people) Consolidated 19,601 18,646 18,329 18,290 17,848 Frequency Rate of Occupational Accidents (%) Consolidated 0.52 0.38 0.46 0.33 0.26 (Number of accidents resulting in lost workdays / Non-consolidated 2,871 2,502 2,537 2,590 2,574 aggregate number of work-hours × 1,000,000) Temporary and contract employees 0.57 0.35 0.17 0.34 0.46 Female Managers Ratio (%) Consolidated ― ― ― ― 9.4 Fatal Accidents (case) Consolidated 0 0 0 0 0 Non-consolidated 2.4 3.2 3.5 4.3 5.4 Temporary and contract employees 0 0 0 0 0 Female Employee Ratio (%) Consolidated ― ― ― ― 21.9 Donations and Community Cash contributions 67.4 97.4 127.8 127.1 194.3 Non-consolidated 13.0 13.1 13.3 13.9 14.9 Investments (¥100M) Time 4.6 3.4 5.6 1.4 1.7 Disability Employment Rate (%) In Japan 1.99 2.03 2.10 2.31 2.27 In-kind giving 25.0 5.7 12.2 14.3 7.4 （2015/6） （2016/6） （2017/6） （2018/6） （2019/6） Management overheads 18.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 Independent Trade Union Coverage (%) Non-consolidated 74.8 74.2 74.7 74.8 73.7 Total 115.0 124.5 163.6 160.8 221.4 Environmental Data Item 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Item 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy consumption (GJ) In Japan 870,183 734,828 684,692 676,375 684,085 Water Withdrawal (K m3） In Japan 439 342 314 319 316 Outside Japan 840,724 818,109 810,126 829,572 854,898 Outside Japan 284 275 285 296 245 Total 1,710,907 1,552,937 1,494,818 1,505,947 1,538,983 Total 723 617 600 615 561 Intensity (GJ/¥100M) 422 375 382 370 381 Intensity (K m3/¥100M) 0.18 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.14 Renewable Energy (kWh) Solar power generation 85,480 68,817 55,726 83,288 130,915 Water Discharges (K m3） In Japan 342 256 235 236 267 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions In Japan 47,214 38,695 36,119 35,185 34,447 Outside Japan 274 268 277 282 232 (t-CO2e) Outside Japan 51,981 50,784 48,251 49,697 49,439 Total 616 525 512 518 499 Total 99,195 89,479 84,370 84,882 83,886 Waste Generated (t) In Japan 3,607 1,926 2,321 2,350 2,566 Intensity (t-CO2e /¥100M) 24.44 21.63 21.56 20.88 20.78 Outside Japan 2,416 2,278 2,186 2,455 2,624 Scope１ 15,762 12,153 12,580 15,412 15,015 Total 6,023 4,204 4,507 4,805 5,190 Scope２ 83,433 77,326 71,790 69,470 68,871 Intensity (ｔ/¥100M) 1.48 1.02 1.15 1.18 1.29 Non-Hazardous Waste (t) Waste recycled 3,414 2,603 2,937 3,224 3,528 Waste lncinerated 133 133 129 138 126 Item No. Category 2017 2018 Waste landﬁlled 788 920 888 720 784 Supply Chain GHG Emissions Upstream 1 Purchased Goods & Services 185,424 192,606 Total 4,335 3,636 3,954 4,082 4,438 Upstream 2 Capital Goods 19,761 23,749 Scope３ Hazardous Waste (t) 1,688 568 553 723 752 Upstream 3 Fueland Energy-Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or 2 7,484 7,631 （t-CO2e） Upstream 4 Transportation & Distribution 16,990 18,594 A dash (—) indicates not applicable. Upstream 5 Waste Generated in Operations 919 1,000 Upstream 6 Business Travel 18,995 19,301 Upstream 7 Employee Commuting 8,700 7,950 Upstream 8 Leased Assets － － Downstream 9 Transportation & Distribution － － Downstream 10 Processing of Sold Products － － Downstream 11 Use of Sold Products 517,058 533,414 Downstream 12 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 863 1,007 Downstream 13 Leased Assets － － Downstream 14 Franchises － － Downstream 15 Investments － － Total 776,194 805,252 60 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Sustainability Data Third-Party Verification Company Overview Third-Party Verification To assure the reliability of sustainability information, Yokogawa has received a guarantee for social and environmental data by a third-party organization (Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited ) . LR Independent Assurance Statement Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a Relating to Yokogawa Electric Corporation’s Environmental and Social reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Data within its Sustainability Report 2019 for the fiscal year 2018 LR’s approach LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with ISAE3000 and ISO14064-3. The following tasks This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Yokogawa Electric Corporation in accordance with our though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. • Auditing the Company’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling Terms of engagement procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LR) was commissioned by Yokogawa Electric Corporation (“the key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. Company”) to provide independent assurance on its environmental and social data within its Sustainability • Sampling datasets and tracing activity data back to aggregated levels; Report 2019 (“the Report”) for the fiscal year 2018, that is, from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019, against the • Visiting Kofu plant and Komagane plant of Yokogawa Manufacturing Co., Ltd. in Japan to assess the data assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and professional judgement of the verifier using ISAE collection processes and record management practices. 3000 and ISO 14064-3:2006 for greenhouse gas (“GHG”) data. Observations Our assurance engagement covered the Company’s operations and activities in Japan and overseas and The company has demonstrated improvement in its data management system compared to that of last fiscal specifically the following requirements: year. However, the Company should maintain the reliability of its future environmental and social performance • Verifying conformance with the Company’s reporting methodologies data. • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data for only the selected indicators listed below: Environmental indicators: LR’s standards, competence and independence o Energy consumption (GJ) LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements o Solar power generation (kWh) for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in o GHG emissions 1 (Scope1 and Scope 2 [Market-based] ) (tonnes CO2) accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021-1 Conformity assessment – Requirements for o Water withdrawals (m3) and Water discharges (m3) bodies providing audit and certification of management systems Part 1: Requirements that are at least as o Total waste generated (tonnes) and Total waste landfilled (tonnes) demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code Social indicators: of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. o Frequency rate of occupational accidents 2 o Number of employees in the Industrial Automation and Control, Test and Measurement, Aviation, LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and and other businesses experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior o The female managers ratio to all managers 3 (%) management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. o The ratio of the overseas to total employees (%) LR is the Company’s certification body for ISO9001. The verification and certification assessments are the only o Number of registered and pending patents (in Japan and overseas countries) work undertaken by LR for the Company and as such do not compromise our independence or impartiality. o Number of registered and pending designs (in Japan and overseas countries) o Number of registered and pending trademarks (in Japan and overseas countries) Signed Dated: 27 June 2019 Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of the Company’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. Norihiko Kinoshita LR’s responsibility is only to the Company. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in LR Lead Verifier the end footnote. The Company’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from Queen’s Tower A, 10th Floor, 2-3-1, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama 220-6010, Japan which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of LR reference: YKA4005469 the Company. Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their LR’s Opinion respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe the Company has assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the not, in all material respects: provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in • Met the requirements above that contract. • Disclosed accurate and reliable environmental and social data The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the versions translated into other languages. professional judgement of the verifier. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 1 GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. LR also reviewed the Organisation’s 2018 fiscal year against its 2017 to confirm the year-onyear change in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data. 2 The number of casualties resulting from the occupational accidents in the boundary divided by total working hours (in the unit of million hours). 3 The reported data only covers Yokogawa Electric Corporation. Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 61 Message from the President Highlights Corporate Culture Goals People and Society Environment Management Data/Company Overview Sustainability Data Third-Party Verification Company Overview Company Overview External Ratings We are currently witnessing growth in ESG investment and socially responsible investment, Editorial Policy whereby investors evaluate companies not only financially, but also in terms of sustainability This report discloses information on the Yokogawa Group's sustainability Corporate Data including social and environmental aspects. Yokogawa is actively addressing sustainability activities. The information in this report discloses Yokogawa's material activities and disclosing information, earning plaudits from outside parties, as exemplified information (key issues) in accordance with the core options of the by its inclusion in the major global sustainable stock indexes below. GRI Standards, a set of international guidelines for the disclosure of Global ● Corporate Name sustainability information. The report also incorporates feedback from stakeholders. Additionally, the reliability of the information is enhanced Yokogawa Electric Corporation ● Dow Jones Sustainability Index Asia Pacific by means of third-party verification. This year we revamped the content Selected for inclusion in the sustainability index and design of the report in order to improve readability. In the first half ● President and CEO of the report, we included a section highlighting initiatives for achieving targeting companies in the Asia Pacific region Hitoshi Nara provided by S&P Dow Jones Indices in USA and the sustainability goals and introducing our corporate culture to facilitate RobecoSAM in Switzerland a deeper understanding of Yokogawa. Our approach to the sustainability ● Headquarters goals and examples of initiatives are also introduced in the Yokogawa ● FTSE4Good Index Series Sustainability Book. For ESG information that is strongly associated 2-9-32 Nakacho, Musashino-shi, Tokyo 180-8750, Japan Selected for inclusion in the ESG stock indices with our financial information and business strategy, please refer to our provided by FTSE Russell, which is a group annual report, the Yokogawa Report. The GRI standards index is posted ● Founded company of the London Stock Exchange in UK on our website. September 1, 1915 ● MSCI World ESG Leaders Index ● Period Covered by this Report Selected for inclusion in the ESG stock index ● Incorporated FY2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) provided by MSCI, which is a group company of December 1, 1920 Where appropriate, information on events occurring outside this Morgan Stanley in the USA period may be included. ● Paid-in Capital ● CDP Climate Change, Water Security 2018 ● Scope of Data 43,401 million yen Obtained Management Level “B” in an assessment This report covers Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its Group by CDP, an international NGO in the UK companies in Japan and overseas. ● Number of Employees ● World's 100 Most Sustainable Companies (Global 100) A note is provided when data with a different scope is included. 17,848 (consolidated) Selected for the corporate sustainability rating 2,574 (non-consolidated) provided by Corporate Knights in Canada ● Timing of Publication October 2019 (published annually) ● Subsidiaries and Affiliates Japan ● Intended Readership 100 outside Japan This report is intended for a wide range of stakeholders including ● FTSE Blossom Japan Index 12 in Japan customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, employees, Selected for inclusion in the ESG stock index (As of March 31, 2019) local communities, NPOs, NGOs, and local governments. provided by FTSE Russell ● MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index ● Company Names Selected for inclusion in the ESG stock index In this report, “Yokogawa,” “Yokogawa Group” and “consolidated” provided by MSCI refer to Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its consolidated affiliates in Japan and overseas. ● MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index “Yokogawa Electric” and “non-consolidated” is used only with Selected for inclusion in the diversity-assessed reference to Yokogawa Electric Corporation. stock index provided by MSCI ● Reference Guidelines ● SNAM Sustainability Index The GRI Standards, published by the Global Reporting Initiative Selected for inclusion in the ESG stock index Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Fiscal year 2018 version, provided by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan Management Co., Ltd. ● S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index Selected for inclusion in the environmental stock index provided by S&P Dow Jones Indices based on carbon emissions performance assessed by Trucost in UK 62 Yokogawa Electric Corporation Sustainability Promotion Department, Corporate Administration Headquarters 2-9-32 Nakacho, Musashino-shi, Tokyo 180-8750, Japan Phone: +81-422-52-7797 Facsimile: +81-422-55-1202 https://www.yokogawa.com/about/sustainability/
