Cover page UN Global Compact Communication on Progress June 2019 Chief Executive’s annual statement Two companies, one soul. It’s a pleasure to welcome you to our third United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress report. Our initiatives and goals change annually; however, our commitment to the ten UNGC principles remain as strong as ever. The 2018-19 reporting year saw Anthesis Group grow significantly, both organically and through the welcome inclusion of GoodBrand and Lavola to the Group. We’re united in strong values and a vision of working towards a more productive and resilient world. Operating as one business, I am very proud of our collective approach, both internally with colleagues and externally as we support our clients lead social and environmental change. Our progress as a business continues to be recognised through accolades: London Stock Exchange’s 1000 Companies to Inspire Britain, The Sunday Times Fast Track 100 and SME Export Track. These awards recognise the shared passion and focus of our 500 colleagues. Building on the foundational initiatives launched last year, our CSR & D&I teams globally have been a driving force for good, led by Chief Sustainability Officer Paul Crewe. Our report showcases some of the impactful initiatives launched and supported, such as the Everest Challenge and International Women's Day. Our next report will highlight some of the ways we have supported the UN’s second Sustainability Development Goal (SDG) Zero Hunger, an important focus selected by colleagues for the coming twelve months. Stuart McLachlan Anthesis Group 2 Anthesis CSR Anthesis’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are sponsored by Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), Paul Crewe. Our UK CSR team was formally established in 2016 and has taken the lead on coordinating CSR activities. The team has also collaborated with our colleagues in other regions to deliver global CSR initiatives and ensure alignment. For this reporting period our UK team comprised of Andy Marsh, our Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) lead, and ‘champs’ from each office. The CSR champs deliver our Environmental Management System (EMS), run local campaigns and initiatives and contribute to the overall program plan. The UK SHEQ lead meets with champs regularly to discuss progress against targets and annually to determine new targets. They regularly speak to the other regional CSR leads to co-ordinate activities and our CSO who represents the program at a board-level. We set environmental and CSR objectives annually through our EMS and other processes. With the UK home to our core operations our 2018 COP is primarily focused on this region, however features initiatives from various other geographies that form part of the wider group. To learn more, please get in touch by emailing: AnthesisCSR@anthesisgroup.com. 3 Materiality Key stakeholders This report is prepared for our stakeholders: our investors; employees; business partners and clients; contractors and suppliers, as well as for the wider communities in which we operate. Defining our material topics Our material topics are defined in a number of ways, including: • Feedback from colleagues gained in our all colleague survey and other communication initiatives, such as regularly-hosted engagement weeks. • Input from our sustainability champs, SHEQ lead, senior team, CEO and CSO. • Our EMS procedures also guide the identification and management of environmental impacts including setting objectives and targets. • Compliance with legislation and regulations. 4 SocietySociety Human rights │ anti-corruption │ supply chain │ community Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Society Human rights │ anti-corruption │ supply chain │ community 2018 summary Progress against our 2018 goals ✔ • We conducted an impact assessment of our company and supply chain, which Human rights impact assessment included a review of forced, compulsory and child labor. No occurrences were ✔ identified and a statement from our CEO forms part of our new Modern Slavery Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and Human Trafficking Policy. • Our new Sustainable Procurement Policy helps enforce effective systems and Risk assessment for forced and child labor ✔ controls to ensure human rights abuses are not taking place anywhere in our Company statement with regards to forced and child business or our supply chain. ✔ labor • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures were reviewed and updated in the employee handbook and employment contracts. Review anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures ✔ • Our two paid volunteering days, offered to every colleague per annum, were Anti-bribery and anti-corruption awareness training used to carry out activities including maintenance of city centre trees in Manchester and marshalling at the transplant games. 11 colleagues from the Anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk assessment UK also used their days to cycle 250 miles from Tower Bridge in London to its Establish a system to review our anti-bribery and anticounterpart in Amsterdam, whilst raising money for UNICEF and Mind Without corruption procedures Borders. 6 Society Society 2019 goals Deliver anti-bribery and anti-corruption awareness training. Conduct an anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk assessment. Establish a system to review our anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures. Deliver training to procurement staff on human rights and Modern Slavery. Review our whistle-blowing policy. 7 Colleagues Colleagues Health, safety and wellbeing │ connectivity│ diversity and inclusion│ pay and reward│ training and development Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Health, safety and wellbeing │ connectivity│ diversity and inclusion│ pay Colleagues and reward │ training and development 2018 summary Progress against our 2018 goals • We established a global steering committee to manage the diversity and Publishing our gender pay gap report ✔ inclusion (D&I) program across the business, supported by regional working groups. The group delivered on reviewing the recruitment process to promote Review recruitment processes and Employee handbook ✔ ✔ and monitor diversity, unconscious bias training to all staff and the review of Steering committee set up for D&I family leave and return to work processes. • We produced our first gender pay gap report. The report showed a mean Unconscious bias training delivered ✔ gender pay gap of 15% and that women make up 45% of our total workforce. Third round of culture interviews conducted While there is fairly even representation across the business there is a higher representation of women at more junior levels and a higher proportion of men Review existing health and safety policies ✔ holding senior roles. Promotion of health and wellbeing ✔ • To celebrate International Women’s Day we created profiles of inspiring Anthesis women around the globe, raising the profile of the women in our business and promoting global team cohesion. • As part of our health and safety program all colleagues were required to complete the employee safety handbook, driving for work procedure, four training modules and staff health surveys. • We renewed our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support employees’ mental and financial wellbeing. 9 Health, safety and wellbeing │ connectivity│ diversity and inclusion│ pay Colleagues and reward │ training and development 2018 summary Progress against our 2018 goals ✔ • We delivered a campaign to all colleagues during Mental Health Awareness Third all-colleague survey completed Week to help them understand what stress is and how to cope with it. • Our health and safety policy was reviewed and rewritten, providing further Global Town Hall conference calls established ✔ clarity on responsibilities and objectives to ensure our employees and anyone Further engagement with employees on CSR program ✔ connected with our work are kept safe. • We conducted our third all-colleague survey to capture feedback in order to Extra Mile employee award scheme extended globally ✔ make coordinated global changes and integrated local improvements. Region-by-region roll out of SharePoint ✔ • Further work has been undertaken to connect colleagues through our global SharePoint platform, our business support platform Kimble, monthly global Continued program of learning and development ✔ newsletters, Global Town Hall conference calls and employee award scheme. • 2018 saw the launch of our emerging trends and issues survey sent to all Launch of the ‘Jungle Gym’ career map ✔ colleagues and clients to understand sustainability issues and topics that matter most to them. 10 Colleagues Colleagues 2019 Goals Deliver an International Women’s Day campaign. Review and re-establish the Emergen learning and development program. Deliver our fourth all-colleague survey. Continue our flexible working policy, tax free childcare voucher scheme, volunteer days and mentoring program. Health and safety Share best practice globally, promote our EAP, target engagement of remote workers and deliver mindfulness training. Continue with our global connectivity initiatives including The Wire, Reading Room, PULSE sessions and STEP program. 11 Environment Environment Energy and carbon│ waste │ travel│ plastics │ supply chain Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Energy and carbon│ waste │ travel│ plastics │ supply chain Progress against our 2018 goals 2018 summary Further colleague engagement including World Environment • Our EMS was accredited to the ISO14001:2015 standard and incorporated our ✔ Day campaign on plastics Bristol office within the scope. Expand scope of the EMS to include the new team in Bristol • We conducted various colleague engagement weeks including campaigns ✔ during Recycle Week and World Environment Day. and transition the EMS to the new ISO14001:2015 standard • Anthesis became a member of the BiTC Circular Office Campaign to help with Internal and external publication of our annual greenhouse our commitment to embed circular economy principles into our processes. gas (GHG) report Support colleagues and suppliers to make informed • We undertook a review and revision of the Anthesis global sustainability ✔ policy. procurement choices • We produced our sustainable procurement policy and sustainable business Publish our sustainable procurement policy ✔ travel policy. Environmental assessment and LCA on all products and • Our London office worked with their landlord, Workspace, to set up a working services purchased ✔ group for tenants to improve environmental performance on-site. • We successfully achieved our 2018 EMS targets to reduce residual waste Annual GHG reduction targets set to monitor performance arisings and lower our energy usage. Continued data capture improvements to monitor • We worked with key suppliers to improve environmental and social impacts of ✔ performance the products and services we purchase and established a baseline for our business travel. This also involved a supply chain and life cycle assessment (LCA) to help manage our environmental impacts with our suppliers. 13 Environment Environment 2019 Goals Work with landlords and tenants in our shared offices to reduce sustainable impacts. Research methods to monitor the carbon savings from client project work. Develop a sustainability and circular office guide and campaign for all Anthesis offices globally. Prepare our 2018 GHG report and calculate reduction targets. 14 Global activities • We carried out gender pay gaps analysis in all countries with a large enough colleague population (more than 10 employees with a minimum of three men and three women). Where comparisons could be undertaken we found small gaps in gender pay — some in favour of men and some in favour of women. None of the gaps found exceeded 15% either way. • Anthesis colleagues around the globe took part in our Everest Challenge. The goal was to get outside, walk the height of Everest, and pick up litter along the way. A fantastic 136 colleagues took part, walking 150 Everests and collecting 160 bags of waste on their way. • For World Environment Day in June, 55 Anthesians signed a pledge to be plastic-free Ninjas. A blog detailing the findings can be found at https://blog.anthesisgroup.com/recycle-week-2018. • Our North American team delivered a number of initiatives including: o Revised HR policies and practices and launched a mentorship program. o Launched an EAP, the consistent balanced scorecard performance assessment framework and the Extra Mile Award employee recognition program. o Delivered a mental health awareness campaign, the 21 day happiness challenge and Mind Gym training. o Conducted a commuter survey. o Delivered unconscious bias training, updated their equal opportunities statement and improved the inclusivity of the recruitment process through diverse interview panels and increased visibility through job boards of more diverse colleges and universities. 15 Global activities • Our Spanish colleagues at Lavola undertook the following activities in 2018: o Continued certification against ISO14001:2015, ISO50001, LEED and Environmental and Quality Assurance Distinctive from the Generalitat de Catalunya. o Delivered against its climate change mitigation and adaption plan. o Developed a new equality plan and ethics code. o Participated in the Trailwalker d’Intermon Oxfam for the fifth year in a row. The team walked 100 kilometres raising money for humanitarian projects. o Enhanced the suppliers approval process by requiring them to meet environmental, energy, quality, labor and legal criteria. This includes working with suppliers that are GHG neutral, part of Lavola’s climate change plan. 16 About Anthesis Contact us: www.anthesisgroup.com Anthesis is a global sustainability services and solutions provider, which contact@anthesisgroup.com believes that commercial success and sustainability go hand in hand. We Follow us: develop financially driven sustainability strategies, underpinned by technical LinkedIn: Anthesis Group expertise and delivered by innovative collaborative teams across the world. Twitter: @Anthesis_group Instagram: @anthesisgroup The company combines the reach of big professional services groups with the deep expertise of boutiques. Anthesis has clients across industry sectors from corporate multinationals such as Reckitt Benckiser, Cisco, Tesco, The North Face and Target. The company brings together expertise from countries around the world and has offices in the U.S., Canada, Colombia, the UK, Ireland, Italy, Germany, Sweden, Spain, Andorra, Finland, China, the Philippines and the Middle East. About this report This report covers the sustainability activities of Anthesis (UK) Ltd and progress against the UNGC’s ten principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. To explore more of our internal CSR team’s work, visit www.anthesisgroup.com/our-sustainability. 17
