2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report INDEX Chairman’s letter CEO’s letter 1 Page 05 2 Page 06 Business environment Executive summary 3 Page 08 4 Page 11 Our activity External dimension of 5 Page 14 6 our activity Page 26 Internal dimension Annex I 7 of our activity AI Materiality Page 42 Page 59 Annex II Annex III AII About this report AIII Entities Page 62 Page 69 Mr. Jon Riberas Mera Chairman A Word from the Chairman Dear readers, our Company for their commitment and hard work throughout the year. Their dedication has It is my honor to present X-ELIO’s Sustainability enabled us to position ourselves as one of the Report for 2018, which demonstrates our main players in the renewable energy sector, renewed commitment to the values set under both globally and in Spain. In 2018, Human the Global Compact. Throughout these pages, Resources team has been rebranded into People we endeavor to address the concerns expressed & Culture, becoming part of the Leadership by our various stakeholders and offer our Team as a key element in the achievement of view on the issues that affect the industry and strategic objectives. especially, our Company. Regarding corporate social responsibility, Our primary contribution to the environment is our mission is clear: we seek to instill into the our business model itself. Renewable energy communities where we operate the same values is one of the most powerful tools in the fight of diversity and equality that we uphold in our against climate change and to decarbonize the daily operations. In this line, we have launched economy. Thanks to X-ELIO’s power generation in 2018 several aid projects aimed at having a facilities, we have avoided the emission of positive impact on the local community. 322,141 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere, equivalent to the annual volume generated by Before I close, I also wish to thank our 64,817 people. shareholders for their commitment and support to the project we share, a road laden with future During 2018, our revenue has totaled 126.9 challenges. We are facing political instability million euros and we have consolidated our and legal uncertainty in some countries. On the presence in United States and Mexico. During other hand, we have already achieved financial 2018 we owned 41 operating solar plants with independence from state grants, thus becoming a total installed generation capacity of 531.35 an efficient, sustainable Company in the long MWp and an energy production of 721,429.8 term. MWh. To all those involved in X-ELIO’s business in one The talent of our people is the cornerstone on way or another, I thank you. which we build our business. Therefore, I would Jon Riberas Mera like to thank the 187 professionals that make up Chairman Sustainability Report |5 Mr. Jorge Barredo López CEO A Word from the CEO Dear readers, X-ELIO believes that this new situation means excellent news but, on the flip-side, it poses For the fourth consecutive year, I invite you a great challenge. Since our inception, we to read our latest Sustainability Report, now have worked to prove that X-ELIO’s activity is, reporting on 2018. It provides information on by itself, the most powerful tool in the fight progress, risks, achievements and areas for against climate change. Witnessing now the improvement regarding environmental, social, industry’s conviction in this regard, is a great economic and governance areas. satisfaction for us. Likewise, the consolidation of our funding schemes, which does not Throughout the year, we have witnessed the depend on any government financial support, greatest political boost to the clean energies encourages us to uphold our approach. Thus, in Spain. The new government stablished the improvement of our competitiveness, a concrete agenda around the Ecological together with the market response, allows us transition, implemented by its own Ministry, to continue endorsing our business model first of its kind in Spain. as the cleanest and most efficient method to provide electricity to homes and businesses Moreover, 2018 has turned out to be a year worldwide. of great achievements and consolidation for our industry sector: solar capacity installed We have reached three significant milestones reached 485,826 MW worldwide*, the highest within 2018: firstly, the consolidation of our record so far. Solar power rose to record presence in the United States, through the prominence in 2018, as the world installed 98 acquisition of 103 MW solar project Lili in gigawatts of new solar power projects, more South Carolina, as well as the partnership with than the net additions of coal, gas and nuclear Sofos Harbert to boost projects in the country. plants put together. This dynamism, together Secondly, the PPA agreement with Nexus with the increasing success of photovoltaic Energía to build 50MW projects in the south technology in tenders and the remarkable of Spain. And thirdly, the relocation of assets reduction of manufacturing costs, has paved achieved through the divestment in Japan, the way to increase the number and size of USA and Italy non-estrategic plants. This projects under construction or operation, landmark transaction underpinned X-ELIO’s within a framework of tougher competition for ability to successfully execute its strategy, financing. recycling capital from solid and stable Renewable Capacity Statistics 2019, IRENA 6| Sustainability Report operating assets into its pipeline of projects, Due to the nature of our activity, we operate in with secured tariffs for an aggregated capacity countries at different levels of development, of 1.3 GW that are either in construction or in which presents us with a unique opportunity advance stage of development. to provide value beyond the creation of employment and the generation of clean As a result of our commitment to Innovation, energy: we work hand in hand with the local during 2018 we have developed and community, promoting open dialogue and implemented improved efficiencies in our making them part of the different projects. In plant management, with the development 2018, because of this dialogue, we supported of dron technology thanks to which now socio-economic development projects in they can conduct topographic survey during Mexico, in the field of social construction. construction phase. Furthermore, four operating laboratories are Working in the With these initiatives, together with our development of string inverters, bifacial panels own activity of clean energy generation, technologies and other fields which will impact we contribute decisively to the Sustainable to X-ELIO’s effieciency ratios. Development Goals (SDGs) and the 10 Principles under the Global Compact. Through Our positive results in 2018 would not have them, we are contributing to build a more been achieved without the constant effort sustainable, productive and responsible world. and high quality work carried out by X-ELIO’s team. We aim to offer them all avenues for I invite you to delve into all these initiatives their professional and personal development. described in the pages to follow, where you To demonstrate how tactical the human capital can discover our results for 2018 together is to X-ELIO’s strategy, the People & Culture with our future objectives, which we face with leader has entered the Leadership Team. enthusiasm and with the invaluable support and dedication from our team. To all of them, In order to strengthen ethics and integrity thanks, once again, for being part of X-ELIO. as inherent attributes of X-ELIO’s activity, we have devoted much of our effort during this year to train our team in the Compliance culture. Jorge Barrero López CEO Sustainability Report |7 03 Business environment Business environment C Climate change continues to pose an important threat to the future of life on Earth. Its impact is predicted to increase over time. Some of those consequences are related to risks to human health or to the environment, which imply high costs on society. In this perspective, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) have established the objective of taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts through its integration into national policies, strategies and planning or the development of technologies that contribute and strengthen mitigation and adaptation mechanisms. Global clean energy investment totaled $332.1 billion in 2018, the fifth in a row in which investment exceeded the $300 billion mark. Total investment in solar however dropped 24% thanks to declining capital costs already consolidated trend*. At the end of 2018, global renewable generation capacity amounted to 2,351 GW**, being 486GW of those solar energy capacity, 20.7% in total. Asia continued to dominate the global solar capacity expansion with a 64 GW increase. Other major increases were in the USA (+8,4 GW), Australia (+3.8 GW) and Germany (+3.6 GW). Other countries with smaller markets Global Levelized cost of electricity from utilityscale renewable while significant expansions in 2018 were Brazil, Egypt, Pakistan, Mexico, Turkey and the power generation technologies Netherlands. *Source: Clean Energy Investment Trends, 2018 **Source: Renewable capacity highlights, 2019 by IRENA Source: Renewables 2018 – Global status report by REN21 Sustainability Report |9 03 Business environment The rapid deployment of solar PV has led to significant cost declines in the last 10 years. As of IRENA’s calculations, crystalline silicon PV module prices have fallen by more than 80% since 2010, Financial trends driving reductions in installed costs. Therefore, utility-scale solar PV projects can now provide Energy investment has a strong link with country-level financial conditions. Deep availability electricity that is competitive with other grid supply options, finally without financial support. of capital from private institutions, liquid capital markets, and access to domestic and foreign Although current costs are high due to the low levels of deployment, cost reduction potential is sources, complemented by limited public finance, are hallmarks of a supportive enabling high and the ability to incorporate low-cost energy storage will make them more important as environment. the share of variable renewables in total power generation rises. The average levelised cost of About 85% of power investments in 2018 were financed on the balance sheets of utilities*, electricity of concentrating solar power plants could fall to around USD 0.09/kWh by 2025, as independent power producers, and consumers (for distributed generation). The use IRENA’s stimations. of project finance for financing new projects has grown in recent years, with its largest contribution now in the utility-scale renewable power sector. The average debt-to-equity Challenges ratio in project finance has generally been around 80:20. In the other hand, financial PPAs with corporations have boosted renewables spending With the rapidly falling costs of solar power technologies, increasing shares of variable though investment is still small compared to total power needs. Scaling up corporate PPAs renewable energy will become the norm. This need to accommodate variable energy supply will tap into a much greater volume of buyers. In fact, corporate PPAs have emerged as while providing undisrupted output in the electricity sector has highlighted the significant the largest, and their investment grew by one-third in 2018 to nearly USD 15 billion, now potential and crucial relevance of electricity storage to facilitate the desired decarbonisation. accounting for over 5% of global solar PV and wind spending. Electricity storage based on rapidly improving batteries and other technologies will permit greater system flexibility, a necessary asset as the share of variable renewables increases. Electricity storage will make possible, among others, a transport sector dominated by electric vehicles; enables effective, 24-hour off-grid solar home systems; and supports 100% renewable mini-grids. A recent study conducted by IRENA shows that battery electricity storage systems offer enormous cost-reduction potential. By 2030, total installed costs could fall between 50% and 60% (and battery cell costs by even more), driven by optimisation of manufacturing facilities, combined with better combinations and reduced use of materials*. *Source: Electricity storage and renewables: Costs and markets to 2030 by IRENA *Source: World Energy Investment 2019, IEA. 10 | Sustainability Report 04 Executive summary 04 Executive summary During 2018, X-ELIO owned 41 facilities (531.5 311 MWp MW) in ten countries Presence Installed and operated three X-ELIO at a in 10 187 generating more. Total installed glance countries Employees generating capacity capacity 12/31/2018 during 2018 was 38,3% higher than previous year. 1,200 MW are currently under construction in Spain, Japan and Mexico. 721,429.8 322,141 Tn 126.9M€ Key figures MWh in 2018 CO2 Avoided turnover X-ELIO acquired Lily, a solar produced facility in South Carolina (USA) as a step forward of an ambitious growth plan in the United States. Renewable energy sector keeps on demonstrating Value its confidence in X-ELIO’s 132.6M€ 90% generation Economic 32.2M€ business model by successful partnerships with relevant for Local Value Taxes paid players as Sofos Harbert employees stakeholders Generated and Nexus Energía thanks to which X-ELIO consolidates its position as a facility operator in USA and Spain. 12 | Sustainability Report Building a culture of Compliance DDuring 2017, X-ELIO’s comprehensive Compliance Program has been consolidated under the highest standards of integrity in order to ensure ethical business conduct. In fact, during 2018 online training has been provided by an specialized consultant to employees in two topics: anti-bribery and corruption and antitrust competition laws.policies. Policies Code of Compliance (Anti-corruption, Trade Sanctions and Antitrust) Ethics and Committee Conduct (Legal Department) Compliance Program Sustainability Report | 13 05 Our activity O One of X-ELIO’s key drivers is to provide affordable electricity to homes and businesses while addressing climate change issues derived from the use of non-renewable energy sources. Thus, responsible business practices are at the cornerstone of our strategy and our value chain. X-ELIO is a global Company specialized in the development, design, construction, maintenance and operation of solar photovoltaic energy plants. At the end of the year 2018 it was present in 10 countries, with an installed generating capacity higher than 311 MW in 20 owned plants. Througout the year X-ELIO operated 41 solar plants in total, which produced an output of 721,429.8 MWh solar energy. Furthermore, X-ELIO carries out operation and maintenance works in 3 plants not owned. Both fixed-structure panels (52%) and solar trackers (48%) are installed in these facilities. During 2018 21 non-core assets with a total generating capacity ammounting around 219 MW were divested due to strategic purposes. Apart from identifying opportunities and designing, developing and implementing our own solar facilities, X-ELIO also operates some facilities that have been transferred to third-parties, providing our know-how and expertise throughout the operation and maintenance process. Global presence and main magnitudes at the end of 2018 20 plants in operation Italy Spain 4 plants USA 8 plants 3.94 MW 2 plants O&M 2 plants 62 MW 72.15 MW Kuwait 1 plant O&M Honduras Mexico 2 plants 1 plant 42.43 MW 73 MW Peru 2 plants 42.43 MW South Africa 2 plants Chile 30.97 MW 1 plant 57.62 MW Sustainability Report | 15 + Uribe connection + Awarding of 455 MW in Spain + Refinancing 92.56 million 05 Our activity euros through a single bond 2020 Strategic + Acquisition of Midway (USA) objectives + Awarding of 250 MW in Mexico 2020 20% renewable Evolution and growth of energy + Awarding of 37 MW in Japan X-ELIO + Offices opening in Australia X-ELIO has developed and accomplished Awarding of +S  igned PPA (100MW) an ambitious international development plan due to, among other reasons, 244 MW in Mexico 2018 with Nexus in Spain a flexible and solid business model, +P  artnership with Sofos an ability to achieve strategic cost 2017 Harbert to develop reductions and the development of solar projects in USA relevant technology that serves to increase efficiency and long-term 2016 +A  cquisition of project sustainability. This position has allowed Lily in USA X-ELIO to evolve and become a global + Guanajuato leader of the industry. Connection (73MW) in Participation in the KKR Since the beginning of its operations, First connection 2015 Global l Infrastructure Mexico X-ELIO has gained experience in in Japan 2014 Investor II Fund with an developing, constructing and operating 80% share solar PV Plants in different countries with different technologies and together X-ELIO is born Offices in Tokyo with different original equipment manufacturers. X-ELIO’s participation and Mexico 2013 in different projects since its inception 2012 + Offices in Italy and USA amounts more than 800 MW of installed capacity projects. 2011 2009 + First connection in Italy + First connection in Peru 2008 First connection: Albanilla, Spain + First connection in USA + Office in + Office in Chile South Africa Gestamp Asetym 2005 Solar is created 16 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO’s Performance in 2018 531.5 10 322,141 MW* countries 126.9M€ 6.5GW 187 Tn Installed Present in Turnover In pipeline Employees Avoided CO2 generating (Upcoming 2 capacity years) During 2018, X-ELIO focused in the four geographies where the potential growth is the highest both through PPA schemes and future public tenders. In these four countries, Spain, United States, Mexico and Australia X-ELIO develops ambitious strategies of expansion due to their stability and political commitment to renewable energies. To boost project development and construction phases, X-ELIO undertook a divestiment process in non-core assets located in Japan and United States (14 and 187 MWs of generating capacity installed respectively). The revenue arised by these operations was applied mainly to the construction projects undergoing in Spain and Mexico. 642.13MW 1.2 GWp 293.7 MW in 2017 100 MW 73 MW 103 MW Power Purchase Started operations in Acquired in USA Agreement with Mexico Under construction To be connected to the grid by 2019 in Nexus (Spain, Japan and Spain, Mexico, Japan and United States Mexico) * Includes energy generated by all plants, including those sold during the year Sustainability Report | 17 05 Our activity X-ELIO’s business activity Analysis of opportunities X-ELIO’s endeavors encompass the overall solar energy cycle: from the opportunities’ exploration passing through construction to the final operation of facilities. The Company’s projects are tailored to specific needs taking into account the characteristics of each environment. In this sense, the first Power step consists of searching, identifying and analyzing business opportunities that can derive from Feed-In Purchase Public three specific sources: Feed-In Tariffs (FITs) 3, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) 4 and public or Tariffs Agreements Tender private tenders. (PPA) In order to develop a project, we conduct assessments of locations’ conditions as well as regulatory and feasibility evaluations. In parallel, the team specialized in public tenders identifies and analyzes solar energy auctions issued by government bodies. Simultaneously, financial and investment schemes are explored. Upon identification of ideal opportunities and satisfactory evaluation of financial options, the Board Business development decides whether or not to continue with the next steps of the project. After technical and economic viability of a project are verified, financial sources are obtained and Financing process the approval of the Board is confirmed, X-ELIO starts construction of the solar plant. The construction process entails different aspects such as land preparation, modules supply, structure and equipment supply, civil works, assembly processes, cabling and connection, Permitting grid testing, implementation of monitoring setups, etc. Upon construction, and after ensuring that the application Solar plant appropriate conditions are established, the next step is the connection to the grid. Finally, the phase purchase of maintenance and operation starts, which includes overall monitoring of its smooth functioning as well as data generation, required for preventive maintenance and decision-making processes. Solar facility At any stage of this cycle, another path to procuring assets is the strategic purchase of plants, which construction can be under construction or already operational. Besides that, the sale of plants is sometimes an option for X-ELIO as well. Solar plant Grid Tariff setting procedure carried out by Governments that ensures the compensation of costs and 3 sale Connection boosts the use of renewable technologies through certain return. Contract between two parties to regulate the direct sale and purchase of electricity usually from the 4 producer to the final consumer or retailer or any other market participant. Operation and maintenance of facilities 18 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO’s strategy The market in which X-ELIO competes faces increasingly demanding challenges: solar energy production currently has a maturity level that has allowed the reduction of retail energy prices and producers need to adjust to this new scenario. Hence, this drop in sales prices makes access to financing more challenging. In spite of this context, X-ELIO’s continuous growth levels are helping it to adapt and meet its key strategic objectives and transform its challenges into strengths. Challenges Competition Adaptation to Top professionals for financing technology recruitment Strategic Competitiveness Develop in-house Attract and retain to attract Pillars innovations talent investment Construction and 6.5 GW from projects Access to financing at operation of currently in the analysis Main goals any stage of the project 1,2 GJ of the phase (greenfield lifecycle portfolio projects and auctions) Sustainability Report | 19 05 Our activity Solar facilities: construction, operation and maintenance As soon as the development process is concluded, the design of the plants and the subsequent operation and maintenance are addressed. These phases are key to the Company and, for this reason, different plans are undertaken in order to develop a reliable and efficient operation, control risks and maximize profits. Role as project developer: designs plants at the most convenient locations and supervises 1 the EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) contractor’s work, who carries out Compliance CONSTRUCTION final construction. with the Quality, Oversees correct operational facilities’ activity functioning (facilities provide energy based Environment on climate conditions), and from a financial standpoint (there are no significant operational and Health & 2 O&M deviations which affect budgeted OPEX). Safety Policy It also exercises predictive, preventive, and corrective functions to ensure that solar (Operation and facilities owned by X-ELIO operate correctly. maintenance) X-ELIO as construction supervisor X-ELIO’s activities are based on its Integrated Quality, The Company’s role during the plant construction phase ranges from projecting the site Environment and Health and Safety Policy which is to supervising work carried out by the contractor, thanks to the efforts of the Project mandatory for all members of the organization. This Manager and other supervisors. In this perspective, X-ELIO mitigates any construction risks by establishing collaboration agreements with external Engineering Procurement and framework is certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and Construction (EPC) contractors. The latter are in charge of the realization of the project while OHSAS 18001 standards. X-ELIO applies its know-how by examining and controlling day-to-day works. Apart from executing the project, the contractor usually oversees the plant’s operation and maintenance over the EPC warranty period, the first years after commissioning. Construction activity is divided into three phases: the establishment of the framework Establishment for the construction activities, the selection of the EPC contractor and, finally, the actual of the construction work. This process is designed to obtain direct control over every possible framework for Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of project risk and deviation and to gain a wider scope for action. activities contractor the works The framework for operations may vary according to the applicable national legislation in each country, but in general, it is structured as of the following steps: 20 | Sustainability Report Establishment of the framework for construction activities Selection of the EPC contractor Beginning of the works Establishment of the framework for construction activities Prior to projecting the X-ELIO confirmation project, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is prepared with the assistance of a local external consultant. External local Local competent X-ELIO consultants authority on environment Definiton Potential impacts on the area’s Selection environment of the EPC Beginning of contractor the works Design of the Environmental Proposed Approval Impact Mitigating actions Statement This is a legal document in which the promoter (in this case, This document is then submitted to the local competent authority for approval. X-ELIO) identifies any potential effects of the facility on the Demands by the competent authority vary depending on certain legislation, area’s environment and proposes individualized mitigating and therefore, X-ELIO is always in full compliance with and respectful of the actions for each. environment and area biodiversity. One of the key effects of construction works executed by X-ELIO is related to land movement. Depending on the terrain, this phase of the project can be fairly intense. Still, we always try to avoid adding or removing soil overall. In other words, we balance the land, trying to flatten out the uneven terrain. In rare cases where excess of soil is unavoidable, it is taken to an authorized landfill site. Sustainability Report | 21 05 Our activity Selection of the EPC contractor Establishment of the framework for Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works ISO 9001 Issuance of Request ISO 14001 Establishment of the For OHSAS 18001 framework for Proposal to construction Beginning of activities contractors X-ELIO’s Selection the works that comply Compliance Code of the EPC and accept and Polices contractor As soon as all bids have been received, solely corresponding to suppliers successfully passing the double audit, X-ELIO contrasts them to decide which it considers most beneficial. In 2018, X-ELIO operated as an EPC contractor in the construction projects ongoing in Spain. Spanish team accumulates deep construction expertise and national market knowledge, both making it an optimal solution to reduce costs and ease risk control. No deviations neither risk were identified during the process. Beginning of the works Establishment of the framework for Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works Considering that legislation differs from X-ELIO designates a Project Manager and Thanks to the combined work one country to another, X-ELIO goes two site managers to oversee requirements performed by X-ELIO’s personnel and beyond regulatory stipulations in safety, established by the Company and the external consultants, weekly reports health, and environmental protection financing entity, such as deadlines, quality are prepared and sent to management matters during the whole project, by and safety standards, as well as the respect featuring comments from the building hiring external observers specializing in for the environment during execution of team on any of the more relevant events these three matters. the project. and project status. After this process has been completed, the grid connection represents the last step before the activities included in the Operation & Maintenance phase can start running. 22 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO as solar facility operator When the plant is connected to the grid and all its components are correctly functioning, X-ELIO starts its role as a facility operator. This phase covers all aspects and activities necessary to run the solar plant with the best performance outcomes. Over the first years of the plant’s life, the EPC contractor is responsible for its operation and maintenance, although X-ELIO continues to oversee the project. Maintenance tasks performed at a solar facility include: monitoring data and production output, cleaning mowing vegetation, visual inspections and services to correct any deviations. Monitoring and control tasks are performed remotely from the Control Centre located at X-ELIO’s Madrid headquarters. Regarding technical maintenance, 2018 represented a year of consolidation and development of several process improvements. The growing expertise is key to X-ELIO as its knowledge of the maintenance activities makes it a leading actor of the industry which boots the research and development together with its technical partners. The use of drones has been an area of research for X-ELIO over the years: after the creation of internal designs within the O&M area to cover the Company’s particular needs, in 2018 a new technology has been incorporated to the drones that allows the topographic survey. During 2018, robots which automatically clean off the layer of dust accumulated on panels have been in place in 2018 in Kuwait and will be extended to all plants. This robots use energy batteries so that they can work overnight. X-ELIO’s efforts on Research and Development The race for financing makes X-ELIO to find the ways to improve efficiency in its operations. The industry evolves towards new forms of use of radiation Several developments have taken place througout that allow a much higher gain than the one achieved so far. the years. As a result of this evolution, technical Bifacial panels achieve the incidence of radiation reflected in partners, academic institutions and facility providers the ground, so that energy production increases in the same collaborate with X-ELIO in the pursue of new radiation conditions. developments to boost the industry. Nowadays On the other hand, the installation of String inverters instead X-ELIO holds four operating laboratories where of power stations, as usual, has facilitated their installation technical partners work together in four different in the photovoltaic plant, as they do not require a crane to fields, applying X-ELIO expertise and partners’ transport them. technical skills. Sustainability Report | 23 05 Our activity The contribution of technology to X-ELIO’s business model The new paradigm based on increased competition for financing and prices during auctions is exerting a huge effect on the operation of X-ELIO’s plants, whose OPEX has dropped over X-ELIO collaborates with Madrid Polytechnic University in recent years to meet the desirable profitability thresholds. To meet these targets, X-ELIO aims the research and implementation of innovation in plants to perfect its tools for forecasting potential events and accurately controlling the daily activity characterization, remote control tools and predictive analysis of our plants. To this end, X-ELIO has implemented a number of different innovation projects which take advantage of data and IT applications enabling increasingly efficient operations and I/V curve plotters. and making it possible to predict outcomes. The maturity of the market is fostering the appetite for solar energy, demonstrated as the most efficient technology. In the short term, it will be necessary to provide clean energy all day, rather than solely during daylight hours. To meet this need, X-ELIO is preparing pilot projects in Puerto Rico for energy storage batteries designed to stabilize Batteries energy supply all day. In 2018, after two years immersed in the development of the project, X-ELIO has definitely launched Data Integrity Tool (DIT) to be used as a platform for integrating, storing, using, and reporting operating information. Thanks to the DIT, X-ELIO is able to issue periodic reports to management in a manner which is efficient and safe. The tool has been originally designed to be used by the Control Center but it has been well expanded to any area of the company DIT Regarding the predictive tools, it consists on a collaboration with a startup originated in one of the IES work groups of “Universidad Politécnica de Madrid”, with which X-ELIO’s IT team has been working for more than a year. The tool consists of the extraction of massive data from Control Center and further treatment of those datasets for predictive Predictive analysis. There are already 2 pilot plants in the system, with positive results and the aim for the next year is to have all the plants integrated in the platform. tools 24 | Sustainability Report Information security During 2018 several initiatives related to information security have been carried out, standing out among them the vulnerability audit, the periodic audit, the General Data Protection Regulation implementation and the standardization of communications requirements and plant infrastructure based on safe design. X-ELIO implemented the actions required by the new GDPR which promotes the proactivity of companies in terms of information privacy, establishing a monitoring committee on these matters Processes improvement and efficiency One of the main tasks of the IT department is to improve processes through the implementation of new business tools (normally software). Main fields of development in 2018 were: Document management: during 2018 a new commercial software was installed for the documentary management of the company. Thanks to that, project information is now homogeneously structured, centrally stored and globally available. As a result, information sharing is now faster both internally and externally. Project management: Project-related risk planning and management have been improved by the implementation of a new software. Travel & Expenses: A new application has been developed thanks to which a more complete monitoring of the travel expenses is feasible while eases management. Evolution of the SAP platform: A new functionality has been implemented that allows the calculation of real cash flows. Sustainability Report | 25 06 External dimension of our activity 6.1 X-ELIO’s effort to fight climate change XX-ELIO’s main objective is to provide homes and businesses with affordable electricity while tackling climate change issues with the promotion and development of renewable energy. The source for the generation of this energy is solar radiation, a non-polluting and unlimited resource, harvested in plants whose construction and operation has limited environmental impact. X-ELIO’s activities do not generate emissions or significant waste. Potential effects on biodiversity are foreseen and mitigated prior to construction. XX-ELIO’s business model contributes to leverage our activities to fight against climate change, which is critical in order to comply with the Paris Agreement and the 2020 Strategy designed to reduce emissions and to increase the proportion of renewable energy in the energy mix. Sustainability Report | 27 06 External dimension of our activity Energy efficiency: output and consumption X-ELIO operated during 2018 41 facilities, which produced a total of 721,429.80 MWh, with total consumption of 5.690,47 (less than 1% of production). This ratio is also known as energy intensity and demonstrates that solar energy is the most efficient and clean energy source. 2018 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 MW (KW) (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) Intensity ** Intensity Spain 62,026 99,693.399 107,203.740 1,257.906 1,303.185 0.013 0.012 Italy 22,350 9,916.909 39,454.281 234.453 695.070 0.024 0.018 United States 86,390 150,743.857 19,178.944 701.131 129.809 0.005 0.007 Peru 42,434 99,843.449 95,446.308 66.064 664.263 0.007 0.007 South Africa 30,967 62,144.186 62,703.040 740.290 748.553 0.012 0.012 Honduras 42,382 82,873.317 82,594.856 578.062 589.686 0.007 0.007 Japan 187,175.5 62,968.448 67,066.988 639.637 845.630 0.010 0.013 Chile 57,623.8 153,246.240 109,012.300 872.922 680.766 0.006 0.006 * It does not include not-owned plants were O&M Works are carried out. Generating capacity refers to year 2018 long, although 21 plants were divested ** Energy intensity = MW consumed/MW produced X-ELIO’s energy output in Spain in 2018 is equivalent to the total energy consumption of 18,500 persons in Spain over the full year 5. The total output of all X-ELIO plants around the world is equivalent to the energy consumed by 230,674 persons 6. Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh Spain average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 5 Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh World average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 6 28 | Sustainability Report Avoided emissions According to the International Energy Agency, global energy-related CO2 emissions grew by 1.7% in 2018 (33.1 gigatonnes). The increase in emissions was driven by higher energy consumption resulting from a robust global economy, as well as from weather conditions in some parts of the world that led to increased energy demand for heating and cooling. In this scenario, as two-thirds of the total greenhouse emissions are produced by the energy industry, the fight against climate change involves all the players in the sector in order to achieve long-term goals in our path to a sustainable future. As energy generation in X-ELIO produces no direct release of CO2 to the atmosphere, our activity is in itself a path to reduce greenhouse emissions. In total, the generation of 2,597,147.28 GJ of renewable energy in 2018 prevented the emission of 293,130 tons of CO2 as shown in the chart below: Avoided tons of CO2 Spain Italy United States Peru South Africa Honduras Japan Chile TOTAL 29,011 4,026 75,824 29,654 54,003 30,746 31,295 67,582 293,130 See: International Energy Agency http://www.iea.org/topics/climatechange/ 7 The Integrated Policy’s key objective is to Environmental management minimize the environmental impact caused by the Company’s activities, based on reduced The Company’s Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy represents our central framework consumption and waste. In addition, another determining the activities performed over all our stages, ranging from identifying potential projects to their maintenance and operation. This policy is widely implemented and encompasses activities performed in offices important goal is to regulate the performance and solar facilities. of activities in the most efficient way and to contribute to the fight against climate change, The Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental corporate area (QHSE) is in charge of overseeing compliance with regulatory framework requirements and provides technical assurance to adapt each project to the thereby protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, environmental standards. Besides, Project Managers detect the environmental demands inherent to each which could potentially be affected by the construction and project and design any necessary measures to mitigate potential impacts within the applicable national installation of the solar facilities. legislation framework. In 2018, X-ELIO achieved the renewal of the following certifications: UNE-EN ISO 9001:2015 (Quality management), UNEEN ISO 14001:2015 (Environment management) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Health and Safety management) with zero non-conformities. Thanks to compliance with the Integrated Policy and international standards, in 2018 X-ELIO did not face any Moreover audits were carried out in Xoxocotla Project (Mexico) following those three standards procedures penalty or monetary sanctions for environmental legislation or and the project was succesfully certified. An investment of €266,700 was allocated in 2018 for the conduction of 99 supervising and audit activities along the company. regulation breach. Sustainability Report | 29 06 External dimension of our activity In 2018, X-ELIO consumed the following materials, intended both for construction activities and office work: Construction in Japan Offices 2018: E-Waste reduction objective achieved Steel: Aggregates: Silicon: Aluminium: Paper: -5% than 6,531.51 tons 75,531.71 tons 459.18 tons 1,836.73 tons 0.86 tons 2017 Water consumption is mainly concentrated in the construction phase, when the roads need to be irrigated frequently in order to minimize dust inconvenience. In this context, water use during 2017 is distributed as follows: During the phase of O&M, X-ELIO tries to find and implement water saving schemes in order to minimize Construction Operations & Offices consumption, especially in countries 9,478.5 m3 15.12 m3 Maintenance that are affected by water scarcity, as 813.5 m3 demonstrated in the Kuwait project. 30 | Sustainability Report Forestry operations during the construction phase is the main source of waste for X-ELIO. In this sense, it is important to note that one of the most significant procedures contemplated in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is the action plan for the management of this impact. Thus, the management system includes guidelines to follow for production, segregation, tracking and measurement of the waste produced Forestry waste 2% In 2018, 2,899.19 tons of waste were 12,757.57 Part of the equipment installed in two generated from which only 0.50 were fewer tons of plants in Spain was renewed during hazardous (0.017%) and 1.79% corresponded 2018. to forestry waste. X-ELIO’s management is waste during The old components were collected, committed to continuous improvement and 2018 handled and processed by an sets specific goals around minimizing waste. authorized waste manager. 98% Non-hazardous waste Sustainability Report | 31 06 External dimension of our activity Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 X-ELIO avoids GHG emissions since its activity is the generation of clean energy. These emissions occur from This accounts for These are a sources that are owned or GHG emissions consequence of controlled by the Company derived from the the activities of the or emissions from chemical generation of Company, but occur production in owned purchased electricity from sources not or controlled process consumed by the owned or controlled equipment. Company. by the Company. Business trip, plane: 1,510.38 t CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Commute: 124.91 t CO2 0 2,608.2 1,679.05 Rent cars: t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 36.76 t CO2 Business trip, train: 6.99 t CO2 Furthermore, in order to help developed countries fulfill their commitments to reduce emissions and to assist developing countries in achieving sustainable development, the Kyoto Protocol defined the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). This mechanism represents the main source of income for the UNFCCC Adaptation Fund, established in 2001 to finance specific adaptation projects and programs in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. X-ELIO takes part in four solar facilities projects under CDM requirements located in Peru and South Africa. 32 | Sustainability Report Impact on the landscape and biodiversity Each and every X-ELIO project falls under the Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy During 2018, as part of construction process in Mexico, a 28 framework, which is the basis for all our activities. From the start of the construction of a new plant, its environmental hectare re-forestation programm was launched. impact is individually managed based on the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The EIS is a diagnostic and mitigation document in which X-ELIO identifies any potential effects that its projects may have on the environment. Mexican law NOM059SEMARNAT identifies edangered The document serves as a plan that includes diverse mechanisms to tackle those impacts, with an integral approach, both preventive and corrective. species that were not affected by these construction works. The impact of a photovoltaic generation plant on a plant’s surroundings varies greatly depending on the location. In certain cases, such as Fukuroda, installations are not visible thanks to previously-conducted land studies designed to completely block their visibility. In general, the most likely impacts arising from the construction and implementation of plants are: . Selection of locations with reduced visibility Impact on surroundings . Integration of photovoltaic installations in surroundings based on re-vegetation of plant limits . Control of particles and dust through land watering Noise and dust generation . Organizing the use of heavy machinery during the daytime to reduce inconveniences Soil impact . Conservation and subsequent use of top soil during land movement and hydration .C  onservation measures involving natural soil draining and work during periods of intense rainfall to reduce sediment conditions dragging and erosio . Select locations in areas with low biological value to reduce the impact on protected species or those of special interest Impact on flora . Reforestation and monitoring fauna based on local administration guidelines and fauna . Establish an open dialogue with the local community at all development locations Social and archaeological . Preparation of social studies in necessary areas impact . Background studies to verify the existence of archaeological remains Sustainability Report | 33 06 External dimension of our activity 6.2 Generation of value for local communities XX-ELIO operates in some developing countries and we are committed to their development and improvement. One of the ways to do so is through direct and indirect employment resulting from local procurement practices that are guided by the strict principles established by our Code of Ethics and Conduct, ensuring responsibility and integrity in our value chain. 132.6M€ 32.2M€ 279M€ 90% 2 Economic Value Taxes paid Invested in Local New initiatives with Generated local providers Employees local communities 34 | Sustainability Report In addition to being a signatory to the Global Compact, X-ELIO exercises direct control over our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals and complies with the Equator Principles in a large number of our projects, as we are mainly financed by financial entities that are members of the World Bank. In this triple way, we control our social and environmental risks, as well as promotes the socioeconomic well-being within its area of influence, both internally and externally. Sustainable Development Goals Global Compact Principles Initiatives implemented by X-ELIO 3 – Good health and well-being Healthy X-ELIO 5 – Gender equality 20% female directors Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Signatory to the Global Compact Effective abolition of child labor Signatory to the Global Compact 8 – Decent work and economic growth Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Code of Ethics and Conduct 10 – Reduced inequalities Rights recognition and protection Respect of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Acceptance of any initiative undertaken by employees in this area Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) 7 – Affordable and clean energy Encouragement of initiatives to promote greater environmental 13 – Climate change Generation of clean energy as business model responsibility Generation of clean energy as business model 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Dry cleaning technology in Kuwait Anti-corruption policy Fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Reputational Screening Process 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions Protection of Human Rights in the organization Code of Ethics and Conduct Protection of Human Rights among providers Providers signatories to the Global Compact Sustainability Report | 35 06 External dimension of our activity T The Equator Principles constitute a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions to ensure a responsible management of the Project Finance, which is the main financing formula used by X-ELIO for our projects. Currently, 92 financial entities of 32 different nationalities have adopted the principles, used for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk associated to potential financed projects and therefore, to the operations that X-ELIO implements. The Equator Principles Application The financial institution will, as part of its internal environmental and social review and due diligence, categorize it based on the magnitude Review and categorization of projects of its potential environmental and social risks and impacts. The financial institution will require the client to conduct an assessment process to address, to the financial institution’s satisfaction, the Environmental and Social Assessment relevant environmental and social risks and impacts of the proposed project (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). Applicable Environmental and Social Standards The financial institution will require that the assessment process evaluates compliance with the applicable national Standards. Environmental and Social Management System An Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be prepared by the client to address issues raised in the assessment process and and Equator Principles Action Plan incorporate actions required to comply with the applicable standards (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). The financial institution will require the client to demonstrate effective Stakeholder Engagement as an ongoing process in a structured and Stakeholder Engagement culturally appropriate manner with Affected communities and, where relevant, other stakeholders. The EPFI will require the client, as part of the ESMS, to establish a grievance mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of Grievance Mechanism concerns and grievances about the project’s environmental and social performance (for example, X-ELIO’s Whistleblower Channel). Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the hiring of external consultants for the documentary Independent Review review (X-ELIO hires for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). For all projects, the client will covenant in the financing documentation to comply with all relevant host country environmental and social Covenants laws, regulations and permits in all material respects. Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant, or require that the client retain qualified and experienced external experts to verify its monitoring information which Independent Monitoring and Reporting would be shared with the financial institution (X-ELIO hire for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). Reporting and Transparency The financial institution will require a periodic report of the Environmental Impact evaluation. 36 | Sustainability Report Proactive dialogue with communities FX-ELIO aims to be close to all our stakeholders (shareholders, employees, contractors, public Requirements derived from the Equator Principles administration, electricity companies, consumers, financial institutions and local community) by informing on its current activity, projects and future plans. To that purpose X-ELIO has stablished several communication channels such as the website, the annual report and the Dialogue and active listening to the local community whistleblower channel. National Laws Evaluation of socio-economic impact Local communities From the early stages of any project, X-ELIO considers and incorporates economic, social and environmental impacts depending on the location and characteristics of each eventuality. The mechanisms needed to monitor, control and mitigate impacts vary depending on the country regulations where the project is being developed or if the financing entity is a signatory to the Equator Principles. In general terms, all procedures should follow the provisions established in the Environmental Impact Statement, the requirements of financial entities and the obligations derived from the energy plans of each country and/or the different mechanisms established by local regulations. Beyond the above-explained structure, X-ELIO carries out consultation procedures with the local community, through which its members, both institutional and individuals, have the opportunity to be duly informed and participate in the decision-making process. Thanks to the meetings held, X-ELIO can identify the needs and demands of community members near the plants. In this way, X-ELIO designs and executes long-term development and engagement programs that can respond to the concerns of the community. Sustainability Report | 37 06 External dimension of our activity Social projects H Helping the development of the indigenous communities where X-Elio is present is one of its intentions. To this end, it currently has projects in different parts of the world, such as South Africa and Mexico Mulilo Bursary Program developed by X-ELIO in the surrounding areas of South African projects was provided in 2018 with more than 200,000 euros and works in the following South fields of action: Africa Opportunity creation for students from disadvantaged backgrounds to access tertiary education by providing funding, career guidance and holistic support to students whilst studying. Young talent in sports and recreation development through giving young people the opportunity to participate in higher professional bodies. 97 students have benefitted from this program in 2018, whose fields of study include disciplines such as maths, science or law, among others. Mulilo ECD Practitioner Skills Development focuses on providing a qualification to practitioners at an entry level. This qualification will provide means to give recognition to practitioners at an entry level, thus making it possible for practitioners to increase their employment prospects, and at the same time provide the field with suitably qualified practitioners. Beyond education, sports and childhood development, X-ELIO supports small business development in the community and woman empowerment. Mulilo SMME Accounting Service Assistance provides accounting services to 15 small entrepreneurial projects driven by Prieska residents. Mulilo Empowerment of 100% Black Women Owned Small Business focuses on empowering back women to start their own businesses. 38 | Sustainability Report More tan 500 cubic meters of wood were donated during 2018 to Guanajato community. Grubbing and cleaning process were conducted in a certain way that ensured that forestry waste would be after that used by locals. Mexico X-ELIO helped the Clavelinas community to purchase construction materials for the construction of a new conference hall. This facility will be used by all members of Clavelinas community. Opening ceremony of two plants was carried out with the presence of X-ELIO’s CEO, the mayor of the city and all business partners involved in the project. Japan In the framework of the Zao project, X-ELIO carried out two different social actions. Firsly, sponsored the football team Vegalta and secondly, donated school materials for children of the surrounding area. At Madrid headquarters, a raffle was held to distribute gifts received by the employees, who can not accept them following the provisions of the Compliance policy. All the recipients donated their gifts and, among themselves, bet for them in auction. Spain X-ELIO donated as a Company, the same amount gathered among workers and the collected money was transferred to the NGO Aldeas Infantiles. Thanks to this activity three objectives were met: local community development, poverty eradication, quality training and Anti-Bribery. Sustainability Report | 39 06 External dimension of our activity Local Employment In the execution of our projects, X-ELIO gives priority to materials, services and employment sourced from the local community. The main supplier of services is the contractor that hires and trains local personnel, supervised by X-ELIO staff. In summary, at all stages of the construction lifecycle and the operation and maintenance activity of a solar plant, local employees are hired and play a relevant role in X-ELIO’s business activity. In addition to the personnel working on the solar facility, the proportion of national employees in offices is of 89%. Total suppliers Local suppliers % Local Suppliers expenditure * expenditure ** Chile 2,149 2,149 100% Spain 87,411 26,288 30% ** Colombia 66 66 100% Italy 1,437 1,437 100% South Africa 1,674 1,674 100% Japan 70,778 70,778 100% Honduras 455 455 100% Mexico 160,192 160,192 100% EEUU 15,040 15,040 100% Peru 34 34 100% Australia 1,019 924 100% Argentina 112 112 100% TOTAL 340,367 279,244 * Thousand Euros ** The largest supply item for X-ELIO is solar panels, whose management and billing is centralized in Spain. 40 | Sustainability Report Economic and tax contribution X-ELIO contributes directly to the economy through the payment of salaries and wages, the Total tax contribution summed up to 32,2 million euros, distributed as follows: contracting of suppliers and the payment of tax obligations in all countries where we operate. Since the establishment of our presence in a country, X-ELIO is already adding value to the local communities and contributing to their growth and development. In this context, one of 2018 * the most important contributions is the payment of taxes directly to the local administration upon start of operations. Spain 21,358,539 The trend towards the maturity of the sector has implied a double effect: the application of Argentina 47,612 technology to operate with greater efficiency and, consequently, the competitiveness increase of solar energy without access to public support or subsidies. X-ELIO is, therefore, financed Costa Rica 362 without accessing government incentives, leaving those amounts to be used for other public needs. Chile 502,626 Australia 37,356 2017 * 2018 * USA 3,001,407 Economic Value Generated Colombia 13,498 Turnover 120,134 126,910 Honduras 18,368 Financial income 1,604 2,021 Italy 6,413 Other income 6,965 3,654 Mexico 1,297,951 TOTAL 128,703 132,585 Kuwait 146,255 Economic Value Distributed Japan 3,079,581 CAPEX 164,883 288,922 South Africa 2,726,310 Payment to capital providers 45,73 62,840 Puerto Rico 3,220 Taxes 15,392 32,241 Personnel 10,859 12,988 Perú 1,817 TOTAL 299,758 396,991 * Euros Economic Value Retained TOTAL 30,264 29,357 * Thousand Euros Sustainability Report | 41 07 Internal dimension of our activity 7.1 People and Culture 2018 has been a truly transformational year for our Human Resources activity. To start with, the function has been reshaped and rebranded to People and Culture (P&C). The new P&C function entails a new, more strategic approach to the human dimension in the organization, that places people at center stage. The leader that joined the organization, the Chief People Officer, entered the Leadership Team, that is formed by the top 5 executives of the organization to align and support the business objective of scaling up the organization to become a 5.3 GW key global solar PV platform. In this context of growth, X-ELIO understands corporate culture as the backbone of the organizational development in order to successfully meet the strategic objectives. First task to face this new challenge was listening our workforce’s voice. This drove to a consultation that gave a valuable input to P&C team on which areas people asses as most important, and therefore, where to work the hardest. According to these results, X-ELIO’s P&C team designed the new strategy based on three critical pillars to maximize value through People and Culture capabilities. A After talks among all areas of activity, X-ELIO concluded that people value the most the double concept of ownership and flexibility. Facing new professional responsibilities while having the flexibility to keep a good profesional and personal life balance. STRONG CULTURE DIGITALIZATION STRIVE FOR BEST GLOBAL TEAMS Improved internal communications Efforts in 2018 mainly on HRIS System and Reinvigorated local commercial engine collective intelligence mining system in key geographies Deployed individual objectives and KPIs. Provided managers with data for better, Reinforced teams by injecting new Provide leaders with full P&L data based decision making talent from diverse backgrounds to accountability and visibility home-grown talented teams Accelerated processes and decision Provided individuals and teams with making Promoted best performers tools for better self management Increased transparency and participation Focus today: PPAs, people management Upgraded middle manager’s people at all levels and ability to execute globally. skills Focus tomorrow: storage, digitalization of asset management, energy trading Sustainability Report | 43 07 Internal dimension of our activity People & Culture values O One of the most important levers of growth for X-ELIO is the attraction and retention of the best talent as the only way to become a reference in the solar energy market. In order to be an attractive Company for the most qualified professionals and to build a shared corporate culture, X-ELIO bases its activity on five values that base the day-to-day activities: Excellence Commitment Integrity Diversity and teamwork Innovation In 2018, People During 2018 several X-ELIO is a During 2018 Research & New strategy is & Culture team online training global company Development activities based in employee’s undertook a programs have that succeeds have been carried out in ownership as consultation with been provided to worlwide thanks four laboratories. Each cornerstone. the workforce in employees. These to the talent of its of them investigates This approach, order to drive its programas went diverse workforce: particular technologies together with high activity towards through topics such nearly 40% of that will be implemented in performance rates shared demands like anti-bribery workers are based the Company’s activities. has led to higher and requests. and corruption in international Innovation is also visible accountability and and antitrust operations and beyond technology and responsabilities for competition laws. 60% in Madrid shows in P&C aspects too. our people. headquarters. As an example we have been piloting innovative flex time options from which we can pick and choose depending on our particular needs 44 | Sustainability Report Workforce distribution The staff of X-ELIO is composed of 200 professionals from around the world: 122 men and 65 women. At the end of 2018, the staff was distributed as follows: Average age is 40 years: 138 Spain 78 47 EEUU Puerto Rico Taiwan 25 24 Honduras 30 years old 30 50 50 years Chile 1 or younger years old old or older Peru Australia Distribution of type of Ku wait worker is described as follows: SoutAfrica Mexico ltaly Japan ■ Male ■ Female Sustainability Report | 45 07 Internal dimension of our activity Career Plan at X-ELIO X-ELIO is essentially a global Company that works to offer both career opportunities and benefits to talented people forming it. Opportunites are mainly translated into growing responsabilities, Life, accident and inability Meal Extra vacation Sick and parental leave Allowances days promotions, quality employment and accountability; benefits are undestood as the means to balance insurance complement both, profesional and personal lifes such as flexiblity, training and internal communication among others. Driven by these values, X-ELIO shows great figures on promotions and quality employment. During Transport Retirement Plan Flexible Nursery 2018, 18 people were promoted, 168 out of the 187 total collaborators (90%) have indefinite contracts Allowances and Pension Remuneration Transport Company car Funds Plan Healthcare and 176 (94%) full time contracts. Working abroad As X-ELIO has deployed operations in 10 countries, a fully diverse team has been made up of local staff and employees from corporate headquarters. Among those based out of headquarters, there are two mobility systems within the Company depending on the length of their stay. To promote international mobility and knowledge sharing, Bubble assignments were piloted in 2018. It consists of a secondment experience for selected employees to have the opportunity to develop Ownership and flexibility certain projects at any other country different to their nationality. This is a way to share best practices, boost international experience and In the effort to reinforce meritocracy and recognize extraordinary performance, X-ELIO has assigned ease growth opportunities while enhancing the corporate culture and key performance indicators to all of the employees as part of their performance assesment. This clarifies belonging feeling. expectations of performance and allows people to understand how their contributions align to the company’s overall results. This, together with growing accountability for all employees and better information sharing reinforces the employee ownership as a key value driver. The compensation system derived of this, values the effort of the team through the distribution of a variable complement. The Company has developed a policy that serves to set the objectives and components of this bonus which is applicable to employees of X-ELIO, depending on their level and In 2018 Flex Time project has been launched as a pilot aiming to responsibility. ease collaborators‘ conciliation. Flex time offers the opportunity to customize working hours so that entry and exit times may vary within X-ELIO works to offer its employees the right conditions for growth both, personally and professionally. 5 hours according to each collaborator’s needs, who can even get one For this reason, it studies the particular needs of each work unit, derived among other things from the Friday off a month. local market practices and makes available to the staff a series of perks and benefits that complement their monetary compensation. 46 | Sustainability Report Training and knowledge sharing To attract, empower and retain the best talent, it is necessary to establish solid motivation channels. For this reason, the training is a vehicle of double benefit: on the one hand it builds competitive advantage for the Company, on the other, it creates an attractive value proposition. During 2018 X-ELIO has provided training in a wide range of fields at most levels in the Company. In 2018, a total of 2,500 hours of training were taught in the fields of languages, financial products, local project development, leadership, Compliance, ISO 45001 and occupational risk prevention amongst others, which means that, in average, every employee has received 13.40 training hours. A special mention needs to be done to knowledge sharing by means of our Brown Bag sessions through wich our people share their expertise in particular areas such us excel, financing and project development best practices amongst many other topics. Diversity and Equality X-ELIO considers the creation of equal opportunities for all its employees, current and potential, of paramount importance. In the area of gender equality, in 2018 a woman has entered the senior leadership team and two female have become as well country managers (out of a group of 6 country managers overall).XELIO strives to support and accompany employees along all of the stages of their lives, trying whenever possible to accommodate their life circumstances. Proportion of local employees As a tool for functional knowledge sharing, the 16 out of 20 (80%) new initiative Brown Bag Sessions was launched area directors are in 2018. They consist of informative, formative hired from the local and voluntarily taught sessions by one of X-ELIO’s community members to all colleagues interested in attending it. The aim of the initiative is to share the particular topics expertise some of the workers have due to their career or academic background. Sustainability Report | 47 07 Internal dimension of our activity Freedom of association and collective bargaining Throughout its years of activity, X-ELIO has promoted the freedom of association among its employees. For the moment there has been no formalization of works committees, neither in offices nor among maintenance personnel. Employee Handbooks are made available to workers, functioning as a guide that lists the working conditions for each position and containing behavioral guidelines adapted to the local context and legal requirements. It also indicates the rights and duties of employees. Internal Communication In 2018, X-ELIO undertook an internal consultation within the Company under the name “#everyone matters”. As a conclussion, Internal Communication arised as a material topic for all employees and a strategy was designed in accordance to that purpose. The aim is to improve communications from top to bottom and bottom-up, within departments and community management. 1 annual Breakfasts and Christmas lunch Brown Bag X-ELIO believes that a strong internal communication system improves the performance from meeting roundtables Sessions Headquarters to country offices, boost the expertise and belonging felling, aligns employees with the with leader strategy and creates a better working environment. Internal communication makes a positive effect in efficiency, which generates greater opportunities of investment, in savings, creativity, innovation, development and differentiation in the markets. The internal communication system includes not only communication channels but activities that gather team members and allow constructive conversations among them. Presence in Quarterly Visits to plants social media newsletter Within the different activities performed in order to improve internal communication the following eight stand out. X-ELIO’s Annual meeting Since 2011, X-ELIO has been organizing the “Leadership Annual Meeting”, a space where all members of the organization have been presented with first-hand knowledge about the results of the previous year, the current situation and future goals of the organization. This meeting works as an internal communication tool that fosters engagement and open dialogue to make a stronger and more efficient X-ELIO. Professionals from all X-ELIO offices in the world attended the 2018 event. Ten working teams gathered professionals belonging to all activity áreas with the aim of finding solutions to the current strategic matters of the Company. 48 | Sustainability Report Healthy X-ELIO One of the key elements among engagement activities Pillars of Healthy X-ELIO is “Healthy X-ELIO: 12 months, 12 changes” program. It is intended for all of its employees with the objectives of addressing matters related to healthy lifestyles and as a guide for good habits. It was launched in 2017 and during 2018 it continued to be very well valued by team members. The fundamental pillar of the program during the year 2017 was nutrition, while in 2018 it was focused on mental well-being, in addition to initiating activities related to sports and physical activity. Employees are asked to share their opinions and Mental desires on how to develop further the program. Nutrition Sports Thanks to their insights, Healthy X-ELIO continues to well-being grow in parallel to employees’ wellbeing and needs. During 2018 several activities have been developed, such as the fruit day, which has just been implemented in all the offices, as well as discounts in daily menus. Those have been designed according to several The goal for 2019 is to expand the pilot program and start daily diet options and may be completed with dinner package so that balanced diet goes beyond office to developing it in all offices so that it reaches 100% of X-ELIO home. employees, so it will be necessary to adapt it to different countries and cultures. X-ELIO has also participated in sports activities, such as popular races and marathons, such as the Rock and Roll marathon or the Women’s Race. Several mindfulness talks have also been given, with both practical and theoretical sessions. Sustainability Report | 49 07 Internal dimension of our activity Health and Safety The Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy is the general framework that determines the Company’s activities in all its phases: from the selection of projects to be The main objectives of the policy are to promote developed, through the construction phase, to the operation and maintenance. the training and awareness of employees for The Integrated Policy has a wide field of application that covers all activities related to the the efficient performance of their duties and to design, construction and commissioning of photovoltaic solar power facilities. The corporate comply with legal and regulatory requirements, area of Quality, Safety and Health and Environment monitors the compliance with the requirements of the framework regulations and provides technical advice to adjust each as well as all commitments voluntarily signed by project to the necessary standards and requirements. X-ELIO on Health and Safety. Furthermore, each country delegation of X-ELIO has autonomy for the application of the Integrated Policy, which will be adapted to the current local regulations, as well as to the phases of development of each project. In 2018 X-ELIO achieved the renewal of the Occupational Safety and Health Certification (OHSAS 18001:2007) with zero non-conformities. Xoxocotla installation was certified as well under this standard for first during 2018. For the year ahead, X-ELIO will adapt its Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy to certify under the new standard ISO 45001. Moreover, to achieve the objective of zero accidents, X-ELIO believes that a strong training program is key. To this purpose, the Company has developed a procedure for all new employees that include informative dossiers on occupational risk prevention with on-line training courses to prevent commuting accidents and security in different areas of the world, among others. In addition, the Company values the enrollment of the worker in other trainings deemed necessary for the safe performance of their Work. In 018 two defibrilators were installed in Madrid headquarters and part of the team was trained to use them. Those workers are now included in the emergency team. The area of Health and Corporate Safety, based in Madrid, is responsible for selecting the Health and Safety Coordinator. In addition, it is in charge of monitoring the correct development of the coordinator’s work, in line with the Health and Safety Plan created for each project. In matters of Health and Safety, as well as in all those related to the environment, X-ELIO goes beyond the simple compliance with the legal requirements. Accordingly, the Company hires an X-ELIO has various mechanisms to promote the health of its independent external consultant on employees and prevent occupational risks. Hence, the Company Occupational Safety during the development of the work. The Company staff supervises the identifies and evaluates the risks associated with its activity contractor compliance on safety matters and, at the same time, an external auditor oversees the and establishes adequate preventive and corrective measures. work being carried out during the construction phase. In addition, X-ELIO complies with the European regulations on Also, when an accident occurs during work execution, the procedure requires immediate direct Personal Protective Equipment and has specific procedures for its communication with the Health and Safety areas and due notification to all concerned parties. correct use. 50 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO has outsourced its Employee Health Prevention Service which is responsible for assessment of the scale and nature of risks related to the safety and health of workers, as well as proposing the Year 2017 2018 necessary control measures to reduce or eliminate them. From this evaluation, the conclusion was Incidence Index 0.42 0.2 that at current time, positions at X-ELIO do not carry significant risks in terms of occupational safety. Frequency Index 1.78 0 During 2018, X-ELIO achieved a reduction in incidence index to half the proportion registered in 2017. Furthermore, frequency and severity indexes have dropeed to zero during 2018. Severity Index 0.05 0 Safety abroad X-ELIO, operates globally and is committed to provide a safe work environment to all of their employees, in order to achieve this goal in areas of the world where there are higher security threats, XELIO collaborates with a specialized service provider that delivers permanent advice on the subject. Some of those services include: Permanent country security risks Security advisory in high-risk locations, including among others, the following services: The security consultant supports advisory consisting on information X-ELIO on specific crisis on the characteristics and security management and resolution level of the destination before travel. + Risk analysis of cases, either from an operational This data is updated on a daily + Security escort + Security Audits + Staff training or informational perspective. relevant locations basis through the monitoring and intelligence research made by the provider. + Development of security + Monitoring of the local + Employee’s protocols security situation geolocation Sustainability Report | 51 07 Internal dimension of our activity 7.2 Compliance XX-ELIO is committed to meeting the highest standards of integrity and to ensure ethical business conduct. As a result of this commitment, a comprehensive Compliance Program has been implemented at all levels in the organization. In fact, efforts are geared towards ensuring that the entire Company and business partners share the same ethical corporate culture. The Program encompasses the Compliance Committee and the Code of Ethics and Conduct under which, thus far, three policies set the framework of the Company’s activities. Compliance Program Body Tools Code of Ethics and Conduct: Compliance It reflects X-ELIO’s commitment to ethics, integrity, and compliance with legislation, and establishes the behavior Committee which should guide Company employees, as well as its relationships with clients, suppliers, agents, distributors, and external collaborators. It is accessible through website. T The Compliance Committee is the internal team in charge of fostering Company values and ethical conduct, as well as supervising, monitoring, communicating, disseminating and overseeing these Compliance policies. Its composition is diverse, allowing the Anti-corruption Policy Trade Sanctions Policy Antitrust Code participation of the following members: Chief Establish Zero-Tolerance policies Avoids irregular conduct and establishes Prohibits conduct which hinders free and Financial Officer, General Counsel and Human for bribery, kick-backs, facilitation mechanisms so that X-ELIO minimizes the open competition, such as price-setting, Resources Director with the support of the payments and any other form of risk of contracting with blocked persons manipulating bids, assigning clients or legal department, which has delegated a Legal corruption. It is accessible through or countries. It is accessible through markets or the exchange of sensitive Counsel acting as a Compliance Manager. website. website. information. It is accessible through website. The Sponsorship and Donations procedure has been designed during 2018 under the Anti-corruption Policy. It sets the framework which ensures that theses voluntary payments do not entail any risk of corruption. 52 | Sustainability Report The Committee maintains continuous and fluid contact with its KKR counterpart, thereby fostering a perfect alignment with the most demanding standards imposed by US practice and those in charge of their implementation in X-ELIO. T The main vehicle by which X-ELIO regulates its commitment to ethics, integrity and legislative compliance are the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Policies on Anti-Corruption, Trade Sanctions and Anti-Trust, which are complemented with specific procedures. The Compliance Program serves as a guideline for the personnel’s behavior in the execution of their functions. The Company has also created a whistleblowing channel through which doubts or infringements of the Company’s Compliance Program may be communicated. The hotline is open to the public and during 2018 one external complaint was received and succesfully solved. Risk management X-ELIO has established the three lines of defense model to identify and manage risk. Both business areas and corporate departments act as observers of the Company’s day-to-day activities and may detect any action or activity that A new proceeding has been represents a potential risk. Beyond this, the Compliance Area together with implemented during 2018 under the Legal Department, play a key role as a line of defense, implementing and the anti-corruption policy which monitoring the above-mentioned policies. ensures that Sponsorship and X-ELIO conducted in 2018 a Risk Assessment process to allow the identification Donations do not entail any of potential Company corruption risks and developing the correct prevention Compliance Risk. process for criminal offenses. The specialized provider developed a risk assessment methodology which comprised first af all an analysis of the inherent bribery and corruption risks of X-ELIO and key subsidiaries within the Group; an analysis of the effectiveness of existing anti-bribery and corruption (“ABC”) controls; and lastly calculation of residual bribery and corruption risks. Sustainability Report | 53 07 Internal dimension of our activity Third-party reputational risks X-ELIO has designed an anti-corruption tool it applies to all the individuals or corporate entities with which it enters into agreements in order to mitigate Compliance and reputational risks. The process is divided in two phases: Reputational Screening Process Research into an online database is With the assistance of a specialized 1 conducted to facilitate all detailed 2 consultancy firm, reputational due public information associated to diligence is conducted. the companies and individuals involved in the contract. D During 2018 were conducted several Third Party Due Diligence processes through the tolos World Check One and TDI Reports. No third party risk was materialised during the year. 54 | Sustainability Report Operational risks Although there are no significant risks inherent to the development of X-ELIO’s activities, beyond those derived from the construction of the plants, risks related to Compliance and Ethics matters may arise, which are mitigated by the Compliance Program and the supervision of the Legal Department. Moreover, the execution of projects encompasses a series of factors that can lead to risks that are not foreseen and therefore, cannot be neutralized in advance. These risks are related to legal, financial, environmental and occupational safety matters. Legal Risks Environmental risks Occupational safety Financial risks risks Legislative instability can lead to The negative impacts on Fluctuations in the price involuntary non-compliance with the the environment derived The inherent risks of the of raw materials and regulations if they are not previously from construction work. construction industry. exchange rates. planned. X-ELIO assumes the risks of changes in The drafting and approval The same collaboration X-ELIO signs collaboration regulations that may affect work execution of the Environmental Impact agreements with the EPC agreements with the EPC plans such as the Environmental Impact Statement is in itself the contractor that mitigate contractor through which it is Statement or the safety and prevention plan. process of identifying the financial risk, include protected against this type of For this reason, the Company has a powerful and mitigating risks to the responsibility clauses for the situation, which is assumed in legal team that monitors these possible environment. For all the EPC contractor on the safety its entirety by the construction changes and foresees the different ways markets where X-ELIO of its workforce. company. that X-ELIO can face them. operates and deems it necessary, an insurance policy against natural disasters has been contracted. Sustainability Report | 55 07 Internal dimension of our activity 7.3 Corporate Governance XX-ELIO has adapted its governance structure and standards to the strictest international ethical and anti-corruption standards. To ensure compliance with commitments agreed upon with the shareholders and general good governance standards, X-ELIO has designated the appropriate bodies and tools that form the Company’s Good Governance System. Good Governance System Governing bodies Tools The Compliance Program is the cornerstone of this system and is embedded Board of General Compliance in all operations and Directors Meetings Program processes carried out by X-ELIO. Accordingly, the governing bodies are committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical business conduct Code of Ethics and promoted by the Code of Conduct Ethics and Conduct. Policies Procedures 56 | Sustainability Report Governing bodies and decision-making X-ELIO’s two main governing bodies are the Shareholders’ General Meeting and the Board of Directors, in charge of managing the most relevant business decisions or delegating their execution to specific employees and/or advisors. In general, the Board of Directors’ key functions are to foster interest in the Company and manage the smooth flow of business activities and commercial opportunities. Board composition Juan María Riberas Mera Jorge Barredo Chairman and Board member CEO and Board member Representation Gestamp 20% KKR Tara Davis Vincent Policard 80% Board member Board member Oleg Shamovsky Jaime de la Serna Gould Board member Secretary Non-Board member Sustainability Report | 57 07 Internal dimension of our activity Due to its business model, X-ELIO’s corporate transactions are capital intensive and the majority of corporate activities require special powers, which are beyond the responsibilities of the area’s heads, hence the Board approval is needed. During 2018, the Board of Directors met 28 times and approved significant decisions such as the purchase of the US Lily Facility the acquisition of Nobojoa project in Japan and the launch of PPA with Nexus. In 2018, Mr. Guido Lucio Mitrani resigned as Board member and was replaced by Mr. Vincent Policard. The shareholders appoint the Board members. Moreover in 2018, Board Members did not receive any retribution for their attendance to Board meetings and no performance evaluations were carried out. Shareholders’ General Meetings Among many other responsibilities, Shareholders’ General Meetings are in charge of controlling and monitoring the overall management of the Company and making decisions related to the increase or reduction of shared capital. Furthermore, when the Board cannot approve due to strategic or price circumstances, the final decision on investment agreements needs to be approved within a General Meeting. A minimum of one General Meeting per year is mandatory, although the Shareholders held five General Meetings in 2018. Some of the main resolutions approved were the divestments applied to non-core assets in Japan and capital contributions made by the shareholders. Due to its nature and characteristics, X-ELIO has not formally established an Audit Committee or Management. In order to ensure correct communication between functional areas, a series of meetings and de facto committees are held, permitting to reach a consensus on activities and developing specific action plans. Conflict of interest management The Corporations Law, as amended by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of June, is the main legal body regulating the structure and functioning of companies in Spain. This regulation stipulates, as a general rule, that members may not exercise the right to vote corresponding to their shares when there are certain types of the conflict of interest. At X-ELIO, we apply this legislation to our activity. Attornery powers Jorge Barredo, as CEO has broad powers of attorney in the Company. Apart from Jorge Barredo, also the CFO, COO, General Counsel, Head of Accounting and Administration and the Chief People Officer have limited power of attorney within their scope of funtions. 58 | Sustainability Report A1 Materiality A1 Annex 1: Materiality I In order to prepare this Sustainability Report, X-ELIO developed an update of its materiality analysis of 2018 involving internal stakeholders and documents produced by industry leaders and opinion makers. This analysis updates the research conducted in previous years and identifies the key issues in which the Company’s strategy must be based on. Once those 14 material issues were prioritized, they were categorized according to the relevant dimension: external, internal and contextual. High Relevance Critical relevance The materiality matrix underpinning the content of this report was created in two stages: 7 Analysis of the state of the solar energy sector, through examination of 1 1 relevant documents, future trends and peers’ reporting information and methods. These initial steps are intended to flag relevant issues that are 8 External relevance already affecting the sector in which X-ELIO conducts its operations. 9 5 4 32 22 sources of information were screened and a full-year press 10 analysis was conducted 12 11 The outcome of this stage was the identification of 27 topics 13 6 14 These initial issues were then prioritized internally according to their 2 impact on X-ELIO’s business activity. Internal relevance 19 employees from middle and top management answered the questionnaire The outcome of this stage was the prioritization of 14 material issues 60 | Sustainability Report Item Dimension Issue Content of the report 1 External Climate change and carbon footprint 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change Company’s Compliance Programe and 2 Internal & Contextual 7.2 Compliance Regulatory compliance 3. Business environment 3 Contextual Regulatory Framework 7.2 Compliance 4 External Technology and digitalization 5. Our activity People’s education on renewable 5 External 5. Our activity energies 6 Internal Good Governance 7.3 Corporate Governance Local community impact, dialogue and 6.2 Generation of value for local 7 External collaboration communities 8 External Environment impact and management 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change 9 Internal Ethics, Antibribery, Integrity 7.2 Compliance 10 Internal Risk management 7.2 Compliance 11 Internal Stakeholders 7.2 Compliance 12 External Preserving biodiversity and landscape 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change 13 Internal Health and Safety 7.1 People & Culture 14 External Diversity and equality 7.1 Human Resources Sustainability Report | 61 A11 About this report TThis is now X-ELIO’s third Sustainability Report, providing key information on the Company’s results and performance on matters relating to sustainability from a financial, social and environmental standpoint. This Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with prevailing reporting requirements and practices, following the new standards contained in the guidelines on preparing integrated reports of the Global Reporting Initiative. Coverage and scope: for the second time in 2018, the report follows the new standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) released in 1 the year. The report covers the period running from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and covers the business activities of the different companies that compose X-ELIO and is presented in accordance with the consolidation principles applied in the financial statements. Any departures from the scope and coverage of the information are duly noted under the corresponding section of the report. Likewise, any changes to the formulas used to calculate the data included in the report have been duly reported. Materiality: the information contained in the report has been obtained from a materiality assessment of the Group and no material content has 2 been deliberately omitted. The materiality of the content of this report has been determined from the in-house and external consultation process described under “Materiality Annex”. All relevant material aspects have been analyzed to identify how they relate to the specific content and indicators included in the new GRI Standards. X-ELIO has selected those disclosures that truly respond to the interests of stakeholders and its own strategy. Sustainability Report | 63 A11 Annex 11: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organization profile 102-1 Name of the organization Our activity 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our activity 102-3 Location of headquarters Our activity 102-4 Location of operations Our activity 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 102-6 Markets served Our activity 102-7 Scale of the organization Executive summary 102-8 Information on employees and other workers People & Culture 102-9 Supply chain Our activity 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain About this report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Compliance 102-12 External initiatives Generation of value for local communities 102-13 Membership of associations Generation of value for local communities Organization profile 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman’s and CEO’s letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Compliance Risk management Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Compliance Company’s Compliance Program and Regulatory 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance compliance 64 | Sustainability Report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance and Shareholders 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Generation of value for local communities 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements People & Culture 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Generation of value for local communities 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Entities 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information About this report 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report 102-50 Reporting period About this report Sustainability Report | 65 A11 Annex 11: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-55 GRI content index About this report Economic GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 Generation of value for local Local community impact, 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed communities dialogue and collaboration GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community People & Culture Diversity and equality GRI 203: Indirect economic impact2016 Generation of value for local Local community impact, 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported communities dialogue and collaboration GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance Ethics, Anti bribery, Integrity 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance GRI 206: Anticompetitve behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Compliance Ethics, Anti bribery, Integrity 66 | Sustainability Report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic Environment GRI 304: Biodivesity 2016 Preserving biodiversity and 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Environment landscape GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Climate Change and Carbon 305-3 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Footprint 305-5 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 There have not been significant Environment impact and fines neither sanctions for non307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations management and Regulatory compliance with environmental framework laws and/or regulations Social GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 403-2 People & Culture Health & Safety number of work-related fatalities GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 Coporate Governance 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and equality People & Culture Sustainability Report | 67 A11 Annex 11: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Generation of value for local Local community impact, 413-1 programs communities dialogue and collaboration GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 There have not been significant Company's Compliance fines neither sanctions for non419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Program and Regulatory compliance with environmental framework laws and/or regulations (*) For material issues Technology and digitalization and People’s education on renewable energies, X-ELIO has reported specific information on chapter 5. Our activity. 68 | Sustainability Report A111 Entities A111 Annex 111: Entities T The scope considered by X-ELIO for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report 2018 matches the financial consolidation scope, which includes the following companies: Spain TEQUI SOLAR 2, S.L. EXELIO ENERGY SALVADOR, S.L. UNIPERSONAL PARQUE SOLAR PARAMO, S.L. X ELIO ANDALTIA MURCIA, S.L. CALASPASOL 1, S.L.U. MURSOLAR 28, S.L. FUENTE ÁLAMO ENERGÍA SOLAR 1, S.L. MURSOLAR 30, S.L. FUENTE ÁLAMO ENERGÍA SOLAR 2, S.L. PLANNING BUSINESS GREEN, S.L. X ELIO MANTENIMIENTOS, S.L. X-Elio EOS, S.L. CALASPASOL ENERGÍA 2, S.L. X-Elio Energy Finance, S.A. EXELIO ENERGY TRADING, S.L. HUERTO SOLAR LA ALCARDETEÑA, S.A. X ELIO ZENER, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 1, S.L. SAELICES EL CHICO SOLAR, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 2, S.L. MUELAS DEL PAN SOLAR, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 3, S.L. PHOTOSOLAR MEDINA 3, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 4, S.L. PHOTOSOLAR MEDINA 4, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 5, S.L. CALASPARRA SOL DE MURCIA, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 6, S.L. MURSOLAR 6, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 7, S.L. MURSOLAR 14, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 8, S.L. MURSOLAR 17, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 9, S.L. MURSOLAR 19, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 10, S.L. MURSOLAR 24, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 11, S.L. 70 | Sustainability Report Spain PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 12, S.L. Marpani Solar 7, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 13, S.L. Marpani Solar 8, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 14, S.L. Marpani Solar 9, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 15, S.L. Marpani Solar 10, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 16, S.L. Clarkson Investments, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 17, S.L. Cavalier Directorship, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 18, S.L. Coega Investments, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 19, S.L. Florián Directorship, S.L. PLANTA SOLAR VILLARDETE 20, S.L. Gadoni Directorship, S.L. Maristella Directorship, S.L. Magno Directorship, S.L. Pordoi Investments, S.L. Agrícola las Monas, S.L. Cresia Directorship, S.L. TERMOSOLAR MAYORGA* Mesola Directorship, S.L. XXI CONTSOLAR, S.L.* Arbatax Investments, S.L. SOLARGES PERÚ, S.L.* Cercena Investments, S.L. * Sociedad Participada Martin Directorship, S.L. Rabida Investments, S.L. Marpani Solar 1, S.L. Marpani Solar 2, S.L. Marpani Solar 3, S.L. Marpani Solar 4, S.L. Marpani Solar 5, S.L. Marpani Solar 6, S.L. Sustainability Report | 71 A111 Annex 111: Entities USA ARGENTINA X ELIO NORTH AMÉRICA, INC. X-Elio Energy Midway I, LLC Clean Energy, S.A. GASNA 5, LLC Midway I Solar Holding, LLC GASNA 7P, LLC Boomerang I, LLC GASNA 8, LLC Imperial Boomerang I, CHILE GASNA 12, LLC 83WI 8ME LLC X ELIO CHILE, S.P.A GASNA 12P, LLC X-Elio North América Development Holdco., LLC X ELIO CHILE I, S.P.A GASNA 14, LLC X-Elio North América Land Co., LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande I SPA GASNA 16, LLC Bracey Solar Project, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 4 SPA GASNA 18, LLC Claxton Solar Project, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 5 SPA PRCC Solar Holding, LLC X-Elio Energy NC Yadkin, LLC GASNA 18P, LLC (Convention Center) X-Elio Energy SC York, LLC GASNA 19, LLC X-Elio Energy Lily, LLC Morovis Solar, LLC (Greenfield) Lily Solar Holding, LLC GASNA 40, LLC Lily Solar LLC GASNA 51, LLC GASNA 51P, LLC PALM VALLEY SOLAR CALIFORNIA I, LLC GASNA 58, LLC X ELIO DEVELOPMENT PUERTO RICO, LLC X-Elio Energy USA, Inc. 83WI Acquisition HoldCo, LLC X-Elio Energy BA Holdco, LLC X-Elio Energy Boomerang I Holdco, LLC 72 | Sustainability Report ITALY INDIA JAPAN X ELIO ITALIA S.R.L. X ELIO JAPAN, KK GESTAMP SOLAR INDIA, PLC GASI 7, S.R.L. GASJA 5, G.K. GASI 8, S.R.L. GASJA 8, G.K. GASI 11, S.R.L. X ELIO 9, G.K SOUTHAFRICA GASI 22, S.R.L. X ELIO 13, G.K. MULILO RENEWABLE ENERGYSOLAR PV GASI 41, S.R.L. PRIESKA (PTY) LTD X ELIO 14, G.K. GASI 53, S.R.L. MULILO RENEWABLE ENERGY SOLAR PVDE X ELIO 15, G.K. GASI 54, S.R.L. AAR (PTY) LTD Amateras Solar, G.K. GASI 57, S.R.L. X ELIO SOUTH ÁFRICA , LTD X-Elio 18 G.K. GASI 59, S.R.L. X_ELIO 17, G.K. X ELIO EMENA, S.R.L X ELIO CONTRACTING, LTD S-13 Holdco, G.K. X-Elio Italia 1, S.r.l. X ELIO 16, G.K. X-Elio Italia 2, S.r.l. X-Elio Italia 3, S.r.l. GASI 52, S.R.L.* EL SALVADOR GASI 56, S.R.L.* TENCOLUCA SOLAR S.A. DE C.V. * Sociedad Participada SAN NICOLÁS SOLAR S.A. DE C.V. Sustainability Report | 73 A111 Annex 111: Entities MEXICO HONDURAS EGYPT X ELIO MÉXICO, SA de CV CONSTRUCTORA SOLAR CENTROAMERICANA X-ELIO, S.A.E. FV MEXSOLAR I, SAPI de CV ENERGÍA SOLAR CENTROAMERICANA S.A. DE C.V.* FV MEXSOLAR II, SAPI de CV * Sociedad Participada FV MEXSOLAR III, SAPI de CV FV MEXSOLAR IV, SAPI de CV AUSTRALIA PERU FV MEXSOLAR V, SAPI de CV X-Elio Australia PTY, LTD Energía FV Perú S.A.C FV MEXSOLAR VI, SAPI de CV X-Elio Aus1 PTY, LTD TACNA SOLAR, SAC* GESTORA DE ENERGÍA RENOVABLE DE MÉXICO PANAMERICANA SOLAR, SAC* FV MEXSOLAR VII, SAPI de CV Gestión Solar Perú SAC* FV MEXSOLAR VIII, SAPI de CV COLOMBIA * Sociedad Participada FV MEXSOLAR IX, SAPI de CV Sol Bochica, SAS FV MEXSOLAR X, SAPI de CV FV MEXSOLAR XI, SAPI de CV Sol de los Manzanos, S. de R.L. de C.V. X-Elio FV Conejos Medanos, SAPI de C.V. X-Elio FV Xoxocotla, SAPI de C.V. X-Elio FV Bacabachi, SAPI de C.V. Kenergreen, SAPI de C.V. X-Elio FV Bacabachi, SAPI de C.V. 74 | Sustainability Report 2018 2018 Sustainability Sustainability Report Report
