COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 VENUSTAS BEAUTY SOCIAL ECONOMY SITE DETAIL UTILITAS FIRMITAS USABILITY DURABILITY LAYOUT ENVIRONMENT OCC CHRISTENSEN & CO Communication on Progress 2019 Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. Architects. To us, sustainability is about creating beautiful architecture with progressive, innovative energy solutions that ensure long-lasting quality of life for people and the environment. This means that our buildings, both in terms of their aesthetics, social ambition, materials, and technology are made to last. We believe good architecture makes a difference, and that architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness can create buildings that actively change people’s lives. We continue to use our screening tool, mapping all stages of new projects. From the early stages of setting the team to the evaluation of the suppliers. We screen potential collaborators in order to ensure Human rights, Labour rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption standards are upheld. We continue our focus on the global compact principles and we are an active part of the CSR charter for the Danish Building Industy. As a continued strategic focus we are working on implementing the SDG framework into our projects and create new partnerships based on the framework. During the last year we have included the SDGs into our competition proposals, developed a screening tool for working systematically with the SDG agenda, and for our latest two projects: A school for Copenhagen Municipality and a test center for Danish Technical University the SDGs are integrated into the process of building the projects. Copenhagen, 2019 Michael Christensen, Creative Director and founder Christensen & Co Architects Vibeke L. Lindblad, CEO and partner at Christensen & Co Architects 1 Communication on Progress 2019 Practical Actions 2018 Response to the four issue areas of the Global Compact 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved We continue our corporate social responsibility as a part of our risk analyses screening tools, on our projects. Monitoring compliance with the principles of the Responsible Construction charter. 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility We conduct screening of collaborators and throughout our supply chain. Thus enabling us to offer client advice on how suppliers perform according to international CSR guidelines. 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders We have a close collaboration with all relevant parties and labour organisations. We have a constant dialogue with Danish building industry organisations, networks, The Danish Association for Responsible Construction, as well as playing an active part in CSR events and conferences. We continue implementation of CSR optimizing models and the systematic involvement of users on our projects. 4. We work for sustainable solutions Sustainability is an integrated part of our architectural design. We consider sustainability and energy optimization equal to a building´s architectonic and functional discourse. We strive to use sustainable principles in all parts of our building projects. I.e. by the incorporation of international standards and certifications, such as DGNB, LEAD. 5. We have sound employment and working conditions At Christensen & Co. we hire architects, construction designers and administrative staff according to the Danish law of engagement. We acknowledge and respect the law on workers right regarding salary and work hours and the general right to have a good work/life balance. We choose collaborators who practice the same principles. 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices At Christensen & Co. we do not engage in any form of practice which in any way compromise our basic principles of social responsible and professional practice. We take steps to inform and seek dialogue with clients, collaborators and supplier should we find conflicts of interest. 2 Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement of outcome During 2018 we have worked on both projects and office activities that support the ten principles of Global Compact. Our main activity this year has been to develop a screening tool, which has a multistakeholder scope. This means that we can both focus on a project’s inherent potential, highlight which areas we as architects recommned focusing on, and lastly, which specfic needs and wants the client has. In this way we can systematically and strategically focus our efforts in a manner that ensures we deliver most effectively on the SDG agenda. However, it is important for us to keep an open dialogue focused on delivering on the agenda rather than focusing on setting up advanced systems for reporting. Sustainable Development Goals and architecture We have worked in close collaboration with clients, users, engineers, and contractors to create architecture that provides ideal frameworks for physical activity and learning environments unifying people across interests, ages, gender, culture etc. By integrating aesthetics and technical solutions seamlessly into the architecture we continue to explore how to ensure long lasting sustainable buildings that create inspiring spaces for human beings. We aim to adress all 17 SDGs, however SDG 4: Quality Education is at the core of all our projects, and specifically target 4.A: Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all is central to how we work to create learning environments. In our studio We have developed a screening tool for how to ensure the SDGs are supported and our projects are strengthened. A central issue has been to elaborate on our long running knowledge and experience with creating sustainable architecture. The effort to create this tool has been inlined with the ongoing development of a diamond class award for the DGNB system. which aims to reward sustainable buildings that hold a high architectural quality. Our methodology is developed as a tool for dialogue, to ensure that user needs are heard to create an inherent sustainable mindset, integrated into the architecture. Following the intentions of SDG 17 agenda, the development of the tool has been conducted as an internal and interdisciplinary process involving both architects, archtectural designers and administrative staff. To work professionally with the SDG agenda and sustainability from initial idea, during the design fase on in the construction fase and finally integrating a continued sustainable mindset in our built environment, we have invested in training and education of key staff members in sustainability methodologies and the DGNB certification system. To influence the larger scale political aspect of our profession as architects, we are involved in organisations such as the Association of Architectural Firms and The Danish Association for Responsible Construction. 3 Communication on Progress 2019 In our projects In all our latest competitions and tenders we have included the SDGs as a strategic focus in both the initial dialogue and design process and as a tool for interdisciplinary collaboration during the construction fase. Two examples are: Test Center for electromagnetic research at Denmarks Technial University The new test Center for DTU has an integrated user proces based on the SDGs. It is a prerequisit of our client that the building be certified as DGNB gold. New School at Nordøstamager (NØAS) The new school at Nordøst Amager, which we have developed an indepth sustainability strategy for. As with the test center we are conducting a screening of the project including a user dialogue to ensure establishing a sustainable mindset closely linked to the architectural design. 4 Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement of outcome Our achivements during 2018 • Further strengthening the focus on sustainable development through active participation in professional networks such as Arkitektforeningen, Danish Association of Architects and the Danish Association for Responsible Construction. During 2018 our executive director Vibeke L. Lindblad became a board member at the Danish Association for Responsible Construction. The association is working on an ambitious stategy for strengthening the SDG agenda across the entire construction industy. • We have invested in training and education of key staff members in sustainability methodologies and the DGNB certification system. • We have sent two shipments of old computer hardware on for reuse through FAIR Denmark, which works to bridge the digital divide by providing children in Malawi with computers. The first shipment has reached Malawi, while the last one is still being processed. • We continue to send news about our work to Verdens Bedste Nyheder who manage the Danish SDG portal, which reports on the national progress. So far we have not had much luck getting featured but we continue to pitch news on how architecture contributes to the SDGs. • We have change our coffee delivery from regular production to a fair trade, organically grown product. To minimize our carbon footprint we have changed our lunch delivery to a vegetarian menu three times a week. We are focusing on waste managment and sorting daily waste according to municipal principles. Our ambitions for 2019 • We are going to appoint a CSR working group at the studio. The group will be responsible for conducting a mapping of areas to be improved to align our activities closer to the SDGs. This includes lunch arrangements, carbon footprint for our website, transportation for our study trips and other activities related to our office. • We’re committed to integrating the SDG agenda into all new projects. We are using our four latest won projects: Test Center B357 and R3 Platform B112 at DTU, New School at Nordøst Amager and The new School at Nørrebro named GABYS, as pilots for our SDG efforts, collecting experiences to further develop our methodology. Partner at Christensen & Co, Thomas Nørgaard, at the annual conference of Green Building Council, talking about the new DGNB Diamond class, which focuses on how high architectural quality is an important part of adressing the SDGs. The Board of Danish Association for Responsible Construction Graduating class at the Sustainability Consultant programme held CEO at Christensen & Co, Vibeke L. Lydolph, to the right. by Molio. To the left Trine Ivarsen, Architect at Christensen & Co. 5 Communication on Progress 2019 O C O C CC CHRISTENSEN & CO 6
