Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Table of Contents Table o off C Con ontten entts Operating environment and strategy Governance 5 Contents of the annual report and reporting 121 Board of Directors principles 123 Executive management group 6 Fingrid in brief 126 Foremost uncertainty factors and risks 8 Review by the President & CEO 131 Corporate Governance Statement 10 Operating environment 1. General 13 Mission and business model 2. Description of Fingrid's administrative Materiality assessment bodies 17 Stakeholder engagement 3. General meeting 19 Strategy 4. Board of Directors Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators 5. Board committees Management system 6. President & CEO 7. Company management 8. Advisory committee Business operations 9. Internal control and risk management 33 Customers 10. Financial audit and internal audit Customer committees and Advisory 11. Related party transactions Committee 12. Main procedures relating to insider 46 Finance and treasury administration 50 Power system Remuneration statement 58 Electricity market 153 Stock exchange releases 2018 62 Grid development and maintenance 72 Research and development Annual review and financial statements Responsibility 155 1 Report of the board of directors 73 Corporate responsibility 1.1 Financial result 78 Personnel 1.2 Financing 84 Environment 1.3 Capital expenditure 89 Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures 1.4 Power system 117 Independent assurance statement 1.5 Electricity market 1.6 Share capital This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Table of Contents 1.7 Personnel and remuneration systems 4.6 Inventories 1.8 Board of Directors and corporate 4.7 Management of commodity risks management 4.8 Personnel the cornerstone of our 1.9 Fingrid's business model operations 1.10 Internal control and risk management 4.9 Taxes 1.11 Foremost risks and uncertainty factors 216 5 Long-term Investor for society and Fingrid 5.1 Grid assets 1.12 Corporate responsibility 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets 1.13 Environmental matters 5.3 Lease agreements 1.14 Legal proceedings and proceedings by 229 6 Strong Financial Position authorities 6.1 Capital management 1.15 Events after the review period and 6.2 The aims and organisation of financing estimate of future outlook activities and the principles for financial 1.16 Board of Directors’ proposal for the risk management distribution of profit 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and 1.17 Annual General Meeting 2019 managing the financial risks of liabilities 180 2 Consolidated Key Figures 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other 183 3 Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) financial assets 3.1 Income statement 6.5 Equity and dividend distribution 3.2 Consolidated balance sheet 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial 3.3 Consolidated statement of changes in liabilities and derivatives equity 260 7 Other Information 3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement 7.1 Group companies and related parties 194 4 Benchmark for TSO Operations 7.2 Other notes 4.1 General information about the Group 268 8 Parent company financial statements (FAS) and general accounting principles 8.1 Parent company income statement 4.2 The company's general risk 8.2 Parent company balance sheet management processes and policies 8.3 Parent company cash flow statement 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of result parent company 4.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit 302 9 Signatures for the Annual Review and for the risk management Financial Statements 4.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for purchases This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 3 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Operating environment and strategy Op Oper era ating en envirvironmen onmentt and str tra ategy This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 4 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Contents of the annual report and reporting principles Con ontten entts o off the ann annual ual rrep epor ortt and repepor orting ting principle principless Fingrid’s annual report for 2018 will be published in electronic format on the company’s website. The annual report also includes Fingrid’s corporate responsibility reporting and the corporate governance statement. Fingrid draws up the consolidated financial statements and the half-year report in accordance with IFRS reporting standards accepted by the European Union and in accordance with the Finnish Securities Market Act. The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Fingrid Oyj and its wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy. The consolidated associated companies are Nord Pool AS (ownership 18.8%) and eSett Oy (ownership 33.3%). The annual review and the financial statements of the Group’s parent company and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act and the guidelines and statements of the Finnish Accounting Standards Board. The information on personnel is based on the calculation systems used by human resources management, and the calculation of the relevant information is in compliance with the general guidelines of the Finnish Accounting Standards Board concerning the preparation of annual reviews. The environmental data is collected from the information reported to the authorities and from Fingrid’s own data collection systems. An external emissions trading verifier has verified the company’s carbon dioxide emission report. Corporate responsibility reporting focusses on the main economic, social and environmental impacts of Fingrid Group’s operations. The reporting applies integrated reporting principles, is in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines (Core requirements) and has been verified by an independent third party. The boundaries of the social and environmental data do not include the associated companies. Requirements for corporate responsibility reporting by state-owned companies and environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting guidance for stock exchanges are also taken into account. The annual report stands for a Communication on Progress (COP) report in compliance with the UN’s Global Compact initiative. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 5 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid in brief Fingrid in brie brieff Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited company responsible for electricity transmission in the high-voltage transmission system in Finland. The company was established on 29 November 1996. Operations started on 1 September 1997. Turnover amounts to EUR 852.8 (672) million. The balance sheet total is EUR 2.1 (2.1) billion. Fingrid’s nationwide grid is an integral part of the power system in Finland. The main grid is the high-voltage trunk network that covers all of Finland. Major power plants, industrial plants and electricity distribution networks are connected to the grid. Fingrid guarantees a disturbance-free electricity supply in Finland. Fingrid ensures that the generation and consumption of electricity are always in balance Between 2018 and 2027, some 1,600 kilometres of new transmission lines and 20 substations will be built. Fingrid’s customers include grid companies, electricity producers, major electricity consumers and electricity market parties. The services the company offers its customers are electricity transmission, balance services, guarantee-of-origin certificates, electricity market information and retail market information exchange. The Finnish power system is part of the common Nordic power system. The Nordic system is connected to the system in Central Europe via high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission links. Finland also has HVDC links with Russia and Estonia. The transmission system owned by Fingrid encompasses approx. 14,300 kilometres of 400-, 220and 110-kilovolt transmission lines, plus 114 substations, four HVDC connections and 10 of the company’s own reserve power plants. Fingrid’s statutory tasks include developing the electricity market. Fingrid also actively participates in the activities of the ENTSO-E, the European Network of Transmission System Operators of Electricity. Fingrid furthermore engages in regional TSO co-operation in the Nordic countries and in the Baltic Sea area. TSO co-operation takes place for grid planning, grid operations and electricity market development alike. Fingrid Datahub Oy selected the supplier for the Datahub system in June. The procurement is valued at EUR 41.9 million. The Finnish Government proposed a bill to Parliament on 20 September 2018 concerning amending the Electricity Market Act and related legislation. The Datahub is a centralised information exchange system for retail markets that stores data from all of Finland’s 3.5 million places of electricity consumption. The Datahub will go live in 2021. Fingrid is owned by the State of Finland (direct holding 28.2%), the National Emergency Supply Agency This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 6 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid in brief (24.9%), Aino Holding Ky (26.4%), Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company (19.9%) and other institutional investors (0.6%). Aino Holding Ky is owned by OP Insurance and pension entities (Pohjola Insurance Ltd, OP Life Assurance Ltd., OP Pension Fund and OP Pension Foundation), the State Pension Fund and Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Fingrid’s debt issues on the capital markets are listed on the London and Irish stock exchanges (Euronext Dublin). Fingrid owns 18.8 per cent of electricity exchange Nord Pool AS. Fingrid owns the balance services company eSett Oy together with Statnett and Svenska Kraftnät. eSett provides imbalance settlement services to Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish electricity market parties. The company’s operations commenced in May 2017, when eSett Oy took over imbalance settlement. At the same time, the markets transitioned to using a harmonised Nordic imbalance settlement model. The joint Nordic operational planning office, Nordic RSC, has been operating in Copenhagen, Denmark, since 2017. Fingrid has sent three employees to the office. At the end of the year, Fingrid had 380 (355) employees, 327 (308) of whom were permanent. Fingrid is headquartered in Helsinki, and the company also has offices in Hämeenlinna, Oulu, Petäjävesi, Rovaniemi and Varkaus. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 7 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Review by the President & CEO Revie view wb byy the Pr Pre esiden sidentt & CE CEO O We are creating a platform for a clean power system Combatting climate change will call for concrete actions from us in the coming years. The transition to a cleaner power system and electrification of society are important elements of the change. Taking this immense task forward requires that the ‘platforms’ of the power system, in other words the transmission and distribution networks, are in good repair and ready to reliably transmit electricity also in the new operating environment. Fingrid’s role as a platform builder and maintainer of the clean power system includes taking care of Finland’s grid system and developing it to meet future needs. The grid is currently in good repair. However, we need to keep our eyes open and be able to anticipate future power transmission needs. Finland’s power system will soon include one of the world’s largest nuclear power plants, and wind power has evolved from its role as a challenger into a financially highly competitive way of producing clean electricity. We welcome all clean forms of energy production as our customers. Transformation of the electricity market The electrification of society will further increase the significance of the reliability of the electricity supply. Fingrid’s duties include uninterrupted monitoring and operating of the power system such that society can trust in a reliable supply of electricity. This work must be developed constantly as the power system becomes more and more complex and dynamic. The utilisation of data and digitalisation will be more and more important tools for us. In the future power system, there will be less flexibility in production than there is now. In that respect, the importance of hydroelectric power will grow further, and demand side management will be increasingly needed on the consumption side. The ‘operating system’ of the power system, i.e. the electricity market, requires a ‘version update’ of immense proportions to be capable of balancing power production and consumption also going forward. Extensive changes are under way and will be implemented in the early 2020s. Electricity trading will take place in 15-minute periods, the balancing power and reserve markets will function more effectively under the steering of Europe-wide trading platforms and, in Finland, the Datahub implemented by Fingrid will digitalise the electricity retail markets and boost their efficiency as well as open the door for regular consumers to become active operators on the marketplace. We have been given the task of project manager in this massive project. We realise that we cannot do it all on our own, and that the project requires close co-operation with other market operators and the authorities. Customer work at the core Well-functioning stakeholder engagement is a vital key to the success of a TSO. The situation right now looks good. Fingrid received global attention for its customer focus and transparency, which are exceptionally strong for a monopoly company, as we were chosen as the world’s best transmission system operator in the CHARGE Awards 2018, an international energy sector brand competition. The message is corroborated by our customer survey: 87 per cent of our customers are willing to endorse Fingrid’s approach to customer engagement. Stakeholder co-operation is challenging our organisations to further foster interaction with people, with humility and in a spirit that builds trust. We must earn our stakeholders’ trust every day. This is something we ensure through our responsibility work, which is integrated into our strategy, and by requiring responsible operating practices from our contractual partners, in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. Fingrid has an essential mission in Finnish society. The power system is in the midst of a major transformation, making the role of the TSO even more important. Here at Fingrid, we are ready to face the challenges that the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 8 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Review by the President & CEO future will bring us. We work for Finland with our hearts and our minds. Jukka Ruusunen CEO This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 9 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Operating environment Op Oper era ating en envir vironmen onmentt Megatrends steer Fingrid’s operations. The impacts can be seen throughout society and in the procurement and supply chains used by the company. The following four megatrends of the operating environment steer Fingrid’s operations: Climate change and transformation of the energy system The energy sector plays a key role in combatting climate change. The structure of electricity production is changing as the share of renewable energy grows and adjustable fossil-fuel condensing power production decreases. Wind and solar energy will soon be profitable without subsidies. An increase in wind and solar power will result in a scarcity of power, flexibility and system inertia. Price fluctuations will increase, which will bring business opportunities to flexible production and consumption and energy storage technologies. Fingrid does its part to combat climate change by building and maintaining the main grid. The transformation in the structure of electricity generation due to the efforts to mitigate climate change results in changes in the power system. We make it possible to connect new forms of energy production to the grid. We ensure the sufficiency of system reserves also in the future and prepare for a decline in flexible production capacity while at the same time developing the electricity market to meet the needs of a low carbon power system. Our role is to actively propose improvements to the electricity market model that will make it possible to stay on a This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 10 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Operating environment market-based and clean path. We seek new solutions for grid operations to ensure that the power system functions reliably and, with support from the markets, to find a balance between production and consumption. Security of energy supply and electricity dependency Society is becoming increasingly dependent on electricity. At the same time, society’s tolerance for disruptions to the availability of electricity is weakening: serious disturbances in electricity supply are among society’s greatest safety threats. Electricity sector risks are being prepared for as part of the European Commission’s clean energy Winter Package. The aim is to improve the security of electricity supply at the EU level and reinforce regional cooperation. According to the Winter Package, measures related to crises must be compatible with the rules for the common electricity markets. For Fingrid’s part, implementing our investment programme, promoting the markets and developing our grid operations improve the reliability of the electricity supply and our preparedness in the face of crisis situations. In risk and continuity management, we continuously prepare for serious disturbances to the power system in different threat scenarios. We are actively involved in international co-operation to develop European rules, and we are preparing for power system disturbances in co-operation with the Baltic Sea region’s TSOs. Globalisation and responsibility In addition, increased workforce mobility is making energy companies more international. The global financial market offers a well-managed company with a high credit rating a flexible and affordable way of procuring financing. Responsibility is a key component of our corporate image. Regulations concerning corporate finance and social corporate responsibility are increasing on both a national and global scale. The importance of openness is growing. For Fingrid, globalisation brings new opportunities, thanks to our expertise related to outsourcing services and international co-operation. We have also been successful for some time now in making use of the international financing markets. Responsible procurement of goods and services can globally promote sustainable development and ethical practices. Digitalisation Digitalisation brings opportunities to improve the profitability of operations and creates a wide range of new eservices. On the other hand, an integrated network of everything can become an avenue for targeted attacks, in the most extreme case, a weapon in cyberwarfare. This also imposes specific cybersecurity requirements on Fingrid’s IT systems. From Fingrid’s perspective, digitalisation enables even more productive operational processes, better customer service and more efficient sharing of market information. It also provides new tools for managing a changing and increasingly complex power system. Smart grid technology opens up new business opportunities for both current and new operators and, in turn, shapes our customer field. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 11 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Operating environment This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 12 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Mission and business model Mission and busine business ss mo model del Our mission Fingrid is Finland’s transmission system operator. We secure reliable electricity for our customers and our society and we shape the clean and market-oriented power system of the future. Our values Transparency, Efficiency, Impartiality, Responsibility in all our operations. Our vision We are an exemplary transmission system operator. A highly esteemed energy influencer in Finland and across the globe. Known for its responsibility, efficiency and expertise. Capable of renewal and boldly adapts to change. Fingrid’s business model The purpose of the business model is to describe the most important material and immaterial resources at our disposal that are necessary for the business processes. The result is services for our customers. The impact of Fingrid’s operations and the significant added value they generate show in various ways throughout Finnish society. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 13 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Mission and business model This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 14 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Materiality assessment Ma Matterialit erialityy ass asse essmen ssmentt We have identified aspects that are material to Fingrid’s business and corporate social responsibility, and we have assured sufficient management practices, targets and indicators for them. The need for updates to the materiality analysis is assessed annually as part of the strategy process, based on an operating environment and stakeholder analysis and on the strategy update. Achieving the targets is the starting point for executive management’s and personnel’s remuneration. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 15 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Materiality assessment This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 16 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Stakeholder engagement Stak akeholder eholder engagemen engagementt Open, honest and equal stakeholder engagement As a transmission system operator, we engage with many parties who may have different expectations of our operations. Being responsive to stakeholders and open to their expectations is an essential part of our sustainability approach. We regularly chart our stakeholders’ opinions, and engage in dialogue and co-operate with them in a number of ways. An appointed executive is in charge of our customer perspective, and the heads of functions oversee stakeholder activities within their own areas of responsibility. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 17 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Stakeholder engagement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 18 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Strategy Str tra ategy The foundation of our operations Our operations are based on Finnish and EU legislation. In accordance with the Finnish Electricity Market Act, we develop the main grid, maintain a balance between electricity consumption and generation and promote the preconditions for a well-functioning electricity market. The EU Electricity Regulation obligates us to co-operate within ENTSO-E, and regionally to improve the functioning of the internal electricity market. Our task is to participate in the drawing up and implementation of the market, operating and connection codes and the proposals prescribed in them. We develop the power system and the electricity market rules together with our customers. We keep our customers informed of the development of European rules concerning the electricity industry, and we listen to our customers’ views on European, regional and national proposals being prepared. We keep abreast of our customers’ requests through Fingrid’s Advisory Committee and three customer committees. Our strategy is based on four perspectives We develop our operations for the long term, taking the perspectives of our customers, society, finances and personnel into account. We seek quality and efficiency by combining our core expertise with that of the best players. By operating responsibly we earn the trust of our customers, society, shareholders and the work community. In preparing and executing Fingrid’s strategy, we have examined the requirements set by our vision as fairly as possible from four different perspectives. Our organisation model is based on a matrix structure which supports effective implementation and comprehensively engages the personnel. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 19 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Strategy Listening to our customers and stakeholders ” “We develop our business operations with our customers in mind and for the benefit of the entire country.” Fingrid is Finland’s transmission system operator. Taking care of our mission demands listening to our customers. Fulfilling our mission means having a profound understanding of the current and future needs of our various This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 20 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Strategy customers and taking them into account in all our operations. We develop our services together with our customers, according to their needs and business challenges. We promote the creation of new services and we strive to enable new players to enter the electricity market. Cost-effective player ” “We operate cost-effectively and bring value to our owners and all of society.” We operate based on the premise that we respond to the expectations of society in the long term, that we operate cost-effectively and that we provide value to our owners. Our decision-making and operations are based on the right information at the right time and on the desire to be efficient, profitable and responsible. Our governance is transparent and of a high standard. We are a forerunner in transmission system operation on the increasingly international electricity market, which requires continuous development of our operations and our productivity. We pro-actively and thoroughly plan our investments according to financial and societal requirements. Successful financing activities secures our capital investments and operational maintenance. Our internal processes are described according to Fingrid’s main duties. Reliably and responsibly ” “During the energy sector transformation, we will maintain the current good level of system security. Sustainability and safety are highlighted in everything we do.” We develop the operations of the Nordic electricity system as a comprehensive whole. We are also deepening cooperation, especially with the Baltic countries. We oversee control centre operations, which demands strong knowledge of grid operations. We purchase service when they are cost-effectively available. We own most of the reserve power plants, which serve as fast disturbance reserves. Targeting a clean and reliable market-based electricity system ” “We rely on well-functioning markets to produce the best and most innovative solutions.” We want to lead the change in the European electricity market. We actively develop the electricity market in coThis PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 21 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Strategy operation with our stakeholders. Ensuring a market-based approach benefits customers and enables the costeffective transition to a clean power system. European legislation and regional solutions on market rules have a significant impact on the markets. We want to have an influence on the preparation of European and regional regulations and market solutions, and our goal is to maintain sufficient electricity transmission connections between neighbouring countries and within Finland. We develop structures to support operating models and the real-time market, enabling the realisation of a market-based, clean power system. Transformation of the power system increases the need for transmission capacity ” “We actively foster the integration of the electricity markets in Europe and the Baltic Sea area.” We are designing and building the transmission grid as flexibly as possible and with solutions that suit various future scenarios to meet society’s power production and consumption needs. Our operations are based on continuous operational improvement and cost-awareness. We also seek to minimise outages in electricity distribution through investments. In terms of future investments, our aim is to engage in co-operation with the authorities, our customers and landowners such that each party is able to approve the investments. Development projects to ensure the sustainability of our operations and our supply chain, as well as occupational safety development projects, are an important part of maintaining the grid. A small and efficient Fingrid ” “We innovatively utilise the best technologies and opportunities enabled by digitalisation. We keep the necessary core competence in-house. We co-operate with the best partners.” Our HR vision is based on our corporate culture. We want to be an open, collaborative, renewing and targetoriented work community. For Fingrid employees, that means that we are at the leading edge of change and we are prepared for the future with our world-class expertise. The members of our work community are customerfocused renewers, responsible results achievers, go-getting team players and international networkers. We also want to ensure an excellent employer image for our company and that the best experts in their field work for us. Strategic projects In implementing our strategy, our aim is to continuously improve our operations. Alongside that work, our multiyear strategic projects at the company level are: Putting network codes into practice: well-functioning electricity markets and practices that ensure system security Connecting the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear reactor to the grid: secure connection of one of the world’s largest nuclear power plants to the grid This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Strategy Real-time markets in the Nordics: secure balance between consumption and production in common markets Fingrid in the pocket: Fingrid at your service, regardless of time and place Putting data in order and in productive use: correct and essential information in efficient use Engaging corporate culture: Fingrid employees capable of renewal and boldly adapting to change Decentralised resources on the market: electricity users participating in and benefitting from the electricity market We have assigned a person responsible on the Executive Management Group level to each strategic project. We implement strategic projects as part of our annual action plans, and the progress of projects is monitored regularly by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Group. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 23 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Fingrid’ Fingrid’ss sstr tra ategic ttar arge getts and indic indica ator orss The set target was achieved/exceeded The set target was nearly achieved; still a good outcome Fell short of the set target, average outcome Fell clearly short of the set target, unsatisfactory outcome Failure to meet the set target, weak outcome UN Sustainable Our target in What are our How did we do? Development 2018 targets in 2019? Goals CUS CUST TOMERS AND S SOCIET OCIETY Y Economic disadvantage to Impact of discustomers The economic diturbances on caused by dissadvantage was Target unchanthe macro ecoturbances in EUR 3.6 million. ged. nomy and custhe transmistomers sion grid less than EUR 7.5 million. Trust KPI in the Customers’ The result was 4.1 Target unchancustomer surtrust in Fingrid ged. vey: 4.0. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 24 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators ENTSO-E Overview of Transmission Tariffs in EuroFingrid ranked 4th. Target unchanTariff level pe: top three in ged. the benchmark group of 16 countries. FINANCES To maintain Fingrid’s credit raFingrid’s credit ting remained at Target unchanCredit rating rating at least the A level. ged. at the Alevel. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 25 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Dividend income in Dividend incoline with shareholDividend payme in line with Target unchanders’ targets was out capacity shareholders’ ged. achieved. targets. To maintain the current solid Good cost-effecticost-effectiveCost-effectiveveness was mainTarget unchanness and to ness tained. ged. continuously improve productivity. INTERNAL PR PROCESSES OCESSES Implementation of the capital investment programme concerning the transmisThe capex proImplementasion grid to jects proceeded Target unchantion of capital support the on schedule and ged. investments Finnish climate within budget. and energy strategy: investment projects on schedule and within budget. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 26 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Customer survey grade of 3.8 for Fingrid’s Electricity marThe result was 4.1 success in proTarget 4.0 ket moting the electricity markets. No significant No significant dedeviations or viations or problems in problems in contProcurement contractor obliTarget unchanractor obligation chain gation or ged. or employment reemployment lationship matters. relationship matters. LTIF less than 5 by the end of LTIF less than Occupational 2018 (both LTIF was 3.2 5 by the end of safety Fingrid person2019. nel and service providers). This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators No significant No significant enLand use and environmentvironment-related Target unchanenvironment related deviadeviations. ged. tions. General grade of ‘good’ in lanThe result was 3.8 Target unchandowner surged. veys. Top three in inEfficiency in ternational maintenance Placed in the top benchmark Target unchanand physical three. studies ged. asset manage(ITOMS, ment ITAMS). System Average Interruption System securiSAIDI was 12.0 Target unchanDuration Index ty ged. less than 3 minutes. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 28 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Sufficiency of Sufficiency was the system re99.7%. Target unchanserves at least ged. 99.5%. PERS PERSONNELONNEL AND EXPER EXPERTISE TISE Top grade in The top grade was Workplace atTarget unchanthe personnel achieved. mosphere ged. survey. Great Place to Work Finland survey, general Target unchanLeadership series: Among No survey in 2018. ged. the top 10 (survey every two years). This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 29 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators Grade ‘good’ for responsible Responsible The grade was operating metTarget unchanoperating met‘excellent’. hods in the ged. hods personnel survey. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 30 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Management system Managemen Managementt ssyystem The aim of Fingrid’s management and leadership is to implement the strategy approved by the Board of Directors and achieve the business goals effectively, responsibly and sustainably. The company’s management complies with internal control procedures, which ensure good governance. Matrix We have organised the company’s operational strategy as an efficiently implemented matrix of four perspectives: customers & society, finances, internal processes, and personnel & expertise. The internal processes consist of: adequacy of the transmission system, system operation and promoting the electricity market. The target setting and operational control for each strategic perspective is managed by an owner appointed by the President & CEO, supported by a steering group approved by the Executive Management Group. The perspective owner acts as chair of the steering group and rules over any necessary teams and working groups under the control of the steering group. The targets and guidelines for each perspective are based on Fingrid’s strategy and require the Executive Management Group’s approval. The perspective owner is responsible for all major costs, revenue and investment forecasts related to the perspective, risk management, communications and stakeholder relations as well as for ensuring the quality and cost effectiveness of the IT system, information management and business solutions supporting the operations. The company’s ICT is organised in a similar manner. A steering group made up of key persons from the company’s businesses and ICT function supports the ICT Director. Personnel is organised according to function such that managers are in charge of the annual planning and budgeting of the tasks in their respective area of responsibility and of implementing the action plans according to the business target set in the strategy. The heads of functions are in charge of ensuring appropriate governance and decision-making procedures for their functions, as well as corporate responsibility, quality and cost effectiveness, correctness of the information required for monitoring the operations, controls, risks and implementing practical risk management measures in compliance with the principles of internal control and risk management and Fingrid’s other guidelines. Instruction system Fingrid’s instruction system is composed of three levels: policies approved by the Executive Management Group specify the principles approved by the Board of Directors and are complemented by the more detailed guidelines given by the perspectives and the business areas. Management principle documents approved by Fingrid’s Board: Fingrid’s Code of Conduct Management principles Corporate Finance and Financing Principles Internal control and risk management principles Main grid development and maintenance management principles Principles for managing system security Principles for promoting the electricity market Insider guidelines This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 31 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Business operations Busine Business ss op oper era ations This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 32 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customers Cus Custtomer omerss Fingrid is an independent actor that serves all its customers equally. Fingrid offers grid, cross-border transmission and balance services to its customers, i.e. electricity producers, network operators and industry. Fingrid serves the electricity market by developing the market, maintaining adequate electricity transmission capacity, by removing bottlenecks in cross-border transmission links and by providing market data. We are also responsible for granting guarantee of origin certificates in Finland for electricity that has been generated using renewable energy sources or combined heat and power. In addition to being able to offer affordable services that meet customer needs, we value openness, trust and active interaction with our customers. Although Fingrid’s operations are largely based on fulfilling a statutory obligation, we strive to live up to that task with a customer-focused approach as much as possible. We develop both the power system and the ground rules for the electricity market together with customers, and in 2018, customers were involved in various development projects as part of several customer working groups. In addition, the Advisory Committee and three customer committees help give a voice to customers. We lowered grid service fees for 2019 by an average of eight per cent. The decrease in fees is made possible by the positive earnings development in the first part of 2018, excellent cost-effectiveness, a moderate investment rate and predicted slight growth in electricity consumption. Grid service fees are very cheap in Finland compared to the general level in Europe. Fingrid’s operations have a solid foundation and thus grid service fees are expected to remain stable also in the future. In 2018, a study on capacity-based consumption fee options in grid service pricing was conducted. Behind it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment’s smart grid working group’s interim report, which proposes that the possibility of power-based tariffs should be looked into not just for distribution networks, but also for the grid. Fingrid asked its customers to comment on the different pricing options. The majority of the feedback supported retaining the current pricing model. Power-based tariffs were seen to be linked to various problems, for instance, in relation to reserve connections, demand-side management and the transition to a 15-minute imbalance settlement period. During the year, we organised two major customer events and several info sessions and webinars targeted at smaller audiences concerning, among other things, the Datahub project and the 15-minute imbalance settlement project. The themes of the Fingrid Current event held in the spring were the transformation of the power system and market changes, and the autumn event featured the themes of climate change mitigation and the transition to a clean power system. During the year, training was organised for personnel working at the customer interface, focussing on increasing their overall understanding of customers and improving their interaction with customers. For 2019, we set the target of developing customer dialogue and communication throughout our operations. Our first step is to renew our newsletter, and during the year we will provide comprehensive information about various electricity market development projects, the schedules for them and their interdependencies. In addition to the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 33 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customers above, we will introduce new online services for our customers. Customer satisfaction at Fingrid growing strongly by all measures Customer satisfaction towards Fingrid has continued to develop in a positive direction since the previous year. Satisfaction with Fingrid’s operations has improved by all measures, and the grade given for various services has risen yet again. Fingrid’s approach to customer engagement was endorsed by 87 per cent of customers. The open-ended feedback and improvement proposals we receive are especially useful in terms of developing our operations. They will also form the basis for steering our operations in an even more customer-focused direction. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 34 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customers Figure: Price of electricity service. Costs related to transmission system operation, such as investments, loss power, system services, but not directly related to transmission system operation, such as public service obligations, feed-in tariff for renewable energy, and peak load capacity. The comparison includes the EEA countries with a transmission system operator in charge of both a 110-kilovolt and 400-kilovolt structure. The 15 countries included in the comparison are: Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the UK. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 35 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customers Key events of 2018 Fingrid named world’s best transmission system operator in CHARGE 2018 branding competition Fingrid was selected as the world’s Best Transmission Brand in the international energy sector’s CHARGE 2018 branding competition. The competition was held for the third time in conjunction with the Branding Energy seminar in Iceland. The competition jury particularly valued Fingrid’s clear core messages, innovation and the national monopoly’s exceptional customer focus and openness. The energy sector is becoming increasingly prominent in society. At the same time, the sector’s brands are gaining more and more attention. There were five categories in the CHARGE 2018 competition, which is aimed at companies in the sector, and Fingrid came out on top in the category of the world’s best transmission companies. The winners were selected by a panel of experts, based on their analysis of consumer research and case studies. The panel of experts is made up of dozens of energy sector and branding experts, as well as business consultants, who come together to nominate the world’s best energy brands. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 36 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customers Customer engagement during the year Fingrid organised several customer events during the reporting year. The biannual Fingrid Current event gathered close to 400 influencers under one roof. Our other events included meetings of the Advisory Committee and other committees, Reserve Day at Postitalo in Helsinki in May, Asset Management Development Days, 15-min imbalance settlement and Datahub regional meetings, and electricity market info on future changes in the sector. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 37 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Cus Custtomer ccommit ommitttees and A Advis dvisor oryy Commitommitttee The Advisory Committee and three customer committees help Fingrid hear its customers’ voice. The Advisory Committee serves as a channel of interaction between the company and its customers. Fingrid uses the committee to distribute information on its current affairs and plans. The representatives of the customer groups, in turn, can take a stand on the matters discussed within the committee. The Advisory Committee deals with the company's entire field of operations and services offered to customers. The information dealt with by the Advisory Committee is openly available to all stakeholders. The matters dealt with by the Advisory Committee in 2017 were related to assessing Fingrid’s operations, digitalisation, market development, challenges in grid operations, Nordic imbalance settlement and the opportunities and challenges in the operating environment of each Advisory Committee member. The customer committees deal with matters in their respective sectors. The Operations Committee discusses and expresses opinions on matters related to the development of procedures used for the operation of the power system and maintenance of system security. The Market Committee is an advisory discussion forum which assists Fingrid in the development of the Nordic and European electricity markets. The Grid Committee serves as a cooperation body in system development and in the management of system-related property. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 38 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Advisory Committee Members Jarmo Kurikka (Chairman), Nurmijärven Sähkö Oy Riikka Hirvisalo-Oja, Caruna Oy Timo Honkanen, Turku Energia Oy Esa Hyvärinen, Fortum Oyj Timo Jokinen, Inergia Oy Elina Kivioja, Vattenfall Oy Mika Lehtimäki, Boliden Oy Tony Lindström, Outokumpu Oyj Pekka Manninen, Helen Oy This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 39 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Juha Rintamäki, Vaasan Sähköverkko Oy Matti Ryhänen, Savon Voima Verkko Oy Mikko Vuori, UPM Paper ENA Fingrid’s members Jukka Ruusunen, Fingrid Oyj Jussi Jyrinsalo, Fingrid Oyj Rami Saajoranta (secretary), Fingrid Oyj This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 40 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Grid Committee Members Arto Gylén, PKS Sähkönsiirto Oy Hannu Halminen, Boliden Harjavalta Oy Ismo Heikkilä, Kemijoki Oy Risto Lappi, Vantaan Energia Sähköverkot Oy Jukka Rajala, EPV Alueverkko Oy Esa Ukkonen, Stora Enso Oyj This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 41 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Tommi Lähdeaho, Elenia Oy Fingrid’s members Kari Kuusela, Fingrid Oyj (chairman) Petri Parviainen, Fingrid Oyj Meri Viikari, Fingrid Oyj (secretary) Absent: Arto Nikkanen, LE-Sähköverkot Oy Operations Committee This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 42 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Members Tommi Hietala, TuuliWatti Oy Teppo Härkönen, Helen Sähköverkko Oy Petri Kopi, Kemira Chemicals Oy Heikki Paananen, Elenia Oy Pekka Pollari, UPM Energia Ismo Reinikka, Loiste Sähköverkko Oy Harri Salminen, Turku Energia Sähköverkot Oy Fingrid’s members Reima Päivinen, Fingrid Oyj (chairman) Jonne Jäppinen, Fingrid Oyj (secretary) This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 43 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Market Committee Members Mikko Lepistö, SSAB (Chairman) Olli Hagqvist, Taaleri Oyj Mikko Halonen, S-Voima Oy Johanna Haverinen, Keravan Energia Oy Jan Segerstam, Empower Oyj Harri Sirpoma, HELEN Matti Sohlman, Pohjolan Voima Oyj This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 44 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Customer committees and Advisory Committee Sebastian Sundberg, Fortum Oyj Seppo Tuomisto, Kemira Oyj Fingrid's members Asta Sihvonen-Punkka, Fingrid Oyj Satu Viljainen, Fingrid Oyj / Heini Ruohosenmaa, Fingrid Oyj (secretary) Absent: Jouni Pylvänäinen, Elenia Oy; Heikki Rantamäki, Pohjois-Karjalan Sähkö Oy This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 45 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Finance and treasury Financ Finance e and tr tre easur asuryy From a financial standpoint, 2018 was an excellent year. The positive earnings development, excellent cost-effectiveness, systematic and moderate investment rate and the predicted slight growth in electricity consumption give us the opportunity to reduce grid transmission fees by an average of eight per cent from the start of 2019, whereas transmission fees in 2018 remained unchanged. According to the company’s own calculations, 2018 resulted in somewhat of a surplus in relation to the result permitted in regulation. Fingrid is still one of the lowest-priced TSOs in Europe, while the company’s transmission reliability is among the best in the world. The company’s longand short-term debt management and hedging against financing risks in the international capital markets continued according to plan. The effective use of capital employed is a key success factor for uninterrupted and continuously developing grid operations, and that will remain in our focus. Overall, the company’s finances and financing are on a stable footing, which enables a controlled transition to a clean power system. The Group’s turnover was EUR 852.8 (672.0) million. Grid service income increased to EUR 423.2 (412.1) million, as a result of the growth in electricity consumption. Electricity consumption in Finland totalled 87.4 (85.5) terawatt hours during the year. Fingrid transmitted 68.6 (66.2) terawatt hours of electricity in its grid, which represents 75.5 (75.5) per cent of all electricity transmitted in Finland. Imbalance power sales amounted to EUR 348.8 (214.0) million. The increase in imbalance power sales was partly the result of increased balance power prices and partly the result of the transfer of imbalance settlement to eSett Oy*, following which the imbalance power sold to cross-border imbalance responsible parties is reported as external turnover. Cross-border transmission income from the connection between Finland and Russia increased to EUR 35.5 (20.7) million, as a result of increased cross-border transmissions and the higher cross-border transmission tariff. The transmission tariff used in imports from Russia is based on the difference between Finland’s and north-western Russia’s area prices. Fingrid’s congestion income from connections between Finland and Sweden increased to EUR 28.2 (25.5) million, which was used for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä grid investment, in line with the regulations. EUR 1.3 million in congestion income was left unused and will be used for investments earmarked for financing with congestion income. Other operating income totalled EUR 10.8 (2.9) million. The increase in other operating income resulted from an EUR 8.0 million increase in the capital gains from the sale of fixed assets. The Group’s total costs amounted to EUR 659.0 (499.0) million. Imbalance power costs grew from the previous year’s level, to EUR 320.0 (185.7) million, due to the increase in balance power prices and the above-mentioned transfer of imbalance settlement to eSett Oy. Loss power costs amounted to EUR 47.7 (47.5) million. The realised average price of loss power procurement was EUR 37.88 (37.62) per megawatt hour. The cost of reserves to safeguard the grid’s system security increased to EUR 56.7 (51.5) million due to an increase in procurements for the frequency regulating reserve. Depreciation totalled EUR 99.7 (96.9) million. Grid maintenance costs decreased to EUR 21.2 (24.5) million; the change is due to updates to the protection and control scheme for Keminmaa’s series capacitor and to substation access control systems carried out in 2017.Personnel costs amounted to EUR 32.2 (29.4) million, and EUR 3.6 (2.6) million was used for R&D projects. The company’s credit rating remained high, reflecting its strong overall financial situation and debt service capacity. The Group’s net financial costs in 2018 were EUR 15.2 (22.8) million, including a change of EUR 6.7 million (-8.2) in the fair value of financial derivatives. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 46 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Finance and treasury Interest-bearing borrowings totalled EUR 1,059.6 (1,082.7) million, of which non-current borrowings accounted for EUR 771.5 (813.4) million and current borrowings for EUR 288.1 (269.3) million. The company’s liquidity remained good. Financial and cash assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss totalled EUR 85.3 (83.8) million on 31 December 2018. The company additionally has an undrawn revolving credit facility of EUR 300 million to secure liquidity (until 11 December 2022) and EUR 50 million in uncommitted overdraft facilities. The counterparty risk arising from derivative contracts relating to financing was EUR 14 (8) million. Fingrid’s foreign exchange and commodity price risks were hedged. Fingrid has credit rating service agreements with S&P Global Ratings (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). On 2 November 2018, S&P maintained the rating for Fingrid Oyj’s unsecured senior debt and long-term company rating at ‘AA-’ and the short-term company rating at ‘A-1+’, with a stable outlook. Fitch’s rating for Fingrid’s unsecured senior debt at the end of the year was ‘AA-’, for the long-term company rating ‘A+’, and ‘F1’ for the short-term company rating, with a stable outlook. The rating received by Fingrid was, at the time of issuing (5 December 2017), the highest valid rating given by Fitch to any European regulated TSO. Fingrid reports on its tax footprint and does not carry out special arrangements to minimise taxes. Dividends are mainly paid to the State of Finland and to Finnish pension insurance and insurance companies. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 47 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Finance and treasury Fingrid's tax footprint, MEUR 2018 2017 2016 Taxes payable Income tax 50.42 39.42 25.78 Unemployment insurance 0.73 0.74 0.85 contributions Social security contributions 0.19 0.22 0.46 Real estate tax 0.42 0.42 0.41 Electricity tax on auxiliary power -0.001 0.005 0.02 Taxes payable total 51.75 40.80 27.52 Taxes to be collected and remitted This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 48 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Finance and treasury Value added tax, net remitted 75.05 62.00 50.41 Electricity tax (incl. emergency44.81 35.71 38.47 preparedness contribution) Tax prepayments 7.70 7.23 6.97 Taxes to be 127.56 104.95 95.85 remitted total The summary includes taxes and charges that Fingrid is under legal obligation to pay or to collect the tax or payment in question. However, taxes that are included in the purchase price of a product or service and which Fingrid is not under legal obligation to declare are not included in the summary data. Most of the summary’s taxes and charges concern Finland. The Group has had little business operations in Denmark since 2018, as a consequence of which a low amount of income tax has been paid to Denmark and a low amount of tax prepayments on the salaries paid to personnel in Denmark have been remitted. The Group’s operations mainly concern Finland. Payable income taxes reported for 2017 have been restated more accurately. Key events of 2018 Fingrid wins award for climate friendly bonds Climate Bonds Initiative granted Fingrid a certificate in recognition of creating the first corporate Green Bond in Finland. Fingrid uses the proceeds from the Green Bond, issued in November 2017, to finance its investments with expected long-term net positive environmental impacts. The Green Bond Awards are given in recognition of organisations, financial institutions, government bodies and private individuals who have led the development of green finance and green bond markets, and through their pioneering initiatives have set a positive example of climate friendly and low carbon investment. Fingrid was presented with the award in May 2018, in London. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 49 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system Power ssyystem Climate change is changing both the power system and customer behaviour. As a consequence of the structural change in production and consumption, power production and consumption are increasingly dependent on the weather. Evolving technology, real-time data and situational awareness enable and demand new ways of operating. European network codes, a clean energy package, forms of Nordic co-operation and data protection requirements guide our grid operations, which we develop together with our customers. Fingrid Oyj tr transmission ansmission grid This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 50 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system It is crucial for society that the power system functions reliably and that electricity is available every second for industry and citizens. The increase in renewable energy production, which varies according to the weather, and the simultaneous decline in adjustable condensing power pose a challenge on the supply of electricity. Flexible condensing power has traditionally been the cornerstone of energy supply in Finland. New solutions for balancing production and consumption must be found and have indeed been successfully introduced. Perspectives related to emergency supply and exceptional situations must also be reassessed. No real change in electricity consumption, increase in disturbances Finland’s electricity consumption rose by roughly 2 (0.5) per cent compared to the previous year, and totalled 87.4 (85.5) terawatt hours in 2018. Fingrid transmitted a total of 68.6 (66.2) terawatt hours of electricity in its grid, representing 78.5 (75.5) per cent of the transmission volume in Finland (consumption and inter-TSO). The electricity import and production capacity was sufficient to cover the peak consumption during the year. The average hourly power rating of electricity consumption peaked on 28 February 2018, when consumption reached 14,062 (14,300) megawatts. During the peak consumption hour, Finland generated 10,600 megawatts of electricity, and the remaining 3,460 megawatts was imported from neighbouring countries. Draught was the hallmark of the summer of 2018, and the lack of water resources increased the price of electricity in the Nordic countries. One of the impacts of the high Nordic prices was increased transmission of electricity from Russia to Finland. In 2018, electricity transmissions between Finland and Sweden consisted mostly of large imports to Finland. The bulk of electricity transmission between Finland and Estonia was from Estonia to Finland during the spring and the autumn. During other times, the dominant direction was from Finland to Estonia. The transmission was steered by the markets and the weekly transmission direction varied according to the current market situation. Electricity imports from Russia increased compared with the previous year, and the intraday variations were large. The maximum transmission capacity was available almost throughout the year, with the exception of the annual maintenance work carried out at the Vyborg DC station and on the Russian grid. No export capacity to Russia was available. There was an increase in planned maintenance shut-downs on the connections between Sweden and Finland compared to the previous year, but the connections to Estonia and Russia were only subject to normal annual maintenance. 10-12/ 10-12/ Countertrade 1-12/18 1-12/17 18 17 Countertrade between Finland and Sweden, €M 1.9 0.4 1.8 0.1 Countertrade between Finland and Estonia, €M 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 Countertrade between Finland’s internal connections, 2.2 1.3 0.2 0.0 €M Total countertrade, €M 4.1 1.8 2.0 0.1 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 51 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system Finland’s main grid operated reliably in 2018. The importance of electricity transmission reliability is illustrated by the fact that the cost of a nationwide major disturbance to customers and society at large would be in the region of EUR 100 million for each hour of outage. Our transmission reliability rate reached a historical high of 99.9999 (99.9997) per cent. The most significant event that affected transmission reliability was a fire at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation on 18 July 2018, which resulted in damage to a 400-kilovolt current transformer. The fire and the resulting repairs at the substation prevented the nuclear power plant units 1 and 2 at Olkiluoto from supplying the grid with electricity. Fingrid issued a warning on 19 July 2018 that the domestic production and imports of electricity may possibly be insufficient to meet consumption. The electricity shortage was avoided, however. In October, the Petäjäskoski–Letsi transmission line that runs between Finland and Sweden was damaged on the Swedish side. It took longer than normal to repair the damage due to poor weather conditions and caused significant countertrade costs. During the review period, we raised our disturbance-clearing readiness twice. We pro-actively raise our readiness in situations where, for example, difficult weather is expected to pose challenges to grid maintenance. This enables us to resolve and provide information on disturbances as quickly as possible. An outage in a connection point in the grid caused by a disturbance in Fingrid’s electricity network lasted an average of 12.0 (2.2) minutes, which clearly exceeds the ten-year average. The biggest reason for the increase was the fire at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation. The cost of the disturbances (regulatory outage costs) was EUR 1.5 (2.8) million, and including the quick reconnections, EUR 3.6 million. The reliability and usability of DC connections were at an excellent level in 2018. The number of disturbances and the total duration of disturbances were significantly above the 2017 levels. Except for the single most serious disturbance during 2018, the connections were restored very quickly after disturbances. Thus the countertrade costs in 2018 were only around EUR 140,000, close to the exceptionally good level of 2017. The most serious disturbance occurred in the EstLink 1 connection in November and took around 23 days to repair. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 52 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system Countertrade costs totalled EUR 4.1 (1.8) million. The increased countertrade costs can be attributed to the fire at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation and the disruptions in the Petäjäskoski–Letsi transmission line. Countertrade refers to special adjustments made to manage electricity transmission which are used to eliminate short-term bottlenecks i.e. areas where electricity transmission is congested from the grid. Fingrid guarantees the crossborder transmission it has confirmed by carrying out countertrades, i.e. purchasing and selling electricity, up until the end of the 24-hour usage period. The need for countertrade can arise from, for example, a power outage or disruption in a power plant or in the grid. Transmission outages in connection with investment projects took place throughout Finland. Demanding outages require careful advance planning and close co-operation with customers. Reserves required to maintain the power balance of the power system were procured from Finland, other Nordic countries, Estonia and Russia. Fingrid’s directly controllable reserve power plant capacity increased along with the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 53 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system addition of the Kyrökoski power plant at the start of the year. The availability of reserves was good, with the exception of the spring floods, which limited the availability of hydropower plants to reserve maintenance. New supply, mostly consumption, was available, especially for the frequency-controlled disturbance reserve, the market price level of which fell clearly from the previous year’s level. Sales of frequency-controlled reserves to Sweden grew compared to the previous year. In accordance with the agreement between the Nordic TSOs, hours for maintaining the automatic frequency-regulating reserve were added, and the procurement costs for the reserve type correspondingly increased compared to the previous year. The volume of transmission losses in the grid remained at the level of the previous year, 1.2 (1.2) terawatt hours. This is 1.3 (1.4) per cent of the total volume of transmitted electricity. The annual variation of losses is affected by the Nordic electricity production situation, such as the sufficiency of hydropower. Power system operation 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Electricity consumption in Finland, TWh 87.4 85.5 85.1 82.5 83.4 Fingrids transmission volume, TWh 68.6 66.2 68.5 67.9 67.1 Fingrid's loss power volume, TWh 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.3 Electricity transmission Finland–Sweden Exports to Sweden, TWh 1 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.15 Imports from Sweden, TWh 14.5 15.6 15.7 17.8 18.1 Electricity transmission Finland–Estonia Exports to Estonia, TWh 2.4 1.7 3.1 5 3.6 Imports from Estonia, TWh 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.05 0.05 Electricity transmission Finland–Norway Exports to Norway, TWh 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Imports from Norway, TWh 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 Electricity transmission Finland–Russia Exports to Russia, TWh 0 0.02 Imports from Russia, TWh 7.9 5.8 5.9 3.9 3.4 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 54 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system Key events of 2018 Jäätyvä exercises cascaded to regions In the nationwide Jäätyvä exercise held in Kuopio in 2017, co-operation between different parties was put to the test in a mock widespread power outage caused by weather conditions, affecting both the local and the main grid. Encouraged by the positive experiences gained in the exercise, the National Emergency Supply Agency, Fingrid, various authorities and local operators arranged a regional Jäätyvä exercise in eastern Finland in 2018. Three similar regional exercises will take place in 2019. In a disturbance situation, co-operation becomes much more difficult when communication lines break down. Therefore, co-ordination of operations and joint action must be planned and practiced beforehand. The regional exercises have proved that the lessons learned in previous nationwide major exercises have been put into practice. Processes for mutual help between authorities have become clearer, situational awareness and tools for maintaining contact have been developed, and use of such tools is smooth. The use of the Virve administrative security radio network has become routine and the KRIVAT system is in active use. KRIVAT is a joint ICT and situational awareness system maintained by the State Security Networks Group Finland for critical operators of infrastructure. Joint disturbance exercise of Nordic TSOs and sector authorities The Nordic countries operate on a common electricity market. This means it is essential to prepare for various threats and disturbances that could have wide-reaching repercussions on all Nordic countries. The EU regulation on risk-preparedness in the electricity sector will require regional co-ordination, so the Nordic countries are already forerunners in this matter. The Black Screen II exercise in November involved encountering cyber-threats and engaging in joint communication. The exercise is an extension of the Black Screen I exercise held in Oslo, Norway, in autumn 2017. A key objective of the exercise was to find, in addition to actual fault clearing techniques, also communication models and means applicable across national borders. Black Screen II highlighted the vital importance of cross-border electricity transmission among the Nordic countries. At the exercise, the scenario built around a cyber-threat was very challenging, but also realistic. The aim was also to actually resolve the fault, but above all, it was about collaborating on joint communication with organisations and the media. Considerable valuable experience was gained from the exercise. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 55 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system What is an electricity shortage? The disturbance at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation presented a real threat of an electricity shortage. Situations related to managing electricity shortages are divided into three levels based on their severity: 1. An ‘electricity shortage possible’ situation (strained power balance) describes a situation where domestic production and imports are not expected to be sufficient to cover electricity consumption within the next few hours or the next 24-hour period. 2. A ‘high risk of electricity shortage’ situation (power shortage) is considered to exist when all of the electricity production available in Finland is in use and it is not possible to import more electricity from neighbouring countries. Fingrid has therefore had to start up reserve power plants to secure the electricity supply. 3. An ‘electricity shortage’ situation (serious power shortage) is considered to have occurred when electricity production and imports are not enough to cover consumption and some electricity consumption has to be switched off. Distribution system operators switch off consumption so that power outages last no more than two hours and outages are not targeted at society’s key functions. Joint Nordic operational planning services introduced The joint Nordic operational planning office, Nordic RSC, has been operating in Copenhagen, Denmark, since 2017. Fingrid has sent three employees to the office. In 2018, the activities of the office included defining requirements for a transmission capacity calculation system, and the materials necessary for preparing quotations were sent to suppliers. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 56 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Power system This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 57 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Electricity market Ele Elecctricit tricityy mark marke et The transformation of the power system calls for major changes in the current structures of the electricity markets. The inflexibility and increasing unpredictability of production must in the future be balanced by more extensive demand-side management and expanding electricity markets. In terms of demand-side management, Finland is a forerunner in Europe. Fingrid is currently carrying out several projects to increase the flexibility of the electricity markets and to enable the participation of consumers and the producers of intermittently available renewables. One example of this is the transition to a 15-minute imbalance settlement period. The wholesale prices of electricity were clearly on a higher level in 2018 compared with previous years in Nordic countries. The annual average price was at its highest level since 2011 for both the Nordic system price and the Finnish area price. The drivers behind the higher prices include, above all, the increased prices of emission rights and fuels, as well as the lower than normal precipitation affecting hydropower production in the Nordic production areas. Electricity market 2018 2017 2016 Day-ahead system price €/MWh 43.99 29.41 26.91 Area price Finland, average €/MWh 46.8 33.19 32.45 Congestion income in Nordic countries, €M 281.98 265.8 276.8 Congestion income between Finland and Sweden, €M 56.47 50.98 74.98 Congestion hours between Finland and Sweden % 20.6 24.0 32.7 Congestion income between Finland and Estonia, million €M 2.79 0.52 4.4 Congestion hours between Finland and Estonia % 5.4 1.4 9.7 Net electricity imports to Finland diminished slightly from the previous year, yet remained at a high level. More than a fifth of the electricity consumed in Finland was imported. Imports from Sweden shrunk, while imports from Russia grew. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 58 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Electricity market Nordic balance settlement project In March, the TSOs signed a co-operation agreement on developing the new Nordic balancing concept. The agreement establishes a commitment between the five Nordic TSOs to follow a joint roadmap for implementing the new balancing concept and a joint balancing market. The Nordic agreement on joint imbalance settlement will help to keep Finland closely aligned with the Nordic power market also in future. European intraday markets The European intraday markets started up in June 2018. They enable more extensive European electricity markets for continuous trading. The Cross-Border Intraday (XBID) project created a European intraday marketplace for continuous trading. Along with XBID comes a Shared Order Book (SOB) which makes it possible to merge bids left through various exchanges and enables more extensive intraday markets. The introduction of intraday markets was realised through 10 local implementation projects. The joint market currently includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Sweden. Regional expansion of the new marketplace will make trading possible throughout Europe. Smart grids within consumers’ reach The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment’s smart grid working group was wrapped up after two years of solid work. The working group’s task was to present concrete measures for promoting customers’ participation opportunities and for improving transmission reliability in a power system based on clean energy generation. The working group’s final report describes the possibilities of a smart power system and makes several proposals to develop the electricity market. The working group has an ambitious schedule for the implementation of the proposals, and most of the changes are scheduled to be implemented between 2019 and 2021. Some of the working group’s suggestions rely on the completion of the centralised data exchange solution, the Datahub. These policies are a good start towards customer-focused and real-time power markets. Finland must ambitiously invest in launching decentralised resources in the markets, also in the future. Further development areas include new marketplaces for decentralised flexibility, promoting new energy-related technologies, and making electricity, heat and gas systems compatible. Finland is in a position to lead the way both regionally and within the EU. Datahub The Datahub is a centralised information exchange system for retail markets that stores data from all of Finland’s 3.5 million places of electricity consumption. Fingrid Datahub Oy selected the supplier for the Datahub system in June. The Finnish government presented a proposal to the parliament in September on amending the Finnish Electricity Market Act and certain related acts. The Datahub will go live in 2021. The Datahub will compile data from all Finnish electricity consumers. The system will simplify, speed up and enhance the efficiency of the data exchange required by the retail electricity market. The information contained in the Datahub will be used by approximately 100 electricity suppliers and over 80 distribution network companies This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 59 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Electricity market serving electricity consumers. Building the system is a laborious reform for Fingrid and the whole sector. The system will boost the consumer market and bring new opportunities to the electricity market. The Datahub holds a key role in the electricity market’s shift from the current one-hour trading period to a fifteen-minute period. The project has been carried out as a close collaborative effort between various stakeholders. The centralised information exchange model will make business processes more efficient and enable new ways of developing the exchange of information. The rules will become simpler and the quality of information will improve. In future, it will be possible to examine data and utilise it for a number of purposes. What happens in the Datahub? The Datahub is a system for managing data exchange in the electricity retail markets when electricity consumers change their electricity supplier or move to a new address. The Datahub will handle the imbalance settlement and balance error correction process that is currently handled by the distribution system operator. End customers will have the opportunity to authorise other service providers to retrieve their electricity consumption data from the Datahub, for example, in consumption monitoring services. The Datahub speeds up, simplifies, improves and boosts the efficiency of the operations of all parties involved. The Datahub’s business processes help ensure that data is transmitted reliably and securely between the parties. This is the Datahub Key events of 2018 Fingrid helps to build a flexibility market platform Finland, Estonia and Latvia will test out a flexibility market platform as a part of a broad-ranging EU project, Horizon 2020. The European Commission decided in early July to fund the four-year programme that is a step towards real-time, distributed electricity markets and will create new business opportunities in the industry. Fingrid is one of the project partners. The broad EU project consists of several sub-projects. Fingrid participates in a sub-project lead by the Estonian TSO, Elering, that involves testing a flexibility market platform in Finland, Estonia and Latvia. The platform is envisioned to enable the utilisation of distributed power system resources for both maintaining power system balance and the needs of distribution system operators as well as balance responsible parties. The entire project consortium has 42 participants from 15 countries. In addition to Fingrid, the other Finnish participants are Elenia, Empower and Tampere University of Technology. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 60 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Electricity market Finland joins the 15-minute imbalance settlement period Finland is transitioning, along with the rest of the Nordic countries, to a 15-minute imbalance settlement period by the end of 2020. The 15-minute imbalance settlement period is an enabler in the change towards to a clean energy system, which will mean increased variations in the production and consumption of electricity. In Finland, the project is proceeding under Fingrid’s co-ordination, in collaboration with the entire industry. Fingrid has established a reference group composed of stakeholders tasked to recognise the implications of the 15-minute imbalance settlement period for the industry, to look for implementation solutions, to communicate on the change and to promote the implementation of the 15-minute cycle in the decided schedule. Electricity market video simplifies complexity Fingrid has published an easy to understand video that explains the intricacies of the electricity markets. It looks at why electricity must be produced and consumed in equal amounts at all times, how electricity is bought and sold on the wholesale market and how consumption peaks are managed. The video also helps to understand the complicated process that takes place before electricity is available in homes and businesses. Watch the video on our YouTube channel via this link This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 61 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Grid de devvelopmen elopmentt and main mainttenanc enance e National grid planning always has a holistic and forward-looking approach. Fingrid’s current grid vision extends to 2040. The grid vision is insight into the long-term development needs of the main transmission grid, including followup plans for the current projects. Our objective is to carry out the investments in the transmission grid in an effective and timely manner, both in terms of the national economy and grid maintenance. Transmission grid planning anticipates future needs decades in advance, as we build and maintain the grid safely and in a flexible manner to meet society’s electricity production and consumption needs. The vision is based on anticipated future challenges as well as requirements for the transmission of electricity due to changes in production and consumption. The current grid vision is dominated by the transition from fossil fuels to renewable forms of energy that are becoming more competitive by the day. This means growing transmission needs that also vary in time, particularly between northern and southern Finland. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 62 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Grid planning has a market-oriented approach. A well-functioning electricity market benefits all: extensive This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 63 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance international markets and strong transmission connections boost competition and ensure that electricity is always produced in the most efficient way. A bottleneck in the transmission link between Finland and Sweden, for example, may cost consumers several million euros a day. Reinforcing the domestic and cross-border transmission systems in Finland will improve the operations of the electricity market. In a strong transmission network, electricity can freely flow to where demand is highest. Completed and ongoing projects Power lines and substations were built extensively throughout Finland in 2018. The following transmission lines were commissioned: Lieto–Forssa, Elovaara–Pinsiö, Onnela–Vuoksi, Vanaja–Tikinmaa, Vihtavuori–Koivisto and Koria–Yllikkälä. A total of approximately 250 kilometres of new transmission lines were built. Seven substation projects were completed (Hikiä, Huutokoski, Lieto, Porvoo, Iisalmi, Vuoksi and Rännäri). New Vihtavuori–Koivisto connection vital for bioproduct mill In January 2018, we commissioned a 110-kilovolt transmission line between Vihtavuori and Koivisto. The line extends roughly 26 kilometres and was built parallel to the existing Jyväskylä/Vihtavuori–Äänekoski/Koivisto transmission line to serve Metsä Group’s new Äänekoski bioproduct mill. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 64 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Iron Lady II The transmission line system from Imatra to Turku received a name that celebrates history, Iron Lady II. In the early years of Finland’s independence, after 1917, it was thought that the Imatra hydropower plant alone would be sufficient to supply the entire country with electricity. However, its current output, 192 megawatts, only covers a small percentage of Finland’s peak consumption of around 15,000 megawatts. The grid has adapted to changing times. This transmission link is being modernised stage by stage, between Lieto and Forssa, Koria and Yllikkälä, and Hikiä and Orimattila. The final sections of the first high-voltage transmission line in Finland, between Imatra and Turku, ‘Iron Lady’, will be dismantled next year. The 400-kilovolt + 110-kilovolt line between Lieto, close to Turku, and Forssa, totalling 67 kilometres, is already in use. The modernised 110-kilovolt and 82-kilometre transmission connection from the Kouvola Koria substation to Yllikkälä, close to Lappeenranta, was completed and successfully commissioned during the review period. The last section of the old line will be replaced by a new line to be built between Hikiä and Orimattila, which will be completed by the end of 2019. The new transmission will run from Hikiä to Iso-Henna, following the old Iron Lady’s right-of-way. A 16-kilometre section of transmission line from Iso-Henna to Orimattila will be built on a new right-of-way, loosely following the Lahti highway. Transmission lines starting from the Vuoksi substation A new Vuoksi substation has been built between Joutseno and Imatra, and the transmission lines east and west of there will be modernised. The new 110-kilovolt substation was commissioned in 2018 and the new transmission lines will be completed in stages in 2018 and 2019. As the need for energy grows in the future, a 400-kilovolt substation will be built at Vuoksi, with a possibility to link it to Fingrid’s 400-kilovolt network via the 400/ 110-kilovolt Lempiälä–Vuoksi transmission line currently under construction. The new substation and the transmission line routes to the east (to Onnela) and west (to Lempiälä) became topical when Kemira decided to expand the production capacity at its chlor-alkali site in Joutseno. The area, in general, is highly industrialised, and the grid investment will improve the operating conditions for other companies as well. Third AC connection to Sweden The new 400-kilovolt connection from Pyhänselkä in Muhos to Keminmaa and further on to the Messaure substation in Sweden is a strategic transmission link for us. The detailed planning of the right-of-way and the environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the project are currently underway. The transmission link will be built in stages simultaneously in both countries. The agreed border crossing site is at Vuennonkoski on the Tornionjoki river. A total of around 200 kilometres of new powerline will be built on the Finnish side. The goal is to use the existing power line right-of-ways as much as possible. EU support will be applied for, and all stages of the connection are expected to be completed in 2025. The busiest construction stage will be in 2023 and 2024. The need to build a third AC connection between Sweden and Finland is a telltale sign of the ongoing energy transformation. Finland has a growing need to link up with its neighbours and at the same time reinforce the north–south transmission connections. While helping to scale down the use of fossil fuels for electricity production, these capacity upgrades will also enable the transmission of wind power produced in northern Finland to southern Finland. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 65 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Investment decisions and planned investments A record-breaking 600 kilometres of new transmission lines are in the general planning stage in 2019. Our projects will proceed to the construction stage within the next few years. Forest Line to reinforce north–south transmission connections The bulk of electricity consumption in Finland is in the south, which is the destination of electricity transferred from northern Finland and Sweden to serve the needs of energy consumers. The electricity production of the thermal power plants in the south of Finland is decreasing and being replaced with affordable and carbon-neutral energy production from the north. Moreover, Fingrid is planning, in co-operation with the Swedish TSO, a third transmission link between the countries, to be completed in 2025. These changes will further increase the need for north–south transmission capacity. The transmission line that is currently in the general planning stage, which we have named the Forest Line, is more heavy duty and modern than the previous transmission line from central Finland to Oulu. This is a 310-kilometre-long 400-kilovolt transmission line. The planned start of construction of the Forest Line is autumn of 2019, and it is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. Grid reinforcing measures in North Karelia We are replacing 110-kilovolt transmission lines between Uimaharju and Pamilo, Kontiolahti and Uimaharju, and Kontiolahti and Pamilo in North Karelia. These transmission lines built in the municipality of Kontiolahti and the city of Joensuu in the 1960s are rather aged and no longer have sufficient transmission capacity. After the grid reinforcing measures, the lines will be better positioned to meet future needs. The grid reinforcing measures in North Karelia are in the general planning stage. The first section, from Uimaharju to Pamilo, will be built between January and September of 2019. The second stretch to be replaced, from Kontiolahti to Uimaharju, is scheduled to start in summer 2019. The third stage will replace the Kontiolahti–Pamilo transmission line. A total of 112 kilometres of transmission lines will be replaced. A new substation will be built at Pamilo, and the Kontiolahti and Uimaharju substations will be updated. The entire project is due for completion in 2022. Investment decisions Developing the grid on the Oulujoki river We are modernising the power grid around the river Oulujoki, which was built in the 1950s and is approaching the end of its service life. The grid upgrade will start with the modernisation of two substations and the expansion of one substation, and with the construction of new 400-kilovolt + 110-kilovolt transmission lines between Pyhänselkä and Nuojuakangas. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 66 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance The grid development measures have been planned in close co-operation with our customers; more specifically, with the local electricity producers and regional distribution network companies. The local electricity production mainly consists of hydropower, while there are also new wind power projects to boost the existing wind power production. The upgrades will change the regional grid voltage from 220 to 110 kilovolts. Voltage compatibility with the rest of the grid will enable a simpler and, from a systemic point of view, more efficient grid structure. The Oulujoki grid will be modernised in stages. The first stage, to be completed in 2020–2022, will include the construction of the transmission line section between the Pyhänselkä substation in Muhos and the Nuojua substation in Vaala. The Pyhänselkä substation will be expanded, and the Nuojua and Utanen substations will be modernised during this stage. A new, approximately 45-kilometre-long transmission line will be built between Pyhänselkä and Nuojua, with most of this right-of-way situated west of the current transmission lines. This connection will be built in such a way that part of it can later be upgraded to the 400-kilovolt voltage level, when more transmission capacity is again needed between northern and southern Finland. Modernisation of the historical Imatra substation respects landscape values The first substation of Finland’s grid system, in the historical Imatrankoski rapids landscape, continues to be an important component of the transmission system in South Karelia. The substation serves the local hydropower plants and industries, and is the starting point of a cross-border transmission connection to Russia. The 110-kilovolt Imatra substation, originally completed in 1929, has been expanded and modernised over the years. Some foundations and other structures of the original station still remain. The modernisation of the historical Imatra substation will be carried out with due respect for the historical, protected site. The original buildings of the Imatra hydropower plant, which have architectural-historical value and are protected by the municipal master plan, are located next to the substation. The project is due for completion in 2020. Ongoing search for a transmission solution for Helsinki In order to secure the Helsinki region’s electricity supply, we are pursuing a new type of operating model in which the City of Helsinki, the region’s distribution network company Helen Sähköverkko and Fingrid collaborate to carry out an infrastructure project that will serve the Helsinki region’s electricity supply and facilitate land use. In connection with this, Fingrid is preparing to build a new 400-kilovolt cable link from Länsisalmi to Viikinmäki, with plans to have it up and running as soon as the mid-2020s. The parties have committed to drawing up a joint review of the transmission solution to prepare for the implementation of Helsinki master and city plans and Vihdintie boulevard and to enable a smooth planning process. According to tentative calculations, an overall cost-effective solution would be to build a new 400-kilovolt cable link from Länsisalmi to Viikinmäki, which would enable other solutions in the 110-kilovolt distribution network that promote more effective land use. In several cases the solution is an underground cable. Based purely on electricity production and consumption predictions in Helsinki, the cable link would be needed by around 2035. However, Fingrid is ready to speed up the construction of the new 400-kilovolt grid cable link and the new substation if the City of Helsinki and Helen Sähköverkko participate in the costs that the project entails. The common goal of the parties is to carry out the area’s electricity network projects in a way that is compatible with urban development projects during the 2020s. Alternative right-of-ways for the cable link were planned and an environmental impact study was carried out in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 67 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Maintenance The three-year contracts on basic maintenance of substations and power lines and on basic and special maintenance of secondary equipment tendered by Fingrid in 2017 started on 1 January 2018. The first year of the basic maintenance period included fault repair exercises to maintain fault repair capabilities both on transmission lines and substations. Some 40 people participated in the exercise on transmission lines and around 110 people participated in the substation exercise. Top achiever in maintenance Fingrid again scored excellent results in the International Transmission Operations & Maintenance Study (ITOMS), being the only TSO to achieve a Top Performer mention both in the substation and transmission line maintenance categories. ITOMS looks into the effectiveness of maintenance based on criteria such as maintenance costs and disturbance statistics. A total of 28 TSOs from all over the world participate in the comparison study. Fingrid achieved particularly good results in the inspections and maintenance of transmission lines and in the maintenance of switchgear and substation areas. Fingrid is in a class of its own in maintenance efficiency. Developing occupational safety, digitalisation and smart systems are some of Fingrid’s strong focus areas. Digitalising grid substations is one of our strategic development programmes, aiming at a substantial increase in component status data and optimised investment and maintenance costs. Occupational safety One of Fingrid’s long-term goals is to improve the safety culture at work sites and in this way achieve its zero accident objective. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 68 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance In 2018, Fingrid’s own personnel had no workplace accidents resulting in absence from work (2). A total of 4 (9) lost-time accidents were recorded among Fingrid’s service providers. None of the lost-time accidents resulted in an absence of more than 30 days. The suppliers’ and Fingrid’s combined accident frequency rate decreased significantly from the previous year, to 3.2 (8.5). Results from Fingrid’s OHS development project: Safer work practices Production of training animations on additional worksite earthing and work at heights Fingrid’s online training was updated and translated into five additional languages Occupational safety training for personnel Development of our mobile reporting system for occupational safety, quality and environmental issues was continued Two issues of our occupational safety magazine “Safety on the lines” were published Safety observation campaign and OHS seminar This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 69 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance Key events of 2018 A grid substation can be art – architecture awards for Fingrid’s Länsisalmi substation Our Länsisalmi substation was the winner in its category at the respected World Architecture Festival in Amsterdam, Netherlands. The City of Vantaa also granted the Länsisalmi station its Kehäkukka award. According to the jury, the substation is a high-quality and inventive architectural achievement. The overall concept was praised for its clear and strong architecture. The Länsisalmi substation has a key role in the supply of electricity to Helsinki. The attractive shell and stunning arch house cutting-edge technology and massive power capacity for transmitting electricity to nearly 800,000 people in the capital area. There has been a substation at Länsisalmi already since 1994, but the new station built in 2016—2017 makes a whole new presence of itself for the motorists driving on Ring Road III and Porvoo motorway. A nearly 50-metre landscape portal from steel was raised to become the landmark of the substation, and the buildings are clad with glass tiles with background lighting that is switched on in the evenings. Digital substation makes maintenance easier Fingrid’s strategic projects also include the digital substation concept, with IoT solutions to improve maintenance management in particular. The digital project is aimed at more proactive fault monitoring and thus more transparent equipment and asset management. More secure maintenance also improves the quality of grid service. The new technology This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 70 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Grid development and maintenance lessens the impact of disturbances due to maintenance work and faults, and enables maintenance work to be more precisely targeted to actual needs. This results in better cost-effectiveness. The enablers of this development project include modern sensor technology and wireless data transfer solutions. These technologies have achieved a sufficient performance and cost level to enable the adoption of new operational practices. Cloud platforms, analytics, and visualisation and reporting tools additionally offer good methods of using new as well as existing condition data from various data storages for various applications. The first version of functional architecture was developed and rolled out in 2018. It enables the provisioning of IoT monitoring units into the system, management of messaging and metadata, analytics solutions, remote control as well as initial visualisation of the results with applicable tools. We have started the engineering design process for the first digital substation pilot in Fingrid’s history. The project aims at forward-looking digital solutions for the Pernoonkoski substation close to Kotka. The goal is to create a digitalised substation that is compact, safe, environmentally sustainable, remote controlled and provides excellent cost-effectiveness both in terms of capex and operational costs. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 71 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Research and development Resear arch ch and de devvelopmen elopmentt The volume of research and development (R&D) activities increased substantially during the year under review, amounting to EUR 3.6 (2.6) million. Most of the research activities were outsourced to universities, research institutions and other players. Fingrid’s own work mainly consisted of thesis projects and steering of R&D projects. Fingrid’s role in R&D activities is increasingly becoming that of an expert in national and international research consortiums, bringing to the table a point of view that serves the entire power system and society’s needs. On the other hand, R&D co-operation with start-ups, technology providers and research institutions is an effective way of gaining access to the best expertise. The biggest R&D involvements were in grid asset maintenance management and grid development within the framework of securing transmission capacity (57% of the total R&D costs). The second most important target for resources (25%) was the development of the electricity market. The development of system security management received 16% of the expenditure. The rest of the costs were allocated to several projects. The biggest overall project is the digitalisation of grid substation maintenance management, utilising affordable sensors and smart analytics for equipment monitoring. Other extensive R&D projects included, as in 2017, the development of flexible markets and the development of calculation methodologies in compliance with European network codes to make transmission capacity available to the markets. Fingrid also participated in Nordic R&D co-operation, where one of the goals is to secure future system security in Nordic grids. The results from the R&D projects completed in 2018 include updated requirements for frequencycontrolled disturbance reserves and new system defence plans in case of decreasing system inertia of the grid (kinetic energy). The Nordic development project for a control scheme to avoid power shortage additionally proceeded to the roll-out planning stage. The updated power shortage control scheme improves the system defence against very serious disturbances that place the system security of the Nordic grid system at risk as a consequence of several simultaneous faults. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 72 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility Corp orpor ora ate rre esp sponsibilit onsibilityy Responsible and sustainable business practices are a strategic choice for Fingrid. Responsibility is one of our values. We take care of people and the environmental impacts of our operations, and comply with good governance practices while securing a reliable supply of electricity for everyone in Finland and enabling the achievement of climate goals. In particular, through our operations we promote the UN’s global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) related to climate actions, energy and infrastructure. The starting point for Fingrid’s responsibility and sustainability work is our strategy where responsibility is an integrated goal and a corporate-level strategic choice. Corporate responsibility and compliance management is integrated with Fingrid’s management system and risk management practices. Fingrid’s Board of Directors approves the company’s Code of Conduct and monitors compliance in operating responsibly. Furthermore, the Board is in charge of arranging corporate responsibility management and its integration into business operations. The CEO and the heads of functions are each responsible for compliance management and corporate responsibility issues within their areas of responsibility. Alongside profitability, social issues and environmental impacts are taken into account in a well-balanced way in decision-making and when assessing operations. The Compliance and Responsibility team, which was reorganised in 2018, handles the corporate-level development and reporting. The General Counsel oversees the activities of the team. An appointed development manager is in charge of co-ordinating corporate responsibility reporting. We have recognised the key issues in terms of accomplishing Fingrid’s strategy and functioning daily business. Any need to update the materiality analysis is assessed annually, and the Executive Management Group reviews such needs as part of the strategy process. All the requirements affecting the value chain, the strong link between corporate responsibility and the strategy, and Fingrid’s value creation capabilities are accounted for in this process. No changes in the materiality analysis were identified in 2018. The issues essential for Fingrid were as follows: Success in the company’s mission, which is vital to society Safety and security Procurement practices Stakeholders’ trust Financial result Code of Conduct Caring for the working community Our goal is for Fingrid’s personnel to be known in their day-to-day work for their responsible operating methods, which are developed continuously in the company. Responsibility is reflected in the level of Fingrid’s personnel satisfaction and commitment, in positive feedback from customers and stakeholders, in responsible purchasing practices and responsibility audits, and in honouring tax liabilities. In 2017, Fingrid was Finland’s 17th largest corporate income tax payer. We improve occupational safety in many ways and offset the climate and This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 73 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility environmental impacts of our operations, from planning to maintenance, according to the principle of precautionary action. Fingrid’s work is highly meaningful and our operations create value for Finnish society as a whole by securing highly reliable electricity transmission, a vital service for a well-functioning society. Through our affordable and stable grid fees we help promote Finland’s economic competitiveness. Even in the energy transformation, we have a key mission in ensuring that the grid and electricity markets enable effective action to combat climate change. We have set targets for the key issues in Fingrid’s operations and corporate responsibility, and here we give a summarised account of how they have been accomplished. More examples of our responsibility and sustainability are available in our annual report, which applies integrated reporting principles. Every Fingrid employee makes a commitment to work in compliance with our Code of Conduct, which is based on the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative and the principles guiding business operations and human rights. Fingrid is committed to the UN Global Compact initiative’s principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This strengthens the strategic and operational integration of corporate social responsibility in our operating methods and supports the co-operation with our agreement partners in promoting sustainable development and corporate responsibility. Under our Code of Conduct, we are committed to respecting people and human rights. To ensure that we understand our impacts on human rights, we have carried out an assessment in compliance with the due diligence process recommended in the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and we update our action plan annually. Our managers and the entire work community ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. We require that all new employees, as well as the entire personnel, commit to completing our online induction course on the Code of Conduct. The online course was updated in 2018. The updated online training takes into account the new General Data Protection Regulation, and data security was one of the topics in internal audits, in addition to compliance management issues. A confidential reporting channel managed by an independent third party is available to employees who suspect a breach of the Code of Conduct. Preparations were made during the year to make the reporting channel available to external stakeholders as well. We achieved an excellent AAA rating in a survey This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 74 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility where our personnel assessed the sustainability of our ways of operating. Responsible procurement practices are impactful in Fingrid’s outsourcing-based business model. We also require all contractors to comply with Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Conduct, and we monitor their compliance based on risk assessments. Fingrid is prepared to commit, through similar principles, to the corporate responsibility requirements set by contractual partners. Grid infrastructure construction and maintenance is subject to competitive bidding, and our work sites around Finland employ a competent workforce also from abroad. We ensure that we meet our obligations to investigate and our responsibility when using an external workforce. During the year, we developed our processes by securing compliance with social obligations for new suppliers according to the public procurement procedure applied to special sectors, such as criminal register data, and by implementing continuous monitoring of international sanctions. We audited ten of our work sites to verify compliance with contractor obligations, occupational safety and environmental management. The audits revealed that operations and induction at the work sites are generally on a good level and continuously improving. We additionally introduced an external service for monitoring the payroll and employment issues of foreign workforce. To ensure compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct in international goods sourcing, we audited 15 production plants in seven countries through a third-party auditor. Follow-up audits were also carried out. The audited companies included both Fingrid’s direct contractual partners and their suppliers. The deviations mainly concerned fire safety, working hours, payroll practices and management systems. The shortcomings were addressed collaboratively according to the related action plans. Our experts observed occupational safety and working conditions also in connection with technical factory tests. Reporting on corporate responsibility is one of the topics in Fingrid’s annual report, in compliance with the principles of integrated reporting. To ensure transparency and comparability, our reporting has complied with the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework since 2011. Our reported data is compiled in a GRI Content Index. We also take into account the requirements for corporate responsibility reporting by state-owned companies and ESG reporting guidance for stock exchanges. The annual report stands for a Communication on Progress (COP) report in compliance with the UN’s Global Compact initiative. The Report of the Board of Directors includes also non-financial information. The corporate responsibility reporting for 2018 was verified by a third party. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 75 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility Key events of 2018 Net impact assessment shows that Fingrid’s operations have significant positive impacts on society and the climate One of the most debated topics in corporate responsibility is value creation. It attracts a lot of interest from boards of directors, investors and other stakeholders alike. The value created by a company and maintaining it in the future are parameters often gauged visually, but they can more and more often also be evaluated numerically. Together with Upright Oy, we carried out an exercise to evaluate the added value Fingrid creates for society, in other words our net impact, using data from 2017. Upright’s model evaluated the positive and negative impacts of Fingrid’s operations in four dimensions: the environment, health, society and information. The data for the key impacts was processed into so-called impact units to achieve comparability. The purpose of this approach is to create an understanding of the scale of the various impacts, instead of accurately gauging individual impacts. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 76 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility According to the net impact analysis, Fingrid creates significant positive impacts on climate and society. The evaluation of the environmental and climate dimension shows that the positive impact of Fingrid’s operations clearly outweigh the resulting environmental harm, as the electricity transmission grid provides a platform for a clean power system. The positive impact resulting from the grid’s enabling role in clean power production and consumption clearly exceeds the harm to biodiversity and people caused by the transmission lines and Fingrid’s own greenhouse gas emissions. When evaluating the social dimension, Fingrid also creates a significant positive impact by enabling electricity supply at market prices and by ensuring the system security of the Finnish power system. Well-functioning electricity markets and cross-border connections ensure effective price formation for electricity. High system security of the grid helps to avoid financial losses. System security is vital to a society that is dependent on a large supply of electricity, a fact that is further highlighted by the increasing electrification of our society in the future. The information dimension of Fingrid’s operations is also highly significant, as data on the electricity markets and the power system becomes openly available and free of charge to citizens and various operators in society. This enables the development of new and innovative digital solutions. Datahub, the centralised information exchange solution for retail markets, offers quality information exchange services, provides a platform for future innovations, and enables a development leap in the retail markets for electricity. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 77 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel Per erssonnel According to Fingrid’s HR vision, our corporate culture is open, collaborative, renewing and target-oriented. We are at the leading edge of change and we are prepared for the future with our world-class expertise. The members of our work community are customer-focused renewers, responsible result achievers, go-getting team players and international networkers. Our company has an excellent employer image, and the best experts in their field work for us. Work still needs to be done to advance our vision, but we are on the right track. Open dialogue fosters trust Openness has long been one of Fingrid’s basic values. Openness means dialogue and mutual sharing of information. Employees’ input has a visible role in personnel meetings, and their views are heard. The topics of employer/employee dialogue include remote work, corporate culture and working-hour practices, and we carry out an annual personnel survey to receive feedback for continuous improvement. Corporate Spirit carried out Fingrid’s third PeoplePower personnel survey during the year. Compared to other expert organisations, our results were excellent. Fingrid scored the highest rating, AAA, which is achieved only by around six per cent of all surveyed organisations annually. The survey not only indicates employee satisfaction in a specific company, but also compares the results with those of peer companies. The commitment index describes the starting points created by the employee’s work, immediate work This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 78 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel community and perception of the whole organisation and its future outlook for personnel retention and commitment in the current labour market situation. The leadership index describes the quality of leadership based on the employees’ feelings of being valued, trusted and treated fairly. The performance index describes the conditions that the available information and tools, organisation of operations and day-to-day practices create for efficient operations. The engagement index describes how positively and unfalteringly employees feel about their work, the organisation and the values it represents and on how prepared they are to go the extra mile to achieve the organisation’s goals where required. The PeoplePower® index gives an overall picture of the organisation’s state and its capability to meet internal and external challenges. The indices are calculated so that their minimum value would be 0 if all of the respondents were extremely critical, and the maximum value would be 100 if all of the respondents were extremely positive in answering all of the questions included in the index. An additional aspect of openness is that all information in the company is internally openly available and that the personnel are authorised to communicate with one another. All employees are responsible for communication. Accordingly, the employees are expected to respond to matters related to their own work and to comment on them internally, and to contribute to the internal flow of information within the company. Everyone at Fingrid should have good communication and interaction skills. A tailored training programme called Loikka (i.e. ‘Leap’) was started during 2018 to increase the understanding of expert staff concerning changes in Fingrid’s operating environment and stakeholders’ expectations, and to increase the capabilities to act as Fingrid’s ambassadors. The training was very successful and the positive feedback from the participants provides incentive to continue similar activities. Our experts felt that they had in particular learned about the importance of interaction and presence: how everyone can have an impact and create progress by communicating understandably and taking other people into consideration. Joint progress Caring and well-being are the goals of our HR policy. In practice, caring means solutions to support the individual, such as flexible working hour arrangements, support for recreational activities and overall well-being. In accordance with Fingrid’s HR policy, employees are treated with respect and fairness, based on the company’s values and in compliance with the principles of equal opportunity and non-discrimination. Equal opportunity and non-discrimination are part of the corporate culture. Alongside responsibility, openness and efficiency, impartiality is one of Fingrid’s values. We value the possibility to gather all our employees in one place every year. Three personnel days were organised during the year, the main aim of which is to initiate shared discussion and awareness of current affairs relating to the company's operations. Apart from business talk, it is also important to boost team spirit and have a bit of fun. We cherish our connections with former colleagues and retired employees on Fingrid’s Alumni Day. An overall aim of Fingrid’s management system and facilities is to foster co-operation and community spirit – a culture of caring for one another. Our slogan, ‘Fingrid delivers’, has multiple meanings, but above all, it refers to caring about people. We aim to secure the overall well-being of our personnel by offering meaningful work, by nurturing a good workplace atmosphere and through exemplary leadership. We offer flexible job solutions and This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 79 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel promote possibilities for enriching recreation. Fingrid’s employees have access to a wide range of comprehensive occupational healthcare and well-being services that aim to support their work capacity and well-being, regardless of the location. Our goal-oriented well-being activities bring results, and our people understand the value of self-care. The number of absences due to illness has been remarkably low for many years now, and the high age of retirement and the lowest possible disability pension contribution category bear further testimony to the well-being of our employees. As in previous years, the number of occupational accidents at Fingrid remained low. A total of 6 (6) accidents took place, one of which led to a short absence from work. Absences due to accidents or illnesses accounted for 1 (1) per cent of working time during the year. Renewal and innovation As technology and the entire operational environment evolves, working life changes continuously. Jobs are being replaced by robotics, but at the same time, new professions and tasks are emerging and competence requirements are changing. Social and interaction skills, as well as the capacity for renewal and critical thinking, will be increasingly highlighted in future. Independent decision-making by experts, and responsibility for work efficiency and personal development will increase. Fingrid responds to changes by offering its employees opportunities to develop and grow their competence. The approach of securing expertise as a strategic choice improves the quality of personnel planning and helps the company to better prepare for future needs. Fingrid takes a broad view of learning and development: we offer opportunities precisely for on-the-job learning with the help of demanding tasks, diverse projects and job rotation. We invest more than a million euros annually to develop both the work community and each employee’s personal development. In addition to common training provided by the company, personnel can take initiative by proposing specific training to boost their know-how. The topics covered in company-level training events during the year include language instruction, presentation and communication coaching, customer service coaching as well as training support to units and teams amid various changes and in developing their operations. In 2018, each Fingrid employee received an average of 5 (4) days of training. Fingrid’s innovation activities aim to improve the company’s ability to respond to changes in the operating environment. Continuous brainstorming, constructive criticism of existing operations, and development through trial and error are some of the innovation activities aimed at improving the productivity and quality of the operations. More radical innovations have been sought in co-operation with start-ups, research institutions and other top experts. An example of this is the Radicamp project, which started already in 2017. The project involves five workshops where new innovations for creating a more modern power system monitoring room were sought after in co-operation with stakeholders. The aim is to achieve real-time status of the power system and to better communicate this situational awareness to stakeholders. Another example of using external resources for innovation are the open innovation competitions organised to develop the maintenance management of substation equipment. The competitions have resulted in activities to develop new solutions with the four most successful companies. Target-oriented CEO of one’s own work In addition to securing expertise, we focus on the ability of the employees to lead themselves. We speak about being one’s own CEO. In practice, this means that each employee is independently in charge of his or her own tasks and areas of responsibility. In order for every employee to be the CEO of his or her own work, the management approach throughout the company must focus on coaching and engaging people. This is promoted particularly in supervisor trainings, but also through our communications to the entire personnel. Continuous This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 80 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel interaction between an employee and the supervisor is something that Fingrid especially values. The dialogue is ongoing daily, and formal performance reviews are held twice a year. The performance reviews include a discussion on personal goals and results as well as an individual long-term and short-term development plan. Performance reviews apply to all permanent employees. In leadership, we primarily monitor work results rather than working hours. We are strongly in favour of flexible working arrangements and we further increased flexibility based on employee feedback in 2018. All of this requires solid trust. Fingrid’s personnel increased, as in several previous years, due to the company’s new responsibilities and growth in the volume of the operations. New professionals were hired both in grid operation business processes and in IT tasks. At the end of the year, Fingrid Oyj employed 365 industry experts and Datahub Oy employed 15. In a bid to find new talent, we are making long-term efforts to develop our employer image. Our activities during the year included several recruitment fairs and student events, produced videos to present our professions and clarified our employer branding communications. Young students are an important target group for us, which is why we offer a relatively high number of summer jobs and trainee opportunities across Finland, considering our size – in 2018 to around 40 young people. For a few years now, we have actively participated in, for instance, the Responsible Summer Job campaign to give a good example of a responsible employer for young people. Key events of 2018 GDPR tested in cyber-security exercise Fingrid organised a cyber-security exercise focusing on the EU s new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The Incident Response (IR) team established at Fingrid practiced the GDPR-compliant procedures to follow in the event of a cyber attack. In addition to Fingrid s data security unit, the IR team includes the key functions involved in the initial stages of any cyber attack response: legal counsel services, HR, corporate communications, shop steward and company security service. The IR team exercise revealed several areas that require further development, including the team composition and instructions. The exercise boosted Fingrid s capabilities to react in exceptional circumstances. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 81 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel One of Finland’s best places to work For the second time, Fingrid came in 10th in the mid-sized companies category of the Great Place to Work Finland 2018 survey in February. The Great Place to Work Finland award recognises organisations with excellent workplace cultures based on both an employee survey and an HR assessment. A total of 156 organisations participated in the 2018 survey. Fingrid was also included in the list of Finland s Most Inspiring Workplaces published on 6 February 2018. The top scores in various employee surveys bear witness to successful development of the operations. Employees views are heard on key topics, and the personnel is energetic, motivated and feel they are doing important and meaningful work. Running and walking for children in Helsinki The theme for the training day for the entire personnel was communication and influencing: How do we, as a company, influence society and, as individuals, each other? Realising the importance of one s own role as part of the company s strategy was strongly highlighted. Customers need to be able to trust that our operations are cost-effective and that we are not wasting their money. Even though we are experts in our field, we need a more personal approach and more personalised messages in all our communications and activities. After the business talk, we exercised for a good cause: for every lap around the bay of Töölönlahti in Helsinki, a contribution was made to the non-profit organisation Hope ry. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 82 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Personnel Great summer job experience Fingrid again participated in the Responsible Summer Job campaign, where our goal was to support fair recruiting practices. The feedback we received indicated that the people working our summer jobs felt they had been treated fairly. The majority were happy with their summer jobs and with Fingrid as an employer. People felt that their tasks were pleasant and the colleagues were friendly. Summer jobs were seen as a good way to gain work experience in a company that operates in one's own field of study. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 83 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Environment En Envir vironmen onmentt Fingrid’s operations have a significant positive impact on the environment and climate. Our nationwide main grid creates a platform for a clean power system, which is needed to mitigate climate change. When we build and maintain power lines, substations and reserve power plants, we make sure that environmental and land-use issues are taken into account for the long term. We also relate our principles for reducing our environmental impacts in our land use and environmental policy. Key aspects include a thorough environmental impact assessment (EIA) and preparedness for environmental risks. Our reserve power plants have an ISO 14001 environmental certification. Achieving climate goals requires impactful actions and collaboration. Building and maintaining the transmission grid contributes to the production and consumption of clean electricity and makes Fingrid a key player in combatting climate change. However, our grid investments that enable the transition to a clean power system also contribute to our carbon footprint. We also work to reduce these negative climate impacts of our operations, even though Fingrid’s positive climate impact heavily outweighs them. Fingrid has been reporting on the climate impact of its operations according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) since 2011. Fingrid’s direct CO2 emissions and indirect CO2 emissions, due to the company’s own electricity consumption and transmission losses, totalled 212,202 tonnes of This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 84 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Environment CO2 in 2018. The majority of the emissions (approx. 94%) was caused by the electricity production required to replace power losses taking place during electricity transmission. We minimise losses by keeping the voltage of the transmission grid as high as possible and by making grid investments and equipment procurements that promote energy efficiency. The carbon footprint of the losses diminishes with the changing production mix of electricity, as we enable the transmission of clean electricity in the main grid. Roughly 0.4 per cent of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions are Fingrid’s emissions. Fingrid is one of the participants in the energy efficiency agreement of Finnish industries for 2017–2025 with a target of cutting energy use by six per cent. In addition to transmission losses, some climate impact is caused by the reserve power plants used in serious disturbances of the power system and by the powerful greenhouse gas used in substation equipment, sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). Our SF6 gas emissions were approximately 21 (24) kilograms. At the end of 2018, there was a total of approximately 49 (45) tonnes of SF6 gas at the substations, and the long-term annual leakage rate has been very low, less than 0.2 per cent on average. Fingrid’s head office building has the international LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) environmental certificate at the gold level. A thesis study on Fingrid’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions was completed during the year, focusing on the quantities of emission sources other than those owned or controlled by Fingrid. After the transmission losses, the second most important source of indirect greenhouse gas emissions turned out to be the materials used in the grid, in the transmission lines in particular, and the transportation of ready-to-use components. Steel and aluminium production especially increase the carbon footprint of the material production. We will evaluate appropriate measures to further develop our regular greenhouse gas reporting and any additional measures to decrease our negative climate impact on the basis of the thesis results. Contractors’ and service suppliers’ commitment to our operating practices is ensured with the help of contractual terms, environmental training and auditing related to environmental matters. All personnel working at Fingrid’s This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 85 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Environment work sites complete online training on environmental matters. The service providers employed during the year received training in the updated waste management and recycling practices, as well as environmental training at the start of investment projects and maintenance contracts. Environmental aspects were monitored as part of work site monitoring. Compliance with environmental requirements, occupational safety and contractor obligations were verified in a total of 10 audits. Two audits on overall safety and several audits related to the environmental management system were carried out at reserve power plants. Our goal is to complete grid investment projects and maintenance without any significant environmental deviations. Such deviations did not occur during the year under review. Materials discarded when building new grid sections and substations or dismantling from old structures are recycled as efficiently as possible. The total volume of waste during the year was approximately 11,890 tonnes, of which 71 per cent was utilised in some way and 62 per cent was recycled. Fingrid actively participates in land-use planning to ensure safety and land-use reservations for the grid. In 2018, Fingrid issued about 290 statements on land-use plans and environmental impact assessments. In addition, we directed the construction taking place near grid installations by issuing roughly 450 statements that included safety instructions and land-use restrictions. The impacts of transmission line projects on people and on the environment are determined according to an EIA procedure as required under the legislation on the environmental impact assessment procedure or, for projects with minor impacts, by means of an environmental study. Consultations with landowners are very important in terms of ensuring that the power line adapts to the environment, taking into account various perspectives and stakeholders. The existing transmission line right-of-ways are primarily used in our projects, in accordance with the nationwide land-use objectives stipulated in the Land Use and Building Act. When planning transmission line routes in a new right-of-way, a key aspect is to avoid residential areas and other sensitive sites. In 2018, environmental assessments were drawn up for the 400-kilovolt underground cable connection planned in Helsinki and for the transmission line project from Kangasala to Tampere. The environmental assessment procedure is ongoing for the Pyhänselkä–Nuojua transmission line and for the Pyhänselkä–Keminmaa and Keminmaa–Tornionjoki transmission lines linked with the third AC connection to Sweden. The projects were presented in four public events during 2018. Fingrid also promoted landowner engagement during the planning stages of these projects through a mailing campaign and an online feedback system. In order to be able to build, operate and maintain a transmission line, Fingrid expropriates a right-of-use to the transmission line area. Expropriation permit rulings were received for the Elovaara–Pinsiö and Pamilo–Uimaharju transmission lines. Expropriation permit applications were drawn up for the Forest Line, Pamilo–Uimaharju and This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 86 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Environment Kontiolahti–Uimaharju transmission line projects. The compensation process for compulsory purchase was completed for the Hikiä–Forssa, Lavianvuori re-routing, Vihtavuori–Koivisto and Vuoksi–Onnela transmission line projects as well as for the nearly completed Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä project. Fifteen hearings in accordance with the Finnish Expropriation Act were held with landowners. Our goal is successful interaction with landowners and neighbours of transmission line right-of-ways. We received good grades from landowners in three surveys on recently completed transmission line projects. On a scale from 1 to 5, our average grade was 3.8. The landowners’ expectations were related to mutual agreements on the use of access roads and movements of our site teams, and to communications on the progress of work. We have taken note of the feedback in developing our project communications, and we continued our experiments with new communication channels and social media. Legislation on protection of the public from non-ionised radiation from the electromagnetic fields of power lines was updated in December 2018. Fingrid participated in the preparations of the new legislation. The changes do not affect Fingrid’s operations. We continued to publish, jointly with an independent expert party, status reports on global, medically oriented research on electromagnetic fields. While there is no new, conflicting evidence of the health impacts, we understand that people are concerned about the electromagnetic fields of power lines and will monitor the research on this topic. Fingrid also participated in the monitoring group of the review of the Finnish Expropriation Act. The purpose of the review was to determine if changes are necessary to the expropriation legislation from 1978. There has been some discussion on the grounds for compensations, for example. Fingrid has proposed practical changes to make the expropriation procedure more efficient. We seek to reduce environmental impacts in all stages of the grid lifecycle. The service providers working on maintenance and vegetation trimming along power line right-of-ways are instructed to pay attention to landowners and site-specific environmental values. Landowners were also kept informed. In addition to climate change, degradation of habitats and loss of biodiversity are serious causes of concern both in Finland and globally. People often feel that the clearings made for transmission lines mean a negative change in the local land usage and landscape, but in terms of biodiversity, these open and sunny environments can also have positive impacts. Being cleared regularly, the transmission line areas can act as a replacement habitat for species threatened by disappearing meadows or the drainage of peatlands. Fingrid promotes the usability of transmission line areas by offering landowners idea cards containing information on safe practices for utilising the powerline right-of-ways both for ecological and financial benefits. We also grant initial funding and advisory services for managing the right-of-way as a heritage habitat. Widening transmission line clearings can prevent the movements of flying squirrels, a species under strict protection. Measures were taken to secure the passage of flying squirrels in the Vihtavuori–Koivisto transmission line project commissioned during the year. Special poles were erected in the transmission line clearing to provide flying squirrels a passage across the clearing. Over time, trees growing at the crossing area will form the permanent passage. Key events of 2018 Procedure for increasing decayed wood and biodiversity in forests next to transmission lines Many of the endangered species living in forest habitats depend on decaying wood. We have evaluated our possibilities to take into account the crucial role of decaying wood in biodiversity and to leave more of it in the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 87 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Environment forest when clearing the edges of power line right-of-ways to secure reliable transmission of electricity. In our model, we ask the landowners for permission to artificially make dead trees close to the edge of the right-ofway when we contact them to agree on the clearing work. The trees are cut off at a height of 2 to 4 metres and left to rot standing up. Also the crowns are left decaying in the forest. Trees of low financial value or ones that are already drying up are primarily used for the purpose. Many insects, fungi, lichens and moss species depend on decaying wood. Dried up trees offer nesting hollows for birds. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 88 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Corp orpor ora ate rre esp sponsibilit onsibilityy GRI dis disclosur closure es GENERAL DISCLOSURES Additional Global Standard GRI content Location information Compact Organisational profile Name of the reporting GRI 102-1 organisation Fingrid Activities, brands, products Fingrid in GRI 102-2 and services brief Location of the organisation’s Fingrid’s headquarters are located in GRI 102-3 headquarters Helsinki. Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the Fingrid in GRI 102-4 topics covered in the report brief Ownership and legal form of Fingrid in GRI 102-5 the organisation brief Fingrid in GRI 102-6 Markets served brief Fingrid in GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation brief Number of employees by employment type and employment contract, by GRI 102-8 region and by gender 6 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2018 Men Women 2017 Men Women 2016 Men Women Permanent 327 251 76 308 237 71 291 220 71 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 89 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures 86 % 77 % 23 % 87 % 77 % 23 % 87 % 76 % 24 % Temporary 53 40 13 47 34 13 43 30 13 14 % 75 % 25 % 13 % 72 % 28 % 13 % 70 % 30 % Full-time 349 268 81 328 249 79 302 226 76 92 % 77 % 23 % 92 % 76 % 24 % 90 % 75 % 25 % Part-time 31 23 8 27 22 5 32 24 8 8% 74 % 26 % 8% 81 % 19 % 10 % 75 % 25 % Total 380 291 89 355 271 84 334 250 84 Average 376 352 336 PERSONNEL BY LOCATION 2018 2017 2016 Helsinki 325 303 285 Hämeenlinna 16 16 16 Oulunsalo 11 11 9 Petäjävesi 15 14 13 Rovaniemi 2 1 2 Varkaus 11 10 9 Reporting covers the service providers’ working hours included in Fingrid’s 6 Number of internal monitoring. In 2018, grid building and maintenance operations contractors’ amounted to roughly 700,000 work hours, equalling 413 man-years. employees by employment type, contract and region PERSONNEL AND SERVICE PROVIDERS, MAN-YEARS 2018 2017 1 2016 1 Man-years, Fingrid’s personnel 338 321 305 Man-years, service providers 413 440 580 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 90 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Man-years total 751 761 885 1 The work hours and man-years of the suppliers’ and Fingrid’s own personnel were restated more accurately for 2016–2017 GRI 102-9 The organisation’s Fingrid requires that its service and goods suppliers commit to supply chain Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Conduct or with their own similar code. The Code covers issues such as business practices, human rights, labour rights, occupational safety and the environment. The Supplier Code of Conduct is applied to procurements worth at least EUR 30,000 and they are linked to material, equipment, ICT etc. purchase agreements. Fulfilment of the requirements is monitored on a risk basis. The Code of Conduct is a condition for being included in supplier registers used in recurring substation and power line procurements. In addition, contractual partners are subject to separate contract terms related to the use of subcontractors and workforce, and to occupational safety and environmental matters. Building work on the grid is carried out on a project basis, in separate substation and transmission line projects as well as in socalled turn-key contracts. The main contractor, acting in the role of Fingrid’s contractual counterparty, is in charge of the detailed design, the procurement of material and equipment as well as building and installations until commissioning. The main contractor on a specific project may have several subcontractors; the contractual partner must submit the most significant subcontractors for approval by Fingrid. The qualifications of the contractors and service suppliers carrying out grid construction and maintenance are verified primarily by means of various supplier registers and shortlisting procedures. A validation system to ensure the proper qualifications of employees for performing maintenance on power lines and substations is also in place. Fingrid has around 50 direct contractual partners, the 15 biggest of which account for roughly 95 per cent of the total financial value of the procurements. There are two companies with regional contracts on transmission line maintenance and four companies with regional substation maintenance contracts. Both the contractors’ and subcontractors’ use mostly Finnish workforce for grid building work. A substantial number of non-Finnish workers, from countries such as Spain, Italy, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Estonia, work mainly on transmission lines, but to some extent also at substations. Grid maintenance suppliers and their suppliers use Finnish workforce. Some non-Finnish personnel is used in This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 91 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures clearing of rights-of-way under the transmission lines and in areas requiring special expertise. GRI 102-10 Significant Report No significant changes changes to of the the Board of organisation’s Directors size, structure, ownership, or supply chain during the reporting period Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts CUSTOMERS CONNECTED TO THE GRID December 2018 December 2017 December 2016 Connection Connection Connection Customers points Customers points Customers points Distribution networks 62 406 62 412 62 412 Production 30 58 34 58 32 56 Industry 25 50 24 48 24 48 Institutional customers 1 43 1 43 1 43 Total 118 557 121 561 119 559 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 92 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Length of The transmission grid owned by Fingrid encompasses above and approximately 14,300 kilometres of 400-, 220and 110-kilovolt underground transmission lines, plus 114 substations, and 4 HVDC stations. transmission and distribution lines Allocation of Report of the Fingrid’s reserve power plants are included in the European CO2e Board of Union’s emissions trading system. The accuracy of the emissions Directors measuring and reporting systems for fuel consumption is allowances or verified by an accredited emissions trading verifier. A total of equivalent, 8,506 (5,817) units (tCO2) of emission allowances were broken down returned, 100% of which consisted of acquired emission right by emissions units. Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission trading rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. Purchased scheme emission rights units amounted to 10,000 in 2018. Emissions trading had minor financial significance for Fingrid. GRI 102-11 Application of Corporate The precautionary principle is included in Fingrid’s Code of the Governance Conduct and the UN’s Global Compact initiative, which Fingrid precautionary Statement has committed to. The environmental impacts of new principle Environment transmission lines are determined according to an EIA procedure as required under the legislation on the environmental impact assessment procedure or, for projects with minor impacts, by means of an environmental study. Fingrid’s reserve power plants are subject to an environmental permit. GRI 102-12 Externally Review by the Global Compact initiative developed President & Energy efficiency agreement of Finnish industries 2017–2025 principles or CEO Report of other the Board of initiatives to Directors which the Report of the organisation Board of subscribes or Directors which it endorses GRI 102-13 Memberships ENTSO-E (European Network of Transmission System in Operators – Electricity), Finnish Energy Industries, Cigré associations (International Council on Large Electric Systems), FIBS and advocacy Corporate Responsibility Network organisations Strategy and analysis GRI 102-14 Review by the Review by the President & President & CEO CEO GRI 102-15 Key impacts, Strategy This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 93 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures risks, and Operating opportunities environment Report of the Board of Directors Ethical business principles GRI 102-16 Values, Corporate 1–10 principles, responsibility standards, and norms of behaviour GRI 102-17 Mechanisms Advice in applying Fingrid’s Code of Conduct is available to 1–10 for advice on Fingrid’s employees from the company’s legal services. ethical and Suspected behaviour that goes against Fingrid’s Code of lawful Conduct must be reported to a supervisor or Fingrid’s behaviour management without delay. An independent reporting channel and for is also in use. No reports were made via the channel during the reporting year. Suspected breaches are investigated with confidentiality concerns and discretion, ensuring that no negative consequences befall about the person reporting the behaviour. Behaviour that goes unethical or against the Code of Conduct will lead to a discussion with the unlawful supervisor and, if necessary, other disciplinary measures. behaviour Governance GRI 102-18 Governance Corporate structure and Governance committees GRI 102-19 Delegating Corporate authority Governance Corporate responsibility GRI 102-20 ExecutiveCorporate level responsibility responsibility GRI 102-22 Composition Corporate The report includes the composition of the Board of Directors of the highest Governance and independence of Board members. governance body GRI 102-23 Chair of the Corporate highest Governance governance body GRI 102-24 Nominating Corporate The report accounts for the selection of Board members and and selecting Governance the related criteria. the highest This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 94 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures governance body GRI 102-25 Avoidance of Corporate conflicts of Governance interest GRI 102-26 Role of the Corporate highest Governance governance Corporate body in responsibility setting purpose, values and strategy GRI 102-29 Highest Corporate The reports account for the Board of Directors’ responsibilities governance Governance in the arrangement of risk management. body’s role in Report of the identifying Board of and Directors managing risks GRI 102-30 Effectiveness Corporate of the risk Governance management Report of the processes Board of Directors GRI 102-31 Frequency of Corporate The reports account for the Board of Directors’ role in the risk reviews Governance approval of risk management principles and in the definition of Report of the risks and their management measures as well as Board of implementation. Directors GRI 102-32 Approval of Corporate The executive management group approves the corporate the Governance responsibility reporting. sustainability report GRI 102-35 Remuneration Remuneration The statement accounts for the principles of remuneration policies for statement policies and systems for the Board of Directors and senior the highest executives. governance body and senior executives GRI 102-36 Process for Remuneration The report describes the approval process of remuneration determining statement systems and forms of remuneration. remuneration Stakeholder engagement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 95 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures GRI 102-40 List of Stakeholder stakeholder engagement groups GRI 102-41 Employees Fingrid complies with the collective labour agreement for 3 covered by salaried employees and senior professional employees in the collective energy industry. These agreements cover the entire personnel bargaining excluding top management. agreements Fingrid’s According to the Act on the Contractor's Obligations and contractors’ Liability when Work is Contracted Out, the entire chain of personnel contractors at Fingrid’s work sites is obligated to operate in covered by compliance with applicable Finnish collective labour the collective agreements both regarding Finnish and non-Finnish workforce. labour agreements by country GRI 102-42 Identifying Stakeholder and selecting engagement stakeholders GRI 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder stakeholder engagement engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics Stakeholder and concerns engagement raised Customers through Corporate stakeholder responsibility engagement Environment Report profile GRI 102-45 Entities Contents of the included in annual report the and reporting consolidated principles financial statements GRI 102-46 Defining Strategy Fingrid's materiality analysis is evaluated annually to ensure report that it is up to date as a part of the strategy process, and the content executive management group confirms the most important issues concerning Fingrid’s operations as well as the adequacy of the management approach for these issues. The assessment of the economic, social and environmental impacts of Fingrid’s operations, as well as the impacts on stakeholders’ decisionmaking, takes into account the strong connection between sustainability, strategy and business and its impact on Fingrid’s ability to create value, as well as the value-chain-wide This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 96 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 018 8 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures requirements of the GRI reporting guidelines. A thorough materiality analysis was conducted in 2014, which included a broad background analysis, meetings attended by dozens of experts from Fingrid, and a stakeholder survey sent out to roughly 700 individuals. GRI 102-47 Material Strategy The matters prioritised as material for Fingrid and their topics Operating corresponding GRI reporting aspects are presented in the GRI environment Content Index. GRI 102-48 Restatements Any changes to information from previous reports are stated in of information connection with the relevant information. GRI 102-49 Changes in There were no significant changes in the material topics and reporting topic boundaries from previous reporting periods. GRI 102-50 Reporting The reporting period covers the financial period 1 January to 31 period December 2018. GRI 102-51 Date of most The previous annual report was published on 20 March 2018. recent report GRI 102-52 Reporting The annual report is published every year. cycle GRI 102-53 Contact point Feedback and questions about the annual report and Fingrid’s for questions corporate responsibility can be sent to viestinta@fingrid.fi. regarding the report or its contents GRI 102-54 Claims of Fingrid’s corporate responsibility reporting is realised in reporting in accordance with the Core requirements of the GRI standards. accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content GRI disclosures index GRI 102-56 External Corporate responsibility reporting is assured externally. assurance MATERIAL TOPICS MATERIAL MANAGEMENT FINGRID’S MATERIAL TOPICS FOR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL TOPICS FOR PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT FINGRID’S OPERATIONS INFORMATION FOR FINGRID’S FINGRID PROCEDURE AT FINGRID INDICATORS OPERATIONS Reliability of the Principles for managing Grid disturbances: GRI: Indirect economic impacts GRI 203-2 Significant indirect electricity system system security financial harm to economic impacts Reserve policy customers Contingency policy System security: Electricity availability and Power outage frequency Reserve power plant System Average transmission reliability Average power outage duration management policy Interruption Duration Index in connection This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 97 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 018 8 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures points Sufficiency of the Demand-side management system reserves System efficiency Transmission and distribution losses Research and development R&D activities and expenses related to electricity supply GRI: Energy GRI 302-2 Energy consumption GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation GRI 302-3 Energy intensity GRI: Emissions Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by emissions trading scheme GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Stakeholder Fingrid’s Code of Conduct Trust KPI in the GRI: Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-43 Approach to engagement Land use and environment customer survey stakeholder engagement policy GRI 102-44 Key topics and Communications policy concerns raised ENTSO-E: ranking in price level comparisons Landowner survey GRI: Local communities grade GRI: Marketing and labelling Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Financial result Management principles Credit rating GRI: Economic performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value Corporate Finance and generated and distributed Financing Principles Dividend payout GRI 201-4 Financial assistance Financing policy capacity received from government Cost-effectiveness Procurement Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Deviations or GRI: Procurement practices GRI 102-9 Description of the practices Conduct problems in supply chain Procurement policy contractor obligation or employment relationship matters Development and Main grid development and Implementation of GRI: Occupational health and GRI 403-2 Type of injury and rates safety of the maintenance management capital investments safety of injury (LTIF), occupational transmission grid principles Maintenance diseases, lost days and Contingency policy efficiency: ranking in absenteeism, and total number of Company security policy international work-related fatalities Grid planning, construction, benchmarks (ITOMS, GRI: Customer health and safety Number of injuries and fatalities to This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 98 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 018 8 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures maintenance management ITAMS) the public involving company policies LTIF assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases Environmental GRI: Environmental Compliance GRI 307-1 Monetary value of deviations significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI: Biodiversity GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI: Waste GRI 306-2 Waste Well-functioning Principles for promoting the Grade for developing GRI: Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-43 Approach to electricity market electricity market the electricity market stakeholder engagement Loss power procurement in the customer GRI 102-44 Key topics and policy survey concerns raised Transmission capacity allocation and congestion management policy An open, Management principles Workplace GRI: Employment GRI 102-8 Number of employees collaborative, HR policy atmosphere: result of and contractors by employment renewing and Equal opportunity and nonpersonnel survey type and employment contract, by target-oriented discrimination plan region and by gender work community Management: ranking GRI 102-41 Employees covered by in the Great Place to collective bargaining agreements Work Finland survey GRI 401-1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region Percentage of employees retiring within the next 5 and 10 years GRI: Education GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes GRI: Diversity and equal GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance opportunities bodies and employees GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men The company’s Fingrid’s Code of Conduct Grade for responsible GRI: Business ethics GRI 102-16 Values, principles, Code of Conduct Management principles operations in standards, and norms of behaviour Internal control and risk personnel survey GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice management principles on ethical and lawful behaviour and HR policy for reporting concerns about Data security policy unethical or unlawful behaviour Data protection policy GRI: Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of Document management discrimination and corrective policy actions taken GRI: Anti-corruption and antiGRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of bribery corruption and actions taken This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 99 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Rep eporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures GRI: Public policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions GRI: Anti-competitive behaviour GRI 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes GRI: Customer privacy GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI: Socioeconomic compliance GRI 419-1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and/or regulations Global Standard GRI content Location Notes Compact Management approach GRI 103 Disclosures Strategy on Fingrid's strategic targets and indicators Management Personnel Approach Coporate responsibility Environment Corporate Governance Statement Report of the Board of Directors ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY STANDARDS Economic performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (€) Income from customers 2018 2017 2016 Turnover 852 784 056 671 992 154 586 119 500 Other operating income 10 799 688 2 933 448 12 688 847 Contributions received -186 387 -170 141 -282 023 Dividend income 644 877 1 119 088 564 840 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 100 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Rep eporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Income from investments and loans 170 274 478 062 688 991 Total 864 212 507 676 352 612 599 780 155 Payments to suppliers 2 Purchases, materials and services 482 873 473 331 838 555 278 075 433 Electricity tax on auxiliary power 1 250 -4 818 -18 978 Other costs 7 211 442 32 027 392 868 592 Changes in fair value 37 082 763 8 884 281 35 444 373 Voluntary additional personnel expenses and compensation for expenses (excl. training) -1 697 147 -1 617 363 -1 533 407 Real estate tax -417 088 -421 385 -409 145 Contributions -24 974 -28 014 -32 424 Total 525 029 719 370 678 649 312 394 445 Remuneration to personnel Salaries, remunerations, social security contributions 32 189 844 29 384 630 28 597 902 Voluntary additional personnel expenses and compensation for expenses (excl. training) 1 697 147 1 617 363 1 533 407 Total 33 886 991 31 001 993 30 131 309 Payments to providers of capital This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 101 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Dividend 1 171 439 950 173 518 010 97 999 992 Finance costs 17 298 995 18 662 591 21 058 652 Total 188 738 945 192 180 601 119 058 645 Payments to government and community investment Income tax for the financial year 3 50 421 418 39 422 683 25 780 172 Real estate tax 417 088 421 385 409 145 Electricity tax on auxiliary power -1 250 4 818 18 978 Contributions and sponsoring 24 974 28 014 32 424 Total 50 862 230 39 876 900 26 240 719 Economic value retained for developing Fingrid’s operations 4 65 694 622 42 614 469 111 955 038 The reporting on economic impacts does not include Fingrid’s capital expenditure, which has been accounted for elsewhere in this annual report. 1 The dividend for 2018 is the Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting 2 2016–2017: Due to changes in reporting, certain costs from 2017 and 2016 have been transferred from Other costs to Purchases, materials and services 3 Payable income taxes reported for 2017 are restated more accurately 4 The figure for 2016 has been corrected GRI 201-4 Financial assistance Financial received statements, note 2, from other operating government income This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 102 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures 2018 2017 2016 Tekes 0 25 141 75 714 EU: Horizon 2020 Framework Program 28 250 0 41 309 National Emergency Supply Agency 145 000 145 000 145 000 Total 173 250 170 141 262 023 Indirect economic impacts GRI 203-2 Significant Power indirect system economic impacts Procurement practices GRI 103 Management Report of approach the Board of Directors Strategy Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures See GRI 102-9 Anti-corruption 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions GRI 205-3 taken No incidents of corruption during the reporting period. Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their GRI 206-1 outcomes No legal actions during the reporting period. Electricity availability and transmission reliability This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 103 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Grid development and maintenance Management Power GRI 103 approach system Demand-side management Power system Management Electricity GRI 103 approach market Research and development Research, development Management and GRI 103 approach innovation System efficiency Transmission and distribution Power GRI 103 losses system See also GRI 302-1 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY STANDARDS 7, 8 Energy GRI 302-1, Energy 302-2 consumption within and outside of the organisation ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2018 2017 2016 Direct Light fuel oil t 2 878 1 801 3 217 GJ 123 768 77 425 138 320 Indirect Electricity transmission energy losses GWh 1 222 1 223 1 270 GJ 4 399 200 4 402 800 4 572 000 Energy produced with the fuels consumed by leased GWh 1,3 1,0 1,3 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 104 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures reserve power plants 1 GJ 4 594 3 162 4 676 Reserve power plants’ auxiliary energy GWh 8,8 10,3 9,9 GJ 31 788 37 080 35 724 Reserve power plants’ district heating GWh 0,6 0,6 0,6 GJ 2 100 2 272 2 319 Fingrid’s environmental data reporting encompasses the entire company except for the data on substation electricity consumption, electricity and heating for premises, and the related carbon dioxide emissions. The compilation of this data will be developed in the coming years. 1 The data on leased reserve power plants is restated more accurately for 2017 Energy GRI 302-3 intensity ENERGY INTENSITY 2018 2017 2016 Fingrid’s total energy consumption divided by net GJ/ sales 1000€ 5,35 6,73 8,11 Biodiversity 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity GRI 304-1 value outside protected areas 2018 2017 2016 Grid transmission lines in protected areas and Natura sites 1) km 257 258 257 Reported transmission line kilometres in protected and Natura areas. 1 Approx. 2% of Fingrid’s transmission lines are located in a nature reserve or Natura site. Protected areas amounted to around 10 per cent of Finland’s total area in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 105 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Emissions 7, 8 GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct emissions (Scope 1) 2018 2017 2016 Reserve power plant fuels, tCO2 8 506 5 817 10 326 Substations’ sulphur hexafluoride, tCO2e 494 547 479 Total, tCO2-e 1) 9 000 6 364 10 805 1 According to Statistics Finland, the total CO2 equivalent emissions in Finland in 2017 were 56.1 million carbon dioxide tonnes. Fingrid’s share of all Finnish CO2 emissions amounted to approximately 0.2‰ in 2017. Fingrid’s carbon dioxide emissions calculations are based on the EU emissions trading system (EU-ETS) and on the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol standards. The emission factors used in Fingrid’s CO2 calculations are based on the latest factors from Statistics Finland, the average emission factors of electricity procurement and district heat production for Finland, and IPCC 2007 (AR4) Global Warming Potentials (GWPs). The calculation of electricity CO2 emissions applies a rolling average of the last five years recorded in statistics; the presented Scope 2 emissions figure is location-based. Emissions in 2018 were calculated using Statistics Finland’s emissions factor of 164 kg CO2/MWh. District heating CO2 emissions were calculated using the emissions factor of 188 kg CO2/MWh published by the Finnish Energy Industries for the last three statistical years. GRI 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) 2018 2017 2016 Transmission losses, tCO2e 200 408 221 363 265 430 Energy produced with the fuels consumed by leased reserve power plants, tCO2-e 1 1237 993 775 Reserve power plants’ auxiliary energy, tCO2e 1 448 1 864 2 074 Reserve power plants’ district heating, tCO2e 110 111 118 Total, tCO2e 203 203 224 331 268 397 1 The data on leased reserve power plants is restated more accurately for 2017 GRI 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 106 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 2018 2017 2016 Business travel (flights and kilometrereimbursed business trips), tCO2e 620 640 694 Total, tCO2e 620 640 694 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY 2018 2017 2016 Fingrid’s direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions divided by amount electricity tCO2e/ transmitted TWh 3 093 3 485 4 076 GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Reserve power plants’ sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions 2018 2017 2016 tonnes tonnes tonnes Sulphur dioxide, SO2 1, 2 1,4 0,9 0,7 Nitrogen oxide, NOx 51 30 61 1 The figure for 2018 is preliminary, the conclusive figure will be contained in the reporting to the authorities This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 107 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures 2 The sulphur dioxide data from 2016 for the reserve power plants is restated more accurately Effluents and waste 8 Total weight of waste by type and GRI 306-2 disposal method Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 1 2018 2017 2016 tonnes tonnes tonnes Total waste volume 11 894 9 941 9 559 Hazardous waste 872 500 959 Recycling and reuse 7 430 8 538 6 579 Other utilisation, e.g. for civil engineering 952 897 1 389 Combustion in a power plant 63 24 50 Final disposal, e.g. landfill 3 449 482 1 541 Recycling rate, % 62 85 68 Utilisation rate, % 71 95 84 1 The waste volume data and recycling rates are restated more accurately for 2017 and 2016 Report of the Board of Significant Directors No significant environmental incidents took place during the review GRI 306-3 spills Environment year. Environmental compliance 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for GRI 307-1 nonNo fines or sanctions during the reporting period. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 108 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures compliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STANDARDS Employment 6 Total number and rate of new employee hires and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and GRI 401-1 region TYPES OF EMPLOYMENT 2018 2017 2016 New permanent employment contract 24 18 15 Number of expired employment contracts, incl. retired employees 12 8 10 Retired 4 1 3 Average retirement age 66 63 65 Average length of employment* (y) 12 12 10 Number of persons made redundant 0 0 0 Incoming turnover rate 7,3 % 5,8 % 5,2 % Outgoing turnover rate 3,7 % 2,6 % 3,4 % Incoming and outgoing turnover rates not reported by age group and gender. The report accounts for absolute values; percentage rates not reported due to a low turnover rate. The calculation formulas for the outgoing turnover rate and average length of employment were modified for more accuracy for 2016 and 2017. * Fingrid was established in 1996 and its operations started in 1997. The personnel were transferred to the company as serving employees. NEW, PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT 2018 2017 2016 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 109 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures CONTRACTS, BY AGE GROUP No. of people No. of people No. of people Under 29 yrs. 2 5 2 30–39 v. 17 7 7 40–49 v. 4 4 5 50–59 v. 1 1 1 60–69 v. 0 1 0 NUMBER OF EXPIRED PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS BY AGE GROUP 2018 2017 2016 No. of people No. of people No. of people Under 29 yrs. 1 0 1 30–39 v. 6 3 5 40–49 v. 3 3 1 50–59 v. 1 1 0 60–69 v. 1 1 3 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 110 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Percentage Percentage of 13 of employees retiring within % employees the next 5 years: retiring within the next 5 and 10 years: Percentage of 25 employees retiring within % the next 10 years: The estimate is based on the lowest possible retirement age for old-age pension according to the statutory pension system. Number of The report work days of accounts for contractors’ the total and working contractors' hours of employees service working in providers, construction, see GRI operation 102-8 and maintenance duties Proportion Grid The source of suppliers’ development of the report and and is the OHS contractors’ maintenance development employees project. who have taken part in occupational safety training Occupational health and safety 6 Type of injury and rates of injury (LTIF), Grid occupational development diseases, and lost days, maintenance and Personnel absenteeism, Report of and total the Board of GRI 403-2 number of Directors This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 111 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures work-related fatalities, by region and by gender NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AND ABSENCES DUE TO ILLNESS 2018 2017 2016 Absences due to 1% (3.2 days/person) 1% (3.2 days/person) 1% (3.4 days/person) illness Workplace Business Workplace Business Workplace Business travel travel travel Accidents resulting in absence from work 0 1 2 0 0 0 Accidents not resulting in absence from work 2 3 0 4 1 1 LTIF (accidents/ million work hours)* 0 2 4 0 0 0 Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational No cases No cases No cases diseases * LTIF in line with Zero Accidents criteria. No occupational diseases diagnosed in 2018. The report accounts for the number of accidents, LTIF, fatalities and percentage of absences due to illness. Contractors’ Grid The report accounts for the number of accidents, LTIF and fatalities and development suppliers’ and OHS-related maintenance performance Training and education 6 Average GRI 404-1 hours of This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 112 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYEE GROUP AND GENDER 2018 2017 2016 h h h Number of training hours by gender, women 40 34 40 Number of training hours by gender, men 39 32 34 Number of training hours by employee group, salaried employees 13 19 21 Number of training hours by employee group, senior salaried employees 43 34 38 EDUCATION LEVEL OF PERMANENT PERSONNEL 2018 2017 2016 Basic and secondary education 20 20 21 Lowest level of tertiary education 32 33 34 Bachelor’s degree 116 109 104 Master’s degree 150 137 123 Second stage of tertiary education 9 9 9 Training days per person 5 4 5 GRI 404-2 Programmes for Personnel upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes that This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 113 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings Diversity and equal opportunities 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and Corporate other indicators Governance GRI 405-1 of diversity Statement AGE DISTRIBUTION OF PERMANENT PERSONNEL 2018 2017 2016 Under 29 yrs. 28 27 25 30–39 98 86 80 40–49 99 91 91 50–59 67 75 76 60–69 35 29 19 Average age 44 44 44 GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY EMPLOYEE GROUP 2018 2017 2016 Men Women Men Women Men Women Board of Directors 3 3 3 2 3 2 Management 6 3 6 3 6 2 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 114 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures Senior salaried employees 244 64 230 59 213 57 Salaried employees 1 9 1 9 1 12 The Board of Directors and personnel groups reported by gender. The age distribution of permanent personnel reported. (number of people) GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic Remuneration salary and statement remuneration of women to men Non-discrimination 6 GRI 406-1 Incidents of No incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. discrimination and corrective actions taken Local communities 1 Result of Environment landowner survey Public policy 10 GRI 415-1 Total value of Fingrid does not provide any direct or indirect support, including political non-monetary support, to political activities. contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary Customer health and safety Number of Power No cases of personal injury to the public during the reporting injuries and system period. No claims related to incidents of this kind were presented fatalities to to the company during the reporting period. the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 115 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures settlements and pending legal cases of diseases Availability Power outage Power frequency system Average Power power outage system duration Customer privacy GRI 418-1 Total number No incidents during the reporting period. of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance GRI 419-1 Significant No significant fines or sanctions during the reporting period. fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and/or regulations This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 116 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Independent assurance statement Indep Independen endentt assur assuranc ance e ssttatemen ementt To the Management and Stakeholders of Fingrid Scope and Objectives The Management of Fingrid Oyj commissioned us to perform a limited assurance engagement over the responsibility information presented in Fingrid’s Annual Report 2018 (“the Report”) and specified in the Corporate responsibility GRI disclosures for the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2018. The assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) with 2018 addendum, and as a type 2 engagement. We have duly performed an independent external assurance, the objective of which was to evaluate: Fingrid’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2018) of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and impact; the reliability of performance information presented in the Report according to the Principles for defining report quality defined the GRI Standard 101 Foundation (2016); and the compliance with the GRI Standards in accordance criteria at the Core option. Responsibilities Fingrid’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report and the performance data and statements presented therein, which the Executive Management Group of Fingrid has approved. Our responsibility as assurance providers is to express a conclusion based on our work performed. The criteria used for our assessment include the GRI Standards (2016) and Fingrid’s own internal reporting guidelines. Assurance Provider’s Independence and Competence We have conducted our assessment as independent and impartial from the reporting organisation. We were not committed to any assignments for Fingrid that would conflict with our independence, nor were we involved in the preparation of the Report. Our team consists of competent and experienced corporate responsibility reporting experts, who have the necessary skills to perform an assurance process. Basis of Our Opinion Assurance providers are obliged to plan and perform the assurance process to ensure that they collect adequate evidence for the necessary conclusions to be drawn.The procedures selected depend on the assurance provider’s judgement, including their assessment of the risk of material misstatement adhering to the reporting criteria. Our opinion is based, among other things, on the following procedures performed: Interviews with senior management representatives to gain an understanding of the major impacts, risks and opportunities related to Fingrid’s corporate responsibility agenda; This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 117 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Independent assurance statement Assessment of the procedures Fingrid has in place to ensure the inclusivity of stakeholder engagement processes, the identification of material stakeholder expectations and the responsiveness to stakeholder concerns; Interviews with Fingrid’s specialists responsible for corporate responsibility performance data collection and calculations; Review of systems and procedures to generate, collect and report corporate responsibility performance data for the Report; Reviewing data at source and following this through to the responsibility information presented in the Report; Reviewing whether the evidence, measurements, and scope of the performance data is prepared in accordance with the Criteria; and Reviewing the Report and narrative accompanying the performance indicators in the Report with regard to the Criteria. Inherent limitations Our assurance relies on the premise that the data and information provided by Fingrid to us as part of our review procedures have been provided in good faith. Because of the selective nature (sampling) and other inherent limitations of both procedures and systems of internal control, there remains the unavoidable risk that errors or irregularities may not have been detected. For instance, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for determining such data. Finally, the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques may result in materially different measurements. Conclusions Adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles Inclusivity: Fingrid has a stakeholder engagement process in place in order to understand stakeholder expectations, and it has committed to active stakeholder dialogue. Materiality: Fingrid has defined material corporate responsibility reporting topics as a part of the strategy process. Responsiveness: Fingrid has policies and procedures in place to respond to stakeholder’s expectations. Impact: Fingrid has identified impacts related to the material corporate responsibility topics and has committed to manage and disclose comprehensive and balanced information on these impacts. Corporate responsibility performance data We have reviewed the basis of the corporate responsibility information provided in the Report. Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report is not fairly stated and has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. GRI Standards in accordance criteria The Report complies with the GRI Standards: Core option. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 118 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Independent assurance statement Observations and Recommendations Based on our limited level assurance engagement, we present the following observations and recommendations, which do not affect the conclusions presented above. Fingrid has integrated corporate responsibility in its business. Corporate responsibility targets are a part of Fingrid’s strategic targets and indicators. In 2018 Fingrid has progressed mainly in the line with the targets set. We recommend that Fingrid develops even more challenging and longer-term corporate responsibility targets Fingrid has established a corporate responsibility governance and management approach and discloses comprehensive information on material topics. Fingrid has also defined responsibility requirements for its suppliers. We recommend that Fingrid continues efforts to evaluate responsibility in the supply chain and develop procedures to promote responsible business practices among suppliers Fingrid has an important role in society and as an enabler of the energy system transition to mitigate climate change in the line with national and international goals. We recommend that Fingrid develops its own targetsetting related to climate change mitigation in accordance with the company’s role. Helsinki, Finland, 1st February 2019 Mitopro Oy Mikael Niskala Tomi Pajunen Independent Sustainability Practitioner Independent Sustainability Practitioner This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 119 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Governance Go Govvernanc ernance e This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 120 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: Board of Directors Annual Ann ual R epor Rep ortt 2 201 018 8 Boar oard do off Dir Dire ector orss Juhani Järvi, Chair Päivi Nerg, Deputy Chair M.Sc. (Finance), born in 1952 M.Sc. (Agr. & For.), born in 1958 Board member as of 6 June 2014 Board member as of 28 March 2018 Main position: Board work Main position: Permanent Under-Secretary, The Ministry of Finance 2018Anu Hämäläinen Sanna Syri Master of Science (M.Sc.), Economics, born in Doctor of Science in Technology, 1965 born in 1970 Board member as of 6 April 2016 Board member as of 14 April 2015 Main position: Wärtsilä Corporation, Main position: Aalto University, Professor, Vice President, Group Treasury and Energy Technology and Energy Economics, Financial Services & Support School of Engineering 2010This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 121 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: Board of Directors Annual Ann ual R epor Rep ortt 2 201 018 8 Marina Louhija LLM, born in 1968 Secretary of the Board General Counsel, Fingrid Oyj Esko Torsti Lic.Pol., born in 1964 Board member as of 22 March 2012 Main position:Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company, Head of Non-listed investments 2006This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 122 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: Executive management group Annual Ann ual R epor Rep ortt 2 201 018 8 Ex Exe ecutiv utive e managemen managementt gr group oup Jukka Ruusunen Kari Kuusela Doctor of Technology, born in 1958 M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1955 President & CEO since 2007 Executive Vice President since 2007, Member of the executive management group Asset Management since 2007, employed by Fingrid since 2007 Member of the executive management group since 2005, employed by Fingrid since 1997 Jussi Jyrinsalo Marina Louhija Licentiate in Technology, born in 1964 LLM, General Counsel since 2013, legal and Senior Vice President since 2005, Customers and administrative affairs, born in 1968 Grid Planning Member of the executive management group Member of executive management group since 2017, employed by Fingrid since 2009 since 2005, employed by Fingrid since 1997 Secretary of the company’s Board of Directors since 2013 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 123 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: Executive management group Annual Ann ual R epor Rep ortt 2 201 018 8 Tiina Miettinen Jan Montell M.Sc (Politics), M.Sc (Knowledge M.Sc. (Finance), born 1968 Management), born in 1963 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), since 2013 Senior Vice President since 2013, Member of the executive management HR and communications group starting since 2013 Member of the executive management group since 2013, employed by Fingrid since 2007 Reima Päivinen Asta Sihvonen-Punkka M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1958 Licentiate in Economics, M.For, born Senior Vice President since 2005, in 1962 Senior Vice President since 2016, Power System Operations Markets Member of the executive management Member of the executive management group since 2005, employed by Fingrid group since 2016, employed by Fingrid since 1997 since 2016 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 124 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: Executive management group Annual Ann ual R epor Rep ortt 2 201 018 8 Kari Suominen M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA, born in 1964 CIO since 2013, ICT Member of the executive management group since 2013 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 125 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Foremost uncertainty factors and risks For oremos emostt unc uncer erttain aintty ffac acttor orss and risk riskss Since Fingrid plays a significant role in Finnish society, the impact of risks is assessed from both the company’s and society’s perspective. The following have been identified as strategic risks, either for society, for Fingrid or for both: Risks to society and Fingrid Major disturbance One of the company’s biggest business risks and the biggest risk, where society is concerned, is a major disturbance related to the functioning of the power system. Extensive disturbances to the power system can be caused by a technical malfunction, an unexpected weather event, an accident or vandalism. A major disturbance can result in a situation where most of the grid is out of power, which paralyses society’s functions and causes major damage to the economy. We have prepared for a major disturbance through grid investments and reserve power plants and by keeping our IT systems up-to-date. The contingency plans enable continued grid operations at all times in the event of one major disturbance and, if necessary, two simultaneous disturbances. Alternative This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 126 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Foremost uncertainty factors and risks methods for restoring the grid voltage are continuously developed. The key components of disturbance management include accurate real-time control of the power system, clear roles and responsibilities of Fingrid’s personnel in the event of a major disturbance, and securing the competence of the personnel and deputy systems. Operations control has been continuously developed, and contingencies are planned for various crisis situations. The potential duration of a major disturbance is kept in check through regular major disturbance exercises and measures to secure effective crisis communications. Fingrid limits its financial claims liability in all cases of disturbances through contracts and insurance policies. Poorly functioning electricity market A poorly functioning electricity market is a significant risk for Fingrid and society. From Fingrid’s point of view, the risk may be realised if the electricity transmission capacity is not sufficient for the markets’ needs. Extended limitations on transmission capacity can also result in significant harm to the markets. The reasons that may lead to the materialisation of this risk also include a lack of regional energy policy co-ordination and market-distorting state subsidies. Poorly functioning electricity markets directly reflect on Fingrid’s operations by making it increasingly difficult to balance demand and supply. The risk is mitigated by long-term development of the transmission grid according to the electricity markets’ needs and by ensuring the continuous operational efficiency of the grid through effective maintenance management. Other means for managing this risk include the development of market rules and operational practices in international co-operation. Environmental risks The most significant environmental risks for society and Fingrid include changes in the regulations on electromagnetic fields, and environmental damage, such as accidents with work machinery and worksite equipment containing chemicals. Other recognised risks include changes in the requirements of the environmental legislation resulting in deviations from the company’s current practices, and potential impacts of ecoterrorism. The potential impacts include rising costs, delays in investment projects, injury or death of personnel, damage to the environment, and reputation risks. The risks are managed by determining the investment needs proactively and sustainably and by assessing the environmental impacts in connection with investments. Responsible operating methods and continuous development of environmentally sustainable landuse and environmental policies mitigate the risk. Other means for managing the risk include securing environmental expertise, advocacy in the preparation of legislation, and providing correct information. Serious workplace accidents Serious accidents are linked to the electrical safety of the transmission grid, especially in connection with construction and repair work. Causes that can result in a realised risk include human error or an accident close to live components, an error occurring in construction work, damage or vandalism to live structures, and carelessness. Accidents can result in bodily harm or, in the worst-case scenario, death. Workplace accidents may cause local interruptions of electricity supply or interruptions of work. We constantly improve the safety of the transmission grid by promoting safe ways of working and developing, for example, technical solutions, work methods, skills and communications, and by increasing risk awareness. Risks to society Unsuccessful timing of investments The potential reasons for incorrect timing of capital investments include changes in the overall economic situation and in electricity consumption and production, delays in the permit process, lack of resources, or a strike. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 127 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Foremost uncertainty factors and risks Changes in energy policy goals can affect the necessity of investments. The construction of cross-border transmission connections may be postponed if the neighbouring countries are not able to reach a mutual understanding. Unsuccessful timing may result in decreased system security and restrictions to the electricity market whereby the market fails to operate efficiently. Unsuccessful timing of investments may also make it more difficult to connect electricity production and consumption to the grid. Achieving the set climate goals and renewable energy goals also becomes more difficult. We carefully plan and build key projects to strengthen the cross-border transmission connections and the grid and consider the long-term effects on the market through regularly updated grid plans. This requires close co-operation with customers and the TSOs of the neighbouring countries. A predictive view of future transmission needs and the related uncertainties decreases the risk of failure in investment timing. Promoting grid investments on the EU-level and advocacy in grid planning in the Baltic Sea area also affects national grid investment decisions. Long-term transmission capacity restrictions The reasons for drawn-out transmission capacity restrictions include technical failures or system security problems. Dysfunctionality of the power system results in inefficiencies and decreased system security. Restrictions and outages in power transmission may cause regional price differences and financial harm to customers and society. The risks are managed through co-operation between the TSOs of neighbouring countries. System security can be improved by developing the terms of grid connection and by adopting the EU grid codes. Effective utilisation of technical best practices and building a third cross-border transmission connection to Sweden will mitigate transmission capacity problems. Major harm to customers A problem or error in the production of a service or the functioning of technology can cause significant harm to a customer. A problem or error resulting from the failure of Fingrid’s operations or technology may cause harm to customers. The risk is managed through excellent and reliable customer service. The means for ensuring wellfunctioning co-operation include holistic development of the customer operations model, effective communication of the company’s Code of Conduct and policies, and continuous customer engagement. Risks to Fingrid Unfavourable development of regulation Fingrid's operations are subject to official regulation and supervision by the Energy Authority. The risks related to unfavourable development of regulation include negative development in the EU’s grid codes, more stringent financial or other regulation, an official decision that prevents Fingrid from reaching its goals, or a serious error on the company’s part concerning its obligations. Financial regulation directly impacts shareholder value, financing and credit ratings. Regulation related to the environment, Fingrid’s operations or technology may impede the company’s basic mission or construction of transmission lines. We aim to establish effective co-operation and interaction models with stakeholders and to contribute actively to the reports and working groups of authorities and to increase understanding of grid operations. The means for diminishing unfavourable development of regulation include active advocacy, and open interaction and communication with stakeholders. Financing risks Fingrid sees financing risks in events such as the realisation of the interest rate risk and extended low interest rates on fixed income markets, which bring down the WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital). Another risk in our view is a situation where the company cannot obtain debt financing or the price of debt financing increases This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 128 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Foremost uncertainty factors and risks substantially on the debt and money markets due to an extended disruption. The realisation of counterparty risks is a genuine possibility with derivatives or direct investments, and a defaulting customer, for example, may cause the realisation of operational credit risks. Financing risks also include interruptions in payment transactions. The impacts from the above risks manifest themselves in the decrease in the allowable earnings resulting from the lower WACC, increased financing costs or weaker solvency. Further impacts include delayed investments or weaker development of shareholder value. The refinancing risk is offset by efforts to keep the company’s credit rating high and by creating a stable maturity profile for the debt programme. Fingrid obtains debt capital diversely and from various sources. Liquidity is managed by obtaining a sufficient amount of low-risk financial assets, by issuing commercial papers, and with overdraft facilities. Solvency is secured with long-term committed credit lines and revolving credit facilities. Even cash flow is managed by creating flexibility in the costs of investment projects. The counterparty risk related to obligations of parties having a contractual relationship with Fingrid is limited contractually, by defining limits and by regularly monitoring the financial position of the counterparties. Fingrid’s financing risks are described in more detail in sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS). Asset risks Asset risks refer to the risk of major damage to Fingrid’s assets, such as irreparable failures. A permanent failure of the transmission grid, a reserve power plant or a submarine cable may cause extensive damage. Potential causes of damage also include unanticipated events such as violent storms or other forces of nature, vandalism, protests by stakeholders or war. The impacts can include extensive physical damage, disruptions in the grid, or increased complexity in or inability to carry out damage control or maintenance management. This could result in significant disruption to the electricity markets. Asset risks can be managed through grid safety planning, geographical diversification, preventive maintenance management, detailed specifications for and quality control of projects and maintenance management, and by using proven technology and suppliers with extensive expertise. The risk can also be managed by obtaining insurance based on the replacement value for key grid components, such as the transmission lines, transformers, submarine cables and reserve powerplants. Compliance Compliance breaches may be the result of ignorance of or disregard for the applicable legislation or regulations. The risk exists that the company fails to recognise the requirements of changed regulations. The most significant recognised corporate responsibility risks involving major implications are related to the following: REMIT, Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), obligations related to debt programmes (e.g. sanctions, money laundering and corruption), and public procurement legislation. Non-compliance can result in loss of reputation or internal trust. The risks are managed by behaviour in compliance with the requirements and by developing a corporate culture that always takes into account good governance practices and responsible behaviour. Serious ICT disturbance ICT-related risks can be realised through a failure in a critical ICT system or a breach of data security. Potential causes of ICT risks include a serious accident in an ICT facility, extended interruption in data communications or an error in the maintenance of the ICT environment. The potential impacts of ICT risks include a disruption in the grid, and increased difficulty or complete failure in accomplishing successful disruption management. This could result in significant disruption to the electricity markets or Fingrid’s reputation. The risks are managed by maintaining sufficient and solid in-house ICT expertise. The ICT environment is secured in terms of hardware facilities, data communications and systems. The critical systems have dedicated continuity plans, instructions and testing routines to ensure continued operations in exceptional circumstances. The impact of cyber-security threats on Fingrid’s operations is monitored continuously and proactively, and any necessary preventive measures are taken early on. Solidifying Fingrid’s ICT assets and expertise in the selected technologies is a part of the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 129 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Foremost uncertainty factors and risks company’s risk management policies. Personnel risks Fingrid’s personnel risks concern the narrowing down of employees’ expertise within the company specifically and in the industry in general. Personnel risks additionally include intentional unethical or unlawful behaviour. The means for limiting personnel risks include long-term personnel planning, training programmes targeted at personnel and high-quality stakeholder communication. Developing deputy systems and occupational safety is part of Fingrid’s HR planning. Proactive recruiting to replace retiring key personnel, and creating a positive employer image also help to mitigate personnel risks. Increasing the competence of the work-force is a common effort of the entire energy industry. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 130 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Corporate Governance Statement Corp orpor ora ate Go Govvernanc ernance eS Sttatemen ementt 1. Gener General al Fingrid is a public limited company whose governance is based on the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, the Market Abuse Regulation, the Securities Market Act, its articles of association and its shareholder agreements. Fingrid complies in its operations with the 2015 Corporate Governance Code for Finnish listed companies (“Corporate Governance Code”) published by the Securities Market Association because the company has issued bonds listed on the London Stock Exchange. This Corporate Governance Statement has been drawn up in accordance with the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code. Fingrid’s shares are not subject to public trading. The company’s activities are primarily regulated by the Electricity Market Act. The Electricity Market Act stipulates that Fingrid’s governance and its grid operations must be independent of the production and sale of electricity and natural gas. Fingrid’s owners must ensure that they keep separate decision-making which concerns Fingrid and decision-making concerning companies which practice the production or sale of electricity or natural gas. The confirmed regulatory methods allow the Energy Authority to monitor the reasonableness of the prices of Fingrid’s electricity transmission operations, as well as its capabilities to make sufficient investments in its grid and cover its costs. The Energy Authority confirms the allowed earnings for each regulatory period. The current regulatory methods for the regulatory periods 2016–2019 and 2020–2023 entered into force on 1 January 2016. Fingrid’s corporate governance statement has been drawn up in accordance with the reporting requirements of the Corporate Governance Code. The statement was drawn up as a separate report from the annual report and has been processed by Fingrid’s Board and the Board’s audit committee. Fingrid’s auditing organisation PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has verified that this statement has been provided and that the description of the internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process is consistent with the financial statements of the company. The Finnish Corporate Governance Code is available in full at www.cgfinland.fi. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 131 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 2. Description of Fingrid's administrative bodies 2. D De escrip cription tion o off Fingrid's adminis administr tra ativ tive eb boodie diess Fingrid's administrative system is described below, and the tasks of the administrative bodies are described later in sections 3-7. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 132 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3. General meeting 3. Gener General al me mee eting The general meeting is the company’s supreme decision-making body. Each shareholder has the right to participate in the general meeting and to exercise their right to vote. The shares of the company are divided into Series A shares and Series B shares. Series A shares confer three (3) votes each at the general meeting and Series B shares one (1) vote each. When electing members of the Board of Directors, Series A shares confer ten (10) votes each and Series B shares confer one (1) vote each. Decisions at the general meeting are primarily made with a simple majority vote. Certain changes to the articles of association nevertheless require support from a qualified majority. In addition, Series B shareholders have the right to elect one (1) member of the Board. Up-to-date information on the total number of shares and voting rights in each share class is published on Fingrid’s website. The general meeting adopts the financial statements, decides on the distribution of profits and elects an auditor and the company Board, elects a Chair and Deputy Chair of the Board and decides on discharging members of the Board and the President & CEO from liability. In addition, the general meeting decides on the remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and its committees. The annual general meeting is held once a year, no later than in June. An extraordinary general meeting shall be held if the Board so decides or if the Limited Liability Companies Act (Osakeyhtiölaki, 324/2006) so requires. The general meeting is convened by the company Board. In accordance with the articles of association, invitations to general meetings and other notifications shall be sent at the earliest four (4) weeks and at the latest two (2) weeks before the meeting as a registered letter to each shareholder to the address entered in the share register of the company. The notice of the general meeting and the following information is published on the company website at least 21 days before the general meeting: The documents to be submitted to the general meeting Board proposals for decisions Proposals concerning the composition and remuneration of the Board The methods complied with while preparing the proposal for the election of the Board Procedure according to which the Board members are to be appointed in compliance with the articles of association Information on the proposed Board members and an assessment of their independence Proposal for the election of financial auditors Other proposals made by the shareholders and to be addressed by the general meeting The company publishes the minutes of the general meetings on its website no later than two (2) weeks after the meeting. As a rule, Fingrid’s President & CEO, Chair of the Board and other Board members, together with the auditor, are present at the general meeting. Also, a person proposed for the first time as a Board member shall participate in the general meeting that decides on his or her election unless there are well-founded reasons for the absence. Fingrid’s annual general meeting was held on 28 March 2018. The minutes of the annual general meeting have been published on the company’s website. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 133 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3. General meeting 3.1. Shareholders’ Nomination Board Fingrid’s annual general meeting held on 28 March 2018 decided to establish a Shareholders’ Nomination Board. The Nomination Board’s tasks are defined in the Nomination Board’s rules of procedure approved by the general meeting and they are in line with the Corporate Governance Code’s recommendation 18b. The Nomination Board’s task is to prepare proposals concerning the appointment and remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors for the annual general meeting and to assess the operations of the Board of Directors. The Nomination Board was established to operate until further notice. The Nomination Board shall include three (3) representatives of the Company’s shareholders and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who shall serve as an expert member in the Nomination Board. The three (3) shareholders with the largest share of the votes have the right to appoint one (1) member each to the Nomination Board. If a shareholder does not wish to use their right to appoint a member, the right shall be transferred to the next largest shareholder who would otherwise not be entitled to appoint a member. The Nomination Board must give its proposal to the company’s Board of Directors annually, and no later than the 31st of January preceding the next annual general meeting. The members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board as of 28 March 2018 were Helena Tarkka, Director-General, Ministry of Finance, nominated by the State of Finland; Jukka Reijonen, Head of Private Equity, Debt and Infrastructure, Ilmarinen, nominated by Mutual Pension Insurance Company llmarinen; and Erkko Ryynänen, Director, OP, nominated by Aino Holdingyhtiö Ky. The term of office of the Nomination Board’s members ends at the closing of the Annual General Meeting following the appointment of the member. In 2018, the Nomination Board convened two (2) times and the meeting attendance percentage was 100. The Nomination Board prepared a proposal on the number of members and the composition of the Board of Directors to be submitted to the Board of Directors and evaluated the activities of the Board of Directors. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 134 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4. Board of Directors 4. B Boar oard do off Dir Dire ector orss Fingrid’s annual general meeting elects a Board of Directors once per year. In accordance with the articles of association, the Board of Directors consists of five (5) members. Shareholders who hold Series B shares in the company are entitled to elect one (1) member of the Board through a simple majority decision in accordance with the quantity of Series B shares held. Individuals who are Board members in a company which practices the sale or production of electricity or natural gas, or in a body which represents such a company, may not be elected as a member of the Board. The general meeting elects one (1) Board member to serve as the Chair of the Board and one (1) member to serve as the Deputy Chair of the Board. The Board is convened by the Chair or Deputy Chair of the Board. The Board constitutes a quorum when more than half of its members are present, and one (1) of these is the Chair or the Deputy Chair. The decisions of the Board of Directors are made through a simple majority on the basis of the Board members present in the meeting. New Board members are familiarised with the company’s operations. A Board member’s period of office expires at the closing of the next annual general meeting following his or her election. 4.1. Duties of the Board of Directors The tasks and responsibilities of Fingrid’s Board are set out by the Limited Liability Companies Act and other applicable legislation, as well as the articles of association. The Board of Directors is responsible for the administration and appropriate organisation of the operations of the company. The Board of Directors makes sure that the company adheres to the relevant rules and regulations, articles of association of the company, and guidelines provided by the annual general meeting. The primary duties and principles of the Board of Directors are also specified in the Board’s working order, according to which the Board: Decides the company strategy. Approves the annual action plan and budget on the basis of the strategy and supervises its implementation. Approves Fingrid’s management system and other business principles to be determined on the Board level. Confirms the values to be followed in Fingrid’s operations. Approves the total amount of purchases and capital investments and its distribution on the various sectors, and decides separately on budgeted purchases, capital investments and sales in excess of 10 million euros, and on purchases, capital investments and sales outside the budget in excess of 2 million euros. Reviews and approves the audit plan, financial statements, the half-year report and the related stock exchange releases, as well as the annual review. Addresses and decides on the proposals to be presented to the annual general meeting in accordance with the regulations of the Limited Liability Companies Act and the recommendations in the Corporate Governance Code. Annually reviews the risks relating to the company’s operations and the management of such risks. Decides on the operating model and annual plan of the internal audit and reviews the internal audit reports. Addresses the company’s corporate social responsibility report at least once a year. Appoints and dismisses the President & CEO of the company and his/her deputy. Approves the basic organisation and composition of the executive management group of the company. Decides on appointments to the boards of the company’s subsidiaries and associated companies and addresses the nominations for the CEOs of subsidiaries and associated companies. Decides on the principles of the remuneration system and on the remuneration of the President & CEO and the executive management group. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 135 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4. Board of Directors Holds part of the meeting at least once a year without the presence of executive management. Holds part of the meeting at least once a year with the auditor without the presence of executive management. Assesses its activities, work methods and efficiency once a year. Appoints from amongst its own members the audit committee and remuneration committee. Appoints an advisory committee whose task is to act as a link between the Board and the company management and customers. The advisory committee has 10–14 members who represent electricity producers, transmitters, sellers, users and other electricity market actors. The term of office is three (3) calendar years. The Board confirms the advisory committee’s regulations. Addresses other business which the Chair of the Board, a Board member or the President & CEO has proposed for inclusion in the agenda. 4.2. Board of Directors in 2018 The Board of Directors in 2018 was represented by Juhani Järvi (Chair), Juha Majanen (Deputy Chair) until 28 March 2018, Päivi Nerg (Deputy Chair) as of 28 March 2018, Anu Hämäläinen, Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti. Of the Board’s members, Juhani Järvi, Anu Hämäläinen and Sanna Syri are independent from the company and its significant shareholders; the other members are independent from the company. The company’s President & CEO, CFO and general counsel, who is the Board’s secretary, participate in Board meetings. Board members do not own shares in the company. The Board convened [12] times over the course of the year and approved the financial statements and annual review for 2017, and decided on, among other things, Fingrid’s new strategy, the budget and annual action plan for 2019, the grid service pricing for 2019, new investments in the grid and ICT, the principles of risk management and continuity management, the remuneration of executives and all significant policies affecting the company. In its meetings, the Board additionally addressed how the third alternating current (AC) connection between Finland and Sweden and the Datahub project are progressing, as well as the proposal by the Norwegian and Swedish TSOs concerning balance management in the real-time markets. Fingrid’s Board of Directors 2018 Attendance Year Main position Attendance at Name of Education and at Board committee birth independence meetings meetings Audit Board work, committee 5/ independent 5 Chair M.Sc. from the 1952 12/12 Juhani Järvi (Finance) company and Remuneration significant committee 3/ shareholders 3 Deputy Ministry of 1/12 Remuneration Chair Juha 1969 LL.B. Finance, (until 28 committee 1/ Majanen Budget March 3 (until 28 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 136 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4. Board of Directors Counsellor, Deputy Head of Budget Department, independent 2018) March 2018) from the company, nonindependent of significant shareholders Permanent UnderSecretary, The Ministry of Remuneration Deputy Finance, M.Sc. committee 2/ Chair 1958 independent 10/12 (Agr.&For.) 3 (as of 28 Päivi Nerg from the March 2018) company, nonindependent of significant shareholders Wärtsilä Corporation, Audit Vice President, committee 4/ Group 5 Treasury and (as of 28 Financial Anu M.Sc. March 2018) 1965 Services & 12/12 Hämäläinen (Finance) Remuneration Support, committee 1/ independent 3 from the (until 28 company and March 2018) significant shareholders Audit Aalto committee 1/ University, 5 Professor, (until 28 independent March 2018) D.Sc. from the Sanna Syri 1970 12/12 (Technology) company, Remuneration independent committee 2/ from the 3 significant (as of 28 shareholders March 2018) Ilmarinen Audit Esko Torsti 1964 Lic. Pol. 12/12 Mutual committee 5/ This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 137 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4. Board of Directors Pension Insurance Company, Vice President, independent from the 5 company and nonindependent from significant shareholders 4.3. Diversity of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors’ diverse composition supports the accomplishment and development of the goals and targets set by the company for its operations. An aim of the company is for all Board members to have adequate and mutually complementary experience and expertise in the areas essential for both the operations and societal role of the company. Fingrid additionally strives to assess the composition of the Board in terms of age and gender and to comply with the gender equality targets recommended by the state ownership steering. The proposal for the composition of the Board of Directors is prepared by the Nomination Board, which includes three (3) representatives of the Company’s shareholders and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who shall serve as an expert member in the Nomination Board. Fingrid Board members possess wide-ranging business and management expertise, also outside of Finland. The sectors and areas of expertise represented in the Board include industry, energy sector, financing and accounting as well as state administration. Sixty per cent of the Board members are female and 40 per cent male. The ages of the Board members range between 48 and 67 years. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 138 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5. Board committees 5. B Boar oard d ccommit ommitttees The Board has two (2) committees: the audit committee and the remuneration committee. The Board approves the committees’ working orders, which are regularly updated. The Board appoints members of the committees from amongst its own members. Each committee has at least three (3) members. The requirements of the Corporate Governance Code are complied with when appointing members of the committees. The committees appointed by the Board assess their operations once a year. 5.1. Audit committee The audit committee is appointed by the Board of Directors and it assists the Board. The Board has specified the duties of the audit committee in its working order in accordance with recommendation 16 of the Corporate Governance Code, in addition to which the audit committee should also assess the audit plans of the auditor and internal auditor, review the auditor’s and the internal audit reports, supervise compliance with legislation (incl. requirements set in the EU’s Audit Regulation) and with the governance principles set by the Board as well as the financial reporting process and prepare the process for the selection of the auditor. The Audit Committee consisted of Esko Torsti (Chair), Juhani Järvi, Sanna Syri (until 28 March 2018) and Anu Hämäläinen (as of 28 March 2018). The committee convened five (5) times in 2018. The President & CEO, the CFO and general counsel participated in the committee’s meetings. In its meetings, the audit committee addressed issues such as the draft half-year report, the auditor’s reports, the internal audit’s reports on the key observations on the company’s data security, investment management and continuity management audits, the principles of internal control and risk management, and the corporate governance statement. The committee additionally prepared matters up for decision by the Board concerning the company’s financial reporting and bond programmes. 5.2. Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is appointed by the Board of Directors and it assists the Board. The Board has specified the duties of the remuneration committee in its working order in accordance with recommendation 17 of the Corporate Governance Code. Accordingly, the remuneration committee, among other things, prepares for the Board of Directors the principles of the remuneration system applied to the executive management and other personnel. The committee also prepares for the Board, on the basis of accepted principles, a proposal concerning the remuneration to be paid to the President & CEO and other members of the executive management group. The committee furthermore prepares matters concerning the election of the President & CEO and members of the executive management group and successor planning. The remuneration committee consisted of Juhani Järvi (Chair), Anu Hämäläinen (until 28 March 2018), Juha Majanen (until 28 March 2018), Päivi Nerg (as of 28 March 2018) and Sanna Syri (as of 28 March 2018). In 2018, the remuneration committee convened three (3) times. The President & CEO and the Senior Vice President, HR and Communications, participated in the committee’s meetings. Topics discussed in the meetings included the remuneration systems for the executive management group and the President & CEO as well as management successor planning and deputising arrangements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 139 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6. President & CEO 6. Pr Pre esidensidentt & CE CEO O The President & CEO, in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act, attends to the administrative routines of the company in accordance with guidelines provided by the Board of Directors. In accordance with the Limited Liability Companies Act, the President & CEO is responsible for ensuring that the company’s bookkeeping complies with legislation and that financial management is reliably organised. Assisted by the executive management group, the President & CEO is responsible for the operations of the company and the implementation of the Board of Directors’ decisions and serves as the Chair of the Board of the subsidiaries. The President & CEO is not a member of the company’s Board of Directors. Jukka Ruusunen (D.Sc. Tech., born 1958) has acted as Fingrid’s President & CEO since 2007. He does not own Fingrid shares nor does he have share-based rights in Fingrid or in a company that belongs to the same group as Fingrid. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 140 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7. Company management 7. C Compan ompanyy managemen managementt Fingrid holds key responsibility for the transmission of electricity in the main grid in Finland and thereby for the functioning of society as a whole. In its operations, Fingrid complies with the applicable legislation and international conventions as well as the principles approved by the Board of Directors and the policies approved by the President & CEO and discussed by the executive management group. Fingrid’s Code of Conduct is published on the company’s website. The primary duty of Fingrid’s executives is to ensure that the company’s basic tasks are managed efficiently. The operations are based on meeting the needs of customers and society, taking into account the obligations laid down in the articles of association, shareholder agreements, electricity system license and Electricity Market Act. Fingrid’s operations are managed in a matrix of four perspectives. These are: customers and society, finance, internal processes (adequacy of the transmission system, system operation and promoting the electricity market), and personnel and expertise. The operational organisation has been organised into functions. The heads of the functions make up the executive management group of the company. The Board of Directors approves the basic organisation of the company on the level of functions. Significant special tasks are separated and organised as necessary in a separate company. Such tasks include e.g. special electricity market services, such as the management of peak load capacity and taking care of the guarantees of origin for electricity, which are carried out by Finextra Oy, a wholly owned subsidiary of the parent company Fingrid. Another subsidiary wholly owned by the parent company Fingrid, Fingrid Datahub Oy, is in charge of providing the electricity markets’ centralised data exchange service and related services to electricity market parties and is responsible for the management of the registered information required by the electricity market and the development of these functions. 7.1. Executive management group The executive management group supports the President & CEO. Its tasks are: To define, communicate, implement and follow up the strategy. To draw up an action plan and budget. To implement financial control and risk management. To implement resource planning, procurement and control. To implement external communications and stakeholder dialogue. To prepare matters for the Board of Directors. To develop the work of the executive management group. Each member of the executive management group is responsible for the day-to-day business operations of the organisation in his or her area of responsibility and for implementing operative decisions. In addition to Jukka Ruusunen, President & CEO, the executive management group in 2018 consisted of: Kari Kuusela, M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1955, Executive Vice President, asset management, Jussi Jyrinsalo, Licensiate in Technology, born in 1964, Senior Vice President, Customers and Grid Planning Marina Louhija, LLM, born in 1968, General Counsel, Legal and Administrative Affairs Tiina Miettinen, M.Sc. (Politics), M.Sc. (Knowledge Management), born in 1963, Senior Vice President, HR This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 141 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7. Company management and Communications Jan Montell, M.Sc. (Finance), born in 1968, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Reima Päivinen, M.Sc. (Tech.), born in 1958, Senior Vice President, Power System Operations Asta Sihvonen-Punkka, Licentiate in Economics, M.For, born in 1962, Senior Vice President, Markets Kari Suominen, M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA, born in 1964, Chief Information Officer (CIO). The members of the executive management group do not own Fingrid shares nor do they have share-based rights in Fingrid or in a company that belongs to the same group as Fingrid. The executive management group convened 15 times in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 142 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8. Advisory committee 8. A Advis dvisor oryy ccommit ommitttee Fingrid’s Board of Directors appoints an advisory committee with 10 to 14 members to serve as a link between the company, its customers and other stakeholders. The advisory committee is an advisory body which provides perspectives on the company’s grid operations and customer services from a customer point of view. The advisory committee widely represents electricity producers, transmitters, sellers, users and other electricity market actors. The advisory committee is set out in Fingrid’s articles of association. The Board annually confirms the regulations concerning the work of the advisory committee. The term of office of the members of the advisory committee is three years. The President & CEO and Vice President responsible for the company’s customer relationships participate in the advisory committee’s meetings. The composition of the advisory committee is set out on the company’s website. The advisory committee convened four times during the year. The topics discussed in the advisory committee’s meetings included, among other things, the power system’s future scenarios, Nordic imbalance settlement and Fingrid’s activities in the international environment. In several meetings, one of the topics discussed was a study on the introduction of a capacity-based consumption fee in grid service pricing. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 143 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 9. Internal control and risk management 9. In Intternal ccon ontr trol ol and risk managemen managementt 9.1. Internal control and risk management principles Fingrid’s internal control is a permanent component of the company’s operations and addresses all those operating methods and procedures whose objective it is to ensure effective and profitable operations that are in line with the company’s strategy, the reliability and integrity of the company’s financial and management information, that the company’s assets are protected, that applicable legislation, guidelines, regulations, agreements and the company’s own governance and operating guidelines are complied with, and a high standard of risk management. Risk management is planned as a whole, with the objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, monitoring and safeguarding the company’s operations, the environment, personnel and assets from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of the company’s core mission, risks are also assessed from the perspective of society in general. Continuity management is a part of risk management. Its objective is to improve the organisation’s capacity to prepare and to react in the best possible way should risks occur, and to ensure the continuity of operations in such situations. Further information on internal control, risk management and the foremost risks and factors of uncertainty is available on the company’s website and in the Board of Directors’ annual review. 9.2. Arrangement of internal control and risk management and distribution of responsibility 9.2.1. Board of Directors The company’s Board is responsible for organising internal control and risk management, and it approves the principles of internal control and risk management every two years or more often, if required. The Board defines the company’s strategic risks and related management procedures as part of the company’s strategy and action plan, and monitors their implementation. The Board decides on the operating model for the company’s internal audit. The Board regularly receives internal audit and financial audit reports as well as a status update at least once a year on the strategic risks and continuity threats relating to the company’s operations and their management and realisation. 9.2.2. Line management and other organisation Assisted by the Executive Management Group, the President & CEO is responsible for executing and steering the company’s governance, decision-making procedures, control and risk management, and for the assessment of strategic risks and continuity threats at the company level, and their related risk management. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 144 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 9. Internal control and risk management The heads of functions are responsible for the practical implementation of the governance, decision-making procedures, controls and risk management for their areas of responsibility, as well as for the reporting of deviations and the sufficiency of more detailed guidelines. Directors appointed in charge of the threats to continuity management are responsible for drawing up and maintaining continuity management plans and guidelines, and for arranging sufficient training and practice. The CFO is responsible for arranging procedures, controls and monitoring at the company level as required by the harmonised operating methods of internal control and risk management. The company’s general counsel is responsible at the company level for assuring the legality and regulation compliance of essential contracts and internal guidelines, taking into account the company’s interests, as well as for the procedures these require. Each Fingrid employee is obligated to identify and report any risks or control deficiencies she or he observes and to carry out the agreed risk management procedures. 9.3. Arrangement of internal control and risk management related to the financial reporting process The internal control systems relating to the financial reporting process are part of a more extensive overall system of Fingrid’s internal control. 9.3.1. Control environment of financial reporting process The Group comprises the parent company Fingrid Oyj and its wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy. The associated companies are eSett Oy (holding 33.3%) and Nord Pool AS (holding 18.8%). The Group has no joint ventures. The financial administration of the company is responsible for the Group’s centralised financial reporting and for the internal control and risk management of financial reporting. The executive management group and those with budget responsibility as well as the heads of units and functions receive a monthly report of the financial situation. These reports include information on the proceeds, costs and capital investments in the relevant area of responsibility. In addition to financial accounting reports, the reporting covers comprehensive reports which contain business information. These are produced by means of cost accounting and the financial control system. The interpretation and application of the standards governing financial statements are centralised at the Group’s financial administration, which monitors the accounting standards (IFRS, FAS), maintains an account scheme, draws up internal guidelines for the financial statements, and is responsible for the financial reporting process. The process is documented and it specifies how, when and on what schedule the month-end accounts are drawn up. Fingrid draws up the consolidated financial statements and the half-year report in accordance with IFRS reporting standards accepted by the European Union and in accordance with the Finnish Securities Market Act. The annual review and the financial statements of the Finnish companies included in the Group are prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act as well as the guidelines and statements of the Finnish Accounting Standards Board. The internal control and risk management systems and procedures related to the financial reporting processes, described in more detail below, have been devised so as to make sure that financial reporting by the company is reliable, coherent and timely and that the financial reports published provide an essentially true and fair view of Fingrid’s finances. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 145 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 9. Internal control and risk management 9.3.2. Roles and responsibilities of the financial reporting process Fingrid’s Board of Directors is primarily responsible for defining the principles of internal control and risk management related to financial reporting, and the Board makes sure that these principles are followed in the company. The Board reviews and approves the half-year report, the annual review and the financial statements. The audit committee assists the Board in this by monitoring the efficiency of the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management systems. The finance department of the Group is responsible for developing the financial reporting process through means such as monitoring the development needs of controls related to financial reporting, by supervising the sufficiency and efficiency of these controls, and by making sure that external reporting is correct and up to date and that the regulations pertaining to reporting are followed. The company’s financial auditor and internal auditor carry out inspections relating to financial reporting in accordance with the plan approved by the Board. 9.3.3. Risk management, control procedures and monitoring of the financial reporting process Controls pertaining to risk management are set throughout the Group, at all levels and units of the Group. Examples of the controls include internal guidelines, acceptance procedures and authorisations, cross-checking with cost accounting, matching, verifications, assessment of operative efficiency, securing of assets, and differentiation of tasks. The financial administration of the Group is responsible for the control structures relating to the financial reporting process. The control of the budgeting process is based on the budgeting guidelines, with the financial administration of the Group being responsible for their specification, centralised maintenance, and for monitoring compliance with them. The principles are applied uniformly throughout the Group, and there is a common reporting system in use. The monthly financial reporting to the executive management group together with the related analyses constitute the primary control and monitoring process in securing the efficiency and purposefulness of the functions and the accuracy of financial reporting. The analyses compare the realised proceed and cost components with the budget and to the previous year, and the budget is compared to the quarterly forecast. The monitoring of cash flow and capital investments is part of this process. Verification of the accuracy of monthly reporting employs the company’s financial control system, which the controllers and heads of units of the company can use to find essential errors and deviations. The accuracy of financial reporting is also ensured through good data security and data protection. The goal is to avoid risky work combinations wherever possible. User rights are checked regularly, and user rights are determined by the position of a person in the organisation. The databases used in the financial control system and accounting system are backed up regularly. The company has a data security manager who is responsible for the management and development of data networks and data security, as well as for providing personnel with guidance concerning data security matters. Controls for the financial reporting processes are developed as part of internal control. Personnel is given training in how to monitor the correctness of the information produced by the financial reporting process of the company, concerning cost allocation, posting, acceptance procedures for invoices and receipts, as well as for budgeting and actual result follow-up. The company’s auditor and internal audit carry out regular inspections on the functionality of controls concerning the financial reporting process and on the accuracy of information. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 146 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 10. Financial audit and internal audit 10. Financial a audit udit and in intternal a audit udit 10.1. Financial audit An authorised public accounting company selected by the general meeting acts as auditor for the company. The company’s financial auditor inspects the accounting, financial statements and financial administration for each financial period and provides the general meeting with reports required by accounting legislation or otherwise stipulated in legislation. The financial auditor reports on his or her work, observations and recommendations for the Board of Directors and may also carry out other verification-related tasks commissioned by the Board or management. The annual general meeting of 2018 elected authorised public accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as the auditor of the company. Authorised public accountant Heikki Lassila serves as the company’s responsible auditor. The general meeting decided that the auditor’s fee and expenses are paid on the basis of a reasonable invoice accepted by the company. Auditor’s fees, 2018 2017 EUR 1,000 Auditing fees 89 68 Other fees 94 61 TOTAL 183 130 10.2. Internal audit The Board of Directors decides on the operating model for the company’s internal audit. The internal audit acts on the basis of plans processed by the audit committee and approved by the Board. Audit results are reported to the object of inspection, the President & CEO, the audit committee and the Board. Upon decision of the Board, an internal audit outsourced to an authorised public accounting company acts within the company. From an administrative perspective, the internal audit is subordinate to the President & CEO. The internal audit provides a systematic approach to the assessment and development of the efficacy of the company’s risk management, monitoring, management and administrative processes and ensures their sufficiency and functionality as an independent party. The internal audit has the authority to carry out reviews and to access all information that is essential to the audit. Fingrid’s internal audit carries out risk-based auditing on the company’s various processes. In 2018, Deloitte & Touche Oy served as Fingrid’s internal auditor and carried out a total of three (3) audits. The audits concerned the company’s compliance management, preparation of investment proposals and the implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation in the company. The total fees paid to Deloitte & Touche Oy for auditing tasks amounted to EUR 67,500. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 147 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 11. Related party transactions 11. R Rela elatted par partty tr trans ansac actions tions The Group’s related parties include, in addition to the parent company Fingrid Oyj, subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy, and the associated companies Nord Pool AS and eSett Oy, the shareholder entities listed in section 6.5 of the company’s financial statements, and senior management and their related parties. The senior management is composed of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, and the executive management group. Other related party transactions include transactions concluded with entities in which the State of Finland has a holding in excess of 50 per cent. Fingrid’s related party transactions are accounted for in section 7.1 of the financial statements. In the decision making concerning related party transactions, Fingrid sees to it that any conflicts of interest are taken into account, and no one included in the related parties or a representative of a related party participates in deciding on a related party transaction. Business with related parties is conducted at market prices. Fingrid maintains a list of its related parties. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 148 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 12. Main procedures relating to insider administration 12. Main pr pro ocedur dure es rrela elating ting tto o insider adminis administr tra ation Fingrid complies with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), Nasdaq Helsinki Oy’s insider guidelines as well as the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) and the Financial Supervisory Authority’s (FIN-FSA) up-to-date guidelines on the governance and management of insider information. Fingrid additionally has insider guidelines approved by the Board of Directors, which describe the key principles for insider issues to be applied within the company. The company’s general counsel, Marina Louhija, is in charge of insider administration. Fingrid’s permanent insiders consist of the Board of Directors, President & CEO, members of the executive management group as well as any person considered to regularly have access, due to their duties, to insider information concerning Fingrid. Project-specific lists of insiders are drawn up as necessary; such lists include any persons in charge of preparations for the project who have access to insider information related to the project. Fingrid additionally applies a so-called extended closed window to the persons who participate in the preparation of the half-year report, management reviews and/or financial statements, including any external consultants and experts. The lists related to Fingrid’s insider administration are not public; only the person in charge of insider administration and his/her assistants have access to them. According to Fingrid’s insider guidelines, permanent or project-specific insiders and the persons under the extended closed window rules may not, on their own account or on the account of a third party, trade in Fingrid’s financial instruments within thirty (30) days prior to the publication of Fingrid’s financial statements release and the regularly published half-year report release and management reviews. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 149 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Remuneration statement Rem emuner unera ation ssttatemen ementt 13. Arrangement of remuneration decision-making The annual general meeting decides on the remuneration for Board members and the financial auditor. Fingrid’s Board of Directors approves the remuneration for the President & CEO and the members of the executive management group, the remuneration systems for a given year, and the principles of remuneration for personnel. 14. Key remuneration principles at Fingrid 14.1.Remuneration and other benefits for the members of the Board of Directors Each member of the Board is paid a fixed monthly fee and a meeting fee for each meeting that they have attended. The meeting fee is also paid for committee meetings. The members of the Board have no share or share-related remuneration schemes or supplementary pension schemes. Fingrid does not pay pension fees for the Board’s remuneration. 14.2. Remuneration of the President & CEO The service terms of the President & CEO have been specified in a separate President & CEO service contract which is approved by the Board of Directors. The retirement age and pension accrual of the President & CEO are determined in accordance with general pension legislation. The total remuneration of the CEO consisted in 2018 of a fixed total salary, a one-year bonus scheme (max. 40 per cent of the annual pay for the earnings year), and a three-year long-term incentive scheme (max. 35 per cent of the annual pay for the earnings year). There is no share or share-based remuneration scheme or supplementary pension scheme in place for the President & CEO on behalf of the company. The criteria for the President & CEO’s one-year bonus scheme in 2018 were the company’s results, customers’ confidence, success in developing the electricity market, functionality of the workplace community, and leadership. An additional criterion was the realisation of a strategic project, i.e. success in developing the electricity market. The criteria for the long-term incentive scheme are system security, electricity market functionality and shareholder value. Corporate social responsibility is taken into account in both the year-long and long-term incentive schemes. The mutual period of notice for the President & CEO is six months. If the company dismisses the President & CEO, an amount of money corresponding to nine months’ fixed salary is paid to the President & CEO in addition to the salary for the period of notice. 14.3. Remuneration of executive management The total remuneration of the members of the executive management group consisted of a fixed total salary, a one-year bonus scheme, and a three-year long-term incentive scheme. The maximum amount of the one-year bonus scheme was 20 per cent of the annual pay for the earnings year. The annual maximum amount of the longThis PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 150 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Remuneration statement term incentive scheme was 25 per cent of the annual pay for the earnings year. The criteria for the executive management’s one-year bonus scheme in 2018 were the company’s results, customers’ confidence, functionality of the workplace community, and leadership. The criteria additionally comprised the attainment of the key objectives of each member of the executive management group. The criteria for the long-term incentive scheme are operational reliability, electricity market functionality and shareholder value. Corporate social responsibility is taken into account in both the year-long and long-term incentive schemes. There is no share or share-based remuneration scheme or supplementary pension scheme in place for Fingrid’s executive management group on behalf of the company. 14.4. Remuneration of the personnel Personnel salaries comprised the basic salary determined according to the content of the task, competence, experience and results, an annual quality bonus that encourages the effective implementation of the strategy, and an incentive bonus to support personal performance. Remuneration was supplemented by other benefits and worktime flexibility organised by the company. Results which form the basis of quality bonuses are measured using annually defined company and function-level indicators. Incentive bonuses are paid for good performance as part of the daily management of personal performance. The CEO-to-employee annual median income ratio in 2018 was 6:1, and the female-to-male annual median income ratio was 0.8:1. 15. Remuneration report 15.1. Board of Directors The annual general meeting confirmed, on 28 March 2018, the following monthly fees for the Board members: Chair of the Board EUR 2,400 Deputy Chair of the Board EUR 1,300 Board members EUR 1,000 In addition, it was decided that Board members will be paid a meeting fee of EUR 600 for each meeting and committee meeting attended by the member. In 2018, the Board convened 12 times, the audit committee convened five times and the remuneration committee convened three times. Fees paid to the Board of Directors for the financial year 2018 in total: On the Fees On the Board Fees total board in total in 2018 2018** 2017 2017* Chair Juhani Järvi 1.1.-31.12. 40,800 1.1.-31.12. 39,000 Deputy Chair Juha 1.1.-28.3. 5,100 1.1.-31.12. 24,000 Majanen This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 151 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Remuneration statement Deputy Chair Päivi 28.3.-31.12. 15,600 Nerg Sanna Syri, Board 1.1.-31.12. 21,000 1.1.-31.12. 19,200 member Esko Torsti, Board 1.1.-31.12. 22,200 1.1.-31.12. 20,400 member Anu Hämäläinen, 1.1.-31.12. 21,600 1.1.-31.12. 19,200 Board member * Including monthly fees and meeting fees for meetings attended in 2018 15.2. President & CEO and executive management group The table below indicates the salaries and benefits of Fingrid’s President & CEO and other members of the executive management group in 2018: Salaries Variable and merit 2018 2017 benefits pay* President & CEO 302,000 150,000 452,000 416,000 Executive management 1,180,000 293,000 1,473,000 1,304,000 group TOTAL 1,482,000 443,000 1,925,000 1,720,000 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 152 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Stock exchange releases 2018 Stock e exxchange rrele eleas ase es 2 201 018 8 12 December 2018 Fingrid Oyj’s financial reports in 2019 25 October 2018 Fingrid Group – Management's Review 1 January–30 September 2018: Excellent results 14 August 2018 Fingrid Group’s Half-year report 1 January–30 June 2018 25 July 2018 Fingrid Oyj: Change to earnings guidance for 2018 26 April 2018 Fingrid Group – Management’s Review 1 January–31 March 2018 28 March 2018 Resolutions of the Annual General Meeting of Fingrid Oyj 1 March 2018 Fingrid Group’s Financial Statements Bulletin January–December 2017: The transmission reliability rate remained at an excellent level Fingrid’s stock exchange releases are published on the company’s website This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 153 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: Annual review and financial statements Ann Annual ual rre evie view w and financial statemen ementts This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 154 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1 Report of the board of directors 1R Rep epor ortt o off the b oard boar do off dir dire ector orss Financial rre esult Fingrid’s consolidated financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Unless otherwise indicated, the figures in parentheses refer to the same period of the previous year. Fingrid’s consolidated financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the same accounting principles as in 2017, taking into account the changes due to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. The Group’s turnover was EUR 852.8 (672.0) million. Grid service income increased to EUR 423.2 (412.1) million, as a result of the growth in electricity consumption. Electricity consumption in Finland totalled 87.4 (85.5) terawatt hours during the year. The increase in imbalance power sales was partly the result of increased balance power prices and partly the result of the transfer of imbalance settlement to eSett Oy, following which the imbalance power sold to cross-border imbalance responsible parties is now reported as external turnover. Crossborder transmission income from the connection between Finland and Russia increased to EUR 35.5 (20.7) million, as a result of increased cross-border transmissions and the higher cross-border transmission tariff. The transmission tariff used in imports from Russia is based on the difference between Finland’s and north-western Russia’s area prices. Other operating income totalled EUR 10.8 (2.9) million. The increase in other operating income resulted from an EUR 8.0 million increase in the capital gains from the sale of fixed assets. The Group’s total costs amounted to EUR 659.0 (499.0) million. Imbalance power costs grew from the previous year’s level, to EUR 320.0 (185.7) million, due to the increase in balance power prices and the above-mentioned transfer of imbalance settlement to eSett Oy. Loss power costs amounted to EUR 47.7 (47.5) million. The realised average price of loss power procurement was EUR 37.88 (37.62) per megawatt hour. The cost of reserves to safeguard the grid’s system security increased to EUR 56.7 (51.5) million due to an increase in the procurements for the frequency regulating reserve. Depreciation totalled EUR 99.7 (96.9) million. Grid maintenance costs decreased to EUR 21.2 (24.5) million due to access control system updates carried out in 2017. Personnel costs amounted to EUR 32.2 (29.4) million, and EUR 3.6 (2.6) million was used for R&D projects. Turnover and other operating income, € million [1] *eSett Oy is a company owned jointly by the Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian transmission system operators, responsible for imbalance settlement in Finland, Sweden and Norway. Imbalance settlement transferred to eSett Oy on 1 May 2017. Turnover and other operating income, € million Jan-Dec/18 Jan-Dec/17 July-Dec/18 July-Dec/17 Grid service revenue 423.2 412.1 193.8 191.8 Sales of imbalance power 348.8 214.0 184.0 129.1 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 155 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.1 Financial result Cross-border transmission income 35.5 20.7 15.3 9.9 Peak load capacity income* 14.0 8.3 4.7 4.7 ITC income 13.1 8.6 7.8 4.8 Other turnover 18.2 8.2 10.4 5.6 Other operating income 10.8 2.9 10.4 5.6 Turnover and other income total 863.6 674.9 425.7 347.8 Costs, € million Jan-Dec/18 Jan-Dec/17 July-Dec/18 July-Dec/17 Purchase of imbalance power 320.0 185.7 170.6 116.1 Cost of loss energy 47.7 47.5 22.3 26.2 Depreciation 99.7 96.9 50.4 48.4 Cost of reserves 56.7 51.5 27.1 26.6 Personnel costs 32.2 29.4 15.6 14.7 Maintenance management costs 21.2 24.5 13.2 14.9 Cost of peak load capacity* 13.7 8.0 4.6 4.6 ITC charges 13.8 13.0 7.2 6.4 Other costs 54.0 42.6 30.9 21.2 Costs total 659.0 499.0 342.0 279.1 Operating proﬁt excluding the change in the fair value of commodity derivatives 204.6 175.9 83.7 68.7 Operating proﬁt of Group, IFRS 241.6 184.8 91.2 81.0 * Peak load capacity income and costs are related to the securing of sufficient electricity supply during peak consumption hours in compliance with the Finnish Peak Load Capacity Act. The Group’s operating profit was EUR 241.6 (184.8) million. EUR 37.1 (8.9) of changes in the fair value of electricity derivatives and the currency derivatives related to capital expenditure and other operating expenses was recorded in operating profit. The Group’s profit before taxes was EUR 229.0 (163.7) million. The biggest differences from the previous year are explained by changes in the market value of derivatives (EUR +34.9 million), the increase in grid transmission income and in cross-border transmission income (EUR +25.9 million in total), and the growth in other operating income (EUR +7.9 million). Profit for the financial year was EUR 183.2 (130.8) million. The equity ratio was 36.6 (37.8) per cent at the end of the year. The parent company’s turnover was EUR 844.6 (665.4) million, profit for the financial year EUR 194.6 (123.4) million and the distributable funds EUR 222.4 million. By the company’s own calculations, the result according to the regulatory model that governs grid operations This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 156 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.1 Financial result amounts to a surplus of around EUR 40 million for 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 157 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.2 Financing Financing The company’s credit rating remained high, reflecting its strong overall financial situation and debt service capacity. The Group’s net interest expenses on borrowings in 2018 were EUR 16.3 (17.1) million. The Group’s net financial costs were EUR 15.2 (22.8) million. Change in the fair value of financial derivatives was EUR 6.7 million (–8.2). Interest-bearing borrowings totalled EUR 1,059.6 (1,082.7) million, of which non-current borrowings accounted for EUR 771.5 (813.4) million and current borrowings for EUR 288.1 (269.3) million. The company’s liquidity remained good. Cash and financial assets on 31 December 2018 totalled EUR 85.3 (83.8) million. The company additionally has an undrawn revolving credit facility of EUR 300 million to secure liquidity (until 11 December 2022) and EUR 50 million in uncommitted overdraft facilities. The counterparty risk arising from derivative contracts related to financing was EUR 14.3 (7.6) million. Fingrid’s foreign exchange and commodity price risks were hedged. Fingrid has credit rating service agreements with S&P Global Ratings (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). The credit ratings valid on 31 December 2018 were as follows: S&P’s rating for Fingrid’s unsecured senior debt and long-term company rating at ‘AA-’ and the short-term company rating at ‘A-1+’, with a stable outlook. Fitch’s rating for Fingrid’s unsecured senior debt at ‘AA-’, the long-term company rating at ‘A+’, and ‘F1’ for the short-term company rating, with a stable outlook. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 158 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.3 Capital expenditure Capit apital al e exp xpendit enditur ure e Fingrid’s total capital expenditure in 2018 amounted to EUR 92.7 (111.1) million. This included a total of EUR 85.1 (91.1) million invested in the transmission grid and EUR 2.9 (14.2) million for reserve power. ICT investments amounted to EUR 4.0 (5.7) million. The capital expenditure will remain at the current order of magnitude over the next few years. Main grid planning always has a holistic and forward-looking approach. Fingrid’s current grid vision extends to 2040. The grid vision is insight into the long-term development needs of the main transmission grid, including plans following the current projects. The objective of the vision is to accomplish the investments in the transmission grid effectively and timely, both in terms of the macro economy and grid maintenance. By international standards, grid maintenance at Fingrid is world-class. Fingrid scored top results in ITOMS (The International Transmission Operations & Maintenance Study) and was the only TSO to achieve a Top Performer nomination both in the substation and transmission line maintenance categories. ITOMS looks into the effectiveness of maintenance based on criteria such as maintenance costs and disturbance statistics. Power lines and substations were built extensively throughout Finland in 2018. The total kilometres of new power lines amounted to around 250. Seven substation projects were completed. The biggest ongoing projects are related to the modernisation of the aging ‘Iron Lady’ transmission line, connecting industry and power plants to the grid, and reinforcing the link with Sweden. The 26-kilometre Vihtavuori–Koivisto power line between Laukaa’s Vihtavuori and Äänekoski’s Koivisto substations was commissioned in January 2018. The modernised 82-kilometre transmission line connection from the ‘Iron Lady’ link at the Kouvola Koria substation to Yllikkälä, close to Lappeenranta, was completed and commissioned during the period under review. The last section of the old ‘Iron Lady’ line will be replaced by a new line to be built between Hikiä and Orimattila and to be completed by the end of 2019. The new transmission line runs from Hikiä to Iso-Henna, following the old ‘Iron Lady’s’ right-of-way. A 16-kilometre section of transmission line from Iso-Henna to Orimattila will be built on a new right-of-way. A new Vuoksi substation has been built between Joutseno and Imatra, and the transmission lines east and west of there will be modernised. The new substation was commissioned during the period under review, and the new transmission lines will be completed in stages by the end of 2019. The new substation and the transmission line routes became topical when Kemira decided to expand the production capacity at its chloralkali site in Joutseno. The area is also in general highly industrialised, and the grid investment will improve the operating conditions for other companies as well. The new 400-kilovolt connection from Pyhänselkä in Muhos to Keminmaa and further on to the Messaure substation in Sweden is a strategic transmission link. This is a joint project between Fingrid and the Swedish TSO Svenska Kraftnät. The connection will increase the transmission capacity between the two countries by 800 megawatts. The detailed planning of the right-of-way and the environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the project are currently underway. The transmission link will be built in stages simultaneously in both countries. A total of around 200 kilometres of new powerline will be built on the Finnish side. The planning stages of the project will receive EU support, and all stages of the connection are expected to be completed in 2025. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 159 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.3 Capital expenditure Fingrid currently has a total of around 600 kilometres of new transmission lines in the general planning stage. The projects will proceed to the construction stage within the next few years. Finland’s electricity consumption is concentrated in the south, where electricity production is insufficient with regard to consumption. In future, increasing amounts of electricity will be produced in northern Finland and northern Sweden, and this electricity must be transmitted to the south for use by industry and consumers. This requires strong transmission connections between the north and the south. Planning of the transmission line between Oulu and Petäjävesi, named ‘Forest Line’, has begun. This is a 310-kilometres long 400-kilovolt transmission line. Construction of the ‘Forest Line’ will start in autumn of 2019, and it is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. The grid reinforcing measures in North Karelia are in the general planning stage. The three-stage project will provide a total of 112 kilometres of transmission lines. A new substation will be built in Pamilo, and the Kontiolahti and Uimaharju substations will be updated. The project is due for completion in 2022. The grid around the Oulujoki river, built in the 1950s, is under modernisation. The grid upgrade will start with the modernisation of two substations and the expansion of one substation, and with the construction of new transmission lines between Pyhänselkä and Nuojuakangas. The local electricity production mainly consists of hydropower, while also new wind power projects are being planned in addition to the existing wind power production. The first stage, to be completed in 2020–2022, will include the construction of the transmission line section between the Pyhänselkä substation, in Muhos, and the Nuojua substation, in Vaala. The Pyhänselkä substation will be expanded, and the Nuojua and Utanen substations will be modernised. A new, around 45-kilometre-long transmission line will be built between Pyhänselkä and Nuojua. The first substation of the main grid, in Imatra, is an important component of the grid in South Karelia. The substation serves the local hydropower plants and industries, and is the starting point of a cross-border transmission connection to Russia. The modernisation of the Imatra substation, originally built in 1929, will be completed in 2020. The planning of Fingrid’s first digital substation pilot project, at the Pernoonkoski substation, close to Kotka, has been started. The aim is to create a digitalised substation that is compact, safe, environmentally sustainable, remote controlled and provides cost effectiveness both in terms of capex and operational costs. In order to secure the Helsinki region’s electricity supply, the City of Helsinki, the region’s distribution network company Helen Sähköverkko and Fingrid are jointly planning an infrastructure project to serve the Helsinki region’s electricity supply and facilitate land use. Fingrid is preparing to build a new 400-kilovolt cable link from Länsisalmi to Viikinmäki, with plans to have it up and running as soon as the mid 2020s. One of Fingrid’s long-term goals is to improve the safety culture at work sites and in this way achieve its zero accident objective. In 2018, Fingrid’s own personnel had no workplace accidents resulting in absence from work (2). A total of 4 (9) lost-time accidents were recorded among Fingrid’s service providers. None of the lost-time accidents resulted in an absence of more than 30 days. The suppliers’ and Fingrid’s combined accident frequency rate decreased significantly from the previous year, to 3.2 (8.5). This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 160 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.4 Power system Power ssyystem In 2018, electricity consumption in Finland amounted to 87.4 (85.5) terawatt hours. Fingrid transmitted a total of 68.6 (66.2) terawatt hours of electricity in its grid, representing 75.5 (75.5) per cent of the total transmission volume in Finland (consumption and inter-TSO). The electricity import and production capacity was sufficient to cover the peak consumption during the year. Electricity consumption peaked at 14,062 (14,300) megawatts on 28 February 2018. During that peak consumption hour, Finland generated 10,600 megawatts of electricity, and the remaining 3,460 megawatts was imported from neighbouring countries. Draught was the hallmark of the summer of 2018, and the lack of water reservoirs increased the price of electricity in the Nordic countries. One of the impacts of the high Nordic prices was increased transmission of electricity from Russia to Finland. Electricity transmissions between Finland and Sweden mostly consisted of large imports to Finland. In 2018, 14.5 (15.6) terawatt hours of electricity was imported from Sweden to Finland, and 1.0 (0.4) terawatt hours was exported from Finland to Sweden. The bulk of electricity transmission between Finland and Estonia was from Estonia to Finland during the spring and the autumn. During other times, the dominant direction was from Finland to Estonia, totalling 2.4 (1.7) terawatt hours. Imports from Estonia amounted to 0.9 (0.9) terawatt hours. The electricity imports from Russia increased compared with the previous year, but the intraday variations were large. Imports from Russia was 7.9 (5.8) terawatt hours. In 2018, 0.2 (0.3) terawatt hours of electricity was imported from Norway to Finland, and 0.1 (0.0) terawatt hours was exported from Finland to Norway. Nearly the full transmission capacity was available in all cross-border connections during the review period. The transmission reliability rate overall remained at an excellent level and was 99.9999 (99.9997) per cent of the transmitted energy volume. An outage in a connection point in the grid caused by a disturbance in Fingrid’s electricity network lasted an average of 12.0 (2.2) minutes, which exceeds the ten-year average. The computational cost of the disturbances (regulatory outage costs) to consumer customers was only EUR 1.5 (2.8) million. If quick reconnections are included, the cost of disturbances amounts to EUR 3.6 million, the lowest value in ten years. The most significant event that contributed to the increased outages in connection points was a fire at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation on 18 July 2018, which resulted in damage to a 400-kilovolt current transformer. Due to the fire and resulting repairs at the substation, Olkiluoto nuclear power plant units 1 and 2 were not able to supply the grid with electricity. Fingrid issued a warning on 19 July 2018 that domestic production and imports of electricity may possibly be insufficient to meet consumption. The electricity shortage was avoided, however. The reliability and usability of DC connections were at an excellent level in 2018. The number of disturbances and the total duration of disturbances exceeded the 2017 levels, however. Except for the single most serious disturbance during 2018, the connections were restored very quickly after disturbances. Thus the countertrade costs for DC connections in 2018 were only around EUR 140,000, close to the exceptionally good level of 2017. The most serious disturbance occurred in the EstLink 1 connection in November and took 23 days to repair. The volume of transmission losses in the grid remained at the level of the previous year, 1.2 (1.2) terawatt hours. This is 1.3 (1.4) per cent of the total volume of transmitted electricity. The annual variation of losses is affected by the Nordic electricity production situation, such as the sufficiency of hydropower. Losses have been minimised by keeping the voltage of the transmission grid as high as possible and by making grid investments and equipment procurements that promote energy efficiency. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 161 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.4 Power system Counter trade Jan-Dec/18 Jan-Dec/17 July-Dec/18 July-Dec/17 Counter-trade between Finland and Sweden, €M 1.9 0.4 1.8 0.1 Counter-trade between Finland and Estonia, €M 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 Counter-trade between Finland's internal connections, €M 2.2 1.3 2.1 0.0 Total counter-trade, €M 4.1 1.8 3.9 0.1 Reserves required to maintain the power balance of the electricity system were procured from Finland, the other Nordic countries, the Baltic countries and Russia. Countertrade costs totalled EUR 4.1 (1.8) million. Contributors to the increased countertrade costs included the fire at Fingrid’s Olkiluoto substation and the dis-ruptions in the Petäjäskoski–Letsi transmission line. Countertrade refers to special adjustments made in the management of electricity transmission which are used to eliminate short-term bottle-necks (congestion in electricity transmission caused by the transmission grid). Fingrid guarantees the cross-border transmission capacities between countries it has confirmed by carrying out coun-tertrades, i.e. purchasing and selling electricity, up until the end of the 24-hour usage period. The need for countertrade can arise from, for example, a power outage or disruption in a power plant or in the grid. Power system operation Jan-Dec/18 Jan-Dec/17 July-Dec/18 July-Dec/17 Electricity consumption in Finland TWh 87.4 85.5 42.2 41.8 TSO transmission in Finland, TWh 3.5 2.1 2.0 1.3 Transmission within Finland, TWh 90.9 87.6 44.1 43.1 Fingrid's transmission volume TWh 68.6 66.2 33.9 33.4 Fingrid's electricity transmission to customers, TWh 64.9 63.9 31.8 32.0 Fingrid's loss energy volume TWh 1.2 1.2 0.6 0.6 Electricity transmission Finland Sweden Exports to Sweden TWh 1.0 0.4 0.5 0.3 Imports from Sweden TWh 14.5 15.6 7.0 8.1 Electricity transmission Finland Estonia Exports to Estonia TWh 2.4 1.7 1.4 1.1 Imports from Estonia TWh 0.9 0.9 0.3 0.3 Exports to Norway TWh Imports from Norway TWh 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Imports from Norway TWh 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.2 Electricity transmission Finland Russia Imports from Russia TWh 7.9 5.8 4.4 2.8 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 162 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.5 Electricity market Ele Elecctricit tricityy mark marke et The average market price of spot electricity on the electricity exchange (Nordic system price) was EUR 43.99 (29.41) per megawatt hour. The wholesale prices of electricity were clearly on a higher level in 2018 compared with previous years in Nordic countries. The annual average price was at its highest level since 2011 for both the Nordic system price and the Finnish area price. The drivers behind the higher prices include, above all, the increased prices of emission rights and fuels, as well as the lower than normal precipitation affecting hydropower production in the Nordic production areas. Fingrid accrued EUR 28.2 (25.5) million in congestion income from the cross-border power lines between Finland and Sweden. EUR 18.9 (10.4) million of this was accrued during the first half of the year and EUR 9.3 (15.0) million during the second half of the year. The difference between Finland’s and Sweden’s area prices narrowed due to a general increase in the price of electricity, which also reduced the number of congestion hours. The links between Finland and Estonia generated EUR 1.4 (0.3) million in congestion income. In accordance with the regulation on congestion income, Fingrid has used the congestion income from the connections between Finland and Sweden for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä grid investment. EUR 1.3 million in congestion income was left unused and will be used for future investments to increase cross-border transmission capacity. Imports of electricity from Russia grew from the 2017 level by around 2 terawatt hours. Nearly the full transmission capacity was available. The TSOs signed a co-operation agreement on developing the new Nordic balancing concept in March 2018. The agreement commits the five Nordic TSOs to the new balancing concept and to the implementation of a joint balancing market. The Nordic agreement on joint imbalance settlement will help to keep Finland as an integral part of the Nordic power market also in future. The European intraday markets started up in June 2018, and Finland was one of the 14 countries to adopt the new system in the first go-live phase. The Cross-Border Intraday (XBID) marketplace enables more extensive European electricity markets for continuous trading. Fingrid participated in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment’s (MEAE) smart grid working group during the year under review. The working group’s final report describes the possibilities of a smart power system and makes several proposals to develop the electricity market. Most of the changes are scheduled to be implemented between 2019 and 2021. Some of the working group’s suggestions require the implementation of the datahub. The datahub is a centralised information exchange system for retail markets that stores data from all of Finland’s 3.5 million electricity metering points. Fingrid Datahub Oy selected the supplier for the datahub system in June 2018. The Finnish government presented a proposal to the parliament in September on amending the Finnish Electricity Market Act and certain related acts. The amendments are necessary for implementing the datahub. The parliament approved the proposed legislation amendments in December and they entered into force on 1 February 2019. The datahub will go live in 2021. The centralised model to be implemented by the datahub will make business processes more efficient and enable new ways of developing the exchange of information. The rules will become simpler and the quality of information will improve. The datahub will compile data from all Finnish electricity consumers. The system will simplify, speed up and enhance the efficiency of the data exchange required by the retail electricity market. The information contained in the datahub will be used by approximately 100 electricity suppliers and over 80 distribution network companies serving electricity consumers. The datahub also holds a key role in the electricity market’s shift from the current one-hour trading period to a fifteen-minute period. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 163 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.5 Electricity market Electricity market Jan-Dec/18 Jan-Dec/17 July-Dec/18 July-Dec/17 Nord Pool system price, average €/MWh 43.99 29.41 49.07 29.54 Area price Finland, average €/MWh 46.80 33.19 51.55 34.44 Congestion income between Finland and Sweden, € million* 56.5 51.0 18.6 30.1 Congestion hours between Finland and Sweden %** 20.6 24.0 19.0 26.6 Congestion income between Finland and Estonia, € million* 2.8 0.5 2.0 0.2 Congestion hours between Finland and Estonia % 5.4 1.4 7.9 1.4 * The congestion income between Finland and Sweden and between Finland and Estonia is divided equally between the relevant TSOs. The income and costs of the transmission connections are presented in the tables under ‘Financial result’. Congestion income is used for investments aimed at eliminating the cause of congestion. ** The calculation of a congestion hour between Finland and Sweden refers to an hour during which Finland’s day-ahead area price differs from both Sweden’s SE1 and its SE3 area prices. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 164 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.6 Share capital Shar Share e ccapit apital al The company’s share capital is EUR 55,922,485.55. Fingrid shares are divided into Series A shares and Series B shares. The number of Series A shares is 2,078 and the number of Series B shares is 1,247. The voting and dividend rights related to the shares are described in more detail in the notes to the financial statements and in the articles of association available on the company’s website. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 165 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.7 Personnel and remuneration systems Per erssonnel and rrem emuner unera ation systems Fingrid Oyj employed 380 (355) persons, including temporary employees, at the end of the year. The number of permanent personnel was 327 (308). At the end of the year, 23 (24) per cent of the personnel were women and 77 (76) per cent were men. The average age of the personnel was 44 (44). During 2018, the personnel received a total of 14,979 (11,408) hours of training, with an average of 39 (32) hours per person. Employee absences due to illness accounted for 1 (1) per cent of the total working hours. In addition to a compensation system that is based on the requirements of each position, Fingrid applies incentive bonus schemes. Caring and well-being are the cornerstones of Fingrid’s HR policy. In practice, caring means solutions supporting the individual, such as flexible working hour arrangements, support for recreational activities and overall wellbeing. In accordance with Fingrid’s personnel policy, employees are treated with respect and fairness, based on the company’s values and in compliance with the principles of equal opportunity and non-discrimination. Equal opportunity and non-discrimination are part of the corporate culture. Alongside responsibility, openness and efficiency, impartiality is one of Fingrid’s values. Fingrid invests more than a million euros annually to boost both team spirit and the personal development of each employee. In addition to common training provided by the company, personnel can participate in specific training to complement their working skills. The topics covered in company-level training events during the year include language instruction, presentation and communication coaching, customer service coaching as well as training support to units and teams amid various changes and in developing their operations. A tailored training programme called Loikka (i.e. ‘Leap’) was started during 2018 to increase the understanding of expert staff concerning changes in Fingrid’s operating environment and stakeholders’ expectations, and to increase employees’ communication skills. Fingrid’s innovation activities aim to improve the company’s ability to respond to changes in the operating environment. Continuous brainstorming, constructive criticism of existing operations, and development through trial and error are some of the innovation activities aimed at improving the productivity and quality of the operations. Innovations are sought in co-operation with start-ups and research institutions. One example of this is the RadiCamp project aimed at finding new innovations to revamp power system control rooms. Another highlight is the open innovation competitions to develop the maintenance management of substation equipment. Corporate Spirit carried out a PeoplePower personnel survey at Fingrid for the third time now. Compared to other expert organisations, the survey results were excellent. Fingrid scored the highest rating, AAA, which is achieved only by around six per cent of all surveyed organisations annually. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 166 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.8 Board of Directors and corporate management Boar oard do off Dir Dire ector orss and ccorp orpor ora ate managemen managementt Fingrid Oyj’s Annual General Meeting was held in Helsinki on 28 March 2018. In 2018, the Board of Directors consisted of Juhani Järvi (Chair) and Juha Majanen (Deputy Chair) until 28 March 2018, Päivi Nerg (Deputy Chair) as of 28 March 2018, and Anu Hämäläinen, Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the company, with Heikki Lassila, APA, serving as the responsible auditor. The Board of Directors has two committees: the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee consisted of Esko Torsti (Chair), Juhani Järvi, Sanna Syri (until 28 March 2018) and Anu Hämäläinen (as of 28 March 2018). The remuneration committee consisted of Juhani Järvi (Chair), Anu Hämäläinen (until 28 March 2018), Juha Majanen (until 28 March 2018), Päivi Nerg (as of 28 March 2018) and Sanna Syri (as of 28 March 2018). Jukka Ruusunen serves as President & CEO of the company. Fingrid has an Executive Management Group which supports the CEO in the company’s management and decision-making. A corporate governance statement, required by the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, has been provided separately. The statement and other information required by the Code are also available on the company’s website at www.fingrid.fi. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 167 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.9 Fingrid's business model Fingrid's busine business ss mo model del The purpose of the business model is to describe the most important material and immaterial resources at Fingrid’s disposal that are necessary for the business processes. The result of these processes are services to the customers. The impact of Fingrid’s operations and the significant added value they generate show in various ways throughout Finnish society. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 168 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.10 Internal control and risk management In Intternal ccon ontr trol ol and risk managemen managementt At Fingrid internal control is a permanent component of the company’s operations and addresses all those operating methods and procedures whose objective it is to ensure effective and profitable operations that are in line with the company’s strategy, the reliability and integrity of the company’s financial and management information, that the company’s assets are protected, that applicable legislation, guidelines, regulations, agreements and the company’s own governance and operating guidelines are complied with, and a high standard of risk management. Risk management is planned holistically, with the objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, monitoring and safeguarding the company’s operations, the environment, personnel and assets from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of the company’s core mission, risks are also assessed from the perspective of society. Continuity management is a part of risk management. Its objective is to improve the organisation’s capacity to prepare and to react in the best possible way should risks occur, and to ensure the continuity of operations in such situations. Further information on internal control, risk management and the foremost risks and factors of uncertainty is available on the company's website. Board of Directors The company’s Board of Directors is responsible for organising internal control and risk management, and it approves the principles of internal control and risk management every two years or more often, if required. The Board defines the company’s strategic risks and related management procedures as part of the company’s strategy and action plan, and monitors their implementation. The Board decides on the operating model for the company’s internal audit. The Board regularly receives internal audit and financial audit reports as well as a status update at least once a year on the strategic risks and continuity threats relating to the company’s operations and their management and realisation. Line management and other organisation Assisted by the Executive Management Group, the President & CEO is responsible for executing and steering the company’s governance, decision-making procedures, control and risk management, and for the assessment of strategic risks and continuity threats at the company level, and their related risk management. The heads of functions are responsible for the practical implementation of the governance, decision-making procedures, controls and risk management for their areas of responsibility, as well as for the reporting of deviations and the sufficiency of detailed guidelines. Directors appointed in charge of the threats to continuity This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 169 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.10 Internal control and risk management management are responsible for drawing up and maintaining continuity management plans and guidelines, and for arranging sufficient training and practice. The CFO is responsible for arranging procedures, controls and monitoring at the company level as required by the harmonised operating methods of internal control and risk management. The company’s general counsel is responsible at the company level for assuring the legality and regulation compliance of essential contracts and internal guidelines, taking into account the company’s interests, as well as for the procedures these require. Each Fingrid employee is obligated to identify and report any risks or control deficiencies she or he observes and to carry out the agreed risk management procedures. Financial audit An authorised public accounting company selected by the Annual General Meeting acts as auditor for the company. The company’s financial auditor inspects the accounting, financial statements and financial administration for each financial period and provides the AGM with reports required by accounting legislation or otherwise stipulated in legislation. The financial auditor reports on his or her work, observations and recommendations for the Board of Directors and may also carry out other verification-related tasks commissioned by the Board or management. Internal audit The Board of Directors decides on the operating model for the company’s internal audit. The internal audit acts on the basis of plans processed by the audit committee and approved by the Board. Audit results are reported to the object of inspection, the President & CEO, the audit committee and the Board. Upon decision of the Board, an internal audit outsourced to an authorised public accounting company acts within the company. From an administrative perspective, the internal audit is subordinate to the President & CEO. The internal audit provides a systematic approach to the assessment and development of the efficiency of the company’s risk management, monitoring, management and administrative processes and ensures their sufficiency and functionality as an independent party. The internal audit has the authority to carry out reviews and to access all information that is essential to the audit. Fingrid’s internal audit carries out risk-based auditing on the company’s various processes. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 170 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.11 Foremost risks and uncertainty factors for society and Fingrid For oremos emostt risk riskss and unc uncer erttain aintty facacttor orss ffor or sso ocie cietty and Fingrid Since Fingrid plays a significant role in Finnish society, the impact of risks is assessed from both the company’s and society’s perspective. The risk entities recognised as strategic risks concern either society alone, Fingrid alone or both. One of the company’s biggest business risks and the biggest risk where society is concerned is a major disturbance related to the functioning of the power system. A major disturbance can result in a situation where most of the grid is out of power, which paralyzes society’s functions and causes major damage to the economy. Other major risks for Fingrid and society are a dysfunctional electricity market, environmental risks and serious workplace accidents. The risks to Fingrid’s operations include risks related with unfavourable regulatory development, financing risks, asset risks, compliance risks, major ICT disturbances and personnel risks. Risks to society arising from Fingrid’s operations include unsuccessful timing of investments, long-term restrictions in transmission capacity, and incidents resulting in major harm to customers. The major risks to Fingrid mentioned above are explored in greater detail in the company’s annual report. Fingrid’s financing risks are described in more detail in sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the consolidated financial statements. No substantial risks were realised in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 171 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.12 Corporate responsibility Corp orpor ora ate rre esp sponsibilit onsibilityy Responsibility is one of Fingrid’s corporate values, and responsible business conduct is a strategic choice for the company. In addition to successfully fulfilling its societally important core mission, the following aspects are important to Fingrid: safety and security, procurement practices, stakeholder confidence, financial result, Code of Conduct and taking care of the work community. Fingrid’s compliance with corporate responsibility is steered by the set strategy targets. The key targets have been set by identifying topics that are of material importance to Fingrid. The need for updates to the materiality analysis is assessed annually as part of the strategy process, based on an operating environment and stakeholder analysis and on the strategy update. Achieving the targets serves as the basis for executive management’s and personnel’s remuneration. At Fingrid, corporate responsibility and compliance management are integrated with the management system and risk management practices. Fingrid’s Board of Directors approves the company’s Code of Conduct and monitors the company’s compliance in operating responsibly. Furthermore, the Board is in charge of arranging corporate responsibility management and its integration into business operations. The CEO and the heads of functions are each responsible for corporate responsibility issues within their areas of responsibility. Social issues and environmental impacts are taken into account in all decision-making and when assessing operations, alongside profitability issues. Fingrid has declared its human rights commitment as part of the company’s Code of Conduct. To ensure its understanding of human rights impacts, Fingrid has carried out an assessment in compliance with the due diligence process recommended in the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and updates its action plan annually. In accordance with its Code of Conduct, Fingrid is a responsible tax payer and combats the grey economy, and does not engage in money laundering or corruption, such as blackmail and bribery. No cases related to corruption and bribery occurred during the year under review. Fingrid reports on its tax footprint and does not carry out special arrangements to minimise taxes. Managers and the entire work community ensure that behaviour is in line with the Code of Conduct. New employees must complete online induction training on the Code of Conduct. The online induction training was updated during the year under review, and it helped to reinforce the commitment of existing and new employees alike. The updated online training takes into account the new General Data Protection Regulation, and data security was one of the topics in internal audits, in addition to compliance management issues. A confidential whistle-blower system managed by an independent third party is available to employees who suspect a breach of the Code of Conduct. Preparations were made during the year under review to expand its availability to external stakeholders. Fingrid again received an excellent AAA rating in the survey where employees assessed the responsibility of the company’s ways of operating. In the customer survey, the trust KPI measuring the implementation of the customer strategy and customers’ trust was 4.1 on a scale of 1-5. Fingrid has joined the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative, and its Code of Conduct is in line with the initiative’s principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In procurements, Fingrid requires its contractual partners to commit to Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Conduct and monitors compliance using a risk-based approach. Compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct is a condition for being included in supplier registers used in recurring substation and power line procurements. In addition, contractual partners are subject to separate contract terms related to the use of subcontractors and workforce, and to occupational safety and environmental matters. During the year under review, Fingrid carried out 10 audits on its work sites to verify compliance with contractor obligations, occupational safety and environmental management. The audits revealed that operations and induction at the work sites are generally on a good level and continuously improving. An external service was introduced for monitoring the payroll and employment issues of foreign workforce. In international goods sourcing, compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct was ensured through third-party This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 172 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.12 Corporate responsibility supplier audits at 15 production plants in seven countries. In addition, several follow-up audits were carried out. Reporting on corporate responsibility is one of the topics in Fingrid’s annual report, in compliance with the principles of integrated reporting. To ensure transparency and comparability, Fingrid reports on its corporate responsibility in accordance with the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. The corporate responsibility reporting for 2018 was verified by a third party. The Report of the Board of Directors includes also non-financial information. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 173 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.13 Environmental matters En Envir vironmen onmenttal ma mattter erss Fingrid’s operations have a significant positive impact on the environment and climate because the grid serves as a platform for the clean power system necessary for combatting climate change. The most significant environmental impacts caused by the company’s operations are related to landscape changes and land use restrictions, nature and biodiversity, energy losses occurring during electricity transmission, exceptional fuel and oil leaks and the consumption of natural resources and the climate impact during grid construction and maintenance. Contractors and service suppliers were encouraged to commit to environmentally responsible operating practices with the help of contractual terms related to environmental matters, and environmental training and audits. The personnel working on Fingrid worksites completed online training on environmental matters, and environmental aspects of the work were monitored as a part of the regular worksite supervision. All the service providers used during the year under review received training in the updated waste management and recycling practices. Compliance with environmental requirements, occupational safety and contractor obligations was verified in a total of 10 audits. In addition, two audits on overall safety and audits related to the ISO 14001 environmental management system were carried out at reserve power plants. The reserve power plants are subject to an environmental permit and covered by the EU’s emissions trading scheme. The accuracy of the measuring and reporting systems for fuel consumption is verified by an accredited emissions trading verifier. A total of 8,506 (5,817) units (tCO2) of emission allowances were returned, 100 per cent of which consisted of acquired emission right units. Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. Purchased emission rights units amounted to 10,000 in 2018. Emissions trading had minor financial significance for Fingrid. Our goal is to complete grid investment projects and maintenance without any significant environmental deviations. Such deviations did not occur during the year under review. Materials discarded when building new grid sections and substations or dismantled from old structures were recycled as efficiently as possible. Fingrid actively participates in land-use planning to ensure safety and land-use reservations for the grid. In 2018, the company issued around 290 statements on land-use plans and EIAs. In addition, Fingrid directed the construction taking place near grid installations by issuing roughly 450 safety instructions and statements containing land-use restrictions. In 2018, environmental assessments were drawn up for the 400-kilovolt underground cable connection planned in Helsinki and for the transmission line project from Kangasala to Tampere. The environmental impact assessment procedure was ongoing for the Pyhänselkä–Nuojua transmission line and for the Pyhänselkä–Keminmaa and Keminmaa–Tornionjoki transmission lines linked with the third AC connection to Sweden. The projects were presented in four public events during 2018. Fingrid also promoted landowner engagement during the planning stages of these projects through a mailing campaign and an online feedback system. Fingrid received an expropriation permit ruling necessary to build, operate and maintain the Elovaara–Pinsiö and Pamilo–Uimaharju transmission lines. Expropriation permit petitions were drawn up for the Forest Line, Pamilo–Uimaharju and Kontiolahti–Uimaharju transmission line projects. The compensation process for compulsory purchase was completed for the Hikiä–Forssa, Lavianvuori re-routing, Vihtavuori–Koivisto and Vuoksi–Onnela transmission line projects as well as was nearly completed for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä project. Fifteen hearings in accordance with the Finnish Expropriation Act were held with landowners. The service providers who carry out maintenance work and trim vegetation along power line right-of-ways were This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 174 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.13 Environmental matters instructed to take landowners and site-specific environmental values into account. Landowners were also kept informed. Fingrid promoted the usability of transmission line areas by offering landowners idea cards containing information on safe practices for utilising the powerline right-of-ways both for the benefit of the nature and people . Fingrid also granted initial funding and advisory services for managing the right-of-way as a heritage habitat. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 175 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.14 Legal proceedings and proceedings by authorities Legal pr pro oceedings and pr pro oceedings by a authoritie uthoritiess An accident took place on a work site in Laukaa, Finland, on 25 August 2017, where an employee of Revilla y Garcia S.L. died after having fallen from a power line tower. A civil court case has been raised in Spain for damages against Fingrid (the client linked with the accident), the main contractor, Technolines S.R.L. filial i Finland, and its sub-contractor, Revilla y Garcia S.L. Fingrid does not believe the claim against it is likely to succeed and, in Fingrid’s view, the legal proceedings or their outcome are not likely to have a substantial impact on the company’s earnings or financial position. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 176 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.15 Events after the review period and estimate of future outlook Even entts a affter the rre evie view wp perioeriod d and estima timatte o off fut futur ure e outlooutlook ok Fingrid’s international EUR 1.5 billion Medium Term Note Programme and debt issues are listed on the London Stock Exchange. On 9 January 2019, Fingrid listed the Medium Term Note Programme and debt issues on the Irish Stock Exchange (Euronext Dublin) in addition to the London Stock exchange. Dual listing enables the trading of debt issues and new debt issue listings on these two stock exchanges. Fingrid Oyj’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board proposed to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 March 2019 that the number of members of the Board of Directors shall be five. The Nomination Board proposed the reelection of Juhani Järvi, Päivi Nerg, Anu Hämäläinen, Sanna Syri and Esko Torsti. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board proposed that the remuneration paid to the members of the Board of Directors remain unchanged. Fitch Ratings downgraded Fingrid Oyj's Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to ‘A’ from ‘A+’ and senior unsecured rating to ‘A+’ from ‘AA-’ on 28 January 2019. Fitch also affirmed a Short-Term IDR of ‘F1’. The outlook for the ratings is stable. The rating remains the highest assigned by Fitch to any regulated TSO in Europe. Timo Kiiveri (M.Sc., MBA) was appointed director of the executive management group of Fingrid Oyj on 31 January 2019, effective 1 July 2019. His area of responsibility will be the company’s asset management. Fingrid Group’s profit for the 2019 financial period, excluding changes in the fair value of derivatives and before taxes, is expected to decrease significantly from the previous year’s level. Fingrid announced on 3 October 2018 that it will decrease grid prices for 2019 by eight per cent on average. Results forecasts for the financial year are complicated especially by the uncertainty related to grid income, ITC income and cross-border transmission income, and to reserve and loss power costs. These are particularly dependent on the variations in outside temperature and precipitation and changes in the hydrological situation in the Nordic countries, which affect electricity consumption and electricity prices in Finland and neighbouring areas and thus also grid transmission volumes. The company’s debt service capacity is expected to remain stable. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 17 7 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.16 Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit Boar oard do off Dir Dire ector orss’ pr prop opos osal al ffor or the dis distribution tribution o off pr pro ofit The guiding principle for Fingrid’s dividend policy is to distribute substantially all of the parent company profit as dividends. When making the decision, however, the economic conditions, the company’s near-term investment and development needs as well as any prevailing financial targets of the company are always taken into account. Fingrid Oyj’s parent company’s profit for the financial year was EUR 194,570,313.15 and distributable funds in the financial statements total EUR 222,364,965.90. Since the close of the financial year, there have been no material changes in the company’s financial position and, in the Board of Directors’ view, the proposed dividend distribution does not compromise the company’s solvency. The company’s Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders that, on the basis of the balance sheet adopted for the financial period ended 31 December 2018, a dividend of EUR 67,650.00 at maximum per share will be paid for Series A shares and EUR 24,750.00 at maximum for Series B shares, for a total of EUR 171,439,950.00 at maximum. The first dividend instalment of EUR 47,550.00 for each Series A share and EUR 17,400.00 for each Series B share, totalling EUR 120,506,700.00, shall be paid on 26 March 2019. The second dividend instalment, a maximum of EUR 20,100.00 for each Series A share and a maximum of EUR 7,350.00 for each Series B share, totalling EUR 50,933,250.00 at maximum, shall be paid based on the authorisation to be given to the Board. The Board of Directors has the right to decide on the payment of the second dividend instalment after the half-year report has been confirmed and after having assessed the company’s solvency, financial position and financial development. The second dividend instalment decided on with the authorisation given to the Board shall be paid on the third banking day after the decision. It will be proposed that the authorisation remains valid until the next Annual General Meeting. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 178 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 1.17 Annual General Meeting 2019 Annual Ann ual Gener General Mee al Me eting 2 201 019 9 Fingrid Oyj’s Annual General Meeting is scheduled to be held on 21 March 2019 in Helsinki. In Helsinki, on 26th February 2019 Fingrid Oyj Board of Directors This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 179 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 2 Consolidated Key Figures 2C Cons onsolida olidatted K Key ey Figur Figure es 2 Consolidated key ﬁgures CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS Extent of operations Turnover MEUR 852.8 672.0 586.1 600.2 567.2 Capital expenditure, gross MEUR 92.7 111.1 146.7 147.5 129.5 % of turnover % 10.9 16.5 25.0 24.6 22.8 Research and development expenses MEUR 3.6 2.6 2.4 1.8 1.7 % of turnover % 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Personnel, average 376 352 336 319 305 Personnel at the end of period 380 355 334 315 313 Salaries and remunerations total MEUR 26.5 24.2 22.7 21.3 20.5 Proﬁtability Operating profit MEUR 241.6 184.8 192.0 162.6 142.8 % of turnover % 28.3 27.5 32.8 27.1 25.2 Profit before taxes MEUR 229.0 163.7 173.9 129.3 132.9 % of turnover % 26.9 24.4 29.7 21.5 23.4 Return on investments (ROI) % 13.2 10.0 10.4 8.7 7.6 Return on equity (ROE) % 23.3 16.7 18.8 15.0 16.3 Financing and ﬁnancial position Equity ratio % 36.6 37.8 36.4 33.5 31.0 Interest-bearing net borrowings MEUR 974.3 998.9 1,028.0 1,026.9 1,046.1 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 180 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 2 Consolidated Key Figures Net gearing 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.6 Share-speciﬁc key ﬁgures Profit/share € 55,106.3 39,350.8 41,706.1 31,150.8 32,027.9 Dividend/A shares € 67,650.00* 68,470.00 37,536.09 33,686.24 21,655.44 Dividend/B shares € 24,750.00* 25,050.00 16,038.49 16,038.49 16,038.49 Dividend payout ratio A shares % 122.8 174.0 90.0 108.1 67.6 Dividend payout ratio series B shares % 44.9 63.7 38.5 51.5 50.1 Equity/share € 232,310 240,017 230,301 213,822 200,568 Number of shares at 31 Dec – Series A shares shares 2,078 2,078 2,078 2,078 2,078 – Series B shares shares 1,247 1,247 1,247 1,247 1,247 Total shares 3,325 3,325 3,325 3,325 3,325 * The Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting on the maximum dividend to be distributed CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES Profit before taxes + interest and other finance costs Return of investment, % = x 100 Balance sheet total non-interest-bearing liabilities(average for the year) Profit for the financial year Return on equity, % = x 100 Equity (average for the year) Equity Equity ratio, % = x 100 Balance sheet total advances received Profit for the financial year Earnings per share, € = Average number of shares Dividends for the financial year Dividends per share, € = Average number of shares Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio, % = x 100 Earnings per share Equity Equity per share, € = Number of shares at closing date This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 181 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repepor ortt 2 201 0188 dev: 2 Consolidated Key Figures Interest-bearing net borrowings, € = Interest-bearing borrowings cash and cash equivalents and financial assets Interest-bearing borrowings cash and cash equivalents and financial assets Net gearing = Equity This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 182 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3 Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) 3C Cons onsolida olidatted Financial S Sttatemen ementts (IFRS) Introduction How to read Fingrid's financial statements and get the most out of it? Notes are compiled under specific themes to provide the best representation of Fingrid Chapters 4-7 consist of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Accounting principles are linked with the note of most relevant for each specific principle. Accounting principles are shown at the end of each note, in a separate box and recognizable by the use of symbol Interesting facts about Fingrid's operating environment are highligted in infoboxes throughout the notes to the financial statements. The infoboxes can be recognized by the use of symbol Fingrid's business model and the regulation of transmissions system operations Fingrid constitutes a natural monopoly as referred to in the Finnish Electricity Market Act (588/2013), with duties defined in legislation. The company’s operations, reasonableness in pricing and financial result are regulated and overseen by the Energy Market Authority. Transmission network operations constitute most of the company’s turnover, result and balance sheet. The allowed financial result from transmission network operations is calculated by multiplying the total adjusted capital invested in the transmission network operations (transmission network assets valued at the regulatory present value) with the reasonable rate of return defined by the Energy Market Authority. The reasonable financial result allowed by the regulation forms the basis of Fingrid’s financial planning and pricing. One can calculate the required amount of turnover by adding operating expenses in the result. Fingrid’s turnover mainly consists of the electricity transmission volume multiplied by the unit prices. The company determines in advance for the next year the unit prices for the transmission of electricity to recover required turnover. The company’s total costs consist of the operating expenses and financial costs and taxes, which are excluded from regulatory calculations. The so-called adjusted profit, realised in compliance with the regulation, is calculated by adjusting the parent company’s operating profit according to the Energy Market Authority’s regulation methods and by adding the impact of the incentives. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 183 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3 Consolidated Financial Statements (IFRS) The regulation incentives are as follows: Investment incentive – intended to promote reasonable and costeffective investments as well as a justified overhaul of components. The incentive impact is created by the fact that the methods allow the TSO straight-line depreciations based on the replacement value of the transmission network assets. Quality incentive – intended to encourage the TSO to improve the quality of electricity transmission. In practical terms this means minimising the calculated negative impact caused by non-transmitted energy. Efficiency improvement incentive – intended to encourage the TSO to operate cost-effectively. The efficiency improvement incentive is based on Fingrid's controllable operating costs. Innovation incentive – intended to encourage the TSO to develop and use innovative technical and operational solutions in its network operations. In practice, this means adequate R&D resources. Any realised regulatory profit over a regulatory period that exceeds the allowed return is a surplus that must be returned to the customers in the form of lower future prices. If the realised regulatory profit over a regulatory period is below the allowed return, the result is a deficit which the company may recover from the customers in the form of higher future prices. No regulatory surplus or deficit income is recorded in the financial statements. The main aim of Fingrid’s business operations is to achieve the allowed financial result each year. The Energy Market Authority determines Fingrid’s allowed financial result over four-year regulatory periods (2016–2019 and 2020–2023). The table below presents Fingrid’s own rough approximations for 2018, as well as the cumulative figures for the current regulatory period. Since the company had a surplus in the previous regulatory period, the intention is to have a deficit in the current regulatory period. WACC (preAdjusted capital Allowed Deficit(Cumulative tax) 2018 financial result )/Surplus(+) 2018 Deficit 2018 2018 ()/Surplus(+) 2016-2018 5.78% Approx. EUR Approx. EUR 170 Approx. EUR Approx. EUR 2,900 million million 40 million -5 million The company also engages in other regulated business operations, but the impact of these on the company’s financial income and balance sheet is negligible. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 184 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.1 Income statement Inc Income ome ssttatemen ementt 3.1 Income statement CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 Jan 31 Dec, 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 2017 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 TURNOVER 1 852,784 671,992 Other operating income 2 10,800 2,933 Materials and services 5 -482,873 -331,839 Personnel expenses 9 -32,190 -29,385 Depreciation 11,12 -99,661 -96,889 Other operating expenses 6,13 -7,211 -32,027 OPERATING PROFIT 241,648 184,786 Finance income 17 170 483 Finance costs 17 -15,384 -23,261 Finance income and costs -15,213 -22,778 Share of profit of associated companies 2,607 1,734 PROFIT BEFORE TAXES 229,041 163,742 Income taxes -45,813 -32,901 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 183,228 130,841 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that may subsequently be transferred to profit or loss Translation reserve -193 -475 Available-for-sale investments -59 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL PERIOD 183,036 130,308 Proﬁt attributable to: Equity holders of parent company 183,228 130,841 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of parent company 183,036 130,308 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 185 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.1 Income statement Earnings per share for proﬁt attributable to the equity holders of the parent company: Undiluted and diluted earnings per share, € 55,106 39,351 Weighted average number of shares, quantity 3,325 3,325 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 186 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.2 Consolidated balance sheet Cons onsolida olidatted balanc balance e she shee et 3.2 Consolidated balance sheet ASSETS 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets: 12 Goodwill 87,920 87,920 Other intangible assets 102,546 99,795 190,466 187,715 Property, plant and equipment: 11 Land and water areas 16,749 15,974 Buildings and structures 226,329 209,792 Machinery and equipment 553,310 562,049 Transmission lines 758,485 786,237 Other property, plant and equipment 6,821 7,060 Prepayments and purchases in progress 72,360 94,888 1,634,055 1,675,999 Investments in associated companies 24 13,822 14,303 Derivative instruments 23 32,486 27,762 Deferred tax assets 10 23,296 13,918 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,894,125 1,919,696 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 8 12,391 13,529 Derivative instruments 23 18,575 245 Trade receivables and other receivables 3,24 99,484 96,068 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 187 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.2 Consolidated balance sheet Other financial assets 20 71,380 73,465 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 19 13,922 10,303 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 215,750 193,610 TOTAL ASSETS 2,109,876 2,113,306 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY Share capital 21 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 21 55,922 55,922 Translation reserve 21 -1,080 -888 Retained earnings 21 661,665 687,100 TOTAL EQUITY 772,429 798,057 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Deferred tax liabilities 10 122,986 127,003 Borrowings 14 771,508 813,404 Provisions 25 1,424 1,474 Derivative instruments 23 7,393 12,387 903,311 954,268 CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings 14 288,091 269,304 Derivative instruments 23 4,014 8,190 Trade payables and other liabilities 7 142,030 83,488 434,135 360,981 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,337,446 1,315,249 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,109,876 2,113,306 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 188 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.3 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Cons onsolida olidatted ssttatemen ementt o off changechangess in e equit quityy 3.3 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent company, € 1,000 Share Share premiun Revaluation Translation Retained capital account reserves reserve earnings Total equity Balance on 1 Jan 2017 55,922 55,922 59 -413 654,258 765,749 Comprehensive income Profit or loss 130,841 130,841 Other comprehensive income Translation reserve -475 -475 Available-for-sale investments -59 -59 Total other comprehensive income adjusted by tax effects -59 -475 -534 Total comprehensive income -59 -475 130,841 130,308 Transactions with owners Dividend relating to 2016 -98,000 -98,000 Balance on 31 December 2017 55,922 55,922 0 -888 687,100 798,057 Impact from change in accounting principle (IFRS 15) -35,146 -35,146 Balance on 1 Jan 2018 55,922 55,922 0 -888 651,954 762,912 Comprehensive income Profit or loss 183,228 183,228 Other comprehensive income Translation reserve -193 -193 Total other comprehensive income adjusted by tax effects 0 -193 -193 Total comprehensive income 0 -193 183,228 183,036 Transactions with owners Dividend relating to 2017 -173,518 -173,518 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 189 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.3 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Balance on 31 Dec 2018 55,922 55,922 0 -888 687,100 798,057 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 190 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement Cons onsolida olidatted ccash ash flo flow w ssttatemen ementt 3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 Jan 31 Dec, 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 2017 Notes € 1,000 € 1,000 Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial year 21 183,228 130,841 Adjustments: Business transactions not involving a payment transaction: Depreciation 99,661 96,889 Capital gains/losses (-/+) on tangible and intangible assets -8,276 -321 Share of profit of associated companies -2,607 -1,734 Gains/losses from the assets and liabilities recognised in the income statement at fair value -29,606 -8,884 Interest and other finance costs 20,674 23,261 Interest income -5,460 -478 Dividend income -5 Taxes 45,813 32,901 Impact from changes in the fair value of the investment -97 101 Changes in working capital: Change in trade receivables and other receivables -5,490 -13,056 Change in inventories 1,138 1,260 Change in trade payables and other liabilities 10,147 7,990 Congestion income 29,632 25,752 Change in provisions 25 -50 -7 Interests paid -16,188 -17,756 Interests received 306 344 Taxes paid -37,335 -41,911 Net cash flow from operating activities 285,489 232,668 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 191 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement Cash flow from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 -90,019 -100,271 Purchase of intangible assets 12 -6,699 -7,111 Proceeds from sale of other assets 119 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13,745 544 Payments of financing (liabilities) 1,750 Dividends received 645 1,119 Capitalised interest paid 17 -1,042 -1,223 Net cash flow from investing activities -81,621 -106,823 Cash flow from ﬁnancing activities: Proceeds from non-current financing (liabilities) 100,000 Payments of non-current financing (liabilities) -129,086 -149,732 Change in current financing (liabilities) 100,270 25,926 Dividends paid 21 -173,518 -98,000 Net cash flow from financing activities -202,334 -121,806 Change in cash as per the cash flow statement 1,533 4,039 Opening cash as per the cash flow statement 83,768 79,729 Closing cash as per the cash flow statement 19,20 85,301 83,768 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 192 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 193 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4 Benchmark for TSO Operations 4B Benchmark enchmark ffor or TTS SO Op Oper era ations This chapter contains first general information about the Group and the general accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements. The chapter focuses on describing how Fingrid’s turnover and result are formed and how they relate to the regulatory revenue level. The impact of the regulation is reflected in Fingrid’s day-to-day operations and revenue collection. The chapter also describes Fingrid’s operating receivables and liabilities, as well as the risk management they entail. People are Fingrid’s most important resource, which is why information related to personnel has been included here, in the first note. Fingrid is a substantial tax payer, and Fingrid does not use tax planning. The note on taxes is at the end of this chapter, in chapter 4.9. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 194 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.1 General information about the Group and general accounting Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 principles Gener General al in infforma ormation tion ab about out the Gr Group oup and gener general al ac acccoun ounting ting principle principless Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited liability company responsible for electricity transmission in the high-voltage transmission system in Finland (the main grid). Fingrid’s nationwide grid is an integral part of the power system in Finland. The transmission grid is the high-voltage trunk network which covers all of Finland. Major power plants, industrial plants and electricity distribution networks are connected to the grid. Finland’s main grid is part of the Nordic power system, which is connected to the system in Central Europe via high-voltage direct current transmission links. Finland also has DC links with Russia and Estonia. The main grid encompasses more than 14,000 kilometres of 400, 220 and 110 kilovolt transmission lines, plus more than 100 substations. Fingrid is in charge of planning and monitoring the operation of the main grid and for maintaining and developing the system. An additional task is to participate in work carried out by ENTSO-E, the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity, and in preparing European market and operational codes as well as network planning. Fingrid offers grid, cross-border transmission and balance services to its contract customers: electricity producers, network operators and the industry. Fingrid serves the electricity market by maintaining adequate electricity transmission capacity, by removing bottlenecks from cross-border transmission links and by providing market data. The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Fingrid Oyj and its wholly owned subsidiaries Finextra Oy and Datahub Oy. The consolidated associated companies are Nord Pool Spot AS (ownership 18.8%) and eSett Oy (ownership 33.3%). The Group has no joint ventures. Fingrid issues bonds under the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme. Fingrid Oyj’s issuances under the EMTN programme are generally listed on the London and Irish stock exchanges. Fingrid shares are not listed. Critical accounting estimates and judgements When the consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance with the IFRS, the company management needs to make estimates and assumptions which have an impact on the amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses recorded and conditional items presented. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other justified assumptions which are believed to be reasonable under the conditions which constitute the foundation for the estimates of the items recognised in the financial statements. The actual amounts may differ from these estimates. In the financial statements, estimates have been used for example, when specifying the economic lives of tangible and intangible asset items, and in conjunction with deferred taxes and provisions. Critical estimates and judgements by management are described by topic in the notes, and the judgement or estimates related to which are in accordance with the following table. Estimate of the purchase and sale of imbalance power Chapter 4.3 Inter-Transmission System Operator Compensation (ITC) Chapter 4.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Chapter 4.9 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 195 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.1 General information about the Group and general accounting Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 principles Determination of the fair value measurement of grid assets Chapter 5.1 Determination of the depreciation periods of property, plant and equipment, and Chapter 5.2 intangible assets Accounting principles Fingrid adopted the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments standards as of 1 January 2018. The changes to the accounting principles due to the new standards are presented in chapters 4.3 and 6.6. The new standards did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In other respects, the preparation of the consolidated financial statements generally followed the same standards as in 2017. IASB has announced a new standard, IFRS 16 Leases, which the Group adopted upon its entry into force, on 1 January 2019. The modified retrospective transition approach will be applied when adopting the standard. The estimated impact of the standard is presented in chapter 5.3. Segment reporting The entire business of the Fingrid Group is deemed to comprise grid operations in Finland with system responsibility, only constituting a single segment. There are no essential differences in the risks and profitability of individual products and services. For that reason, segment reporting in accordance with the IFRS 8 standard is not presented. The operating segment is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the company’s Board of Directors. Fingrid operates only in Finland, which is also why geographical data is not presented. Foreign currency transactions The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the functional currency of the parent company. Transactions and financial items denominated in foreign currencies are recognised at the foreign exchange mid-rate quoted by the European Central Bank (ECB) at the transaction date. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are valued in the financial statements at the mid-rate quoted by the ECB at the closing date. Foreign exchange gains and losses from business are included in the corresponding items above operating profit. Foreign exchange gains and losses from financial instruments are recognised at net amounts in finance income and costs. Earnings per share The Group has calculated undiluted earnings per share in accordance with standard IAS 33. Undiluted earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. Since Fingrid has no share option schemes or benefits bound to shareholders’ equity or other equity financial instruments, there is no dilutive effect. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 196 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.2 The company's general risk management processes and policies The ccompan ompany's y's genergeneral al risk managemen managementt pr proocess sse es and p policie oliciess The objective of Fingrid's risk management is to make preparations for cost-effective measures providing protection against damage and loss relating to risks and to ensure the commitment of the entire personnel to considering the risks pertaining to the company, its various organisational units and each employee. In order to fulfil these objectives, risk management is continuous and systematic. The significance of individual risks or risk entities is assessed against the present level of protection, taking into account the probability of a harmful event, its financial impact and impact on corporate image or on the attainment of the business goals. Risk management is planned holistically with the objective of comprehensively identifying, assessing, monitoring and safeguarding the company’s operations, the environment, personnel and assets from various threats and risks. Due to the nature of the company’s basic mission, risks are also assessed from a societal perspective. The Board approves the key principles of internal control and risk management and any amendments to them. The Board of Directors approves the primary actions for risk management as part of the corporate strategy, indicators, action plan, and budget. The Board of Directors (Audit Committee) receives a situation report on the major risks relating to the operations of the company and on the management of such risks. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 197 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial result Forma ormation tion o off tturno urnovver and financial result Turnover consists of the following: 1. TURNOVER, €1,000 2018 2017 Grid service revenue 423,151 412,082 Sales of imbalance power 348,837 214,040 Cross-border transmission income 35,516 20,711 ITC income 13,089 8,647 Peak load capacity 14,032 8,264 Other operating income 18,160 8,248 Total 852,784 671,992 Grid service income mainly consists of the unit price for electricity transmission multiplied by the volume. The Energy Market Authority approves the pricing structure for grid services, on the basis of which Fingrid sets the unit prices for electricity transmission during the winter period and for consumption during other times. The winter period begins on 1 December and ends on the last day of February. Fingrid additionally charges fees for output This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 198 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial result from and input into the grid, and power generation capacity fees. Fingrid seeks to set the unit prices for electricity transmission each autumn for the next year, for one year at a time. Within the framework of grid services, a customer obtains the right to transmit electricity to and from the main grid through its connection point. Grid service is agreed by means of a grid service contract signed between a customer connected to the main grid and Fingrid. Each electricity market party must ensure its electricity balance by making an agreement with either Fingrid or some other party. Fingrid buys and sells imbalance power in order to stabilise the hourly power balance of an electricity market party (balance responsible party). Imbalance power trade and pricing are based on a balance service agreement with equal and public terms and conditions. Fingrid is responsible for the continuous power balance in Finland at all times by buying and selling balancing power in Finland. The balance responsible parties can participate in the Nordic balancing power market by submitting bids on their available capacity. The terms and conditions of participation in the balancing power market and the pricing of balancing power are based on the balance service agreement. Transmission services on the cross-border connections to the other Nordic countries enable participation in the Nordic Elspot and Elbas exchange trade. Fingrid makes transmission services on the cross-border connections with Russia available to all electricity market parties. The transmission service is intended for fixed electricity imports. When making an agreement on transmission services from Russia, the customer reserves a transmission right (in MW) for a period of time to be agreed upon separately. The smallest unit that can be reserved is 50 MW. The contractual terms are equal and public. ITC compensation is, for Fingrid, income and/or costs which the transmission system operator receives for the use of its grid by other European transmission system operators and/or pays to other transmission system operators when using their grid to serve its own customers. The peak load capacity secures the supply security of electricity in situations of the Finnish power system where the planned electricity procurement is not sufficient to cover the anticipated electricity consumption. The peak load capacity system is a special task assigned to Fingrid by the Finnish Energy Authority, based on the Peak Load Capacity Act (117/2011, Act on peak load capacity which secures a balance between electricity production and consumption). The Energy Authority submits the peak load capacity plants for competitive tendering, and Fingrid manages the peak load capacity service as required by the Act. The peak load capacity can consist of both power plants and facilities capable of adjusting their electricity consumption. 2. OTHER OPERATING INCOME, €1,000 2018 2017 Rental income 831 942 Capital gains on fixed assets 8,276 321 Contributions received 186 170 Other income 1,506 1,500 Total 10,800 2,933 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 199 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial result Accounting principles Revenue recognition Sales recognition takes place on the basis of the delivery of the service. Electricity transmission is recognised once the transmission has taken place, and balance power services are recognised on the basis of the delivery of the service. Indirect taxes and discounts, etc., are deducted from the sales income when calculating turnover. Adoption of the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers standard, effective 1 Jan 2018 IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18, which outlines the accounting requirements for the sale of goods and services, and IAS 11 applied to long-term projects. The fundamental principle of the standard is that sales revenue should be recognised when control over the goods or the service is transferred to the customer; in other words, control of the asset is the criterion to be examined instead of the previous criteria of risks and rewards. A new five-step process should be applied when recognising sales revenue: Identify the contract(s) with a customer Identify the individual performance obligations Determine the transaction price according to the contract This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 20 0 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial result Allocate the transaction price to individual performance obligations, and Recognise revenue when each performance obligation is met. The most significant change from the previous practice was the change in the timing of sales recognition: the new standard affected the timing of recognition of grid connection fees. Like all new standards, this one also includes new requirements for the notes to the financial statements. These changes in the accounting procedures have somewhat affected the company’s business practices regarding systems, processes, controls, compensation arrangements, and investor relations. Sales recognition takes place on the basis of the delivery of the service. Electricity transmission is recognised once the transmission has taken place. Balance power services are recognised on the basis of the delivery of the service. Fingrid has defined the performance obligations related to each agreement, and revenue recognition has been examined separately for each performance obligation. When determining the extent to which a performance obligation is met, a single method should be applied for all performance obligations to be met over time. If a customer does not receive an individual item of goods or a service against the connection fee, this must be recognised as revenue in the same way as the other revenue according to the contract, generally over the contract term. This has changed Fingrid’s principles for recognising revenue regarding connection fees, as the timing of their recognition will change. Connection agreements are long term and can be terminated, at the earliest, 15 years from the date when it entered into force. Whereas connection fees were previously recognised on the agreement signing date, they are now recognised over 15 years since the connection to the electricity grid took place. For Fingrid, the identified performance obligations did not bring significant changes to the previous recognition practices. In adopting the standard, the cumulative effect method was used. Adjustments caused by the application of the standard were recorded in retained earnings on the date of commencement of its application, i.e. on 1 January 2018. With the cumulative effect method, the information on the comparison period is left as it was according to the previously applied standards. Calculation of the standard’s impacts on the financial statements Application of the standard does not have significant impacts on the company’s result and balance sheet. If sales in 2017 were recognised according to the IFRS 15 revenue recognition standard, it would have had a reducing effect of EUR 1.2 million on net sales on 31 Dec. 2017, in which case net sales would have amounted to EUR 670.8 million. Until 31 Dec. 2017, non-recurring connection fees have been recognised when the connection is agreed on with the customer. If the connection fees were recognised over 15 years, it would have had a reducing effect on equity of EUR 35.1 million on the balance sheet date of 31 Dec. 2017, and it would have increased the deferred tax assets and accruals. The total impact in the balance sheet would have been EUR 8.8 million. Impacts on the income statement and balance sheet are presented in the table below. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 201 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.3 Formation of turnover and financial result Judgements and estimates Estimate of the purchase and sale of imbalance power The income and expenses of imbalance power are ascertained through a nationwide imbalance settlement procedure, which is based on the Ministry of Employment and Economy’s 9 December 2008 decree on the disclosure obligation related to the settlement of electricity delivery. The final imbalance settlement is completed no later than 13 days from the delivery month, which is why the income and expenses of imbalance power in the financial statements are partly based on preliminary imbalance settlement. The estimate is based on the preliminary imbalance settlement information provided by the imbalance settlement. For foreign balances, the calculations have been verified with the foreign counterparties. Inter-Transmission System Operator Compensation (ITC) Compensation for the transit transmissions of electricity has been agreed upon through an ITC (InterTransmission System Operator Compensation) agreement. The centralised calculations are carried out by ENTSO-E (the European Network of Transmission System Operators of Electricity). ITC compensation is determined on the basis of the compensation paid for use of the grid and transmission losses. The ITC calculations take into account the electricity transmissions between the various ITC agreement countries. ITC compensation can represent both an income and a cost for a transmission system operator. Fingrid’s share of the ITC compensation is determined on the basis of the cross-border electricity transmissions and imputed grid losses. ITC compensation is invoiced retroactively after all parties to the ITC agreement have approved the invoiced sums. Control is carried out monthly. This is why the uninvoiced ITC compensations for 2017 have been estimated in the financial statements. The estimate has been made using actual energy border transmissions in Finland and unit compensations, which have been estimated by analysing the actual figures from previous months and data on grid transmissions during these months. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 02 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management Reven enue-r ue-rela elatted rre eceiv eivable abless and cr cre edit risk managemen managementt 4.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management 3. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2018 2017 Trade receivables 88,730 80,915 Trade receivables from associated companies 782 3,888 Prepayments and accrued income from associated companies 9 46 Loan receivables from associated companies 500 Prepayments and accrued income 7,999 9,771 Other receivables 1,463 1,448 Total 99,484 96,068 Essential items included in prepayments and accrued income 2018 2017 Accruals of sales 2,662 1,634 Accruals of purchases/prepayments 1,533 2,281 Interest receivables 2,723 2,737 Rents/prepayments 800 789 Tax assets 280 2,331 Total 7,999 9,771 Credit risk management – customers According to The Electricity Market Act, the company is obliged to accept distribution network operators joining the grid as well as electricity producers and consumers as its customers. Accordingly, the company cannot choose its customers based on a credit risk analysis or collect different fees from them. In general, collateral are not required from the company’s customers to secure sales payments, but in the event of an overdue payment, this is possible. The unit in charge of the customer relationships is responsible for verifying their creditworthiness. The procedure following a customer payment default is defined in the terms and conditions of the Main Grid Contract. Fingrid requires a collateral (either bank guarantees or an upfront payment) in order to cover the electricity taxes payable by customers connected to the grid and subject to the tax, as ruled in the Main Grid Contract’s Service Terms and Conditions. At the turn of the year, the company had minor outstanding receivables, of which the credit risk was considered to be low, and the company estimates it will receive these payments. The company has no impairments related to receivables. Netting of trade receivables and trade payables The trade receivables and trade payables are netted in the balance sheet as presented in the table below. The netted items are associated with purchases and sales of imbalance power. The company has a legally enforceable right of set-off to these items in any circumstance and will use this right. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 203 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.4 Revenue-related receivables and credit risk management 4. NETTING OF TRADE RECEIVABLES AND TRADE PAYABLES € 1,000 2018 2017 Net amount of Net amount of trade trade Gross receivables and receivables amount of trade payables and trade trade presented in Gross amount of payables receivables/ the balance trade Amount of presented in trade Amount of sheet receivables/ netted the balance payables netted items trade payables items sheet Trade receivables 110,676 -21,164 89,513 94,764 -9,961 84,803 Trade payables 48,859 -21,164 27,696 43,583 -9,961 33,622 Accounting principles Trade and other receivables Loans and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value; subsequently they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The expected credit losses are assessed based on historical amounts of credit losses, taking into account forward-looking information on economical developments and receivable-specific assessments. Impairment losses are recognised directly, under other operating expenses, to reduce the carrying amount of the receivables. Fingrid did not have any impairment losses during the periods presented here. In addition to trade receivables and other receivables, the company has a small amount of loan receivables from associated companies. These are longand short-term and described in Chapter 7.1. The receivables from associated companies are recognised according to these same accounting principles. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 20 4 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 purchases Op Oper era ating e exp xpens ense es, liabilitie liabilitiess and cr cre edit risk managemen managementt ffor or pur purchas chase es Fingrid's operating expenses consist of and have developed as follows: Cost increases due in particular to new tasks and unexpected external changes affecting operations has been a special characteristic of grid operations in recent years. The new tasks involve, among other things, developing the Nordic imbalance markets, changes required by the new Electricity Market Act and the European network codes and the R&D expenses for these tasks. Some of the new tasks and responsibilities are assigned to Fingrid by law, which means the company must increasingly develop and back up its operations. The cost factors also include society’s increasing dependency on the power system, as well as needs related to data security. Fingrid nevertheless continues to be one of the most cost-effective TSOs in the world in international benchmark studies. The Group’s R&D costs in 2018 amounted to EUR 3.6 (2.6) million. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 05 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 purchases 5. MATERIALS AND SERVICES, €1,000 2018 2017 Loss power costs 47,673 47,397 Purchase of imbalance power 316,608 183,214 Cost of reserves 52,171 46,245 Other material costs 11,071 4,773 Change in inventories, increase (-) or decrease (+) 1,138 -1,260 Peak load capacity costs 13,717 7,963 ITC costs 13,803 13,015 Maintenance management costs 26,382 29,891 Other external services 310 600 Total 482,873 331,839 6. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES, €1,000 2018 2017 Contracts, assignments etc. undertaken externally 30,665 26,855 Gains/losses from measuring electricity derivatives at fair value -36,958 -9,053 Other rental expenses 4,083 3,622 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 06 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 purchases Other expenses 9,422 10,603 Total 7,211 32,027 Auditors' fees 2018 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Auditing fee 89 68 Tax advisory fees 20 Assignments referred to in the Auditing Act, Chapter 1, Section 1, Subsection 2 2 Other fees 92 41 Total 183 130 Auditors' fees are included in other operating expenses The company’s operating model is largely based on outsourcing, including areas such as grid investments, maintenance management and ICT purchases. The company will apply competitive tendering as described in the procurement policy. All purchasing activities are based on impartiality, equality and transparency. Procurement decisions will be made according to previously published financial and qualitative criteria that are verifiable also after the fact. Fingrid aims to ensure that all suppliers and their subcontractors operate in a sustainable manner. A commitment to Fingrid’s Supplier Code of Conduct is required from all suppliers. 7. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER LIABILITIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Trade payables 25,470 30,246 Trade payables to associated companies 2,226 3,376 Interest payable 11,778 12,257 Value added tax 13,803 12,378 Collaterals received 923 923 Electricity tax 4,443 3,092 Accruals 81,483 20,627 Other debt 1,904 588 Total 142,030 83,488 Essential items included in accruals 2018 2017 Personnel expenses 8,011 6,613 Accruals of sales and purchases 57,526 8,848 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 207 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 4.5 Operating expenses, liabilities and credit risk management for Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 purchases Tax liabilities 15,930 5,150 Other accruals 16 16 Total 81,483 20,627 Credit risk in purchasing The heads of functions are in charge of credit risks related to suppliers. The procurement policy and guidelines, and separate instructions set out the financial criteria required for Fingrid’s suppliers and their monitoring. General procurement principles The Group follows three alternative procurement methods when purchasing goods or services. When the value of the purchase is less than 30,000 euros and the benefits of a competitive tender are smaller than the costs of the purchase, the purchase can be executed without a competitive tender or it can be executed through an oral request. A written order or purchasing agreement is always drawn up. When the estimated value of the procurement exceeds 30,000 euros but is below the threshold values applied to public procurements, the procurement is subject to competitive bidding by requesting written bids from the supplier candidates. When the public procurement threshold values that apply to Fingrid (in 2018: EUR 443,000 for goods and services, EUR 5,548,000 for construction projects, EUR 418,000 for design competitions and EUR 5,548,000 for right-of-use agreements) are exceeded, the company follows the public procurement legislation applied to special sectors. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 208 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.6 Inventories In Invven enttorie oriess 4.6 Inventories Fingrid prepares for outages by maintaining reserve power plants. The inventories contain fuel for reserve power plants, spare parts for submarine cables, back-up equipment and parts for substations, and repair equipment for transmission lines. The aim of stockpiling is to achieve sufficient preparedness at the substations and on the transmission lines owned by Fingrid in case of faults and events possibly occurring during times of crisis. 8. INVENTORIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Materials and consumables at 1 Jan Material stocks 7,030 6,836 Fuel stocks 5,361 6,412 Work in progress 0 281 Total 12,391 13,529 The use of inventories was entered as an expense of EUR 1.5 (2.6) million Accounting principles Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost or net realisable value. The acquisition cost is determined using the FIFO principle. The net realisable value is the estimated market price in normal business reduced by the estimated future costs of completing and estimated costs required by sale. Inventories consist of material and fuel inventories. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 209 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.7 Management of commodity risks Managemen Managementt o off ccommo ommodit dityy risk riskss The electricity price and volume risks are not significant to the company’s turnover and financial result over time. If the volume of transmitted electricity deviates from the forecasted volume, the result may be a deviation in the company’s turnover and financial result. This can lead to a surplus or deficit compared with the allowed reasonable return for the year in question, which the company will aim to offset during the subsequent financial year. The company is exposed to electricity price and volume risk through transmission losses so that the company must acquire so-called loss power in an amount corresponding to the electricity transmission losses. Loss power purchases and the price hedging thereof are based on the Corporate Finance Principles approved by the Board of Directors. Moreover, the company has a loss power policy, approved by the Executive Management Group, for loss power hedging and purchases, as well as operative instructions, instructions for price hedging and control room instructions. The allowed hedging instruments are defined in the loss power policy. The purpose of price hedging is to reduce the impact of market price volatility and enable sufficient predictability in order to keep the annual pressures on grid pricing of loss energy at a moderate level. Price hedging is implemented over a four year horizon such that by the end of September in the year preceding the delivery, the price risk for the next year is fully hedged. For the price hedging of loss power purchases, the company mainly uses NASDAQ OMX Commodities quoted futures. The company can also use OTC futures comparable with NASDAQ OMX Commodities futures. The nominal values, fair values and exposures of electricity futures are disclosed in Table 23. Commodity risks other than those related to loss energy purchases arise if the company enters into purchasing agreements in which the price of the underlying commodity influences the final price of the investment commodity (commodity price risk). As a rule, commodity price risks and exchange rate risks are fully hedged. A risk that amounts to less than EUR 5 million when realised can be unhedged for reasons of cost-effectiveness. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 210 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.8 Personnel the cornerstone of our operations Per erssonnel the ccorner ornersstone o off our op oper era ations Fingrid Oyj employed 380 (355) persons, including temporary employees, at the end of the year. The number of permanent personnel was 327 (308). Of the personnel employed by the company, 23 (24) per cent were women and 77 (76) per cent were men. The average age of the personnel was 44 (44). 9. PERSONNEL EXPENSES, €1,000 2018 2017 Salaries and bonuses 26,511 24,187 Pension expenses contribution-based schemes 4,662 4,139 Other additional personnel expenses 1,017 1,059 Total 32,190 29,385 Salaries and bonuses of top management 1,925 1,720 In 2018, the Group applied a remuneration system for senior management; the general principles of the system were accepted by the Board of Directors of Fingrid Oyj on 18 December 2018. The total remuneration of the members of the executive management group consists of a fixed total salary, a one-year bonus scheme, and a three-year long-term incentive scheme. The maximum amount of the one-year bonus scheme payable to the CEO was 40 per cent of the annual salary and to the other members of the executive management group 20 per cent of the annual salary. The maximum amount of the annual long-term incentive scheme payable to the CEO was 35 per cent (in programme 2016–2018) or 40 per cent (in programmes 2017–2019 and 2018-2020), and to the other members of the executive management group 25 per cent. The Group currently has contribution-based pension schemes only. The pension security of the Group's personnel is arranged by an external pension insurance company. Pension premiums paid for contribution-based schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the year to which they relate. In contribution-based schemes, the Group has no legal or factual obligation to pay additional premiums if the party receiving the premiums is unable to pay the pension benefits. NUMBER OF SALARIED EMPLOYEES IN THE COMPANY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR: 2018 2017 Personnel, average 376 352 Personnel, 31 Dec 380 355 Accounting principles Employee benefits This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 211 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.8 Personnel the cornerstone of our operations Pension obligations The company has only defined contribution-based pension schemes. A defined contribution-based pension arrangement refers to a pension scheme according to which fixed contributions are paid into a separate entity, and the Group bears no legal or actual obligation to make additional contributions if the fund does not contain sufficient funds to pay out benefits based on work performed during current and previous financial periods to all employees. Under defined contribution-based pension schemes, the Group pays mandatory, contractual or voluntary contributions into publicly or privately managed pension insurance policies. The Group has no other contribution obligations in addition to those payments. The payments are entered as personnel costs when they fall due. Advance payments are entered in the balance sheet as assets insofar as they are recoverable as refunds or deductions from future payments. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 212 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.9 Taxes Tax axe es The company will pay its income taxes in accordance with the underlying tax rate, without special tax arrangements. Income taxes consist of direct taxes and the change in deferred tax: EUR -48.5 (-39.4) million and EUR 2.7 (6.5) million respectively. Fingrid’s effective tax rate is essentially comparable to Finland’s corporate tax rate 20%. The only difference between the Finnish corporate tax rate and Fingrid’s effective tax rate is due to a minor amount of non-deductible items, amounting in 2018 to EUR 0.0 (0.2) million. The table below illustrates the development of Fingrid’s effective tax rate. 10. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, € 1,000 Changes in deferred taxes in 2018: Recorded in Recorded in income other statement at comprehensive Deferred tax assets 31 Dec, 2017 profit or loss income 31 Dec, 2018 Provisions 295 -10 285 Current financial receivables 3 -3 Trade payables and other liabilities 1,566 347 1,913 Derivative instruments 3,207 -926 2,281 Congestion income 8,846 1,942 10,788 Connection fees (IFRS 15) 8,028 8,028 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 213 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.9 Taxes Total 13,918 9,378 0 23,296 Deferred tax liabilities Accumulated depreciations difference -89,779 10,000 -79,779 Property, plant and equipment, tangible and intangible assets -28,665 -742 -29,407 Other receivables -560 4 -556 Other financial assets -99 29 -71 Borrowings -2,619 1,118 -1,501 Derivative instruments -5,281 -6,392 -11,673 Total -127,003 4,017 0 -122,986 Changes in deferred taxes in 2017: Recorded in Recorded in income other statement at comprehensive Deferred tax assets 31 Dec, 2017 profit or loss income 31 Dec, 2018 Provisions 296 -1 295 Current financial receivables 12 -9 3 Trade payables and other liabilities 1,858 -291 1,566 Derivative instruments 3,989 -781 3,207 Congestion income 8,846 8,846 Total 6,155 7,763 0 13,918 Deferred tax liabilities Accumulated depreciations difference -89,779 -89,779 Property, plant and equipment, tangible and intangible assets -27,120 -1,545 -28,665 Available-for-sale investments -20 20 Other receivables -840 280 -560 Other financial assets -79 -20 -99 Borrowings -2,332 287 -2,619 Derivative instruments -5,608 327 -5,281 Total -125,778 -1,225 0 -127,003 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 214 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 4.9 Taxes Accounting principles Income taxes Taxes presented in the consolidated income statement include the Group companies’ accrual taxes for the profit of the financial year, tax adjustments from previous financial years and changes in deferred taxes. Deferred taxes are recorded in accordance with Finland’s statutory corporate tax rate of 20%. Taxes are recognised in the income statement unless they are linked with other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income. Such items in the Group consist solely of available-for-sale investments, since hedge accounting for electricity derivatives was discontinued in 2014. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on all temporary differences between the tax values of asset and liability items and their carrying amounts using the liability method. Deferred tax is recognised using tax rates valid up until the closing date. The deferred tax liabilities arising from the original recognition of goodwill will not be recognised, however. Deferred tax liabilities will also not be recognised if they are caused by the original recognition of the asset or liability and the item is not related to a merger and the transaction will not affect the accounting totals or the taxable revenue during its implementation. The deferred tax assets are shown as noncurrent receivables and deferred tax liabilities correspondingly as non-current liabilities. The largest temporary differences result from the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, from financial instruments, and from the use of congestion income for capital expenditures. No deferred tax is recognised on the undistributed profits of the foreign associated company, because receiving the dividend does not cause a tax impact by virtue of a Nordic tax agreement. The deferred tax asset from temporary differences is recognised up to an amount which can likely be utilised against future taxable income. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 215 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5 Long-term Investor 5L Long-t ong-term erm In Invvestor This chapter focusses on Fingrid’s assets, and above the most important ones: Grid assets and the indicators related to them. The chapter also takes a look at the company’s goodwill and provides a description of other property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 216 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.1 Grid assets Grid ass asse ets Fingrid’s grid investment programme promotes the national climate and energy strategy, improves system security, increases transmission capacity and promotes the electricity markets. The annual capital expenditure in the grid has remained extensive. The company’s total capital expenditure in 2018 amounted to EUR 92.7 (111.1) million. This included a total of EUR 85.1 (91.1) million invested in the transmission grid and EUR 2.9 (14.2) million for reserve power. ICT investments amounted to EUR 4.0 (5.7) million. A total of EUR 3.6 (2.6) million was used for R&D projects during the year under review. Power lines, totalling around 250 kilometres, and substations were built extensively throughout Finland in 2018. Seven substation projects were completed. The biggest current projects are related to the modernisation of the aging ‘Iron Lady’ transmission line, connecting large-scale power plants to the grid, and maintaining system security for major cities This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 217 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.1 Grid assets Grid assets are recognised at fair value for the purposes of the company’s regulatory balance sheet, as described above. The fair value of the transmission network assets (adjusted replacement cost) is calculated by adding up the adjusted replacement costs for each grid component; these are calculated by multiplying the unit price specified by the Energy Authority with the number of grid components. The adjusted present value in use for a grid component is calculated based on the adjusted replacement cost, using the useful life and mean lifetime data of the grid component. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 218 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.1 Grid assets Congestion income Congestion income is generated because of an insufficient transmission capacity between the bidding zones of an electricity exchange. In such cases, the bidding zones become separate price areas, and the transmission link joining them generates congestion income in the electricity exchange as follows: congestion income [€/h] = transmission volume in the day-ahead markets [MW] * area price difference [€/MWh]. The basis for this is that a seller operating in a lower priced area receives less for their power than what a buyer pays for it in a higher priced area. The additional income caused by this price difference, i.e. congestion income, remains in the electricity exchange, which then pays the income to the TSOs as per the contractual terms. The congestion income received by a grid owner must be used for the purposes stated in EC Regulation 714/2009, Article 16, Paragraph 6: guaranteeing the actual availability of the allocated capacity, and maintaining or increasing interconnection capacities through network investments. As a consequence of the change in the regulation governing Fingrid’s grid pricing, the company will include the congestion income received after 1 January 2016 in the balance sheet. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 219 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.1 Grid assets Congestion income accrued in 2018 was used for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä grid investment, which will enhance electricity transmission from northern Sweden. EUR 1.3 million in congestion income was left unused and will be used for investments earmarked for financing with congestion income. Accounting principles Congestion income As a consequence of the change in the regulation governing Fingrid’s grid pricing, the company will include the congestion income received after 1 January 2016 as accruals in the item other liabilities in the balance sheet. Of the accruals, congestion income will be recognised in the income statement as other operating income when their corresponding costs, as defined in the regulation, accrue as annual expenses in the income statement. Alternatively, they are entered in the balance sheet against investments, as defined by regulation, to lower the acquisition cost of property, plant and equipment, which lowers the depreciation of the property, plant and equipment in question. The congestion income received before 1 January 2016 was recognised in turnover. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 0 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.1 Grid assets Public contributions Public contributions received from the EU or other parties related to property, plant and equipment are deducted from the acquisition cost of the item, and the contributions consequently reduce the depreciation made on the item. Other contributions are distributed as income over those periods when costs linked with the contributions arise. Other contributions received are presented in other operating income. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 1 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets Tangible and in inttangible ass asse ets 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, € 1,000 2018 2017 Land and water areas Cost at 1 Jan 15,974 15,701 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 864 274 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -89 Cost at 31 Dec 16,749 15,974 Carrying amount 31 Dec 16,749 15,974 Buildings and structures Cost at 1 Jan 279,432 254,823 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 26,780 24,614 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -1,022 -5 Cost at 31 Dec 305,190 279,432 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -69,640 -61,108 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 536 5 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -9,756 -8,538 Carrying amount 31 Dec 226,329 209,792 Machinery and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 1,146,492 1,115,218 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 43,870 31,992 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -6,455 -718 Cost at 31 Dec 1,183,907 1,146,492 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -584,443 -536,937 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 2,464 718 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -48,617 -48,224 Carrying amount 31 Dec 553,310 562,049 Transmission lines Cost at 1 Jan 1,305,020 1,307,111 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 222 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 10,541 -1,658 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -1,921 -433 Cost at 31 Dec 1,313,640 1,305,020 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -518,783 -482,073 Decreases, depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec 1,081 184 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -37,453 -36,894 Carrying amount 31 Dec 758,485 786,237 Other property, plant and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 24,145 23,721 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 757 424 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -3 Cost at 31 Dec 24,899 24,145 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -17,085 -16,119 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -993 -966 Carrying amount 31 Dec 6,821 7,060 Prepayments and purchases in progress Cost at 1 Jan 83,656 59,404 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 76,903 94,299 Transfers to other tangible and intangible assets 1 Jan 31 Dec -99,995 -70,047 Cost at 31 Dec 60,565 83,656 Carrying amount 31 Dec 60,565 83,656 Capitalised interest Cost at 1 Jan 12,664 11,442 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 1,042 1,223 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -1 Cost at 31 Dec 13,705 12,664 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -1,433 -1,021 Depreciation on capitalised interest 1 Jan 31 Dec -478 -412 Carrying amount 31 Dec 11,795 11,232 Carrying amount 31 Dec 72,360 94,888 Property, plant and equipment 1,634,055 1,675,999 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 23 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets 12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, €1,000 2018 2017 Land use rights Cost at 1 Jan 95,087 94,507 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 2,625 706 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -203 -126 Cost at 31 Dec 97,509 95,087 Carrying amount 31 Dec 97,509 95,087 Other intangible assets Cost at 1 Jan 36,133 31,644 Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 2,695 4,974 Decreases 1 Jan 31 Dec -485 Cost at 31 Dec 38,828 36,133 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan -31,426 -29,571 Depreciation 1 Jan 31 Dec -2,366 -1,855 Carrying amount 31 Dec 5,037 4,707 Carrying amount 31 Dec 102,546 99,795 Land use rights are not depreciated but tested annually for impairment in connection with the testing of goodwill. The entire business of the Fingrid Group is grid operations in Finland with system responsibility, which the full goodwill of the Group in the balance sheet is fully allocated to. The goodwill included in the balance sheet amounts to EUR 87.9 million and has not changed during the periods under review. Since, per the regulation, the fair value of the net assets included in the company’s grid assets is approximately EUR 2,800.0 million compared to the carrying amount of EUR 1,824.5 million in net assets, which includes land use rights and goodwill, the book value of the asset items has not decreased. Accounting principles Propert, plant and equipment Grid assets form most of the property, plant and equipment. Grid assets include, among other things, 400 kV, 220 kV, 110 kV transmission lines, direct current lines, transmission line right-of-ways, substations and the areas they encompass (buildings, structures, machinery and equipment, substation access roads), gas turbine power plants, fuel tanks, generators and turbines. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 224 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment are valued in the balance sheet at the original acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and potential impairment. If an asset is made up of several parts with useful lives of different lengths, the parts are treated as separate items and are depreciated over their separate useful lives. When a part of property, plant and equipment that is treated as a separate item is replaced, the costs relating to the new part are capitalised. Other subsequent costs are capitalised only if it is likely that the future economic benefit relating to the asset benefits the Group and the acquisition cost of the asset can be determined reliably. Repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the income statement when they are incurred. Borrowing costs, such as interest costs and arrangement fees, directly linked with the acquisition, construction or manufacture of a qualifying asset form part of the acquisition cost of the asset item in question. A qualifying asset is one that necessarily requires a considerably long time to be made ready for its intended purpose. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense. Borrowing costs included in the acquisition cost are calculated on the basis of the average borrowing cost of the Group. Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over the useful life of the item using the straight-line method. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment taken into use during the financial year is calculated on an itemby-item basis from the month of introduction. Land and water areas are not depreciated. The expected economic lives are verified at each closing date, and if they differ significantly from the earlier estimates, the depreciation periods are amended accordingly. The depreciation periods of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Buildings and structure Substation buildings and separate buildings 40 years Substation structures 30 years Buildings and structures at gas turbine power plants 20-40 years Separate structures 15 years Transmission lines Transmission lines 400 kV 40 years Direct current lines 40 years Transmission lines 110-220 kV 30 years Creosote-impregnated towers and related disposal costs 30 years Aluminium towers of transmission lines (400 kV) 10 years Optical ground wires 10-20 years Machinery and equipment Substation machinery 10-30 years Gas turbine power plants 20 years Other machinery and equipment 3-5 years Gains or losses from the sale or disposition of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement under either other operating income or expenses. Property, plant and equipment are derecognised in the balance sheet when their economic useful life has expired, the asset has been sold, scrapped or otherwise disposed of to an outsider. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 225 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.2 Tangible and intangible assets Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill created as a result of the acquisition of enterprises and businesses is composed of the difference between the acquisition cost and the net identifiable assets of the acquired business valued at fair value. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment. With associated companies, goodwill is included in the value of the investment in the associated company. Other intangible assets consist of computer software and land use and emission rights. Computer software is valued at its original acquisition cost and depreciated on a straight line basis during its estimated useful life. Land use rights, which have an indefinite useful life, are not depreciated but are tested annually for impairment. More on emission rights in chapter 7.2. Subsequent expenses relating to intangible assets are only capitalised if their economic benefits to the company increase beyond the former performance level. In other cases, expenses are recognised in the income statement when they are incurred. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 226 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.3 Lease agreements Leas ase e agr agre eemen ementts The lease agreements of the Group mainly relate to office premises. The durations of the lease agreements range from less than one year to fifteen years, and the contracts can usually be extended after the original date of expiration. The index, renewal and other terms of the different agreements vary. In addition to real estate, the Group has additionally leased assets such as several land areas under substations and transmission lines and some 110 kilovolt transmission lines and circuit breaker bays. 13. LEASE AGREEMENTS, € 1,000 2018 2017 Rental obligations from lease agreements: In one year 4,223 4,079 In more than one year and less than five years 14,716 14,279 In more than five years 11,273 13,913 Total 30,212 32,270 Accounting principles Lease agreements Lease obligations where the risks and rewards incident to ownership remain with the lessor are treated as other lease agreements. Lease obligations paid on the basis of other lease agreements are treated within other operating expenses and are recognised in the income statement as equally large items during the lease period. Other lease agreements primarily concern office facilities, land areas and network leases. In accordance with the principles of standard IAS 17 Leases, those leases which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the company are classified as finance leases. The company has not leased tangible or intangible assets using finance leases. IFRS 16 Leases The IFRS 16 standard will be applied as of 1 January 2019. It replaces the previous IAS 17 Leases standard, which required classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases. As defined in the new standard, a lease is a contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to use an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Each lease is analysed independently when the contract is entered into, including all the components contained in the contract. From now on, both the underlying asset to which the right to use applies and the liability representing future lease payments are recognised in the balance sheet over the time of its economic impact. The substantial changes due to IFRS 16 mostly apply to lessors. Leases are recognised in the balance sheet except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. Exceptions are possible for shortterm leases and leases of low-value assets, and no adjustments are necessary for such assets when transitioning from the old system to the new one. It is possible to apply a modified retrospective transition approach when adopting the standard, in other words the company recognises the effect of initially applying IFRS 16 as an adjustment to the equity at the date of initial application, on 1 January 2019. The company has assessed the impacts of the adoption of the IFRS 16 standard. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 7 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 5.3 Lease agreements Impacts During 2018, Fingrid carried out a project to prepare for the transition to the new standard. The initial stage of the project focused on finding out which of the company’s contracts meet the standard definition of a lease and consequently fall within its scope of application. According to the company’s current view, the contracts to be recognised in the balance sheet in compliance with IFRS 16 are real estate leases. The company has a number of other contracts that, according to the management’s judgement, are insignificant in terms of their impact on the balance sheet and accuracy of financial reporting. The company’s lease liabilities on the reporting date of the 2018 financial statements totalled EUR 30.2 million, consisting of EUR 4.2 million in short-term liabilities, to be paid within a year, and EUR 26.0 million in long-term liabilities, with a due date after more than a year. The lease liabilities are presented in note 13. The change results in an increase in property, plant and equipment, and in liabilities. As a result of the project, the Group recognised items of property, plant and equipment totalling around EUR 35 million on 1 January 2019 as leases in compliance with IFRS 16. Other operating expenses in the income statement will decrease because leases will in future be stated as depreciations and interest costs. The liability will be amortised using the effective interest rate method, where the relative amount of interest expenditure decreases along with the principal liability, resulting in ‘frontloading’ of the lease expenses in the income statement over the lease term. The standard also affects the Group’s cash flow. The cash flow from operating activities will increase because the capital repayment component of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flow from financing activities. The interest component will continue to be disclosed in the cash flow from operating activities. According to Fingrid’s estimation, IFRS 16 will have an impact of EUR –0.2 million on the consolidated profit during the first year. Lease expenses are estimated to decrease by around EUR 3.0 million in 2019, whereas depreciations are estimated to increase by EUR 2.6 million and interest costs by EUR 0.7 million. The right-of-use contracts of the powerlines have already been entered directly in the balance sheet on the contract date, which means there will be no changes in their accounting procedures due to the transition to IFRS 16. Fingrid will apply a modified retrospective transition approach when adopting the standard, in other words the impacts will be recognised on the transition date, 1 January 2019. The modified retrospective transition approach entails no retrospective adjustments to the previous year’s figures. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 228 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6 Strong Financial Position 6S Str trong ong Financial P Position osition This chapter focuses on describing how Fingrid’s financing is formed and how the related risks are managed, and at the same time, how short-term financial assets that secure liquidity are formed. The chapter describes the company’s principles of capital management, ownership structure and dividend distribution policy. The end of the chapter contains a summary of all the financial assets and financing liabilities, as well as derivatives, that the company uses solely for risk management purposes. The risks relate to various market risks: the electricity price risk and the interest rate and exchange rate risk. Management of the price and volume risk of electricity is described in chapter 4.7. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 9 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.1 Capital management Capit apital al managemen managementt Equity and liabilities as shown in the balance sheet are managed by the company as capital. The principal aim of Fingrid’s capital management is to ensure that the company is capable of uninterrupted operations and can rapidly recover from any exceptional circumstances. Additional key goals include maintaining an optimal capital structure such that the company’s credit rating remains solid, cost of capital remains reasonable, and the company can pay dividends to its shareholders. The company has not set specific financial ratio targets for capital management, but instead monitors and controls the overall capital structure based on credit ratings and their underlying parameters. The company’s credit rating remained high in 2018. This reflects the company’s strong overall financial situation and debt service capacity. Fingrid has credit rating service agreements with S&P Global Ratings (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). The credit ratings valid on 31 December 2018 were as follows: S&P’s rating for Fingrid’s unsecured senior debt and long-term company rating at ‘AA-’ and the short-term company rating at ‘A-1+’, with a stable outlook. Fitch’s rating for Fingrid’s unsecured senior debt at ‘AA-’, the long-term company rating at ‘A+’, and ‘F1’ for the short-term company rating, with a stable outlook. The company aims to maintain a credit rating of at least ‘A-’. The credit rating target and criteria guide financing activities. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 230 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.2 The aims and organisation of financing activities and the Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 principles for financial risk management The aims and or organis ganisa ation o off financing ac activitie tivitiess and the principle principless ffor or financial risk managemen managementt The company has a holistic approach to the management of financing activities, encompassing external financing, as well as managing liquidity, counterparty and financial risks, and supporting business operations in matters related to financing in general. Core aims for financing activities: Protecting shareholder value by securing the financing required for the company’s business operations, by hedging against the main financial risks and by minimising financial costs within the risk limits; Maintaining adequate liquidity even in unexpected situations; Long-term financing from diverse sources, taking into account the company’s investment plan and cash flow from operating activities as well as credit rating and its criteria; Overall optimisation of the interest rate risk, including the interest rate risk of business operations via the Energy Authority’s regulatory model (risk-free interest in the so called WACC model) and the company’s interest rate risk of net debt; Forward-looking financial planning to ensure that the overall impact from the cash flow from operating activities, future investments, maturing loans and future dividends is taken into account when raising funds and optimising the loan portfolio structure. The Treasury maintains active and consistent dialogue with the credit rating agencies and monitors the key ratios used by the agencies, as well as other generally accepted financial ratios. Fingrid’s financial capital consists of equity and debt financing. The share of equity from the balance sheet total was 36.6% and that of liabilities 63.4% in 2018. Equity according to the regulatory balance sheet amounted to 60.8% and the corresponding liabilities to 39.2% of regulatory balance sheet total in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 231 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.2 The aims and organisation of financing activities and the Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 principles for financial risk management Fingrid Oyj is exposed to market, liquidity, counterparty and credit risks, among others, when the company’s financial position is managed. The objective of financial risk management is to foster shareholder value by securing the financing required for the company’s business operations, by hedging against the main financial risks and by minimising financing costs within the risk limits. Corporate finance and financing principles The Board of Directors of Fingrid Oyj approves the Corporate Finance Principles which define how Fingrid Oyj manages financing as a whole. The external financing of Fingrid Group is carried out by Fingrid Oyj. Risk management execution and reporting Fingrid’s Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the practical measures related to securing financing and managing financial risks, in line with the company’s Corporate Finance Principles and Treasury Policy. The CFO oversees the day-to-day organising, reporting and adequate controls of financing activities, and reports regularly to the CEO and the Board (Audit Committee). Risk management processes The Treasury unit is in charge of risk monitoring, systems and the models and methods used to calculate and assess risks. The Treasury unit is furthermore responsible for identifying, measuring and reporting the financial risks that the company may be exposed to. The internal audit additionally ensures compliance with the Corporate Finance Principles and the company’s internal guidelines. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 232 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.2 The aims and organisation of financing activities and the Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 principles for financial risk management Fair value hierarchy In the presentation of fair value, assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into a three-level hierarchy. The appropriate hierarchy is based on the input data of the instrument. The level is determined on the basis of the lowest level of input for the instrument that is significant to the overall fair value measurement. Level 1: inputs are publicly quoted in active markets. Level 2: inputs are not publicly quoted and are based on observable market parameters either directly or indirectly. Level 3: inputs are not publicly quoted and are unobservable market parameters. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 233 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Financial liabilitie liabilities, s, financial ccos ostts and managing the financial risk riskss o off liabilitie liabilitiess The company takes advantage of the possibilities offered by its credit ratings at any given time on the international and domestic debt capital and money markets. Market-based and diversified financing is sought from several sources aiming at a balanced maturity profile.Fingrid’s existing loan agreements, debt or commercial paper programmes are unsecured and do not include any financial covenants based on financial ratios. The company operates in the debt capital, commercial paper and loan markets: For long-term financing, the company has a Medium Term Note Programme (“EMTN Programme”), totalling EUR 1.5 billion. Fingrid has a Euro Commercial Paper Programme (“ECP Programme”) totalling EUR 600 million. Fingrid has a domestic commercial paper programme totalling EUR 150 million. Furthermore, Fingrid has bilateral long-term loan agreements with both the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The graph below illustrates Fingrid’s various sources of debt financing. Fingrid obtains debt financing mainly from the international debt capital markets. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 23 4 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Borrowings are as follows: Hierarchy 14. BORROWINGS, €1,000 2018 2017 level Balance Balance Fair sheet Fair value sheet value % value value % Non-current Bonds 743,043 663,629 766,069 683,863 Level 2 Loans from financial institutions 115,404 107,879 138,942 129,541 Level 2 75 858,446 771,508 73 % 905,011 813,404 % Current Bonds 20,848 20,104 102,112 101,587 Level 2 Loans from financial institutions 23,855 22,600 23,817 22,474 Level 2 Other loans/Commercial papers (international and domestic) 245,183 245,387 145,116 145,243 Level 2 25 289,886 288,091 27 % 271,045 269,304 % 100 100 Total 1,148,332 1,059,598 % 1,176,057 1,082,707 % The fair values of borrowings are based on the present values of cash flows. Loans raised in various currencies are measured at the present value on the basis of the yield curve of each currency. The discount rate includes the company-specific and loan-specific risk premium. Borrowings denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the fixing rate quoted by the ECB at the closing date. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 35 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 018 8 risks of liabilities 15. BONDS INCLUDED IN BORROWINGS, €1,000 2018 2017 Nominal Currency value Maturity Interest Balance sheet value EUR 50,000 20/09/2020 floating rate 50,000 50,000 EUR 30,000 19/09/2022 floating rate 30,000 30,000 EUR 30,000 11/09/2023 2.71% 30,000 30,000 EUR 300,000 03/04/2024 3.50% 299,222 299,089 EUR 100,000 23/11/2027 1.125% 99,355 99,286 EUR 25,000 27/03/2028 2.71% 25,000 25,000 EUR 10,000 12/09/2028 3.27% 10,000 10,000 EUR 80,000 24/04/2029 2.95% 80,000 80,000 EUR 30,000 30/05/2029 2.89% 30,000 30,000 653,577 653,376 NOK 200,000 12/11/2019 5.37% 20,104 20,325 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 236 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities NOK 100,000 16/09/2025 4.31% 10,052 10,162 30,156 30,487 SEK 1,000,000 19/11/2018 floating rate 101,587 101,587 Bonds, long-term total 663,629 683,863 Bonds, short-term total 20,104 101,587 Total 683,733 785,449 The company defines net debt as the difference between cash in hand, and the financial assets recognized in the income statement at fair value and borrowings as shown in the balance sheet. The development of net debt is actively monitored. The company defines net debt as the difference between cash in hand, and the financial assets recognized in the income statement at fair value and borrowings as shown in the balance sheet. The development of net debt is actively monitored. 16. RECONCILIATION OF DEBT, €1,000 Borrowings due within Borrowings due 1 year after 1 year Total Debt on 1 Jan 2017 264,865 842,866 1,107,731 Cash flow from financing activities -123,806 100,000 -23,806 Exchange rate adjustments -842 210 -632 Other changes not involving a payment transaction -586 -586 Transfer to short-term loans 129,086 -129,086 Debt on 31 Dec 2017 269,304 813,404 1,082,707 Cash flow from financing activities -28,816 -28,816 Exchange rate adjustments 2,108 3,399 5,506 Other changes not involving a payment transaction 201 201 Transfer to short-term loans 45,496 -45,496 Debt on 31 Dec 2018 288,091 771,508 1,059,598 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value are liquid investments traded on active markets. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 23 7 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Reconciliation of net debt, € 1,000 2018 2017 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 13,922 10,303 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 71,380 73,465 Borrowings repayable within one year 288,091 269,304 Borrowings repayable after one year 771,508 813,404 Net debt 974,297 998,939 Net debt is the difference between the company's debt and its cash in hand and cash equivalents Interest income and costs on loans and other receivables are as follows: 17. INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSES FROM LOANS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2018 2017 Interest income on held-for-trading financial assets 46 312 Interest income on cash, cash equivalents and bank deposits 124 166 Dividend income 5 170 483 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 23 8 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Interest expenses on borrowings -20,898 -21,843 Net interest expenses on interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives 4,553 4,752 Gains from measuring derivative contracts at fair value 2,790 656 Losses from measuring derivative contracts at fair value -1,917 -6,477 Net foreign exchange gains and losses from borrowings, derivatives and FX-accounts -59 -115 Other finance costs -895 -1,457 -16,426 -24,484 Capitalised finance costs, borrowing costs; at a capitalisation rate of 2 % (note 11) 1,042 1,223 Total -15,213 -22,778 Managing the market risks of debt Fingrid’s debts are issued in both fixed and floating interest rates and in several currencies. They thus expose Fingrid’s cash flow to interest rate and exchange rate risks. Fingrid uses derivative contracts to hedge against these risks. Fingrid generally holds issued bonds to maturity and thus does not value its bonds in the balance sheet at fair value or hedge against the fair value interest rate risk. The permitted hedging instruments are defined in the Treasury policy and are chosen in order to achieve the most effective hedging possible for the risks in question. The functional currency of the company is euro. Generally, currency risks and the foreign exchange interest rate risk are fully hedged. A risk that amounts to less than EUR 5 million when realised can be unhedged for reasons of cost-effectiveness. Transaction risk This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 239 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities The company issues bonds in the international and domestic money and debt capital markets. The company’s loan portfolio is spread across euro and non-euro currencies, and the total debt portfolio and the related interest rate flows are hedged against the currency risk. The currency risk for each bond is fully hedged in conjunction with its issuance. The company uses interest rate and cross currency swaps to hedge the exchange rate and interest risk of bonds. Business-related currency risks are small and they are mainly hedged. During the financial year, the company used foreign exchange forwards to hedge business transaction risks. A summary of the derivatives is presented in Note 23. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 240 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Interest rate risk The company is only exposed to euro denominated interest rate risk from its business operations, assets and borrowings. The company’s borrowings are, both in terms of principal and interest payments, fully hedged against exchange rate risks. Cash and cash equivalents and financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value are denominated in euros. Interest rate risk management includes optimisation of future interest rate risk of business operations (risk-free interest in the WACC model described in the next infobox) emerging from the regulatory model specified by the Energy Authority, together with company’s net debt interest rate risk. The interest rate risk from business operations can in part or in its entirety be hedged in terms of the adjusted capital committed to grid operations. The Board of Directors always makes a separate decision on the hedging of operational interest rate risks. The interest rate risk included in business operations was not hedged in 2018. The interest rate risk inherent in Fingrid’s business operations is caused by changes in the risk-free interest in the WACC model. If the risk-free interest rate rises/falls by one percentage unit, the post-tax WACC rises/falls by 0.9%. The objective of managing the interest rate risk on the loan portfolio is to minimise interest costs in the long term. The aim is to keep the average interest rate period of the gross interest exposure for the loan portfolio (derivatives and liabilities) at around twelve (12) months. The loan portfolio’s interest rate risk arises from market interest rate volatility, which decreases or increases the annual interest expenses on the company’s floating-rate loans. When market interest rates increase (decrease), the interest expenses of the floating-rate loans also This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 241 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities increase (decrease). The company hedges this so-called cash flow risk with derivatives. The sensitivity of the loan portfolio to interest rate risk is measured by using a Cash Flow at Risk (CFaR) type of model, more specifically the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model. The key parameters of the model are the 3-month and 6-month Euribor rates, of which the historical time series serve as a basis for a forward-looking simulation of the probable future interest expenses for Fingrid’s loan portfolio. The exposure on which the sensitivity analysis is calculated includes all of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings, the loan portfolio’s derivatives and interest-rate options purchased to hedge against unexpected changes in interest rates. According to the model, there is a 95% (99%) probability that Fingrid’s interest expenses will amount to no more than EUR 18 (19) million during the next 12 months. Determination of the reasonable rate of return in regulation and operational interest rate risk The reasonable rate of return on adjusted capital committed to grid operations is determined by using the weighted average cost of capital model (WACC). The WACC model illustrates the average cost of the capital used by the company, where the weights are the relative values of equity and debt. The weighted average of the costs of equity and interest-bearing debt are used to calculate the total cost of capital, i.e. the reasonable rate of return per the regulation. The reasonable return is calculated by multiplying the adjusted capital invested in network operations by the WACC. WACC post-tax = reasonable rate of return after corporate tax CE = reasonable cost of equity CD = reasonable cost of interest-bearing debt E = adjusted equity invested in network operations D = adjusted interest-bearing debt invested in network operations ctr = current rate of corporate tax CD = Rr + DP Rr = risk-free interest rate DP = risk premium of debt CE = Rr + βlevered × (Rm – Rr ) + LP This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 242 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities Rr = risk-free interest rate β levered = levered beta Rm = average market return Rm – Rr = market risk premium LP = liquidity premium The above-mentioned reasonable rate of return after taxes is then adjusted with the current rate of corporate tax. This calculation gives the reasonable pre-tax rate of return. WACC pre-tax = reasonable rate of return before corporate tax A fixed capital structure is applied to the TSO, whereby the weight of debt capital is 50% and the weight of equity capital is 50%. The pre-tax reasonable rate of return is calculated as follows: Rk, pre-tax = pre-tax reasonable return, EUR WACC pre-tax = reasonable rate of return, % E = adjusted equity invested in network operations, EUR D = adjusted interest-bearing debt invested in network operations, EUR E + D = adjusted capital invested in network operations, EUR This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 243 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities *Will be updated by end of 2019 for regulatory period 2020-2023 based on Bloomberg’s utility sector A-BBB rated companies’ fixed income indices Liquidity risk and refinancing risk Fingrid is exposed to liquidity and refinancing risks arising from the redemption of loans, payments and fluctuations in cash flow from operating activities. The liquidity of the company must be arranged so that liquid assets (cash and cash equivalents, and financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value) and available long-term committed credit lines can cover 110% of the refinancing needs for the next 12 months. The company has a revolving credit facility agreement of EUR 300 million signed on 11 December 2015. The maturity of the facility is five years. In addition to this, the company has two one-year extension options, of which both have been used. These extended the maturity of the revolving credit facility until 11 December 2022. The facility is committed and has not been drawn. The company additionally has uncommitted overdraft facilities totaling EUR 50 million. The refinancing risk is managed by building an even maturity profile such that the share of long-term loans in a single year constitutes less than 30 per cent of the total debt and the average maturity of the company’s loan portfolio is at least three years. To secure refinancing, the company makes wide use of diverse sources of financing. The high credit rating and good bank and investor relations enable ready access to the debt capital market and thus minimises the company’s debt refinancing risks and financing costs. The counterparty risks of financing activities are caused by counterparties related to investing (e.g. money market funds), derivatives counterparties and bank counterparties. The company minimises any counterparty risks. As a rule, credit rating categories are the decisive factor in specifying the counterparty limit. Contractual repayments and interest costs on borrowings are presented in the next table. The interest rates on floating-rate loans are defined using the zero coupon curve. The repayments and interest amounts are undiscounted values. Finance costs arising from interest rate swaps are often paid in net amounts depending on the nature of the swap. In the following table, they are presented in gross amounts. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 244 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 risks of liabilities 18. DEBT REPAYMENTS, INTEREST PAYMENTS AND PAYMENTS AND RECEIVABLES UNDER DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS IN CASH, €1,000 31 Dec 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024Total Bonds repayments 20,104 50,000 30,000 30,000 553,629 683,733 interests 18,377 17,222 17,234 17,293 17,102 40,247 127,475 Loans from financial institutions repayments 21,662 17,662 17,662 17,662 17,662 37,229 129,541 interests 2,486 2,088 1,820 1,562 1,216 1,311 10,483 Commercial papers repayments 245,000 245,000 Overdraft payments 938 938 Currency swaps payments 23,891 49 77 115 152 12,922 37,205 Interest rate swaps payments 924 328 658 1,102 1,555 7,771 12,338 Forward contracts payments 198 350 300 1,000 1,500 900 4,248 Total 333,579 87,699 37,751 68,734 69,188 654,009 1,250,961 Currency swaps receivables 21,617 433 433 433 433 10,918 34,268 Interest rate swaps receivables 5,152 5,082 4,810 4,448 3,601 7,689 30,784 Forward contracts receivables 196 351 301 1,011 1,533 926 4,318 Total 26,965 5,867 5,544 5,893 5,568 19,534 69,370 Total 306,614 81,833 32,206 62,841 63,621 634,475 1,181,591 31 Dec 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023Total Bonds repayments 101,587 20,325 50,000 30,000 583,538 785,449 interests 18,635 18,404 17,559 17,416 17,386 57,364 146,765 Loans from financial institutions repayments 21,662 21,662 17,662 17,662 17,662 54,892 151,203 interests 2,848 2,512 2,317 2,038 1,695 2,691 14,102 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 245 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 6.3 Financial liabilities, financial costs and managing the financial Ann Annualual R Repepor ortt 2 201 0188 risks of liabilities Commercial papers repayments 145,000 145,000 Overdraft payments 811 811 Currency swaps payments 107,753 23,928 97 140 174 13,193 145,286 Interest rate swaps payments 2,355 1,105 908 1,365 1,712 10,625 18,070 Forward contracts payments 1,270 1,270 Total 401,923 87,936 88,544 38,622 68,629 722,302 1,407,956 Currency swaps receivables 103,397 21,854 438 438 438 11,476 138,041 Interest rate swaps receivables 5,181 5,014 4,584 4,185 3,953 10,846 33,764 Forward contracts receivables 1,167 1,167 Total 109,745 26,868 5,022 4,622 4,391 22,323 172,972 Total 292,178 61,068 83,522 34,000 64,238 699,979 1,234,984 Accounting principles Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of the transaction costs incurred. Transaction costs consist of bond prices above or below par value, arrangement fees, commissions and administrative fees that are directly related to the loan. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost; any difference between the loan amount and the amount to be repaid is recognised in the income statement over the loan period using the effective interest rate method. Borrowings are derecognised when they mature and are repaid. Commitment fees to be paid on credit facilities are entered as transaction costs related to the loan insofar as partial or full utilisation of the facility is likely. In such cases, the fee is capitalized in the balance sheet until the facility is utilised. If there is no proof that loans included in a facility are likely to be drawn in part or in full, the fee will be recognised as an upfront payment for liquidity services and amortized over the maturity of the facility in question. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 246 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets Cash and ccash ash e quivalen equiv alentts and o otherther financial ass asse ets 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets 19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, €1,000 2018 2017 Cash assets and bank account balances 13,922 10,303 Total 13,922 10,303 20. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS, €1,000 2018 2017 Hierarchy level Short-term money market funds 56,881 56,966 Level 2 Commercial papers 4,498 6,499 Level 1 Bank deposits, over 3 months 10,000 10,000 Level 2 Total 71,380 73,465 Accounting principles Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet include cash in hand and bank deposits with an initial maturity of no more than three months. Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement also include financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value. Cash and cash equivalents are derecognised when they mature, are sold or otherwise disposed of. Other financial assets The financial assets classified in this category include short-term money market securities (certificates of deposit, commercial papers and municipality bills), current investments in short-term fixed income funds, and bank deposits kept for more than three months. Financial assets recognised at fair value in the income statement are entered in the balance sheet at fair value at the settlement date. Subsequently, the financial assets are measured on each reporting day at fair value, and the change in their fair value is recognised in the income statement under finance income and costs. Derivatives are also included in this group, but are presented in the balance sheet on their own lines. Accounting principles for derivatives are disclosed in Chapter 6.6. Available-for-sale investments This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 247 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets Fingrid does not have financing assets classified as available-for-sale investments. Financial assets are derecognised when they mature, are sold or otherwise disposed of such that their risks and revenues have been transferred. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 248 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.5 Equity and dividend distribution Equit quityy and dividend dis distribution tribution The shareholders’ equity is composed of two share classes. The shareholder breakdown and voting rights are illustrated in the following graphs. SHAREHOLDERS BY CATEGORY 31 DEC 2018 Number of shares Of all shares % Of votes % Public organisations 1,768 53.17 70.87 Financial and insurance institutions 1,557 46.83 29.12 Total 3,325 100.00 100.00 Shareholders, 31 Dec 2018 Number of shares Of all shares % Of votes % Republic of Finland, represented by the Ministry of Finance 939 28.24 37.66 Aino Holding Ky 878 26.41 11.74 National Emergency Supply Agency 828 24.90 33.20 Mutual Pension Insurance Company Ilmarinen 661 19.88 17.15 Imatran Seudun Sähkö Oy 10 0.30 0.13 Fennia Life 6 0.18 0.08 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance 1 0.03 0.01 OP Insurance Ltd 1 0.03 0.01 The State Pension Fund 1 0.03 0.01 Total 3,325 100.00 100.00 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 249 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.5 Equity and dividend distribution The company's share capital is EUR 55,922,485.55. Fingrid shares are divided into Series A shares and Series B shares. The number of Series A shares is 2,078 and the number of Series B shares is 1,247. The maximum number of shares is 13,300, as in 2017. The shares have no par value. Series A shares confer three votes each at the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one vote each. When electing members of the Board of Directors, Series A shares confer 10 votes each at the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one vote each. Series B shares have the right before Series A shares to obtain the annual minimum dividend specified below from the funds available for profit distribution. If the annual minimum dividend cannot be distributed in some year, the shares confer a right to receive the undistributed amount from the funds available for profit distribution in the subsequent years; however, such that Series B shares have the right over Series A shares to receive the annual minimum dividend and the undistributed amount. Fingrid Oyj's Annual General Meeting decides on the annual dividend. Eighty-two per cent of the dividends to be distributed for each financial year is distributed for all Series A shares and eighteen per cent for all Series B shares, however such that EUR twenty million of the dividends to be distributed for each financial year is first distributed for all Series B shares. If the above-mentioned EUR twenty million minimum amount for the financial period is not distributed (all or in part) for Series B shares in a financial period, Series B shares confer the right to receive the undistributed minimum amount in question (or the accumulated undistributed minimum amount accrued during such financial periods) in the next profit distribution, in any disbursements paid out, or in any other distribution of assets prior to any other dividends, disbursements or asset distribution until the undistributed minimum amount has been distributed in full for Series B shares. There are no non-controlling interests. Equity is composed of the share capital, share premium account, revaluation reserve (incl. fair value reserve), translation reserve, and retained earnings. The translation reserve includes translation differences in the net capital investments of associated companies in accordance with the equity method of accounting. The profit for the financial year is booked in retained earnings. Share premium account The share premium account includes the difference between the counter value of the shares and the value obtained. The share premium account consists of restricted equity as referred to in the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act. The share capital can be increased by transferring funds from the share premium account. The share premium account can be decreased in order to cover losses or, under certain conditions, it can be returned to the owners. Revaluation reserve In 2017, the company divested its available-for-sale investments. Changes to equity funds during the financial year are presented in the statement of changes in equity. 21. SHAREHOLDERS BY CATEGORY The share capital is broken down as follows Number of shares Of all shares % Of votes % This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 250 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.5 Equity and dividend distribution Series A shares 2,078 62.50 83.33 Series B shares 1,247 37.50 16.67 Total 3,325 100.00 100.00 Fingrid’s dividends are distributed such that the shareholders receive a reasonable return on their invested capital, but also such that the company’s financial position is maintained. Fingrid Oyj's distributable funds in the financial statements total EUR 222,364,965.90. In 2017, EUR 173.5 million was paid in dividends (EUR 98.0). Since the closing date, the Board of Directors has proposed that a dividend of EUR 67,650.00 at maximum per share will be paid for Series A shares, and EUR 24,750.00 at maximum for Series B shares for a total of EUR 171,439,950.00 at maximum. The first dividend instalment of EUR 47,550.00 for each Series A share and EUR 17,400.00 for each Series B share, totalling EUR 120,506,700.00, shall be paid on 26 March 2019. The second dividend instalment, a maximum of EUR 20,100.00 for each Series A share and a maximum of EUR 7,350.00 for each Series B share, totalling a maximum of EUR 50,933,250.00, shall be paid based on the authorisation to be given to the Board. The Board of Directors has the right to decide on the payment of the second dividend instalment after the half-year report has been confirmed and after having assessed the company’s solvency, financial position and financial development. The second dividend instalment decided on with the authorisation given to the Board shall be paid on the third banking day after the decision. It will be proposed that the authorisation remains valid until the next Annual General Meeting. The distributable funds are calculated on the basis of the parent company’s equity. Dividends are paid based on the distributable funds of the parent company. The guiding principle for Fingrid’s dividend policy is to distribute substantially all of the parent company profit as dividend. When making the decision, however, the economic conditions, the company’s near term investment and development needs as well as any prevailing financial targets of the company are always taken into account. The graph below indicates the differences between the consolidated IFRS income statement and the parent company’s FAS income statement. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 251 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.5 Equity and dividend distribution Accounting principles Dividend distribution The Board of Directors' proposal concerning dividend distribution is not recorded in the financial statements. The liability and equity is recognised only after a decision is made by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 252 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives Summar Summaryy o off financial ass asse ets, financial liabilitie liabilitiess and deriv deriva ativ tive es The carrying amounts of Fingrid's financial assets and liabilities by measurement category are as follows: 22. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY, €1,000 Assets/ Financial liabilities assets/ recognised in Availableliabilities income for-sale measured at statement at financial amortised Balance sheet item 31 Dec 2018 fair value assets cost Total Note Non-current ﬁnancial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 22,837 22,837 23 Electricity derivatives 9,643 9,643 23 Loan receivables 1,750 1,750 Current ﬁnancial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 718 718 23 Electricity derivatives 17,856 17,856 23 Trade receivables and other receivables 95,271 95,271 3 Other financial assets 56,881 56,881 20 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 13,922 13,922 19 Financial assets total: 107,936 125,441 233,378 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities: Borrowings 771,508 771,508 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 7,390 7,390 23 Current financial liabilities: Borrowings 288,091 288,091 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 4,011 4,011 23 Electricity derivatives 3 3 23 Trade payables and other liabilities 40,413 40,413 7 Financial liabilities total 11,404 1,100,012 1,111,415 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 253 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives Assets/ Financial liabilities assets/ recognised in Availableliabilities income for-sale measured at statement at financial amortised Balance sheet item 31 Dec 2017 fair value assets cost Total Note Non-current ﬁnancial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 25,097 25,097 23 Electricity derivatives 2,665 2,665 23 Loan receivables 4000 4000 Current ﬁnancial assets Interest rate and currency derivatives 5 5 23 Electricity derivatives 240 240 23 Trade receivables and other receivables 90,330 90,330 3 Financial assets recognised in the income statement at fair value 73,465 73,465 20 Cash in hand and cash equivalents 10,303 10,303 19 Financial assets total: 101,472 104,633 206,105 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities: Borrowings 813,404 813,404 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 12,387 12,387 23 Current ﬁnancial liabilities: Borrowings 269,304 269,304 14 Interest rate and currency derivatives 6,945 6,945 23 Electricity derivatives 1,244 1,244 23 Trade payables and other liabilities 46,818 46,818 7 Financial liabilities total 20,576 1,129,526 1,150,102 Fingrid uses derivatives for hedging purposes only, even though the company does not apply hedge accounting. Bilateral derivative transactions require a valid International Swap Dealers Association’s (ISDA) Master Agreement with the counterparty. The derivatives falling under the scope of an ISDA agreement can be netted in conditional circumstances such as default or bankruptcy. The company had derivatives that can be netted as per ISDA at a total fair value of EUR 14.3 million in 2018 (7.6). Fingrid provides collateral to cover the market value of electricity forwards. The management of electricity price risk is described in chapter 4.7. The hedging of interest rate and foreign exchange risks is described in chapter 6.3. The company’s derivative transactions consist of interest rate and cross currency swaps for hedging the loan portfolio, as well as purchased cap options used to hedge the loan portfolio from a sudden change in short-term interest rates. Forward contracts are used to fix the exchange rate for non-euro-denominated contracts related to This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 254 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annual ual RRepeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives business operations.The company uses electricity futures and forwards to hedge the price risk of future loss power purchases. The table below includes all of the Group’s derivatives. 23. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS, € 1,000 Hierarchy 2018 2017 level Fair Fair Fair Fair value value Net fair Nominal value value Net fair Nominal Interest rate and pos. neg. value value pos. neg. value value currency derivatives 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 Cross-currency swaps 2,571 -6,888 -4,316 36,237 3,837 -12,660 -8,822 143,544 Level 2 Forward contracts 7 -5 1 5,150 -123 -123 1,167 Level 2 Interest rate swaps 23,575 -5,087 18,488 325,000 23,209 -7,487 15,722 430,000 Level 2 Bought interest rate options 126 126 620,000 787 787 571,587 Level 2 Total 26,279 -11,980 14,300 986,387 27,833 -20,270 7,563 1,146,298 Fair Fair Fair Fair value value Net fair Volume value value Net fair Volume pos. neg. value TWh pos. neg. value TWh Electricity derivatives 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 Electricity future contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities 12,383 -385 11,997 1.87 1,010 -135 875 1.13 Level 1 Electricity forward contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities 27,500 -3 27,496 2.58 2,905 -1,244 1,661 3.75 Level 1 Total 39,883 -389 39,494 4.45 3,915 -1,379 2,536 4.88 The net fair value of derivatives indicates the realised profit/loss if they had been closed on the last trading day of 2018. The net fair value cannot be used for deriving the net derivative liabilities or receivables in the balance sheet, as accrued interest is taken into account here. The graph below indicates the change of value of all of the company's currency and interest rate derivatives in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 255 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives The purpose of Fingrid’s loss power price hedging is to reduce the effect of volatility in market prices to the loss power purchase costs and to give adequate predictability in order to keep the pressure to change grid service pricing moderate. The change in the fair value of electricity futures used in Fingrid’s loss power price hedging was EUR 37.0 million positive (EUR 9.1 million positive). The volatility in the fair value of electricity futures can be significant. The positive impact on profit was caused by the impact of increased spot price of electricity to the fair value of electricity futures. Fingrid holds its bought futures to maturity. The sensitivity of the fair value of electricity futures in relation to changes in the price of electricity is measured as the difference a 10 per cent fluctuation in market price would have on outstanding electricity futures on the reporting date. A positive/negative change of 10 per cent in the market price of electricity would have an impact of EUR 12.3 million/EUR -12.3 million on the Group’s profit before taxes. The graph below indicates the change of value of all of the company's electricity futures in 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 256 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives Accounting principles Adoption of the IFRS 9 standard, effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaced the IAS 39 standard on 1 January 2018. Then transition to IFRS 9 did not have material impacts on the company’s reported financial position and result. Classification of financial assets and liabilities The Group classifies the financial assets and liabilities in accordance with its business model and in compliance with IFRS 9. The classification is accomplished on the basis of the objective of the business model and the contract-based cash flows from the investments or by applying the fair value option at initial recognition. Other financial assets can include investments in short-term money-market securities (certificates of deposit, commercial papers and municipality bills), bank deposits of more than three months and investments in shortterm fixed income funds. Investments in short-term fixed income funds have been classified and entered at fair value in the income statement, and the adoption of IFRS 9 did not require changes in the principles of recognition. Investments in short-term money-market securities are classified and entered at amortised cost according to the accounting model applied by the company. The goal is to keep the investments to maturity and collect the contractual cash flows, consisting of the payments of principal and interest. Money-market securities have This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 257 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives previously been entered at fair value in the income statement, but the change did not have a material impact on the company’s financial result. Bank deposits of more than three months are entered at amortised cost. The Group actively tests each instrument for impairment and if the impairment criteria are met, the impairment is entered in the income statement. The accounting procedure for financial assets has not changed, and they continue to be entered at amortised cost. The rules concerning balance sheet derecognition have not changed from the IAS 39 standard ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. The Group does not apply hedge accounting, and the rules applied to hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 do not affect the company’s accounting procedures. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and bank deposits with an initial maturity of no more than three months. The Group applied the exception allowed by IFRS 9 and did not carry out retrospective adjustments to the previous year’s figures. Accounting principles Derivative instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value according to the date the derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in profit and loss. The company uses derivative contracts only for hedging purposes according to the Corporate Finance principles, the Treasury policy and the loss energy policy. Electricity futures The company enters into electricity future contracts in order to hedge the price risk of electricity purchases in accordance with the loss energy forecast. Fingrid discontinued hedge accounting for electricity futures at the beginning of 2014. As a result, the entire change in the fair value of electricity futures was recorded and will continue to be recorded in the income statement. Interest and currency derivatives The company enters into derivative contracts in order to hedge financial risks (interest rate and foreign exchange exposure) in compliance with the Corporate Finance Principles approved by the Board of Directors. Fingrid does This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 258 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 6.6 Summary of financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives not apply hedge accounting to these derivatives. A derivative asset or liability is recognised at its original fair value. Derivatives are measured at fair value at the closing date, and the change in fair value is recognised in the income statement under finance income and costs. The fair values of derivatives at the closing date are based on different calculation methods. Foreign exchange forwards have been measured at the forward prices. Interest rate and currency swaps have been measured at the present value on the basis of the yield curve of each currency. Interest rate options have been valued using generally accepted option pricing models in the market. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 259 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7 Other Information 7 Other In Infforma ormation tion This chapter contains the rest of the notes. First comes a joint presentation of the Group companies and related parties’ data. After that, other notes follow in the same sequence they appear in the income statement and balance sheet. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 260 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.1 Group companies and related parties Gr Group oup ccompanie ompaniess and rrela elatted par partie tiess The Group has two Fingridi's wholly-owned subsidiaries, Finextra Oy and Fingrid Datahub Oy. Finextra Oy is a subsidiary wholly-owned by Fingrid Oyj established to handle the statutory public service obligations not included in actual grid operations or transmission system responsibility. These tasks include peak load capacity services and guarantee-of-origin services for electricity. Through Finextra, the cost of public service tasks is separated from the cost of grid operations, which makes it possible to ensure the unequivocal transparency of the different operations. The Energy Authority oversees Finextra’s operations and reasonable returns from its services. The aim of Finextra is to carry out the assigned duties cost effectively, making use of joint resources. The allowable annual return on peak load capacity services is EUR 75,000. The allowed return on guarantee-of-origin services for the regulatory period starting on 1 January 2017 was approximately EUR 135,000. The realised return during the regulatory period consisted of a deficit of roughly EUR 10,000. Fingrid Datahub Oy is a subsidiary wholly-owned by Fingrid Oyj established in 2016 to handle the operations linked to the datahub. Key duties of the subsidiary is to offer and develop centralised electricity market information exchange services and other related services to the market parties and to govern the register information required by the electricity markets. The datahub is a centralised information exchange system for retail markets that stores data from all of Finland’s 3.5 million electricity metering points. The information stored in the datahub will be utilised by around 100 electricity sales companies and more than 80 distribution network operators to provide services to the consumers of electricity. Fingrid started the datahub project during the spring of 2015. The consolidated associated companies are Nord Pool AS (ownership 18.8%) and eSett Oy (ownership 33.3%). The investments in associated companies included in the balance sheet are composed of the following: 24. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, € 1,000 2018 2017 Non-current Interests in associated companies 12,072 10,303 Loan receivables from associated companies 1,750 4,000 Current Loan receivables from associated companies 500 Total 14,322 14,303 Receivable from an associated company consists of a loan receivable from eSett Oy. The main terms and conditions are as follows: Associated company loan: This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 261 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.1 Group companies and related parties The loan capital is EUR 2.3 (2.5) million and the annual interest rate is 1.5 per cent, on top of the 12-month Euribor. The loan repayment is ten equal instalments every six months. The amount of the loan capital is one third of the total loan that eSett’s owners have granted the company proportionate to their holdings. The terms of the loan are the same as the loan terms for eSett’s other owners. Capital loan: The loan capital is EUR 0.0 (1.5) million. The loan has been repaid on 17 September 2018. Financial summary of associated companies, €1,000 Non-current Current assets Dividends received during the Profit/ financial Ownership 2018 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Turnover loss period (%) Nord Pool AS 5,613 268,109 239,125 40,951 9,403 645 18.80 eSett Oy 6,795 5,250 47,001 41,353 10,080 4,218 33.30 Non-current Current assets Dividends received during the Profit/ financial Ownership 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Turnover loss period (%) Nord Pool AS 1,346 151,389 121,007 38,265 4,988 1,114 18.80 eSett Oy 8,232 11,250 39,540 33,246 7,560 2,677 33.30 The Group’s associated companies indicated in the tables are treated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting. The Nordic Balance Settlement (NBS) was introduced in Finland on 1 May 2017. When the NBS began its operations, imbalance settlement transferred from Fingrid’s Balance Service Unit to eSett Oy. The company has an equity investment in Norwegian kroner in an associated company, which results in exposure to translation risk. The translation risk is not significant and the company does not hedge against this risk. Equity investments in associated companies, € 1,000 2018 2017 Cost at 1 Jan 10,303 10,158 Share of profit 2,607 1,734 Translation reserve -193 -475 Dividends -645 -1,114 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 262 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.1 Group companies and related parties Carrying amount 31 Dec 12,072 10,303 Carrying amount of associated companies includes goodwill 31 Dec. 3,245 3,245 There are no material temporary differences related to associated companies on which deferred tax assets or liabilities have been recognised. The subsidiaries, associated companies and parent company (Fingrid Oyj) described above are related parties of the Group. In addition, the shareholder entities mentioned in chapter 6.5 and the top management and its related parties are also considered related parties. The top management is composed of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, and the executive management group. All transactions between Fingrid and related parties take place on market terms. The company has not lent money to the top management, and the company has no transactions with the top management. At the close of the reporting period, the Republic of Finland owned 53.1 per cent of the company’s shares. The Finnish Parliament has authorised the Ministry of Finance to reduce the state’s ownership in Fingrid Oyj to no more than 50.1 per cent of the company’s shares and votes. Transactions with associated companies, € 1,000 2018 2017 Sales 155 520 Expense adjustments 65 81 Purchases 3,889 3,276 Receivables 791 3,934 Liabilities 2,226 3,376 Loan receivables 2,250 4,000 Accounting principles Subsidiaries The subsidiaries encompass all companies over which the Group has control (including structured entities). The Group is considered to have control over a company if the Group’s holding results in exposure to variable returns or if the Group is entitled to variable returns and it can influence these returns by exercising its control over the company. The subsidiaries are consolidated into the consolidated financial statements starting from the day on which the Group gained control over the company. Consolidation is discontinued once the control ceases to exist. Consolidation of operations is carried out using acquisition cost method. Transactions, receivables and liabilities between Group companies and any unrealised profits from internal transactions are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction indicates an impairment of the disposed asset. If necessary, the financial statements of the subsidiaries have been adjusted to correspond This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 263 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.1 Group companies and related parties to the accounting principles applied by the Group. Associated companies The associated companies include all companies over which the Group has significant influence but no control or joint control. This is generally based on a shareholding amounting to 20–50% of the votes. Fingrid has an 18.8% ownership in Nord Pool AS. In Fingrid’s view, however, the significant influence over the company is retained because Fingrid is represented in Nord Pool’s board of directors, as a shareholder with an ownership of more 10% is entitled to appoint a board member according the shareholder agreement. Fingrid has influence over Nord Pool’s operating principles and over the decisions on dividends and asset distribution. According to the shareholder agreement, the board approves the annual operational plan and budget and makes a proposal to the annual general meeting on dividends. Fingrid also shares, via Nord Pool, in the costs of European market development. Investments in associated companies are initially recognised at the acquisition cost and subsequently handled using the equity method. According to the equity method, investments are initially recorded at the acquisition cost and this is subsequently adjusted by recognising the Group’s share of the profit or loss after the time of acquisition in the income statement and the Group’s share of any changes in the investment object’s other comprehensive income in other comprehensive income. Any dividends received or to be received from the associated companies and joint ventures are deducted from the investment’s carrying amount. If the Group’s share of the losses of an investment recognised according to the equity method equals or exceeds the Group’s holding in the company in question, including any other non-current receivables without collaterals, the Group will not recognise any additional losses unless it has obligations or it has made payments on behalf of the company. A share corresponding to the Group’s ownership interest is eliminated from the unrealised profits between the Group and its associated companies and joint ventures. Any unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction indicates an impairment of the disposed asset. If necessary, the accounting principles applied by the investments to be recognised according to the equity method have been adjusted to correspond to the principles applied by the Group. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 264 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.2 Other notes Other no nottes Emission rights Fingrid’s reserve power plants are subject to an environmental permit and covered by the EU’s emissions trading scheme. Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. Emission rights purchased in 2018 amounted to 10,000 units (tCO2). Emissions trading had minor financial significance for Fingrid. CO2 emissions included in emissions trading totalled 8,506 tonnes in 2018 (5,817). Accounting principles Emission rights Emission rights acquired free of charge are recognised in intangible assets at their nominal value, and purchased emission rights at their acquisition cost. A liability is recognised for emission rights to be returned. If the Group has sufficient emission rights to cover the return obligations, the liability is recognised at the carrying amount corresponding to the emission rights in question. If there are not sufficient emission rights to cover the return obligations, the liability is recognised at the market value of the emission rights in question. No depreciation is recognised on emission rights. They are derecognised in the balance sheet at the time of transfer when the actual emissions have been ascertained. The expense resulting from the liability is recognised in the income statement under the expense item ‘Materials and services’. Capital gains from emissions rights are recognised under other operating income. 25. PROVISIONS, € 1,000 2018 2017 Provisions for creosote-impregnated towers 1 Jan 1,474 1,481 Provisions used -50 -7 Provisions 31 Dec 1,424 1,474 Accounting principles Provisions A provision is recorded when the Group has a legal or factual obligation based on an earlier event and it is likely that fulfilling the obligation will require a payment, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 265 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.2 Other notes The provisions are valued at the present value of the costs required to cover the obligation. The discounting factor used in calculating the present value is chosen so that it reflects the market view of the time value of money at the assessment date and the risks pertaining to the obligation. 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Pledges Pledge covering customs credit account 200 200 Pledge covering excise duty 280 280 480 480 Other financial commitments Rent security deposit, guarantee 38 38 Credit facility commitment fee and commitment fee: Commitment fee for the next year 345 400 Commitment fee for subsequent years 862 1,154 1,245 1,592 Unrecognised investment commitments 103,946 93,991 The investment commitments consist of agreements signed by the company to carry out grid construction projects. Payment obligations from right-of-use agreements for reserve power plants: In one year 8,663 10,769 In more than one year and less than five years 34,064 34,124 In more than five years 19,610 27,888 Total 62,337 72,780 Under its system responsibility, Fingrid is also obligated to maintain a rapid response disturbance reserve to prepare for disruptions to the power system. In order to ensure the availability of this disturbance reserve, Fingrid has, in addition to its reserve power plant capacity, acquired power plant capacity suited to this purpose by longterm Right-of-use agreements. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND PROCEEDIGNS BY AUTHORITIES An accident took place on a work site in Laukaa, Finland, on 25 August 2017, where an employee of Revilla y Garcia S.L. died after having fallen from a power line tower. A civil court case has been raised in Spain for damages against Fingrid (the client linked with the accident), the main contractor, Technolines S.R.L. filial i This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 266 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 7.2 Other notes Finland, and its sub-contractor, Revilla y Garcia S.L. Fingrid does not believe the claim against it is likely to succeed and, in Fingrid’s view, the legal proceedings or their outcome are not likely to have a substantial impact on the company’s earnings or financial position. EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE The Group management is not aware of such significant events after the closing date that would affect the financial statements. GROUP’S CONTACT INFORMATION AND APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fingrid Oyj is a Finnish public limited liability company incorporated under the Finnish Companies Act. Fingrid’s consolidated financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. Fingrid’s registered office is in Helsinki at the address P.O. Box 530 (Läkkisepäntie 21, 00620, Helsinki), 00101 Helsinki. A copy of the consolidated financial statements is available on the website fingrid.fi or at Fingrid Oyj's head office. The amounts in the financial statements are expressed in thousands of euros and are based on the original acquisition costs, unless otherwise stated in the accounting principles or notes. Fingrid Oyj’s Board of Directors has accepted the publication of these financial statements in its meeting on 26 February 2019. In accordance with the Finnish Companies Act, the shareholders have the opportunity to adopt or reject the financial statements in the shareholders’ meeting held after their publication. The shareholders’ meeting can also amend the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 267 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.1 Parent company income statement Par aren entt ccompan ompanyy inc income ome ssttatemen ementt 8 Parent company ﬁnancial statements (FAS) 8.1 Parent company income statement Jan-Dec/2018 Jan-Dec/2017 Notes € € TURNOVER 2 844,636,947.00 665,392,912.15 Other operating income 3 10,800,562.63 2,952,426.51 Materials and services 4 -469,156,712.93 -323,875,279.31 Personnel costs 5 -30,987,690.53 -29,384,630.35 Depreciation and amortisation expense 6 -102,385,166.51 -103,744,514.46 Other operating expenses 7,8 -43,367,646.31 -40,234,891.46 OPERATING PROFIT 209,540,293.35 171,106,023.08 Finance income and costs 9 -16,519,817.38 -17,179,788.71 PROFIT BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 193,020,475.97 153,926,234.37 Appropriations Change in depreciation difference 50,000,000.00 Income taxes 10 -48,450,162.82 -30,567,832.63 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 194,570,313.15 123,358,401.74 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 268 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.2 Parent company balance sheet Par aren entt ccompan ompanyy balanc balance e she shee et 8.2 Parent company balance sheet ASSETS 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Notes € € Intangible assets: Other intangible assets 12 77,600,740.48 79,273,488.45 77,600,740.48 79,273,488.45 Tangible assets 13 Land and water areas 16,749,396.17 15,974,431.21 Buildings and structures 226,260,218.96 209,719,017.99 Machinery and equipment 551,598,765.91 560,151,242.49 Transmission lines 743,255,086.72 770,540,624.65 Other property, plant and equipment 117,516.35 117,516.35 Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,596,188.98 83,656,395.80 1,597,577,173.09 1,640,159,228.49 Investments: 14 Interests in Group companies 843,310.86 507,063.77 Interests in associated companies 8,587,578.95 8,587,578.95 Other shares and interests 2,367,590.36 2,096,934.13 11,191,576.85 11,059,956.17 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 11,798,480.17 1,730,624,293.79 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 15 12,390,535.52 13,528,910.29 Receivables Non-current Loan receivables from Group companies 16 9,142,044.28 5,000,000.00 Loan receivables from associated companies 16 1,750,000.00 4,000,000.00 Deferred tax assets 10 10,788,284.51 8,846,460.43 21,680,328.79 17,846,460.43 Current This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 269 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.2 Parent company balance sheet Trade receivables 82,960,650.88 75,073,908.08 Receivables from Group companies 17 377,781.29 833,329.87 Receivables from associated companies 18 1,290,832.94 3,934,309.64 Other receivables 1,463,140.20 1,447,709.38 Prepayments and accrued income 19,20 9,489,162.82 11,866,139.02 95,581,568.13 93,155,395.99 Financial securities 21 70,980,070.94 72,968,050.83 Cash in hand and bank receivables 21 13,921,698.15 10,302,954.11 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 214,554,201.53 207,801,771.65 TOTAL ASSETS 1,901,530,595.27 1,938,426,065.44 Notes are an integral part of the financial statement. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Notes € € EQUITY 22 Share capital 55,922,485.55 55,922,485.55 Share premium account 55,922,485.55 55,922,485.55 Profit from previous financial years 27,794,652.75 77,954,261.01 Profit for the financial year 194,570,313.15 123,358,401.74 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 334,209,937.00 313,157,633.85 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 23 398,896,757.27 448,896,757.27 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 30 1,424,146.78 1,474,146.78 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Bonds 24,25 667,511,729.99 691,236,522.43 Loans from financial institutions 107,878,787.88 129,541,125.54 775,390,517.87 820,777,647.97 CURRENT LIABILITIES Bonds 24 23,724,792.54 107,307,651.26 Loans from financial institutions 22,600,144.82 22,473,741.62 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 270 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.2 Parent company balance sheet Trade payables 20,725,047.34 25,308,354.72 Liabilities to Group companies 26 2,880,243.07 1,157,812.70 Liabilities to associated companies 27 2,226,105.94 3,375,839.59 Other liabilities 28 265,127,089.56 162,224,988.65 Accruals 29 54,325,813.08 32,271,491.03 391,609,236.35 354,119,879.57 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,166,999,754.22 1,174,897,527.54 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,901,530,595.27 1,938,426,065.44 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 1 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.3 Parent company cash flow statement Par aren entt ccompan ompanyy ccash ash flo flow w statemen ementt 8.3 Parent company cash flow statement 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2017 Note € € Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial year 22 194,570,313.15 123,358,401.74 Adjustments: Business transactions not involving a payment transaction 33 44,254,156.25 103,404,458.81 Interest and other finance costs 21,712,026.29 23,205,080.13 Interest income -4,547,332.31 -4,767,603.36 Dividend income -644,876.60 -1,257,688.06 Taxes 48,450,162.82 30,567,832.63 Changes in working capital: Change in trade receivables and other receivables -5,029,980.04 -9,443,145.18 Change in inventories 1,138,374.77 -1,259,792.59 Change in trade payables and other liabilities 10,796,432.05 4,185,979.27 Congestion income 29,632,292.62 25,752,020.51 Change in provisions -50,000.00 -6,800.00 Interest paid -17,431,549.87 -19,012,238.47 Interest received 446,885.85 415,917.88 Taxes paid 10 -37,281,373.19 -41,871,316.36 Net cash flow from operating activities 286,015,531.79 233,271,106.95 Cash flow from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 -89,930,983.87 -101,357,371.07 Purchase of intangible assets 12 -5,491,663.99 -5,893,088.91 Purchase of other assets 14 -606,903.32 -131,620.68 Proceeds from sale of other assets 14 118,990.19 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13 13,745,399.31 543,925.81 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 272 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.3 Parent company cash flow statement Loans granted -4,000,000.00 -2,120,610.67 Payments of financing (liabilities) 1,750,000.00 Dividends received 9 644,876.60 1,257,688.06 Net cash flow from investing activities -83,889,275.27 -107,582,087.27 Cash flow from ﬁnancing activities: Proceeds from current financing (liabilities) 542,636,150.22 451,535,449.76 Payments of current financing (liabilities) -440,527,216.90 -425,554,006.96 Proceeds from non-current financing (liabilities) 100,000,000.00 Payments of non-current financing (liabilities) -129,086,415.69 -149,732,292.07 Dividends paid 22 -173,518,010.00 -97,999,992.05 Net cash flow from financing activities -200,495,492.37 -121,750,841.32 Change in cash and cash equivalents and ﬁnancial assets 1,630,764.15 3,938,178.36 Cash and cash equivalents and ﬁnancial assets 1 Jan 83,271,004.94 79,332,826.58 Cash and cash equivalents and ﬁnancial assets 31 Dec 21 84,901,769.09 83,271,004.94 Notes are an integral part of the financial statements. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 3 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company No Nottes tto o the financial ssttatemen ementts o off par paren entt ccompan ompanyy 1. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Fingrid Oyj's financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). The items in the financial statements are valued at original acquisition cost. Foreign currency transactions Commercial transactions and financial items denominated in foreign currencies are recognised at the foreign exchange mid-rate quoted by the European Central Bank (ECB) at the transaction date. Interest-bearing liabilities and receivables and the derivatives hedging these items are valued at the mid-rate quoted by the ECB at the closing date. Foreign exchange gains and losses on interest-bearing liabilities and receivables, and on the instruments hedging these items, are recognised at maturity under finance income and costs. Foreign exchange rate differences arising from the derivatives used to hedge commercial currency flows are recognised to adjust the corresponding item in the income statement. Interest and currency derivatives Interest rate and currency swaps, foreign exchange forwards and interest rate options are used, in accordance with the Treasury Policy, to hedge the interest rate and foreign exchange risk, as well as the commercial items, in Fingrid’s balance sheet items. The accounting principles for derivative contracts are the same as for the underlying items. The interest rate items of interest rate and cross-currency swaps and interest rate options are accrued and recognised in the income statement under interest income and costs. The interest portion of forward foreign exchange contracts hedging the interest-bearing liabilities and receivables is accrued over the maturity of the contracts and recognised under finance income and costs. Premiums paid or received on interest rate options are accrued over the hedging period. Electricity derivatives Fingrid hedges its loss power purchases against price risk by employing futures traded on the NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA. There can also be trading in the OTC market in instruments corresponding to Nasdaq OMX Oslo ASA’s financial instruments. The profits and losses arising from these contracts are used to adjust the loss energy purchases in the income statement in the period in which the hedging impacts profit or loss. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses are treated as annual expenses. Valuation of fixed assets Fixed assets are capitalised under immediate acquisition cost. Planned straight-line depreciation on the acquisition price is calculated on the basis of the useful life of the fixed asset. Depreciation on fixed assets taken into use during the financial year is calculated on an item-by-item basis from the month of introduction. The depreciation periods are as follows: This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 274 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Goodwill = 20 years Other non-current expenses: Rights of use to line areas = 30–40 years Other rights of use according to useful life, maximum = 10 years Computer software = 3 years Buildings and structures Substation buildings and separate buildings = 40 years Substation structures = 30 years Buildings and structures at gas turbine power plants = 20–40 years Separate structures = 15 years Transmission lines Transmission lines 400 kV = 40 years Direct current lines = 40 years Transmission lines 110–220 kV = 30 years Creosote-impregnated towers and related disposal costs* = 30 years Aluminium towers of transmission lines (400 kV) = 10 years Optical ground wires = 10–20 years Machinery and equipment Substation machinery = 10–30 years Gas turbine power plants = 20 years Other machinery and equipment = 3–5 years *Disposal costs are discounted at present value and added to the value of the fixed asset and recognised under provisions for liabilities and charges. Goodwill is depreciated over a 20-year period, since grid operations are a long-term business in which income is accrued over several decades. Emission rights Emission rights are treated in accordance with the net procedure in conformance with statement 1767/2005 of the Finnish Accounting Board. Valuation of inventories Inventories are recognised according to the FIFO principle at acquisition cost, or at the lower of replacement cost or probable market price. Cash in hand, bank receivables and financial securities Cash in hand and bank receivables include cash assets and bank balances. Financial securities include certificates of deposit, commercial papers and investments in short-term fixed income funds. Quoted securities This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 275 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company and comparable assets are valued at the lower of original acquisition cost or probable market price. Interest-bearing liabilities Fingrid’s non-current interest-bearing liabilities consist of loans from financial institutions and bonds issued under the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme. The current interest-bearing liabilities consist of commercial papers issued under the domestic and international programmes and of the current portion of noncurrent borrowings and bonds maturing within a year. The outstanding notes under the programmes are denominated in euros and foreign currencies. Fingrid has both fixed and floating rate debt. The interest is accrued over the maturity of the debt. The differential of a bond issued over or under par value is accrued over the life of the bond. The arrangement fees of the revolving credit facilities are, as a rule, immediately recognised as an expense, and the commitment fees are recognised as an expense over the maturity of the facility. Financial risk management The principles applied to the management of financial risks are presented in chapters 6.2 and 6.3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes Taxes include the accrued tax corresponding to the profit for the financial year as well as tax adjustments for previous financial years. Deferred taxes The company enters deferred tax assets for the congestion income it uses for investments, and they become taxable income and tax in the year in which they were used. The tax assets entered for congestion income are recognised in accordance with the depreciation used in taxation for investments covered by congestion income. Congestion income allocated to investments is entered as a reduction in acquisition cost. For the rest, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recorded in the income statement or balance sheet, but are instead presented in the notes. 2. TURNOVER BY BUSINESS AREA The business of Fingrid Oyj comprises entirely transmission grid business with system responsibility. For that reason, there is no distribution of turnover by business area. TURNOVER, €1,000 2018 2017 Grid service income 428,437 412,082 Imbalance power sales 348,837 213,872 Cross-border transmission 35,516 20,711 ITC income 13,089 8,647 Income from peak load capacity services 234 293 Income from guarantee-of-origin services 239 234 Other operating income 18,285 9,553 Total 844,637 665,393 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 276 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME, €1,000 2018 2017 Rental income 831 942 Capital gains of fixed assets 8,277 340 Contributions received 186 170 Other income 1,506 1,500 Total 10,801 2,952 4. MATERIALS AND SERVICES, €1,000 2018 2017 Purchases during the financial year 378,727 234,232 Loss energy purchases 48,796 47,397 Change in inventories, increase (-) or decrease (+) 1,138 -1,260 Materials and consumables 428,662 280,369 Services 40,495 43,506 Total 469,157 323,875 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES, €1,000 2018 2017 Salaries and bonuses 25,564 24,187 Pension expenses 4,437 4,139 Other personnel expenses 987 1,059 Total 30,988 29,385 Salaries and bonuses of the members of the Board of Directors and President and CEO, €1,000 2018 2017 Juhani Järvi, Chairman (since 6 June 2014) 41 39 Päivi Nerg, Vice Chairman (since 28 March 2018) 16 Juha Majanen, Vice Chairman (until 28 March 2018) 5 24 Sanna Syri, Member of the Board (since 14 April 2015) 21 19 Esko Torsti, Member of the Board (since 22 March 2012) 22 20 Anu Hämäläinen, Member of the Board (since 6 April 2016) 22 19 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 7 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Jukka Ruusunen, Presiden and CEO 452 416 Number of salaried employees in the company during the ﬁnancial year: Personnel, average 362 352 Personnel, 31 Dec 365 355 DEPRECATION ACCORDING TO PLAN, €1,000 2018 2017 Goodwill 0 4,289 Other non-current expenses 7,164 6,390 Buildings and structures 9,752 8,535 Machinery and equipment 48,482 48,104 Transmission lines 36,986 36,427 Total* 102,385 103,745 * deprecation on the electricity grid (notes 12 and 13) 93,720 89,658 7. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES, €1,000 2018 2017 Contracts, assignments etc. undertaken externally 29,821 26,282 Grid rents 241 241 Other rental expenses 3,714 3,381 Other costs 9,592 10,331 Total 43,368 40,235 8. AUDITORS’ FEES, €1,000 2018 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy: Auditing fee 79 63 Tax consulting 20 Other fees 92 41 Total 171 124 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 278 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 9. FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS, €1,000 2018 2017 Dividend income from Group companies 139 Dividend income from others 645 1,119 Interest and other finance income from others 4,547 4,768 5,192 6,025 Interest and other finance costs to others -21,712 -23,205 -21,712 -23,205 Total -16,520 -17,180 10. INCOME TAXES, €1,000 2017 2016 Income taxes for the financial year 50,392 33,197 Income taxes for the previous financial years 6,217 Changes in deferred taxes -1,942 -8,846 Total 48,450 30,568 The company will pay its income taxes in accordance with the underlying tax rate, with no tax planning Deferred tax assets in balance sheet, €1,000 On temporary differences from congestion income 10,788 8,846 Total 10,788 8,846 Deferred tax assets and liabilities of balance sheet, €1,000 Deferred tax assets On temporary differences 285 295 285 295 Deferred tax liabilities On temporary differences 214 220 On appropriations 79,779 89,779 79,993 90,000 Total 79,709 89,705 11. GOODWILL, €1,000 2018 2017 Cost at 1 Jan 128,664 128,664 Cost at 31 Dec 128,664 128,664 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 9 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -128,664 -124,375 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 0 -4,289 Carrying amount 31 Dec 0 0 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan 0 -4,289 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 0 4,289 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec 0 0 12. OTHER NON-CURRENT EXPENSES, €1,000 2018 2017 Cost at 1 Jan 167,176 161,342 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 5,803 5,959 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -742 -126 Cost at 31 Dec 172,237 167,176 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -87,902 -81,572 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 431 60 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -7,164 -6,390 Carrying amount 31 Dec* 77,601 79,273 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -52,047 -52,620 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -5,562 -5,908 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 7,527 6,481 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -50,083 -52,047 *Net capital expenditure in electricity grid, €1,000 2018 2017 Carrying amount 31 Dec 70,075 71,258 Carrying amount 1 Jan -71,258 -74,378 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 4,091 4,030 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec 312 66 Total 3,219 976 13. TANGIBLE ASSETS, €1,000 2018 2017 Land and water areas Cost at 1 Jan 15,974 15,701 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 775 274 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 280 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Cost at 31 Dec 16,749 15,974 Buildings and structures Cost at 1 Jan 279,331 254,723 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 26,780 24,614 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -1,022 -5 Cost at 31 Dec 305,089 279,331 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -69,612 -61,083 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 536 5 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -9,752 -8,535 Carrying amount 31 Dec 226,260 209,719 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -13,542 -12,694 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -9,699 -9,383 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 9,898 8,535 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -13,343 -13,542 Machinery and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 1,142,267 1,111,047 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 43,870 31,938 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -6,339 -718 Cost at 31 Dec 1,179,798 1,142,267 Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -582,116 -534,730 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 2,399 718 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -48,482 -48,104 Carrying amount 31 Dec 551,599 560,151 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -86,466 -90,425 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -18,462 -44,144 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 48,541 48,104 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -56,386 -86,466 Transmission lines Cost at 1 Jan 1,286,459 1,288,550 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 10,541 -1,658 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -1,921 -433 Cost at 31 Dec 1,295,079 1,286,459 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 281 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Accumulated depreciation according to plan 1 Jan -515,918 -479,675 Decreases, depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 1,081 184 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec -36,986 -36,427 Carrying amount 31 Dec 743,255 770,541 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 Jan -296,842 -288,869 Increase in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec -20,288 -44,400 Decrease in depreciation difference reserve 1 Jan–31 Dec 38,045 36,427 Accumulated depreciation in excess of plan 31 Dec -279,085 -296,842 Other property, plant and equipment Cost at 1 Jan 118 118 Cost at 31 Dec 118 118 Prepayments and purchases in progress Cost at 1 Jan 83,656 59,404 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 75,934 94,299 Transfers to other tangible and intangible assets 1 Jan 31 Dec -99,995 -70,047 Cost at 31 Dec 59,596 83,656 Tangible assets total* 1,597,577 1,640,159 *Net capital expenditure in electricity grid, €1,000 2018 2017 Carrying amount 31 Dec 1,569,901 1,609,354 Carrying amount 1 Jan -1,609,354 -1,618,586 Depreciation according to plan 1 Jan–31 Dec 89,630 85,628 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec 5,209 249 Total 55,386 76,645 Fingrid’s reserve power plants are included in the property, plant and equipment of the transmission system. 14. INVESTMENTS, €1,000 2018 2017 Interests in Group companies Cost at 1 Jan 507 507 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 336 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 282 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Cost at 31 Dec 843 507 Interests in associated companies Cost at 1 Jan 8,588 8,588 Cost at 31 Dec 8,588 8,588 Other shares and interests Cost at 1 Jan 2,097 1,965 Increases 1 Jan–31 Dec 274 139 Decreases 1 Jan–31 Dec -3 -8 Cost at 31 Dec 2,368 2,097 Investments total 11,798 11,192 15. INVENTORIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Materials and consumables at 31 Dec 12,391 13,248 Work in progress 0 281 Total 12,391 13,529 16. OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES, €1,000 2018 2017 Loan receivables from Group companies 9,142 5,000 Loan receivables from associated companies 1,750 4,000 Total 10,892 9,000 17. RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: Trade receivables 262 772 Interest receivables 116 62 Total 378 833 18. RECEIVABLES FROM ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 283 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Trade receivables 782 3,888 Interest receivables 9 46 Loan receivables 500 Total 1,291 3,934 19. PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME, €1,000 2018 2017 Interest and other financial items 5,810 6,545 Accruals of sales and purchases 2,880 2,201 Tax assets 0 2,331 Other prepayments and accrued income 800 789 Total 9,489 11,866 20. UNRECORDED EXPENSES AND PAR VALUE DIFFERENTIALS ON THE ISSUE OF LOANS INCLUDED IN PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME, €1,000 2018 2017 Par value differentials 1,423 1,624 21. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, €1,000 2018 2017 Commercial papers 4,498 6,496 Short-term fixed income funds 56,482 56,472 Bank deposits 10,000 10,000 Cash in hand and bank receivables 13,922 10,303 Total 84,902 83,271 22. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY, €1,000 2018 2017 Share capital 1 Jan 55,922 55,922 Share capital 31 Dec 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 1 Jan 55,922 55,922 Share premium account 31 Dec 55,922 55,922 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 284 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Profit from previous financial years 1 Jan 201,313 175,954 Dividend distribution -173,518 -98,000 Proﬁt from previous ﬁnancial years 31 Dec 27,795 77,954 Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 194,570 123,358 Shareholders’ equity 31 Dec 334,210 313,158 Distributable shareholders’ equity 222,365 201,313 Series Series A B Number of shares shares shares Total 1 Jan 2018 2,078 1,247 3,325 31 Dec 2018 2,078 1,247 3,325 Series A shares confer three votes each at the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one vote each. When electing members of the Board of Directors, Series A shares confer 10 votes each at the Annual General Meeting and Series B shares one vote each. Series B shares have the right before Series A shares to obtain the annual dividend specified below from the funds available for profit distribution. If the annual dividend cannot be distributed in some year, the shares confer a right to receive the undistributed amount from the funds available for profit distribution in the subsequent years; however, such that Series B shares have the right over Series A shares to receive the annual dividend and the undistributed amount. Fingrid Oyj's Annual General Meeting decides on the annual dividend. Eighty-two (82) per cent of the dividends to be distributed for each financial year is distributed for all Series A shares and eighteen (18) per cent for all Series B shares, however such that EUR twenty (20) million of the dividends to be distributed for each financial year is first distributed for all Series B shares. If the abovementioned EUR twenty (20) million minimum amount for the financial period is not distributed (all or in part) for Series B shares in a financial period, Series B shares confer the right to receive the undistributed minimum amount in question (or the accumulated undistributed minimum amount accrued during such financial periods) in the next profit distribution, in any disbursements paid out, or in any other distribution of assets prior to any other dividends, disbursements or asset distribution until the undistributed minimum amount has been distributed in full for Series B shares. There are no non-controlling interests. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 285 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 23. ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS, €1,000 2018 2017 Accumulated depreciation from the difference between depreciation according to plan and depreciation carried out in taxation 398,897 448,897 24. BONDS, €1,000 2018 2017 Nominal Maturity Currency value date Interest EUR 50,000 20 Sep 2020 floating rate 50,000 50,000 EUR 30,000 19 Sep 2022 floating rate 30,000 30,000 EUR 30,000 11 Sep 2023 2,71% 30,000 30,000 EUR 300,000 3 Apr 2024 3,50% 300,000 300,000 EUR 100,000 23 Nov 2027 1,125% 100,000 100,000 EUR 25,000 27 Mar 2028 2,71% 25,000 25,000 EUR 10,000 12 Sep 2028 3,27% 10,000 10,000 EUR 80,000 24 Apr 2029 2,95% 80,000 80,000 EUR 30,000 30 May 2029 2,89% 30,000 30,000 655,000 630,000 NOK 200,000 12 Nov 2019 5,37% 23,725 23,725 NOK 100,000 16 Sep 2025 4,31% 12,512 12,512 36,237 36,237 SEK 1,000,000 19 Nov 2018 floating rate 107,308 107,308 Bonds, noncurrent, total 667,512 691,237 Bonds, current, total 23,725 107,308 Total 691,237 798,544 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 286 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 25. LOANS FALLING DUE IN FIVE YEARS OR MORE, €1,000 2018 2017 Bonds 587,512 617,512 Loans from financial institutions 54,892 72,554 Total 642,404 690,066 26. LIABILITIES TO GROUP COMPANIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: Other liabilities 2,880 1,158 Total 2,880 1,158 27. LIABILITIES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: Trade payables 2,226 3,376 Total 2,226 3,376 28. OTHER LIABILITIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: Other loans/Commercial papers (international and domestic) 245,387 145,243 Value added tax 13,783 12,378 Electricity tax 4,443 3,092 advances received 923 923 Other liabilities 591 588 Total 265,127 162,225 29. ACCRUALS, €1,000 2018 2017 Current: Interest and other financial items 11,306 11,757 Salaries and additional personnel expenses 7,685 6,613 Accruals of sales and purchases 18,113 8,751 Other accruals 15,930 5,150 Congestion 1,292 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 287 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Total 54,326 32,271 30. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES, €1,000 2018 2017 Creosote-impregnated and CCA-impregnated wooden towers, disposal costs 1,424 1,474 Total 1,424 1,474 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 288 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 31. DERIVATIVE AGREEMENTS, €1,000 Hierarchy 2018 2017 level Fair Fair Fair Fair Interest rate and value value Net fair Nominal value value Net fair Nominal currency pos. neg. value value pos. neg. value value derivatives 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 2,571 -6,888 -4,316 36,237 3,837 -12,660 -8,822 143,544 Level 2 Forward contracts 7 -5 1 5,150 -123 -123 1,167 Level 2 Interest rate swaps 23,575 -5,087 18,488 325,000 23,209 -7,487 15,722 430,000 Level 2 Bought interest rate options 126 126 620,000 787 787 571,587 Level 2 Total 26,279 -11,980 14,300 986,387 27,833 -20,270 7,563 1,146,298 Fair Fair Fair Fair Electricity value value Net fair Nominal value value Net fair Nominal derivatives pos. neg. value value pos. neg. value value johdannaiset 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 31.12.17 Electricity future contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities 12,383 -385 11,997 1.87 1,010 -135 875 1.13 Level 1 Electricity forward contracts. NASDAQ OMX Commodities 27,500 -3 27,496 2.58 2,905 -1,244 1,661 3.75 Level 1 Total 39,883 -389 39,494 4.45 3,915 -1,379 2,536 4.88 32. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, €1,000 2018 2017 Rental liabilities Liabilities for the next year 4,054 4,079 Liabilities for subsequent years 25,927 28,192 29,981 32,270 Right-of-use agreements Liabilities for the next year 8,663 10,769 Liabilities for subsequent years 53,674 62,011 62,337 72,780 Pledges Pledge covering customs credit account 200 200 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 289 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Pledge covering excise duty 280 280 480 480 Other ﬁnancial commitments Rent security deposit, guarantee 38 38 Credit facility commitment fee and commitment fee: Commitment fee for the next year 345 400 Liabilities for subsequent years 862 1,154 1,245 1,592 Unrecognised investment commitments 80,954 93,991 The investment commitments consist of agreements signed by the company to carry out grid construction projects. 33. OPERATING CASH FLOW ADJUSTMENTS, €1,000 2018 2017 Business transactions not involving a payment transaction Depreciation 102,385 103,745 Capital gains/losses (-/+) on tangible and intangible assets -8,132 -340 Total 94,253 103,404 34. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND PROCEEDINGS BY AUTHORITIES An accident took place on a work site in Laukaa, Finland, on 25 August 2017, where an employee of Revilla y Garcia S.L. died after having fallen from a power line tower. A civil court case has been raised in Spain for damages against Fingrid (the client linked with the accident), the main contractor, Technolines S.R.L. filial i Finland, and its sub-contractor, Revilla y Garcia S.L. Fingrid does not believe the claim against it is likely to succeed and, in Fingrid’s view, the legal proceedings or their outcome are not likely to have a substantial impact on the company’s earnings or financial position. 35. SEPARATION OF BUSINESSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE ELECTRICITY MARKET ACT Imbalance power and regulating power Each electricity market party must ensure its electricity balance by making an agreement with either Fingrid or some other party. Fingrid buys and sells imbalance power in order to stabilise the hourly power balance of an electricity market party (balance responsible party). Imbalance power trade and pricing are based on a balance service agreement with equal and public terms and conditions. Fingrid is responsible for the continuous power balance in Finland by buying and selling balancing power in Finland. The balance responsible parties can participate in the Nordic balancing power market by submitting bids on their available capacity. The terms and conditions of participation in the regulating power market and the This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 90 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company pricing of balancing power are based on the balance service agreement. Fingrid is responsible for organising national imbalance settlement. As of the beginning of May 2017, Fingrid has transferred the imbalance settlement to eSett Oy, a company jointly owned by the Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian transmission system operators. The balance settlement takes place after the utilisation hours by determining the actual electricity generation, consumption and electricity trade. The outcome of the balance settlement is power balances for each party to the electricity trade. Management of balance operation In accordance with a decision by the Energy Market Authority, Fingrid Oyj shall separate the duties pertaining to national power balance operation by virtue of Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act. The management of balance operation is a part of grid operations. The income statement of the balance service unit is separated by means of cost accounting as follows: Income direct Separate costs direct Production costs matching principle Administrative costs matching principle Depreciation matching principle in accordance with Fingrid Oyj's depreciation principle Finance income and costs on the basis of imputed debt Income taxes based on result The average number of personnel during 2018 was 10 (11). The operating profit was -0.8 (0.5) per cent of turnover. 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2017 MANAGEMENT OF BALANCE OPERATION, SEPARATED INCOME STATEMENT 1 000 € 1 000 € TURNOVER* 355,698 219,344 Other operating income 1 0 Materials and services* -352,266 -213,014 Personnel costs -1,062 -1,148 Depreciation and amortisation expense -609 -434 Other operating expenses -4,530 -3,718 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 291 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company OPERATING PROFIT -2,768 1,028 Finance income and costs 64 81 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES -2,703 1,110 Appropriations 222 -81 Income taxes -206 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR -2,482 823 * Turnover includes EUR 116.2 (56.7) million in sales of imbalance power to balance provider Fingrid Oyj, and Materials and services includes EUR 91.6 (54.7) million euros in purchases by Fingrid Oyj. MANAGEMENT OF BALANCE OPERATION, SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 €1,000 €1,000 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets Other non-current expenses 811 1,311 Tangible assets Machinery and equipment 351 461 Prepayments and purchases in progress Investments Interests in associated companies 2,001 2,001 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,163 3,772 CURRENT ASSETS Non-current Loan receivables from associated companies 2,250 4,000 Current receivables Trade receivables 5,740 2,649 Receivables from Group companies 10,319 10,594 Receivables from associated companies 21,184 13,214 Other receivables 2,516 2,234 39,759 28,690 Cash in hand and bank receivables 1 1 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 42,010 32,691 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 292 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company TOTAL ASSETS 45,173 36,463 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY Share capital 32 32 Share premium account 286 286 Profit from previous financial years 22,696 21,873 Profit for the financial year -2,482 823 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 20,532 23,013 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS -611 -389 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade payables 2,199 520 Liabilities to Group companies Liabilities to associated companies 23,053 13,113 Accruals 206 25,252 13,839 TOTAL LIABILITIES 25,252 13,839 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 45,173 36,463 Development of information exchange It is Fingrid’s task to develop the exchange of information required for electricity trade and imbalance settlement as set out in the Electricity Market Act. Fingrid’s information exchange services are part of the electricity markets’ information exchange environment. In order to develop the effective and accurate exchange of information, Fingrid works in close co-operation with e.g. electricity market parties, interest groups, service providers, supervisory authorities, legislators, organisations that develop national and international communications and other transmission system operators. In accordance with a decision by the Energy Market Authority, Fingrid Oyj must separate the duties pertaining to the development of information exchange by virtue of Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act. The development of information exchange is a part of grid operations. The separation of the income statement for the development of information exchange is realised by means of cost accounting as follows: Income direct This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 293 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Separate costs direct Administrative costs matching principle Income taxes based on result 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2017 DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION EXCHANGE, SEPARATED INCOME STATEMENT €1,000 €1,000 TURNOVER 605 575 Personnel costs -116 Other operating expenses -368 -374 OPERATING PROFIT 237 86 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 237 86 Income taxes -47 -17 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 190 69 DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION EXCHANGE, SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS €1,000 €1,000 CURRENT ASSETS Trade receivables 350 1 Other receivables 83 130 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 433 131 TOTAL ASSETS 433 131 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY Share capital 3 3 Profits/losses from previous financial years -520 -589 Profit for the financial year 190 69 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 294 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY -328 -518 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade payables 353 11 Liabilities to Group companies 343 575 Other liabilities 65 62 761 649 TOTAL LIABILITIES 761 649 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 433 131 Grid operations Grid operations refers to licensed electricity system operation that takes place on the electricity grid. Electricity system operations are defined in Chapter 1 of the Electricity Market Act (588/2013) and grid operations are defined in Chapter 5. Of Fingrid Oyj’s operations, activities related to the management of the power reserve system and guarantees of origin for electricity, as well as the datahub project that was started in 2015 are not included in grid operations. Operations that are not part of grid operations constitute ‘other operations’ as referred to in Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act and must be separated from grid operations in accordance with that Chapter. The income statement and balance sheet of grid operations and other operations have, in compliance with Chapter 12 of the Electricity Market Act, been separated by means of cost accounting as follows: Income direct Separate costs direct Production costs matching principle Administrative costs matching principle Depreciation matching principle in accordance with Fingrid Oyj's depreciation principle Finance income and costs on the basis of imputed debt Income taxes based on result Balance sheet items matching principle SEPARATED INCOME STATEMENT TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OTHER OPERATION This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 295 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company OPERATION 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 1 Jan 31 Dec, 2018 €1,000 €1,000 TURNOVER 843,469 1,168 Other operating income 10,801 Materials and services -469,157 Personnel costs -30,460 -527 Depreciation and amortisation expense -102,385 Other operating expenses -42,727 -640 OPERATING PROFIT 209,540 0 Finance income and costs -16,716 196 PROFIT BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS 192,824 196 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 192,824 196 Appropriations 50,000 Income taxes -48,411 -39 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 194,414 157 SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION OTHER OPERATION ASSETS 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 €1,000 €1,000 Intangible assets: Goodwill Other intangible assets 77,601 77,601 Tangible assets Land and water areas 16,749 Buildings and structures 226,260 Machinery and equipment 551,599 Transmission lines 743,255 Other property, plant and equipment 118 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 296 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,596 1,597,577 Investments: Interests in Group companies 843 Interests in associated companies 8,588 Other shares and interests 2,368 10,955 843 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,686,133 843 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 12,391 Receivables Non-current Loan receivables from Group companies 9,142 Loan receivables from associated companies 1,750 Deferred tax assets 10,788 12,538 9,142 Current Trade receivables 82,961 Receivables from Group companies 9,544 378 Receivables from associated companies 1,291 Other receivables 1,463 Prepayments and accured income 9,489 104,747 378 Financial securities 60,980 Cash in hand and bank receivables 23,922 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 214,578 9,520 TOTAL ASSETS 1,900,711 10,363 SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION OTHER OPERATION SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 297 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company €1,000 €1,000 EQUITY Share capital 55,920 3 Share premium account 55,922 Profit from previous financial years 27,340 455 Profit for the financial year 194,414 157 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 333,596 614 ACCUMULATED APPROPRIATIONS 398,897 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 1,424 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Bonds 667,512 Loans from financial institutions 107,879 775,391 Current liabilities Bonds 23,725 Loans from financial institutions 22,600 Trade payables 20,725 Liabilities to Group companies 2,880 9,544 Liabilities to associated companies 2,226 Other liabilities 265,051 76 Accruals 54,197 129 391,404 9,749 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,166,795 9,749 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,900,711 10,363 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 298 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Other non-current assets included in the separated balance sheet for grid operations SEPARATED BALANCE SHEET TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATION ASSETS 31 Dec 2018 €1,000 Intangible assets: Other intangible assets 7,526 7,526 Tangible assets Land and water areas 16,507 Buildings and structures 4,368 Machinery and equipment 5,612 Transmission lines 1,070 Other property, plant and equipment 118 Prepayments and purchases in progress 59,596 87,272 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 94,798 Congestion income in grid operations The congestion income received by a grid owner must be used for the purposes stated in EC Regulation 714/ 2009, Article 16, Paragraph 6: guaranteeing the actual availability of the allocated capacity, and maintaining or increasing interconnection capacities through network investments. As a consequence of the change in the regulation governing Fingrid’s grid pricing, the company will include the congestion income received after 1 January 2016 as accruals in the item other liabilities in the balance sheet. Of the accruals, congestion income will be recognised in the income statement as other operating income when their corresponding costs, as defined in the regulation, accrue as annual expenses in the income statement. Alternatively, they are entered in the balance sheet against investments, as defined by regulation, to lower the acquisition cost of property, plant and equipment, which lowers the depreciation of the property, plant and equipment in question. The congestion income received before 1 January 2016 was recognised in turnover. In accordance with the regulation on congestion income, Fingrid has used the congestion income from the connections between Finland and Sweden accrued in 2018 for the Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä grid investment. EUR 1.3 million in congestion income was left unused and will be used for investments earmarked for financing with congestion income. The Hirvisuo–Pyhänselkä grid investment supports the cross-border transmission from northern Sweden to Finland. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 299 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company Congestion income, €1,000 2018 2017 Congestion income on 1 Jan Accumulated congestion income 29,632 25,752 Expenses matching congestion income Investments matching congestion income -28,341 -25,752 Congestion income on 31 Dec 1,292 Countertrade In terms of the costs arising from countertrade used to safeguard system security in grid operations, congestion income may be used to offset countertrade costs arising from cross-border transmission connections. Counter trade, €1,000 2018 2017 Counter-trade between Finland and Sweden 1,916 366 Counter-trade between Finland and Estonia 58 96 Counter-trade between Finland's internal connections 2,161 1,295 Total counter-trade 4,135 1,756 36. EMISSION RIGHTS Fingrid has not been granted free-of-charge emission rights for the emissions trade period 2013–2020. The use of emission rights had no impact on the financial result in 2016. 2018 2017 Total CO2 emissions tCO2 8,506 5,817 37. PERMANENT LOCATION IN DENMARK IN INCOME TAXATION Joint Nordic operational planning organisation Fingrid has established, jointly with Svenska Kraftnät, Statnett and Energinet.dk, the Nordic Regional Security Coordinator (Nordic RSC) in Copenhagen for inter-TSO operational planning between the countries. The unit includes Fingrid employees who provide the service for Fingrid’s parent company, and this operation constitutes a permanent location in terms of income taxation and is income taxable to Denmark. The unit became operational in summer 2018. This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 30 0 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 dev: 8.4 Notes to the financial statements of parent company 1.1.-31.12.2018 INCOME STATEMENT 1 000 € TURNOVER 423 Other operating income Materials and services Personnel costs -129 Depreciation and amortisation expense Other operating expenses -274 OPERATING PROFIT 20 Finance income and costs PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 20 Appropriations Income taxes -4 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 16 This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 301 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report. dev: 9 Signatures for the Annual Review and for the Financial Ann Annualual R Repeporortt 2201 0188 Statements 9 Signa Signattur ure es ffor or the Ann Annual ual R Re evie view w and ffor or the Financial S Sttatemen ementts Helsinki, 26th February 2019 Juhani Järvi Päivi Nerg Chair Deputy Chairman Sanna Syri Esko Torsti Jukka Ruusunen Anu Hämäläinen President & CEO Auditor’s notation A report on the audit carried out has been submitted today. Helsinki, 26th February 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Heikki Lassila, APA This PDF has been generated from Online Annual Report and only contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 3 02 Please visit annualreport.fingrid.fi/EN for the full online report.
