September 12, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that SVN International Corp. proudly reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kevin Maggiacomo CEO & President SVN International Corp. 3 3 A r c h S t r e e t , 1 7 th F l o o r | B O S T O N , M A 0 2 1 1 0 | 8 8 8 . 3 1 1 . 0 6 0 5 ( T ) | W W W . S V N . C O M All SVN® offices are independently owned and operated. ©2016 SVN International Corp. (SVNIC). All Rights Reserved. SVN®, SPERRY VAN NESS®, and the SVN COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE ADVISORS® Logo are registered service marks of SVNIC. 1 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress SVN International Corp., has continued to work all year to improve on our promise to the UN Global Compact. Our corporation has taken steps in the main four areas of UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our efforts have led us to be a more gender inclusive and overall, a more selfaware community. Human Rights SVN International Corp., as a company and a community require that all of our offices comply with the human rights initiative by providing safe, suitable and sanitary workplaces for the employees. Within our corporate offices, we supply a workplace that supports a human rights risk reduction by supplying an equal and safe workplace for our employees. Within our company policy, harassment, in any form is strictly prohibited. This includes harassment based on age, race, color, national origin, gender (including pregnancy, childbirth or medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth), gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, religion, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, veteran status, military status or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. All of our human resource policies and procedures are clearly outlined in our Human Resources Employee Handbook that is made available to all employees of the company. It specifically outlines the company's guidelines as to what is a protected class of persons. Additionally, we have recently updated our parental and family leave policy to be more inclusive of all genders and parental relationships. It is outlined in an addendum to the Employee Handbook. After discussion, the company had decided to implement a 14-day paid leave policy due to the birth, adoption or long-term foster care placement of a child. It is an inclusive policy running concurrently with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act. Our COO, Diane Danielson, presented a Diversity and Inclusion platform in April 2019. In this platform she speaks about the benefits of diversity in Commercial Real Estate (CRE) and all industries. She provides actionable steps for stakeholders on how to create a more diverse and inclusive work environment and corporation. That presentation is attached to this COP. SVN International Corp. provides training to our employees and franchisees to perform best hiring practices within their individual offices. This training can be an online training and our corporate offices prepare an in-person training on best hiring practices during our conferences for our franchisees. Finally, last year, we have implemented a program that sourced resumes from various colleges to assist our franchisees in hiring additional personnel and interns. This program further implemented the best hiring practices that created gender-neutral opportunities throughout the company. 2 Labour All forms of harassment, verbal, physical, visual and cyberstalking are to be reported and investigated. We encourage all of our employees to do so by paying attention to other's reactions and states requests and preferences. We welcome the respect of others wishes, and we treat all in a professional manner regardless of gender, race, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity or expression or any other protected characteristic. Harassment in the workplace is not tolerated and would require that disciplinary action be taken in the event that is it found that the harassment exists. The reporting of harassment would lead to steps taken by senior executives within SVN International Corp. and our HR department. All of SVN International Corp.'s employees are at-will employees. Within the Employee Handbook it states that all employees are employed at an at-will basis. This policy means that any employee has a right to terminate the employment at any time, with or without cause or advance notice. SVN International Corp. prohibits forced labour within the company. Finally, to eliminate discrimination in our employment practices, SVN International Corp. has implemented formalized hiring practices across all the franchising offices as well as within our corporate offices. In the past year, we have performed research to identify the various methods of how our employees came to be hired within SVNIC. Through this research, it was discovered that we needed to implement a formalized hiring process to eliminate gender discrimination across the company. In order to do so, our offices are now mandated to comply with equal opportunity job postings. Importantly, all of our offices are required to meet the minimum wage standards. Environment While we do not have a formal process in place for our franchises, our corporate office in Boston, Massachusetts is situated within a WeWork building. The building itself, as well as our corporate office, partakes in a recycling program set up by the WeWork community. In addition to recycling paper, WeWork has a program to recycle electronics. The office building in which we are currently work is a certified Silver LEED building, meaning the building itself strives to remain a sustainable building while adding value to attract tenants by lessening the operations costs while boosting productivity. Within our corporate offices at SVN International Corp., we are committed to reducing our environmental impact and this past year we have worked to improve ourselves on this front. We encourage staff to commute using public transportation which we can subsidize to reduce carbon emissions from hours in traffic. In that vein, staff is encouraged to work from home to reduce the stress of daily commuting and encourage more time with family. Anti-corruption In order to work against corruption, SVN International Corp. has recently instated policies to advance our anti-corruption initiative. Our industry is highly regulated. Therefore, when corruption arises, our industry would take actions in order to halt the advancement of the 3 corruption and backtrack to force the corruption to be eliminated. Regardless, we have been working diligently within SVN International Corp. to standardize processes and increase transparency across the entire company. This allows SVN International Corp. to eliminate corruption while measuring corporate our outcomes and goals. In the past year, SVN International Corp. has increased our women employees by fifty percent. Additionally, we have worked hard to ensure that we have a gender balanced executive team and Board of Directors. Through this, we can ensure our efforts with the tenth principle of the UN Global Compact. We only hope to grow our gender neutrality throughout the SVN International Corp. community and continue our efforts to admonish corruption throughout the field. 4 & It’s Time for the Commercial Real Estate Industry to Focus on Diversity Inclusion Diane K. Danielson CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION..............................................................................................................................................................................3 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE............................................................................................4 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ARE NOT THE SAME THING.....................................................................................................5 HOW DO YOU BUILD AN INCLUSIVE COMPANY CULTURE?...............................................................................................7 1. IF YOU CAN’T CHANGE THE PEOPLE, CHANGE THE SYSTEMS.....................................................................8 2. HIRE FOR SKILLS AND PERFORMANCE, NOT FOR PERCEIVED FIT AND POTENTIAL..............................8 3. CREATE A COMPANY CULTURE OF ABUNDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY..................................................10 • STEP 1: Eliminate the scarcity mindset...................................................................................................10 • STEP 2: Create transparency in business operations.........................................................................10 • STEP 3: Build abundance and transparency into your company culture......................................11 WHAT CAN YOU DO AS AN INDIVIDUAL TO BE MORE INCLUSIVE?..................................................................................12 1. SPONSOR WOMEN AND PEOPLE OF COLOR................................................................................................ 14 2. AMPLIFY THE VOICES OF WOMEN AND UNDERREPRESENTED TEAM MEMBERS................................15 3. WHEN YOU CAN, TAKE A STAND.......................................................................................................................16 CONCLUSION..................................................................................................................................................................................18 ©2019 SVN International Corp. All Rights Reserved. SVN and the SVN COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE ADVISORS Logos are registered service marks of SVN International Corp. All SVN ® offices are independently owned and operated. INTRODUCTION The commercial real estate (CRE) brokerage industry is at the edge of a demographic precipice. With a median age of 60 years old, 1 CRE brokers as a group are substantially older than the average funeral home director (median age of 53.1), textile mill worker (51.5) and religious organization employee (51.5), who work at the three oldest industries as recorded by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for 2017. 2 How did this happen? The following are five factors that have contributed to the aging of the CRE industry: 1. A tale of two recessions. Generation X and millennials 3. CREtech is an employment alternative. CRE technology were both hit at the beginning of their careers with is a new and fast-growing industry and is attracting recessions (the early 1990s and 2007). This meant that many young people who have an interest in real estate. CRE was not a career option for young or new to the Millennials and Generation Z candidates, who might business professionals for years at a time. There was have otherwise pursued brokerage careers, are instead also a hangover effect from these recessions, where opting to work for tech startups in the real estate space. young people didn’t see their peers in the industry 4. Licensing boards focus on residential real estate. and, as a result, CRE careers were rarely on their radar The commercial part of real estate is rarely included screen. in education and licensing. This means that only those 2. The dominance of dinosaur companies. An industrywho already know they want to be in commercial real wide resistance to technology and the dominance of estate are likely to pursue it. companies with over 100 years of history do not fit the 5. Student loans. Commissioned-based brokerage work cultural expectations of the entrepreneurial, growthis hard to take on for someone with student loans, oriented companies that young people want to work for thereby eliminating many potential candidates. today. With the majority of the CRE brokerage industry close to retirement, and the pool of traditional CRE talent constantly shrinking, it’s time for the industry to be more proactive about diversity and inclusion. 1 https://www.nar.realtor/research-and-statistics/research-reports/commercial-member-profile 2 Note that the real estate industry as a whole has a median age of 48.4, per the Bureau of Labor Statistics, but this also includes residential brokerage. https://qz.com/1313292/these-arethe-oldest-and-youngest-jobs-for-americans/ P|3 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE For every study that shows that having a diverse team is a Why the increase in financial performance and innovation? financial advantage there are exactly none that say the opposite. Diverse teams are better at problem-solving, because diverse Almost every issue has at least one opposing study or argument teams bring new experiences and different ideas to the table.5 being made. The subject of diversity and inclusion appears to With both a defensive reason (the intense competition for talent) be the exception. When done properly, diversity and inclusion and a competitive reason (financial and innovative advantages), efforts result in increased revenues. In 2015, a McKinsey Report why aren’t CRE companies doing a better job expanding the talent looked at 366 public companies in various countries and found pool to include women and people of color? There appears to be that more ethnically and gender-diverse companies performed two reasons. First, it’s always easier to do nothing. But second, significantly better than others. the CRE industry needs to better understand the difference • The top quartile of companies for racial and ethnic between diversity and inclusion and why it needs both. diversity were 35% more likely to have superior financial performance. • The top quartile for gender diversity were 15% more likely to have superior financial performance. If an industry and its McKinsey updated the report in 2018, widening its pool of clients were ever in need of companies to 1,000, and its conclusions were consistent— finding out performance for racial and ethnic diversity of 33%, innovative problem-solving, and 21% for gender diversity.3 it’s CRE in 2019. Similarly, a 2018 Boston Consulting Group report found that companies reporting above-average diversity on their management teams also reported innovation revenue that was 19% higher than that of companies with below-average leadership diversity—45% of total revenue versus just 26%.4 3 https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/delivering-through-diversity 4 https://www.bcg.com/en-us/publications/2018/how-diverse-leadership-teams-boost-innovation.aspx 5 https://hbr.org/2017/03/teams-solve-problems-faster-when-theyre-more-cognitively-diverse ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P|4 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ARE NOT THE SAME THING While we may see the words used interchangeably, diversity and You can’t be what you can’t see. inclusion are not the same thing. Jane Silber, board member and former CEO of Canonical, Ltd., a UK-based tech company, once The lack of women and people of color in executive roles in CRE said, “the difference between diversity and inclusion is being makes it difficult to attract younger and diverse candidates to invited to a house and being able to rearrange the furniture.” the business. If new recruits look upward and don’t see anyone In other words, when employees are “diverse” they are guests, who looks like them, they will likely conclude there is little until you make them feel comfortable enough to feel at home. opportunity for their own career growth. It’s not enough to hire someone because they are different. How can the industry make changes at the top, or at least provide Inclusive companies empower and embrace those differences younger and underrepresented groups with role models? as part of their core. Making diverse and underrepresented people feel safe and a part of company culture is something that • Recruit with intentionality. Work with recruiters to find the CRE industry has yet to do with any success. women and/or persons of color for senior positions. It may take longer, and you may have to bring in candidates A diversity program without top to bottom from related industries, but it is possible.6 inclusion is simply checking the box and will • Provide appropriate support. Senior executives who not effect change in an organization. are underrepresented in an industry may need additional support to succeed, something outlined in the rest of Unfortunately, unlike in most industries, there is a pipeline this paper. problem within CRE, and it’s not just due to the lack of millennials, • Recommend women and persons of color for the most diverse generation to date. It’s because the closed speaking engagements. Most conferences are trying network status of commercial real estate has prevented women to find diverse speakers and panelists, especially in and people of color from entering into the industry pipeline and, industries lacking in diversity. Instead of sending the more importantly, staying long enough to change the dynamics same individuals to panels, spread the opportunities at the top. around. 6 The author of this paper is proof that you can find women to fill executive roles in CRE if you work with recruiters to look beyond the traditional closed network of CRE executives. P|5 ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P|6 HOW DO YOU BUILD AN INCLUSIVE COMPANY CULTURE? Diversity will not work without inclusion. Even those CRE firms with diversity initiatives and programs still have inclusion problems. So how do you build inclusion into your business? Outlined on the following pages are some suggestions and examples. P|7 1 1. IF YOU CAN’T CHANGE THE PEOPLE, CHANGE THE SYSTEMS. In 2015, we surveyed SVN® Advisors (brokers and salespersons) and asked how they got their first job in real estate. The results and community colleges across the country. That summer, we documented that our offices not only hired more interns, but also hired 30% women and 30% people of color. While those numbers aren’t record-breaking, they are above the standards for CRE brokerage. 9 2 were not wholly surprising. Most women came to their first job in real estate through formal procedures (e.g., applying to Since implementing this program, our quarterly SVN | Jumpstart ® an advertised opening) and often didn’t come in as brokers. training sessions for CRE advisors who are new to the SVN brand By contrast, almost every male advisor came into the industry have had, on average, approximately 30% to 40% women and informally through friends and family. Some may argue people of color in attendance. that women just need to network better. But, is putting the responsibility on individuals traditionally excluded by a closed 2. HIRE FOR SKILLS AND PERFORMANCE, network really fair? NOT FOR PERCEIVED FIT AND POTENTIAL. This fairness issue is why we included a follow-up question, In addition to leveling the playing field for hiring where possible, “how did you get your second job in real estate?” The answer: CRE companies need to work towards hiring for skills and not the majority of both female and male advisors networked their existing “cultural fit.” Studies have shown that men apply for jobs way into their second job in equal numbers. This result indicates when they have 60% of the skills required and women when they the big problem is getting women and other underrepresented have 100%.10 Based on that alone, women should be given a fair populations into the business in the first place. For this to shot any time their application is in the ballpark. Unfortunately, happen, the system needed to be changed. studies have also shown that men are hired and promoted based Armed with this information, the first thing we did at SVN on future potential and women on their past performance.11 International Corp.7 was to standardize our intern and new Instituting an even-handed skills-based assessment should be a advisor hiring practices. Instead of putting the responsibility on step towards eliminating the two separate standards. women and people of color to break into an informal system, SVN® research has found that successful CRE advisors, regardless we made the system more formal for everyone.8 With the help of gender, possess a combination of grit and a growth mindset. of an on-line augmented writing platform, we rewrote our If candidates have demonstrated these characteristics, it is likely brokerage job descriptions to be more equally engaging to they will succeed no matter what they look like, provided they millennial men and women and then promoted them at colleges are granted equal access to opportunities and resources. 7 SVN International Corp. is the headquarters and franchisor of the SVN® commercial real estate brand. 8 Because our SVN® franchise offices are independently owned and operated, it needed to be an opt in program, but most were eager to participate. 9 In addition, several offices reported that the overall quality of all interns hired through our standardized system was higher than earlier years. 10 https://www.business.com/articles/the-hidden-ways-gender-bias-can-sabotage-recruitment/ 11 https://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/why-employers-favor-men ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P|8 While personality and behavioral testing is one way to identify skills,12 another way to detect grit and a growth mindset, based on SVN research, is through prior evidence of mastery over something that is harder to pursue than it is to give up. For example, elite sports success has been a sound source of CRE brokerage talent, because it tends to demonstrate the two elements of grit: “perseverance of effort” and “consistency of interest.” While recruiting athletes has skewed male over the past decades, there is no reason this has to be the case. Title IX, which has created equal funding for women’s sports, has been in place for over 45 years, and there are many women and people of color who have proven they have grit out on the playing field. SVN research also discovered other experiences that, like sports, can be indicative of the grit and growth mindset needed for success as a CRE advisor including the mastery of an instrument; exemplary, multi-year employment experience (at any level and in any industry); fluency in a second language; and/or a military career of distinction. When you focus on skills and past performance, and not stereotypical cultural fit and perceived potential, you will not only improve the quality of hires, but also create a larger talent pool and the beginnings of a pipeline for diverse talent. However, for non-traditional candidates to succeed, you will still need to provide them with an even playing field. 12 Admittedly, there is some debate on whether the popular “Grit Scale” or Activity Vector Analysis (AVA) behavioral testing can determine the existence of grit. This is because grit is the combination of two separate characteristics: perseverance of effort and consistency of interests. Therefore, a candidate could have one or the other, or even both, but the two would have to work in combination to produce “grit.” As of today, it’s not clear that existing tests are able to accurately measure when the combination of the two has occurred or if they will occur in the future. Nevertheless, being able to determine that candidates have one or both of those characteristics is important, and AVA testing is a means to eliminate the unconscious bias of cultural fit and perceived potential. See https://phys.org/news/2017-09-validity-psychological-grit-scale.html P|9 3 3. CREATE A COMPANY CULTURE OF ABUNDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY Diversity and inclusion efforts don’t start and end with recruiting. It is what companies do after they hire that matters even more. In order to implement a culture of inclusivity, companies must create a mindset for abundance, where transparency is the cultural norm. STEP 1: Eliminate the scarcity mindset. Scarcity mindsets happen when employees are focused on the competition and keeping what they have out of the hands of others. In effect, the CRE industry itself has created and is perpetuating an environment of “artificial scarcity.” Yet, as demographics shift and CRE technology evolves, the perception of abundance will only be clearer as data becomes more ubiquitous, and new and unlikely It’s the belief that for you to win, someone else must lose. It’s the fear buyers from across the globe continue to enter into new markets at that to diversify an organization, qualified white men will lose out to increasing rates. underqualified “tokens.” This does not have to be the case. A recent PwC study of Boards of Directors found that many of the boards When a company adopts an abundance mindset, it means that there that are diversifying are doing so by adding seats, not by replacing are more opportunities and resources for everyone, including those current directors.13 They are also expanding the qualifications to previously discouraged from entering the industry. Companies that focus on skills and not just relying on the narrow, “former CEO” adapt will benefit, as will all their employees, but especially the qualification. underrepresented ones. However, for women and people of color to truly benefit from the abundance mindset, a company also needs The “locked door, locked drawer” mentality that permeates many to operate transparently. CRE companies is the direct result of a scarcity mindset. This needs to be addressed because not only does it stifle inclusion, it limits a STEP 2: Create transparency in business operations. company’s potential for innovation and increased overall financial performance. Inclusion is not about special treatment; it’s about treating An abundance mindset, a term coined by Stephen R. Covey in 1989,14 everyone fairly. In fact, most women and people of color who is when a person believes there are enough resources and successes are grossly underrepresented in their companies or industries to share with others. The irony of the “locked door, locked drawer” don’t want separate networks or initiatives. Nor do they want mentality is that CRE is an industry with abundance. While buildings to change the rules. They simply want to know what the and assets might change over time, they are certainly not scarce. rules are; something that is often hidden in companies that In fact, we can’t build housing fast enough in most urban markets. lack transparency. One way to create a fair playing field is by Even the recent adoption of Opportunity Zones in the Tax Cuts and operating with an open play book. Transparency is needed about Jobs Act of 2017, is the industry creating additional opportunities to how everyone gets paid and promoted, how the culture works, invest in previously overlooked markets. and how to access all resources whether they are tools, training 13 http://fortune.com/2019/03/28/board-diversity-size/ 14 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_7_Habits_of_Highly_Effective_People ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P | 10 opportunities, or people. Note that equal access does not mean advisors lists a property, if it is qualified,15 they will present it equal outcomes. Outcomes depend on the individuals involved. on our SVN | Live® Weekly Property Broadcast, an online event openly broadcast to the industry. Once a property is presented it Transparency begins by establishing company-wide metrics is automatically promoted in social media and email campaigns. and road maps, adopting collaborative technology, creating Additionally, all SVN property listings presented on the broadcast opportunities for employee feedback, and being more openly include a “shared fee” incentive. This lets the industry know that communicative at all levels of the organization. if they bring a buyer, they will receive the advertised fee upon a successful closing. By making this system the backbone of our STEP 3: Build abundance and transparency into sales practice, we have created an open play book internally for your company culture. our advisors, but also externally for the industry. Transparency and abundance begin at the top, and are tenets At SVN offices, the shared fee policy has been an integral part that need to be incorporated into a company’s operations and of our client-first culture, creating incentivized demand for value proposition. The SVN® shared fee marketing system is an a property and, as a result, increased value. 16 Additionally, example. through this one program, SVN is bringing transparency and a Each of the 200 independently owned and operated SVN offices mindset for abundance to our offices, our advisors, and even abides by our shared fee approach to marketing commercial to the CRE industry as a whole. Abundance and transparency real estate listings. What this means is that when one of our create increased opportunities for everyone. 15 Over a certain dollar amount and with the owner’s permission. 16 https://svn.com/9-6-report/ P | 11 WHAT CAN YOU DO AS AN INDIVIDUAL TO BE MORE INCLUSIVE? While companies need to take the lead on being more institutionally inclusive, inclusivity can start with individual actions. The following are a few thoughts on how to be an inclusionary leader. ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P | 12 1 1. SPONSOR WOMEN AND PEOPLE OF COLOR. It’s been said that women in corporate America are overmentored and under-sponsored. While terms are used interchangeably, mentors and sponsors are very different. Mentors provide advice; sponsors advocate on another’s behalf. However, it’s clear that in CRE, women are not sometimes these “Many things changed between 2017 and 2018, including how nominations for the prizes are solicited. Research that I presented to the Nobel committees in February 2018 suggests that diversity is more likely to result when people make what we call ‘bundle decisions.’ That is, when nominators submit multiple candidates each for consideration, the names of women and people of color even necessarily being mentored. In order to find a mentor, many are more likely to appear than when they submit just one are required to go outside their companies to organizations like candidate. Nobel nominators are now invited to nominate CREW Network. 17 However useful mentors are, they are basically three people (or groups of people) deserving of the prize, advisors and, in the case of women and people of color, often not instead of just one.” even part of the same organization. What women need are male Iris Bohnet, Behavioral Economist, Professor, Co-director of the Women and and female sponsors within their organization who will actively Public Policy Program and Academic Dean at Harvard Kennedy School advocate on their behalf for high profile projects, leadership training and opportunities, and public speaking engagements. Begin the path to sponsorship by putting women and nonOne way to increase the sponsorship of underrepresented white professionals on your team. Next, make sure your team groups is to “bundle” your sponsorships and nominations. When operates transparently and with an open play book. Do not given the opportunity to put forth a name for a promotion, assume everyone is privy to the unwritten rules. Realize leadership opportunity or a high-profile project, include that anyone who is underrepresented within your team will multiple names. Or, if you are soliciting names, ask for multiple need extra support until the group becomes both cohesive recommendations. and inclusive. Finally, be an advocate for women and other This slight change in how nominations were sought proved underrepresented team members. Do not assume that they ground-breaking for the Nobel laureate awards in 2018. Until have anyone else sponsoring them. And when you do sponsor 2018, 97% of all Nobel laureates were men. But in 2018, two an employee, ensure it’s based on their skills and performance, female scientists won for the first time ever, along with another and not perceived cultural fit and potential. That alone will start woman for the Nobel Peace Prize.18 to even the playing field. 17 https://crewnetwork.org 18 We Can’t Get Rid of Bias – But We Can Disrupt it with Design, https://www.evoke.org/en/articles/March_2019/Forward/Big_Ideas/disrupting_bias_by_design/ ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P | 14 2 2. AMPLIFY THE VOICES OF WOMEN AND UNDERREPRESENTED TEAM MEMBERS. A recent study has found that high functioning teams have three characteristics: they communicate a lot, participate equally, and possess good emotion-reading skills.19 In addition, the study reported this occurred more frequently when women On social media, make sure you are sharing information by and about women and people of color. Currently, there are many women and diverse professionals in CRE using social media to create a presence in the industry. It’s easy to support them and amplify their impact by re-sharing their information to your networks. outnumbered men on the team.20 In CRE, we probably won’t find too many working teams where women outnumber the men. The more likely scenario is that if there is a woman on the team, she will be the “only.” While it’s a start, she will need your help to fuel that problem-solving competitive advantage. Why? Because when there is only one woman, her differences are exacerbated. In addition, she may be devalued or viewed as a token by other members. The same applies to all underrepresented groups. If you are a team leader and have an “only” on your team, that’s great because it’s likely that they will have a different viewpoint from the rest of the team. However, recognize that it can be intimidating for someone to be a lone voice. Not only are they likely to have a different take on a problem, “onlys” are burdened with the perception that they speak for their entire gender and race. That’s when you, as a leader or even as a supportive colleague, need to not just provide a safe environment for different opinions, but should also help amplify their voice by vocally supporting their contributions to the conversation. 19 https://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/18/opinion/sunday/why-some-teams-are-smarter-than-others.html? 20 But not to the extent that there were no men on the team. P | 15 3 3. WHEN YOU CAN, TAKE A STAND. In February 2018, about four months after the launch of the #MeToo movement, I found myself being asked to share my opinion on the topic by friends, colleagues and even a handful of bloggers and reporters. At first I hesitated due to subconscious fears of “you’ll never work in this industry again.” But then it hit me. “If not me, then who; if not now, then when.” I am the chief operating officer of an international company that is I did not think that my speaking up would have much of an effect, but the emails came rolling in shortly after publication. While they included horror stories of days gone by, they also included observations of how much the industry has improved. Although, there was overwhelming acknowledgment by both men and women of how far we still have to go. The best emails received were from men in the CRE industry asking questions. openly committed to gender equity. It is my duty, as it is for all The most disturbing were the present-day stories of the #MeToo leaders in our industry, female and male, to say something when backlash, in which women are being overtly excluded from members of our industry are being disrespected, or worse, events and meetings in their organizations. This is unacceptable harassed or assaulted. and hopefully a brief aberration in our industry’s journey to inclusion. While the article I wrote contains some basic parameters of how to discuss and/or avoid #MeToo situations, it really boils One final point needs to be made: It’s not just women who need down to “treat everyone with respect unless they personally to speak out on behalf of inclusion, men can lend their voices to and individually give you a reason not to.”21 The emphasis is the cause. Back in 2015, SVN International Corp. CEO & President, on the personal and individual, because no one should be Kevin Maggiacomo gave a TEDx talk about the importance of disrespected in our industry based on their gender or ethnicity diversity to companies and our society as a whole. That talk has or because someone with whom they share a gender is rumored received over 60,000 views to date.23 to have made a false accusation. False accusations, while The bottom line is that if you find yourself in a position where highly publicized, rarely happen. The vast majority of #MeToo you have a platform and can speak out on diversity and inclusion, situations are never reported. Of the small subset that is you need to do so. You might be the spark that shines a light for reported, between 2-10% of claims turn out to be false or, more others to follow. accurately, unverifiable.22 Just as women should not perceive all men as potential #MeToo perpetrators; men cannot assume all women are seeking to make false accusations. 21 http://dukelong.com/putting-metoo-into-perspective-guest-post-diane-danielson/ 22 https://www.nsvrc.org/sites/default/files/2012-03/Publications_NSVRC_Overview_False-Reporting.pdf 23 https://youtu.be/0eL3GXXJJoM ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P | 16 P | 17 CONCLUSION The CRE industry is facing major demographic challenges and needs to attract more brokerage candidates in the immediate future. In order to do so, companies have an opportunity to be more diverse and inclusive, providing them with a competitive advantage going forward. But first, the CRE industry needs to recognize that diversity and inclusion are not the same thing, and that we can’t have one without the other. Inclusive companies thrive on hiring practices that focus on skills and past performance, systems that are transparent, and where a mindset for abundance is the cultural norm. Those are the conditions under which underrepresented groups have an opportunity to succeed and play an integral role in propelling companies to even greater financial success. It’s time for the commercial real estate industry to focus on diversity AND inclusion. #CRE #diversity #inclusion #ItsTime ©2019 SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. P | 18 P | 19 ABOUT THE AUTHOR Diane K. Danielson is the chief operating officer for SVN International Corp., a commercial real estate franchisor with over 200 offices and 1600 advisors and staff. She has been an advocate for diversity and inclusion throughout her 25-year career including founding a national network for professional women, authoring several business books, and researching and speaking on topics of gender equity and leadership. In 2019, Diane was awarded the CREW Boston Leadership Achievement Award for her ongoing work in this area. @DianeDanielson in/dianedanielson/ ABOUT SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. The SVN® organization is a globally recognized commercial real estate entity united by a shared vision of creating value for clients, colleagues and communities. Currently, SVN comprises over 1,600 advisors and staff working in more than 200 offices across the globe. SVN’s brand pillars represent the transparency, innovation and inclusivity that enable all our advisors to collaborate effectively with the entire real estate industry on behalf of our clients. SVN’s unique Shared Value Network® is just one of the many ways that SVN Advisors create outsize value for all stakeholders. For more information, visit www.svn.com. ©2019 SVN International Corp. All Rights Reserved. SVN and the SVN COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE ADVISORS Logos are registered service marks of SVN International Corp. All SVN ® offices are independently owned and operated. SVN INTERNATIONAL CORP. 33 ARCH STREET, 17TH FLOOR | BOSTON, MA 02110 SVN.COM | INFO@SVN.COM
