DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 Outpost24 is committed to evolving and bettering ourselves through the UN General Compact principles. Communication on Progress AUGUST 23rd 2019 AUGUST 23rd 2020 Prepared by Mette Wigand Bode Brønager & Emilie Toth DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 5 August 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Outpost24 reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Martin Henricson, CEO DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS, IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment: At Outpost24 we support and uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Human Rights Convention. We also feature this in our company policy to further integrate the international standards of human rights in our everyday life. We ensure that all workers are provided with the proper work facilities and the proper tools to carry out their job in a safe manner. We aim to provide a safe space for our employees and have many elements in our Global Employee Handbook that encourage suitable, ethical and respectful behavior in the workplace. Implementation: We have options for employee that do experience improper workplace behavior or harassment, wherein they can safely and confidentially report their experiences. This include a Whistleblower hotline, from the UK vendor Expolink, where employees, partners, customers and other, can report bribery, harassment, discrimination etc. We also address this in our annual anti-bribery training session for current employees and training for new employees when they join us. We make it our mission to prevent and protect worker from any sort of workplace harassment and to proactively resolve conflicts that may arise. Outpost24 is dedicated to ensuring the wellbeing of our employees and have a strong focus upholding not only the minimum requirements of human rights, but going above and beyond for our employees. We cater to everyone’s dietary restrictions and we ensure that there are healthy options for all employees. We also make sure to buy gifts for our employees on their DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 birthday and on Christmas, when they have children, get married etc. and to include our employees in all holiday celebrations. Measurement of Outcome: In the past year Outpost24 has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment: We ensure that our company does not participate in any form of forced labor or forced servitude, by educating our employees on the dangers and the repercussions of such practices. Outpost24 supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced labor or child labor. Outpost24 ensures to respect national and European labor laws and labor guidelines. Outpost24 also aims to base our employment decision solely on objective criteria. Implementation: Particularly we have yearly course for our UK employees, in which they are educated on the Modern Slavery Act. The previously mentioned whistleblower hotline, is also recommended to employees that have seen or experienced anything, they may deem as forced labor, either at our own locations or at a customers location. This whistle blower hotline is available anonymously, so employees can feel safe to report these actions. In the hiring process and other employment related decisions, we ensure that persons are evaluated based on objective criteria, by making it a part of our diversity policy. We also DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 ensure that all of our employees are paid a fair wage and have consistent opportunities for salary increases, in accordance with their performance. We have many benefits for our employees such as gifts on special occasions and holidays, our annual Kick-Off, where we provide team building activities and overnight accommodation, and many social gatherings with different activities and refreshments. Outpost24 aims to be flexible in regards to working from home. The employees have the opportunity to work from home, if they get this approved by their manager and in some cases have agreed days in which they work from home, to relieve the stress of commuting every day. In our Amsterdam office we provide monthly massages at the office to relieve stress and we offer reimbursement for all our employees gym and fitness memberships in all offices, to further support a stress free and healthy lifestyle for our employees. We also provide one meal a day in multiple office locations and are open to provide what our employees may need in terms of supplies, food, activities and so forth. We have also started providing English courses for our French office, as to further educate those who would like a greater knowledge of our company language. Outpost24 has indicators of the demographics of management and employees broken down by their gender, age, length of service and absences. This helps us identify the diversity and the wellbeing of our employees, to ensure that ex. long time sickness or absence is handled in a proactive and employee focused manner. We also have a mandatory meeting between the employee and their manager at least once a year, to discuss performance, ideas, wellbeing and another meeting annually to discuss salary. This helps both the manager and Outpost24 as a company, to better understand our employees and what they need to perform their best. Measurement of Outcomes: We have a yearly global anonymous employee survey, which is performed in cooperation with the company “A Great Place to Work”. Hereby we ensure that there is annual honest feedback on both the company itself, but also all the management and the teams within. This years survey was completed in June 2019. The results of the survey show a positive increase in almost all areas, namely our average trust index, the amount of employees who are proud of their job and in the amount of employees who consider Outpost24 “a great place to work”. These increases in employee satisfaction are both apparent in the results for the individual teams and for the organization as a whole. DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 We can furthermore deduct through our internal statistics, that although we have had an increase, in the amount of sickness events from 2017-2018, there has been decrease of 3,41% in the amount of work days lost to sickness. This result is especially impressive, since we have had an increase in employees from 2017-2018. Thereby our employees are making a faster recovery, and losing less working days to illness. Additionally Outpost24 has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions base on labor law violations, in the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment: Outpost24 has offices all over the world and therefore we have a lot of different ways that each office contributes to being more environmentally friendly. In our sustainable procurement policy, we further describe the actions we are taking to minimize, our already small impact on the environment. Implementation: Our main environmentally damaging disposables are reused multiple times, until they are non-functional and by then they are disposed of safely. Although we do as a whole, strive to recycle as much as possible and we ensure that all hazardous material that we may incur, such as batteries or other non bio-degradable forms of waste, are disposed in a safe way, to prevent impact on the environment or human health. We recycle all of the plastic bottles we consume and some offices we refrain from the use of plastic bottles entirely and opt for a water cooler. In our Karlskrona location we have multiple recycle options such as metal, glass, plastic, cardboard and paper. All of our employees also aim to use conference calls as much as possible instead of flying or driving to meetings. Our company car, located in Karlskrona is also a hybrid, to again minimize our DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 environmental impact. Recently the CPH office has started to recycle our coffee pods, to further reduce waste. We already recycle coffee pods in Amsterdam and in other offices. Measurements of outcome: We are also constantly looking into new ways to reduce, reuse and recycle in our everyday offices. We also adjust our lunch amount every day to ensure minimal food waste. We also periodically weigh the food waste from our lunch in the CPH office to better adjust this amount. We have created more awareness with our staff to remember to recycle and encouraged them to minimize food waste by bringing home leftovers from lunch. This has created more focus on recycling and waste minimization in all offices, although we at this time do not have an exact measurement of how much we have increased our recycling. Outpost24 has also not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment: Outpost24 asses the risk of corruption when approaching new business, we make sure that all of our business partners are certified in Anti-Bribery. This information is apparent in our Anti-Bribery policy. We are dedicated to remaining an honest and law abiding company, and have a zero-tolerance for incidents of bribery or corruption. Implementation: DocuSign Envelope ID: 18224CA9-EBB9-4B8B-9B5E-23864C2A9249 Outpost24 ensures that we are only doing business with vendors and channel partners, we deem to uphold the correct standard of honest business. We screen all of our potential and current channel partners, to ensure that they live up to our Anti-Bribery standards. We also have an internal whistleblower hotline wherein employees can report anything they have experienced, which they believe to be in violation of our Anti-Bribery policy. Thereby we are certain, that all business procedures support Outpost24’s anti bribery and anti-corruption commitment. Outpost24 also keeps a list over gifts received by employees, including pricing and what circumstances the gift was given under, to further prevent Anti-Bribery and Corruption in the organization. We also have the employees take an Anti-Bribery course annually, to ensure that everyone is up to date on relevant regulations and to remind our employees how to spot and how to rapport cases of bribery and corruption. Measurement of Outcome: All gifts and favors have been evaluated by the General Counsel to ensure that no extra ordinary gifts or favors have provided to the employees. Outpost24 has also not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
