Home ME SSAGE FROM THE MANAGING D IR E C TO R AND H E A LT H , SAFETY AND S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y C OMMITTE E C H AIR In 2018, we faced one of the greatest challenges in the Company’s history when a record 7.5 magnitude earthquake hit our operating areas in Papua New Guinea (PNG). You can judge the strength of a corporate culture when it is tested by a crisis and the speed, dedication and generosity of how our people responded to the PNG earthquake is testament to ours. Click here for more 2018 REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY S T R AT E G Y See the full strategy PROUD OF W H AT E NGAGING AND M AK ING LIVE S WE DO AND E M P OWE RING BETTER H OW WE DO IT OUR E M P LOY E E S We aspire to set the standard for We seek to adopt industry best We seek to provide a workplace that private sector contribution to practice to manage material social celebrates diversity and supports sustainable development responsibility issues continual learning and development Continue reading Continue reading Continue reading Oil Search’s 2020 Social Responsibility Strategy is guided by the principles of our Social Responsibility Policy and integrated with the Company’s broader strategic objectives and vision. It prioritises initiatives and improvement areas with material business value and provides a framework for optimising the positive impact of our social responsibility activities. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS > U S$5M U S$451M F I RST IN CASH AND KIND IN TOTAL PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP donated by Oil Search to socio-economic contributions support disaster relief e orts Innovative Public-Private in PNG on climate resilience with PNG Partnership initiative by OSF CCDA to address family and sexual violence Z ERO TIER 1 process safety incidents Top quartile of Carbon 22% reduction in Total No signi cant spills Tracker’s climate-resilient oil Recordable Injury Rate and gas companies TO P 2 0 0 66% COMPANY OF LEADERSHIP ROLES in Equileap’s global Gender in PNG held by PNG citizens 1,410 OSL employees 33% female representation on Equality Ranking our Board Material developments in 2018 Earthquake in PNG highlands The rst half of 2018 was devastating for PNG and one of the most challenging periods in the Company's history. The 7.5 magnitude earthquake in Southern Highlands of PNG in late February and the numerous a ershocks substantially impacted Oil Search’s project area communities. There were many deaths and essential infrastructure was destroyed. Our priority following the initial earthquake was to ensure all our sta , across over 20 work sites in the Highland’s Region were safe. Our processing facilities withstood the earthquake well, but our camps and associated facilities were impacted more seriously. As a precautionary measure and to assess any damage to facilities, production was temporarily shut-down at all operated oil elds and ExxonMobil PNG Ltd ceased production from the PNG LNG Project, impacting 2018 production, revenues and pro ts. Following detailed assessments of our infrastructure to ensure its integrity and to con rm that safe, reliable and sustainable operations could resume, production recommenced at most facilities within two months of the earthquake. Final earthquake-related repairs remain ongoing. As one of the few organisations in PNG able to provide rapid, on-the-ground assistance, Oil Search prioritised relief, recovery and rehabilitation e orts within our local communities. As a result, several planned activities and projects were put on hold. This a ected some performance indicators for 2018 reporting, including varying data trends (due to production downtimes), data irregularities (due to damaged infrastructure e.g. meters) and reduced resource reporting capacity. We have identi ed speci c examples in this Report. Alaska North Slope — appraisal drilling phase In February 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of oil assets in the North Slope of Alaska for US$400 million and assumed operatorship in March 2018. The acquisition complements the Company’s existing top quartile, highreturning PNG gas assets and creates a more balanced portfolio that is less exposed to one commodity and one country. During the year, we built a highly experienced local management team, based in Anchorage, to develop and operate the Alaskan assets. We also prepared for a two-rig appraisal drilling programme, which commenced in late December 2018 and is progressing well. During the year we engaged with key stakeholders, including governments and local Indigenous landowner groups. Papua LNG MoU with PNG Government The Papua LNG joint venture ( JV) participants — including Oil Search — entered a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in November 2018 with PNG to develop the Papua LNG Project. The agreement is a signi cant step forward and forms the basis for a Gas Agreement that equitably and appropriately allocates Project bene ts and returns to stakeholders. The JV participants expect that the Gas Agreement will be executed in 2019. About this Report Oil Search believes that conducting business in a socially responsible manner is a strategic and moral imperative. It protects Company value by supporting operational stability and enabling us to achieve our strategic objectives while ful lling our corporate social obligation to meet society’s expectations. We encourage and support transparency at a Company, industry and government level, including how we report our approach to, and management of, material social responsibility issues. This Report provides a clear account of our performance against our Social Responsibility Strategy and in relation to the challenges and opportunities that impact our operations and the communities in which we operate. We have presented the information under three key themes: Making lives better, Proud of what we do and how we do it and Engaging and empowering our people. We regularly engage stakeholders and participate in industry forums to ensure the focus and content of our reporting suite remains relevant to our overall Business Strategy and the needs of our stakeholders. For this Report, we have presented material information on Oil Search’s social responsibility performance relating to projects under our operational control for the 2018 calendar year. While it focuses on our operations in Papua New Guinea (PNG), we also touch on our newly-acquired operations in Alaska and our plans to address broader social responsibility impacts in our supply chain. Our non-operated equity interests in PNG LNG and Papua LNG are not included. Social and environmental performance for the PNG LNG Project is available on the project website. We welcome feedback or questions about any aspect of our social responsibility reporting to socialresponsibility@oilsearch.com. Our 2018 reporting suite Oil Search recognises the importance of public disclosure. Being transparent about our social responsibility activities and performance makes us accountable to our stakeholders, supports informed decision-making and provides an opportunity to incorporate stakeholder feedback into our strategic planning. Our 2018 reporting suite outlines the Company’s approach to addressing material issues and creating environmental, social and economic value in the countries in which we operate. Representatives from across the business have worked with the Social Responsibility team to compile it, and it has been reviewed by the Executive Team and the Board Health, Safety and Sustainability Committee (HSSC). We have compiled the quantitative data for our Report in accordance with Oil Search’s Social Responsibility Basis of Preparation and incorporated indicators from external benchmarks and standards , including: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016. IPIECA’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The objectives of PNG Vision 2050 and the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As well as being part of our Company reporting suite, this Report serves as Oil Search’s required Communication on Progress report as a UN Global Compact (UNGC) member. Other communications in the reporting suite address key stakeholder interests around our performance. The VPSHR Report outlines the Company’s progress on implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) in 2018. We have developed this Report in accordance with the VPSHR Veri cation and Reporting Framework, submitted it to the Voluntary Principles Initiative (VPI) and released it publicly. The Transparency Report summarises information about socio-economic payments we made in 2018 to countries where Oil Search has a presence. This information also informs our Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) submission for PNG. A Preliminary Modern Slavery Statement is a new addition to our reporting suite. This describes the Company’s modern slavery readiness plan, with clear actions for establishing socially responsible business practices in our supply chain. We will prepare a formal statement in accordance with Australian Commonwealth legislation from 2020 onwards. The 2018 Oil Search Annual Report includes a summary of material aspects of our social responsibility performance in 2018. The Oil Search website describes our overall approach to managing material environmental, social and governance issues. Independent limited assurance External assurance enhances the credibility of our social responsibility data and helps us to identify improvements for future reporting. We obtained independent limited assurance over selected social responsibility data in this Report in accordance with Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000. The limited Assurance Statement prepared by Deloitte outlines the scope and basis of the assurance they have provided for this Report. Our social responsibility reporting has been subject to independent limited assurance since 2011, with the assurance ndings presented to the Executive Leadership Team and the Board HSSC. Deloitte is Oil Search’s external auditor as well as our social responsibility reporting assurance provider. The Audit and Financial Risk Committee oversees the independence of this relationship and governs the approval processes. Message from our leaders Message from our leaders In 2018, we faced one of the greatest challenges in the Company’s history when a record 7.5 magnitude earthquake hit our operating areas in PNG. You can judge the strength of a corporate culture when it is tested by a crisis and the speed, dedication and generosity of how our people responded to the PNG earthquake is testament to ours. We were proud of how our employees and partners worked tirelessly together to come to PNG’s aid at its time of need. This was a major catastrophe with extensive loss of life and infrastructure damage. Our response was immediate and e ective. We ensured the safe shut down of our facilities and prioritised disaster relief for project area communities. We provided nearly 80% of all First Responder aid to local communities in the rst four weeks following the earthquake, before transitioning our attention to recovery and rehabilitation. Our contribution made a signi cant di erence to local communities and we are honoured that it was acknowledged in the S&P Platts Global Energy Awards and through an inaugural Outstanding Humanitarian Award from the PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum. Remarkably, despite the extraordinary circumstances and increased risk, our earthquake recovery and response activities were completed with zero recordable injuries. Our overall Total Recordable Injury Rate decreased by 22% from 2017, which is commendable at a time when we were undertaking more high-risk activities. In spite of the earthquake, 2018 was a year of exciting opportunities. Entering Alaska in March began a new era of growth that will help support Oil Search’s long-term future in a world of constant change. A C T I V E LY W O R K I N G O N S O L U T I O N S During 2018, we continued to protect the stability of our PNG operations by working with stakeholders to address ongoing challenges. These included landowner concerns about the PNG Government’s distribution of the nancial bene ts derived from oil and gas, which led to some unrest in our project areas. We worked with all stakeholders and were pleased that the Department of Petroleum made some progress with landowner bene ciary identi cation, which is the cornerstone of bene ts distribution. Oil Search’s enduring commitment to payments transparency and our participation in the EITI is playing a role in progressing this process. Responding to the global challenge and risks of climate change, we published a Climate Change Resilience Report in March that aligned with the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. The Report showed that the risk of our low-cost assets being stranded in a carbon-constrained world was low. In July, a Carbon Tracker report backed up our analysis, placing Oil Search in the top quartile of oil and gas producers for resilience to climate transition risk in a range of decarbonisation scenarios, including a 2°C world. We began work on a comprehensive physical risk assessment to help us test the impact of a range of potential physical climate change risks on our assets, supply chains and project area communities. We ended the year by announcing a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) with PNG’s Climate Change and Development Authority (CCDA) to collaborate on climate adaptation initiatives that contribute to the resilience of PNG communities. Human rights risks can be a threat to operational stability if not e ectively mitigated and in 2018 we further strengthened Oil Search’s approach to managing them. We updated our Company-wide human rights risk review to assess the risks (including modern slavery) across all our businesses and supply chains, including our new Alaskan operations. With the Australian Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act passed in November 2018, we are preparing to release a Preliminary Modern Slavery Statement ahead of the requirement to do so, as a signal of our intent and commitment to take steps towards the elimination of this horrid crime. E XT E N D I N G AN D S T R E N G T HE N I N G PAR T N E R S HI P S There is a compelling business and moral case for Oil Search to play an active role in working with communities, governments and other stakeholders in both the social and economic development of countries in which we work. Oil Search does this through innovative private-public partnerships which leverage respective strengths and work to improve sustainability. We believe this is essential for our future success and critical in building trust and support in communities. It is also an important issue in attracting and retaining sta who are committed to making a positive di erence in the areas in which we work. Oil Search and the Oil Search Foundation (OSF) demonstrated throughout 2018 how our sustainable development programmes contribute to the social and economic development of PNG providing tangible examples of the value of leveraging collective interests to achieve sustainable outcomes. An outstanding example of this principle in action in 2018 is the Bel isi PNG initiative, which Oil Search helped to launch. As a founding partner in this innovative multi-sector model, OSF is partnering with various sectors to address gender-based violence in PNG and providing a valuable resource to our employees and their families. The power of strategic partnerships was also evident in our health programmes with OSF. By working closely with Hela Provincial Health Authority, OSF has helped Hela Provincial Hospital to become one of PNG’s top three performing health facilities and our support kept it operational a er the earthquake. Our support will continue to grow in 2019. The new Wok Bung Wantaim (“Working in Partnership”) strategy, which OSF and partners launched in May 2018, aims to improve coordination, planning, innovation and accountability for health programmes in Hela and Southern Highlands Provinces. As always, Oil Search played a leading role in helping PNG realise ambitious infrastructure projects. When PNG hosted the 2018 Asia-Paci c Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit, we helped to ensure the event’s success by delivering APEC Haus through the National infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme. Another important piece of new infrastructure, the gasred Port Moresby power station, delivered by NiuPower (part of Oil Search Power Holdings) will be commissioned in early 2019. It will produce the cheapest power in Port Moresby, contributing to the PNG Government’s goal to deliver reliable and competitively priced power to the PNG people in a country that has one of the world’s most expensive and least accessible power systems. One of our rst priorities in Alaska was to consult with local communities and take steps to build enduring stakeholder relationships. Through proactive, de ned engagement, we aim to create the opportunity for dialogue, demonstrate our willingness to identify and respond to feedback and concerns and establish a positive reputation within the community. TA C K L I N G T H E D I V E R S I T Y C HAL L E N G E Strengthening how we engage, develop and empower our employees was a major focus during the year. Based on the results of our 2017 employee engagement survey, we introduced several initiatives to manage our leadership pipeline and develop workforce capability and engagement. These included a new development process, coaching workshops for leaders and standardised guidelines for recognising individual achievement. We also continued to progress our strategic priority of strengthening our organisational capability by supporting and celebrating diversity in our workforce, with a 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy focused on three areas: gender diversity, PNG citizen development and an inclusive workplace. As a result, we achieved 33% female representation on our Board, increased the percentage of graduate females and expanded our female leadership pipeline. Our gender diversity e orts made Oil Search a top-200 company in the global 2018 Equileap Gender Equality Ranking. We also made major progress in 2018 against our citizen development goals, with 66% of the Company’s leadership roles in PNG now held by PNG citizens. Overall, 2018 was a year of both steady progress against long-term goals and outstanding performance during a crisis. We continue to maintain our commitment to the principles of the UNGC and our e orts were recognised by being awarded the RobecoSAM Bronze Class Sustainability Medal. This puts us in the top 15% of companies worldwide in our industry for sustainability innovation and identi es us as being strongly positioned to create longterm shareholder value — something we can all celebrate. Eileen Doyle – HSS Committee Chair Peter Botten Managing Director Earthquake relief, recovery and restoration On 26 February 2018, a magnitude 7.5 earthquake struck in the PNG highlands and caused substantial damage to Southern Highlands, Hela, Gulf and Western Provinces. Powerful a ershocks continued for several months following the initial earthquake. The earthquake occurred in one of the most geographically isolated areas of the country and caused unprecedented damage to people and property. As well as multiple deaths, the a ected region sustained widespread destruction of homes, gardens, roads and bridges and substantial damage to schools and health facilities. Many communities were le without basic necessities such as food, clean water, shelter and medical support. RELIEF AND R E COV E RY SUPPORT PROVIDED BY OIL SEARCH AND OIL SEARCH F O U N D AT I O N > 200 > U S$5M TONNES IN CASH AND KIND in relief supplies including donated by Oil Search to food and supplies delivered to 350,000 in estimated 200 communities supported support disaster relief e orts a ected villages population catchment across relief and recovery reached with relief supplies, phases with relief and medical donations and rebuilding supplies support 79 >2,500 HEALTH FACILITIES MEDICAL TREATMENTS supported with emergency by Oil Search 56 villages provided with supplies Recognised by the S&P Platts health services during Global Energy Awards for our recovery phase through OSF earthquake relief e orts clinics Earthquake response and relief e orts Due to the proximity of the earthquake epicentre to our operational and logistical facilities, Oil Search and OSF were uniquely placed to be rst responders. We provided essential early village and community damage and need assessments for distribution to Government and aid agencies. As part of this process our Teams delivered urgent medical treatments and emergency supplies to some of most remote and hardest-hit villages. Our Moro base became a coordination point for receiving and distributing emergency aid, food and supplies contributed by the Company, our partners and other donors, including foreign governments and aid agencies. Oil Search provided urgent food, water and medical supplies for impacted communities as part of our US$5 million commitment to support relief e orts. Oil Search and OSF worked closely with the PNG Government’s National Disaster Committee and other government agencies, and in partnership with the Australian Government, to coordinate over US$990,000 in donations and funding leveraged for relief and recovery support. For six weeks, OSF provided the most reliable data available from the region through daily situation reports about the on-the-ground status, enabling targeted support. More than 200 tonnes of materials were delivered by our helicopters using our logistics facilities across the disaster area and over 2,500 earthquake victims were treated for medical and surgical conditions by Oil Search’s Medical and Occupational Health Service team. The PNG Government National Disaster Centre estimates that Oil Search activities were responsible for nearly 80% of urgently-required aid in the region during the rst four weeks a er the earthquake. Our rapid response is testament to the Company’s culture of caring for our communities and believing we have a responsibility to use our resources to help when needed. Recovery and restoration phase As we moved from the response to the recovery phase, Oil Search’s engineering and construction resources worked to open the Kopi to Kutubu road as an alternative to the damaged Highlands Highway, making it an important route for the supply of food, fuel and restoration equipment. OSF’s strong relationship with the Hela and Southern Highlands Provincial Health Authorities was invaluable. Foundation sta worked to replace critical medical equipment for both Provincial hospitals and provided logistics support for international humanitarian partners to mobilise in the impacted areas. Immediate repairs were made to medical sta 's houses and water supply at Hela Provincial Hospital, and OSF provided surge funding to relieve impacted hospital sta . This helped the Hela Provincial Health Authority to keep the hospital running when it was in danger of closing. OSF continued its support for months a er the earthquake, deploying 46 mobile health clinics that reached thousands of people in more than 50 communities. The clinics were an important part of the emergency response as they helped to mitigate the outbreak of disease caused by displacement and lack of proper medical support. As part of the recovery phase, they: Administered over 5,500 vaccinations to approximately 2,000 children aged under ve. Undertook nutritional assessments for 1,500 children. Provided ante-natal services to over 100 women. Provided health awareness to more than 5,000 people about safe water storage, hand-washing, safe cooking and immunisation. Provided health assessments and addressed urgent medical needs for adults in all villages. OSF also funded and supported detailed engineering assessments of 30 health facilities in Hela and 18 health facilities and schools in Southern Highlands to inform costings for either rebuilding or rehabilitation and repairs. With its partners, OSF is working with one of the most severely impacted communities, Yalanda, to support 800 people with their community-initiated relocation to safer land, while ensuring the people have adequate food, safe water and sanitation, access to health services and the right equipment to rebuild homes, schools, and gardens. As part of the PNG Government’s recovery e orts, OSF is collaborating with the Emergency Controller’s O ce to deliver and install 650 water tanks for health facilities, schools and communities across Southern Highlands and Hela Provinces between 2018 and 2019. Oil Search’s emergency response teams also delivered restoration kits with basic tools such as saws, hammers and nails so villagers could begin rebuilding their homes. The work by Oil Search sta to safely shut down our facilities, address the challenges of re-establishing water, power and sanitation facilities, and support recovery e orts was exceptional. Under the stress of continued a ershocks and challenged support services, they demonstrated unrelenting dedication, professionalism and teamwork. We are continuing to work with governments, partners, donors and communities to support recovery in PNG, concentrating our e orts on: rebuilding remote villages, homes and livelihoods; re-establishing schools and small businesses; and restoring water supplies. Our work has been recognised by the PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum through an inaugural Outstanding Humanitarian Award, and by the S&P Platts Global Energy Awards as the winner in the Corporate Social Responsibility category. Social Responsibility Strategy A robust strategic framework and commitment to open and transparent engagement ensure we continue to meet societal expectations and deliver against our corporate strategy and the aspirations set by our Company vision. Our roadmap for strategically-aligned action Oil Search’s vision is to generate top quartile returns for shareholders through excellence in socially responsible oil and gas exploration and production. Our 2020 Social Responsibility Strategy supports this vision and the associated strategic objectives by promoting a stable operating environment and positioning Oil Search as a leader in socially responsible oil and gas exploration and production. The Strategy focuses on achieving measurable goals that address our contribution to socio-economic development and re ect our commitment to continuous performance improvement, while also engaging and empowering our employees. We continued to deliver on the Strategy’s key objectives in 2018. MA K IN G L IVE S B E TTE R We aspire to set the standard for private sector contribution to sustainable development. Read more. P RO U D O F W H AT W E DO AND HOW WE DO IT We seek to adopt industry best practice to manage material social responsibility issues, exceeding stakeholder expectations for governance, environmental and social performance wherever we can. Read more. E N GA GI N G A N D E M P O W E R I N G O U R E M P L OY E E S We seek to provide a workplace that celebrates diversity, supports learning and development and drives high performance. Read more . In 2019, we will: Review our Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy and objectives. Detail our commitment to human rights in a standalone Human Rights Policy. Begin implementing the recommendations of our grievance management review. Map our supply chain and commence supplier engagement in responsible supply chain practices. Complete a physical climate risk assessment and progress its implementation. Engaging with our stakeholders Oil Search’s stakeholder engagement approach recognises the importance of strong, mutuallyrespectful stakeholder relationships and the role they play in achieving business success and our vision. In late 2018, we began a process to more e ectively articulate and document our stakeholder engagement philosophy and approach. The aim was to capture Oil Search’s inherent behaviours and stakeholder engagement beliefs so we could transfer this knowledge and practice to our growing stakeholder engagement teams in PNG and Alaska. We also strengthened stakeholder relationships in 2018 by supporting the PNG Government’s e orts to respond to or engage with communities, particularly in times of unrest. These are o en the result of ongoing inter-tribal con ict or related to perceived or unful lled government commitments. As in previous years, we provided logistical support to facilitate dialogue and ensured government representatives and agencies were aware of their obligations. In Alaska, during 2018 we concentrated on laying the foundations for enduring relationships and partnerships. We commenced negotiations on a land access agreement and obtained a Letter of Non-Objection for our appraisal drilling programme. We also outlined our Alaskan stakeholder engagement priorities which aim to create opportunity for dialogue, demonstrate our willingness to identify and understand suggestions and concerns, and establish a positive reputation within the community. In 2018, the focus was on developing local, State and Federal awareness of the project and sharing information with regulators, industry and the community. Oil Search hosted multiple community meetings and workshops in Nuiqsut – the community closest to our project area – that focused on creating project awareness and gathering feedback on our proposed development activities. Appointing a local community liaison person was another important step as it provides a visible local access point to the Company. We also participated in local cultural, social, industry and government events across the state. We are nearing the nal stages in the development permitting process, with the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the proposed Pikka Unit Development issued in November 2018. During this process, we were able to build on the considerable stakeholder engagement experience we gained in PNG by working collaboratively with local communities. While the USA has well-de ned State and Federal regulations, Oil Search chose to carry out these activities in addition to our regulatory obligations, re ecting the importance we place on establishing strong stakeholder relationships from the outset. View the SDG table Oil Search’s stakeholder interactions in 2018 Oil Search has identi ed a range of current and emerging risks and opportunities that have the potential to impact our business and our stakeholders. The tables show the types of engagement we have with governments, investors, business partners, non-government organisations (NGOs), communities, our people and related stakeholder groups. Engaging with them helps us to understand the potential impacts and opportunities of our activities and any concerns stakeholders have about the Company, so we can ensure our strategy and public reporting meet their expectations. We anticipate these issues will evolve over time, so we engage in ongoing dialogue. Host governments (PNG, State of Alaska, Australia) Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Permits and licences Revenue from Participating in Earthquake assistance resources meetings, workshops, Land access rights Infrastructure delivery initiatives and Development partners working groups Regulatory policy, Domestic power compliance and Skills and experience supply Supporting the management in project delivery government health Energy policy and sector and service Protecting secure and Subject matter climate change delivery stable operating expertise Climate adaptation environment Supporting with Land access logistics, information Biodiversity E ective governance and advice when Local employment, protection and judicial system requested business development Bene ts distribution Licence to operate and training Licence applications and permits Investor, and partner Improving Infrastructure Tax Permits and approvals for development governance and Credit Scheme Tax policy transparency submissions and reviews Security Nationalisation of resources APEC PNG foreign exchange issues Partnership opportunities Shareholders, investors, analysts and third-party benchmarks Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Provide capital Provision of accurate Regular results Impact of the information for announcements, earthquake on Rate and compare our informed investment media releases, operations, performance decisions presentations and production and webcasts subsequent recovery In uence public and Open, e ective and investor perception transparent One-on-one New LNG communication telephone calls, developments in PNG Re ect societal meetings and sentiment and PNG LNG bene ts brie ngs with expectations distribution investors and broking analysts PNG domestic political stability Investor roadshows to key domestic and PNG foreign international cities exchange issues Annual eld trips to Alaska strategic operations rationale, resource potential, appraisal Responses to reports, programme, questionnaires, development path benchmarks, rankings and information Oil price requests Climate change Annual regulatory disclosure and voluntary reports, website and social Human rights media Process safety Business partners, suppliers and contractors Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Provide expertise, Business development Pre-quali cation and Local business goods, services and and local employment screening opportunities equipment Economic Site visits and audits Capability Share resources and development development One-on-one meetings capability Responsible supply Local content Contractor induction, Raise industry chain management ongoing training and Potential partnerships standards Performance and risk awareness Logistical challenges Performance and risk management Business and solutions management Compliance with development, PNG foreign Foster relationships contract governance and exchange shortages requirements, safety Reputation and regulations and responsible supply Support for PNG statutes chain management landowner companies Application of local Contract and knowledge and best procurement practices management Compliance reviews Project area communities Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Directly and Directly and Community/Village PNG bene ts indirectly impacted indirectly impacted Liaison O cer roles, distribution by our activities by our activities networks and Implementation of committees PNG Government Maintain a stable and Business and Regular visits to commitments safe operating employment villages/towns Access to social environment opportunities Meetings/workshops infrastructure and Diverse and resilient Development with community leaders services local economies opportunities and and representatives Land access and partnering Provide employees, Sustainable compensation suppliers, services Community development Employment and and equipment shareholding programmes/investment business participation Risk management Grievance management opportunities Economic process Local knowledge Delivery of development Socio-economic surveys community projects Public-private Community newsletters Project development partnerships feedback Annual reports, website and social media Our people Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Key asset for Learning and Town Hall sessions Business Strategy and delivering our development changes Annual career Business Strategy opportunities development, training Safety and Technical expertise Career progression and performance sustainability processes Advocate in the Succession planning Diversity and community Employee inclusion Values alignment engagement survey Source of local Citizen development knowledge and Employee newsletters Employee expertise and intranet development communications Organisational culture opportunities Presentations, Recognition webcasts and direct meetings Employee engagement Q&A sessions Workplace exibility Alaska recruitment Civil society, non-government and industry organisations Why they are important Why engagement is How we interact Key topics in 2018 to us important to them Specialist skills and Partners for One-on-one Bene ts and expertise sustainable brie ngs/meetings payments development transparency Local networks and Respond to investment and experience information requests Supplier development initiatives Resources Membership of Sustainable Complementary skillindustry associations development priorities set and experience Knowledge-sharing and partnership Participation in multiContribute industry or opportunities Ability to in uence stakeholder forums third-party other stakeholders and conferences Climate change perspective Re ect societal Representation on Human rights Organisational expectations governance bodies performance Modern slavery Contribution to Subject matter Women’s submissions expertise empowerment and Sponsorship and protection, family and presentations sexual violence Partnership opportunities Support for industry submissions on relevant legislation and policy initiatives Making lives better We aspire to set the standard for private sector contribution to sustainable development. PERFORMANCE S U M M A RY U S$451M U S$39M IN TOTAL IN VALUE socio-economic contributions spent on infrastructure in PNG > 366,700 immunisations projects Wok Bung Wantaim a new delivered including measles, OSF-supported strategy in polio and pentavalent. health service delivery F I RST 1,930 PUBLIC-PRIVATE OUTREACH PATROLS PARTNERSHIP and clinics supported in Hela, 105 students sponsored by Innovative Public-Private Southern Highlands and Gulf on climate resilience with PNG Oil Search for enrolment in Partnership initiative by OSF Provinces CCDA tertiary education to address family and sexual violence (Bel isi PNG) Strategic sustainable development Shared value creation is a powerful way to achieve local social and economic development outcomes and achieve our strategic objective to maintain a stable operating environment. Oil Search’s strategic local partnerships play an important role in our success while strengthening relationships, sharing knowledge and expertise, providing practical solutions to development challenges and broadening our reach. The Company applies a partnership model to collaboratively address several business and social development challenges in PNG.Our priority areas are underpinned by Oil Search’s commitment to women’s empowerment, community health, literacy and education, local enterprise and business development and climate change adaptation. We are working with the PNG Government to support PNG’s capability in these areas. Building capability During the year, we progressed work towards enhancing the stakeholder engagement and community development capability of our Community A airs sta by developing training modules for roll-out in 2019. The aim is to promote a proactive approach to community development by better equipping sta to e ectively consult with community members and implement community development programmes with clearly-de ned measurable outcomes. This initiative will make a meaningful contribution towards improving the lives of people in our host communities while strengthening community relationships. Strengthening government health services Most of Oil Search’s operating locations in PNG are in rural and remote areas that can lack adequate public health care services and infrastructure, so since 1992, we have provided project area communities with support to access health services. More detail about our approach is on our website. Working with PNG Provincial Health Authorities During the year, OSF supported government health service delivery by strengthening partnerships with provincial health services in three project impact areas. By focusing on maternal and child health and addressing tuberculosis (TB), the Foundation increased its support for Provincial Health Authorities (PHAs) in Hela and Southern Highlands Provinces. Through the continued support of OSF, Hela Provincial Hospital is in the top three of the highest-performing health facilities in PNG. In 2018, we supported the Foundation with a US$6.1 million contribution to assist them in supporting the PHA's nancial management functions, providing funding for doctors’ salaries, managing the Hospital’s infrastructure upgrades, providing medical equipment and suppling mentors for public health and clinical governance. OSF is using this model to provide support to Southern Highlands Province which currently experiences some of the poorest health indicators in PNG. In September 2018, OSF supported the opening by the Southern Highlands PHA of a “waiting village” for pregnant women, located next to one of the best-performing rural hospitals. The village enables women from very remote parts of the Highlands to temporarily reside closer to the hospital in the lead up to birth, increasing the number of women having supervised and safe deliveries. In Gulf Province, OSF worked with the Southern Highlands and Gulf Provincial Health teams to improve diagnostics for TB, with the aim of increasing treatment completion rates. This will reduce the risk of drug-resistant TB as well as the number of resulting deaths. Wok Bung Wantaim In May, OSF partnered with the Australian Department of Foreign A airs and Trade (DFAT), the PNG Government and other donors on Wok Bung Wantaim (“Working in Partnership”) — a new strategy for working collaboratively on public and community health in Hela and Southern Highlands Provinces. This strategy has four components: Improved coordination and planning between the PNG Government and donors regarding health funding. More e ective nancing at a provincial level. Fostering partnerships and alternative service delivery models. Engaging with communities on stronger accountability for service delivery and use of public funds. Wok Bung Wantaim is a working example of the shared value that comes from PPPs. Its success relies on a combination of Oil Search needing a stable and secure operating environment, communities wishing to realise bene ts from resource projects, and the PNG Government wanting to provide better services to communities. Providing on-site health care The Oil Search Medical and Occupational Health Service (MOHS) consists of multiple on-site clinics and medical resources across our operations. Through the MOHS, we provide health care services for our workforce and local communities. During 2018, Oil Search’s MOHS: Treated more than 21,800 patients at its clinics in PNG and Australia. Assisted with 58 medical evacuations of community members and 25 members of the workforce. The MOHS team continues to support the work of OSF by providing clinical specialists at Hela Provincial Hospital to support day-to-day decision-making and help sta improve their clinical competence. View the SDG table Health services outreach By working closely with local and District partners and PHAs, OSF continued to facilitate extended outreach patrols to some of the most remote parts of PNG. During 2018, it conducted 13 patrols in 30 villages and provided access to services for approximately 65,000 people. The Foundation supported 1,930 mobile health clinics to deliver over 366,700 vaccinations. A total of 250 people completed TB treatment courses, a 27% increase from 2017. OSF also partnered with Marie Stopes PNG, providing 1,489 couple years of protection (a family planning measurement) through 543 family planning interventions. OSF partnered with Rotarians Against Malaria in 2018 to address malaria outbreaks in PNG, which are estimated by the World Health Organisation to have increased by as much as 400% in some areas during the past four years. OSF delivers bed-nets, anti-malarial drugs and other services to communities in Southern Highlands and Gulf Provinces. These services have helped maintain low malaria rates in our project impact communities. Water, sanitation and hygiene A large portion of PNG’s rural population lacks access to safe, clean drinking water or basic sanitation. This creates health problems and places women and girls at a disadvantage as they are responsible for water collection and face speci c hygiene challenges. The water, sanitation and hygiene (WaSH) programme is essential for reducing waterborne diseases, increasing school attendance by girls and addressing women’s safety. In 2018, OSF worked with the PNG Emergency Controller’s O ce to restore water supplies damaged by the earthquake and will continue to build on these e orts with Oil Search and key non-government partners as part of a broader WaSH strategy in 2019. Providing education opportunities Improving literacy and access to quality education in PNG is a sustainable development priority for the PNG Government and Oil Search. Working with OSF, we deliver programmes in areas around our operations that improve education and literacy outcomes. More information about our approach is here. OSF’s rst two Tari literacy libraries — launched in partnership with Buk bilong Pikinini— were damaged signi cantly by the February earthquake and subsequent tribal ghting. The rst library was dismantled while a replacement site is being negotiated, and the second is continuing at a local church until rebuilding is complete. In response to local demand, OSF is building another library in Kikori that is due for completion in early 2019. This project has strong community ownership, with 43 children enrolled and learning in makeshi community infrastructure until building is complete. In 2018, OSF also funded a three-week induction for seven new literacy librarians to increase the capacity for teaching basic early childhood literacy skills. Three of the librarians are teaching at the makeshi Kikori library and will continue at the new library once it is open. OSF’s new scholarship programme was launched during the year. It will contribute to the development of e ective and ethical Papua New Guinean leaders. The programme o ers opportunities to develop leadership skills through structured training, mentoring and work placements and in 2018, 14 students completed their academic year in medicine, nursing and business studies. In partnership with Oil Search, the Foundation will further expand the scholarship programme in 2019 to support the Company’s Citizen Development Programme. During the year, Oil Search also: Increased access to tertiary education by sponsoring 105 students to attend tertiary institutions; and Supported 13 teachers upgrade their primary education quali cations from certi cate to diploma level. The teachers represent 12 schools across Kutubu, Moran, Kagua, Erave and Kikori in Gulf and Southern Highland Provinces. C AS E S T U DY Delivering vital education infrastructure in Chimbu Province Built in 1992, Bimai High School in Chimbu Province needed substantial infrastructure improvements to accommodate a growing number of students and teachers. In 2018, Oil Search delivered US$1.1 million worth of upgrades to the school’s infrastructure as part of the PNG Government’s Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme. Chimbu Province is remote, and many students travel long distances to school. Students now have access to improved learning opportunities with the addition of a double classroom, two dormitories and two teachers’ houses. The teachers' housing encourages sta retention and the dormitories will be used by female students to help improve their attendance and completion rates by reducing the risks to their safety and wellbeing posed by their trips to and from school. Strengthening community resilience Oil Search has the resources to make a signi cant di erence in PNG by improving community resilience and contributing to natural disaster management. We primarily do this through PPPs that use a multi-faceted, multidisciplinary approach to providing access to resources, expertise, emergency response, redevelopment and in-kind donations. Climate adaptation More than 90% of households in our host communities depend on income from traditional subsistence living. These communities can be vulnerable to natural disasters, or incremental changes caused by climate change. In November 2018, Oil Search and PNG’s CCDA’s rst PPP on climate resilience. Its objective is to develop and demonstrate climate adaptation initiatives that contribute to the resilience of PNG communities. Cooperation through this PPP will explore areas of mutual interest regarding climate change adaptation, share and leverage knowledge, and contribute to PNG’s National Determined Contributions adaptation targets. The initial focus areas will include data-sharing, agriculture, livelihoods, food security, and water and sanitation. See the Climate section of this Report for more information. Drought relief Oil Search’s Drought Relief Support (DRS) was established in 2015 in response to the 2015-16 drought in PNG. DRS works to improve access to clean water and sanitation, food security and nutrition for communities impacted by the drought and the 2018 earthquake. In 2018, we initiated a frost-mapping project to aid communities in PNG a ected by years of drought and frost conditions. The project identi ed areas that are vulnerable to extreme weather conditions by analysing satellite imagery over time. We shared the analysis and historical weather and climate data with the PNG National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) to help identify the type of interventions local farmers need to make to manage such climatic changes. Building local enterprises and opportunity Oil Search aims to maximise the involvement of local businesses in opportunities that arise from our operations. Our PNG business development specialists support local enterprise development in host communities by helping them to form organisational structures to maximise their e ectiveness and to establish and maintain e ective management and governance systems as well as providing other specialist advice and support as required. In Alaska the local economy is vastly di erent to PNG, but our priorities around supporting Alaskan businesses are the same. During the year, the Company progressed the development of a local business strategy which will aim to maximise the value and opportunities for local suppliers in Alaska. It will include investing in supplier development, including developing and procuring supplies and services locally. C AS E S T U DY Supporting Lanco development We restructured our PNG catering service requirements in 2015 by consolidating multiple small catering services into a single contractor with the capability to service all Company project sites in PNG. As part of this process, Oil Search helped ve existing PNG landowner companies (Lancos) to establish an umbrella Lanco and JV company, PNG Mining & Petroleum Hospitality Services (PNGMPHS), and awarded them the contract. PNGMPHS employs 400 sta , 97% of whom are PNG nationals who were retained from the smaller catering contractors. It has grown its core business areas of catering and hospitality and is accredited to international quality standards. The Lanco also works with Oil Search to support our Women in Sustainable Agriculture Programme by buying eggs, produce and materials for its catering services. This supports our commitment to enterprise development and provides the women with market access. During the PNGMPHS’s growth, Oil Search provided advice and expertise to build its governance capabilities. We also provided opportunities for ongoing business — 90% of its current contracts are with the Company. It is one of our agship Lancos, with 100% statutory and business compliance. Now fully established, PNGMPHS is seeking to grow and diversify its business locally and internationally by investing in a food-crop fertiliser business. Empowering and protecting women Oil Search works with OSF to implement women’s protection and empowerment initiatives. This ensures families have access to information and support that help them address gender-based violence and leads to positive change within their communities. Our approach to women’s protection is detailed here. Bel isi PNG Bel isi PNG ( Peaceful PNG ) is a new PPP initiative conceived and facilitated by OSF. Launched at a leadership forum for private sector CEOs in September 2018, it provides case management services and emergency accommodation for people who experience family and/or sexual violence (FSV) using an innovative multi-sector model. The initiative brings together businesses, the Australian and PNG governments, service providers, local and international NGOs and technical advisors. The partners will work collaboratively over the next ve years to create awareness and deliver programmes that address challenges and empower women to lead productive lives in a safe environment. Bel isi PNG partners include Oil Search, Bank South Paci c, Steamships Trading Company, the Business Coalition for Women, the National Capital District Commission and Femili PNG. Involving all sectors has increased the resources available, improved services and strengthened e orts in PNG to address violence. There are two service components to Bel isi PNG: A safe house funded by business subscriptions. A case management centre operated by Femili PNG. Participating companies can provide support to sta needing assistance as a result of violence such as medical care, counselling, legal resources and shelter. Participating companies also gain access to a private leadership group that o ers events with internationally-recognised guest speakers, regular newsletters, and professional advice on how to address FSV in a way that supports sta while mitigating its business impact. To raise awareness in the community about FSV, the project engaged women’s rugby teams the PNG Orchids, the Brisbane Broncos and the Matildas. View the SDG table Champions of change Oil Search aims to create positive change through the Champions of Change initiative, which was launched in PNG and Australia in 2018. This programme is aimed at enabling Oil Search and OSF employees and contractors to identify an idea or need in their community and apply their skills and knowledge to achieve a better outcome. Developed and driven by OSF, the programme targets women’s empowerment and protection, health and safety, water supply and sanitation, and leadership. Employees have access to information, training and toolkits. They can also apply for small grant funding. In 2018, 18 small grants were awarded to Oil Search employees in nine provinces to support Champions of Change activities, including: Helping young men’s sporting clubs to become champions for peace and non-violence. Improving community access to safe sanitation. Training employees to address local family and sexual violence. Enabling leaders to address longstanding drug and alcohol issues in their communities. Read a case study on this initiative here. Contributing to infrastructure development Oil Search contributes to the socio-economic development of PNG by supporting regional infrastructure development such as roads, hospital and school redevelopments and other projects in line with the PNG Government’s national development priorities. These developments are provided by the PNG Government’s Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme (ITCS) and National Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme (NITCS). These schemes facilitate more timely delivery of infrastructure than what might otherwise occur. In November 2018, PNG hosted 21 Paci c Rim member economies for the Asia-Paci c Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit. Under the NITCS, Oil Search delivered APEC Haus, a world-class, iconic venue for the APEC Leaders meetings. The building showcased PNG on the world stage and will continue to provide a legacy for the economy as a museum and conference centre that highlights PNG culture. During the year, the PNG Government reviewed its ITCS legislation to align with other government infrastructure priorities, expand its scope to all provinces, and increase the amount that is eligible to be claimed as a tax credit from 0.75% to 2%. Oil Search participated in the consultation process and made submissions on project governance, use of funds and e ective administration. Although the changes have been approved by Parliament, we are waiting for implementation guidelines and the review’s ndings, which have not yet been released. Several projects are therefore on hold until the changes are formalised. Project delivery timelines during the year were also impacted by the earthquake, community unrest and local clan disputes. In 2018, we completed: The construction of APEC Haus Upgrades to Bimai High School facility , including new classrooms, dormitories and sta houses. Stage one works at Kupiano Hospital, including an administration building and an outpatients’ ward. Work on stage two is scheduled for completion in late 2019. Completed phase one of the Erave to Samberigi Road, a total of 32 kilometres One of the two planned bridges on the Komo Adjakaiba road project and completed several signi cant culverts on this National Road. C AS E S T U DY Preserving the culture of PNG through APEC Haus The building and its public art represent PNG’s economic and civic ambitions and symbolise the country’s trading history. The form of the dominant sculptural roof makes contemporary references to the unique crab-claw shape sails found on traditional Motuan lagatoi boats used during trade journeys. A mix of traditional and modern artworks adorn the walls and the Leaders' meeting room tables are made from sustainably and locally-sourced teak, red rosewood and queen ebony. The frigate bird tattoo motif at the entry is also symbolic of the Hiri trade. Enabling access to power In PNG, access to power remains a signi cant developmental issue. During the year, Oil Search Power Holdings continued to focus on gas-powered generation, domestic gas and energy distribution, and renewable energy generation. The scope of this portfolio aligns with the PNG Government’s strategic priorities, including its goal of 70% electricity connectivity by 2030 and the country’s transition to 100% renewable energy by 2050. In October 2018, four power producers — NiuPower, PNG Biomass, PNG Forest Products and Posco Daewoo Power — started the IP3 Industry Group to promote their collective interests in PNG. The group will contribute to public policy development, disseminate information about the energy sector and promote competition in the generation sector. This initiative creates a level playing eld for all industry players to participate in, and help achieve, a ordable and sustainable power generation in PNG. Port Moresby power station In 2018, NiuPower progressed the construction of the gasred Port Moresby power station. The power station is expected to produce the cheapest power in Port Moresby, resulting in substantial savings for the electricity supplier PNG Power. The station will be commissioned in early 2019 and will have the capacity to supply 57.8MW of electricity to the Port Moresby grid. This represents approximately 75% of the 80MW average daily load of the grid and 45% of the daily peak. Over 90% of the workforce involved in the plant’s development are PNG citizens. The project also extensively used PNG Lancos, service providers and suppliers. PNG Biomass Oil Search’s PNG Biomass project will be the rst utility-scale renewable biomass power generation project in PNG. It comprises a 30MW biomass power plant using integrated and dedicated sustainable forestry plantations to provide domestically sourced and generated biomass electricity for the Ramu Grid. Since its commencement in 2011 in the Markham Valley, the project has enhanced the livelihoods of local communities by establishing plantations that provide employment and business development opportunities. Today, landowners receive commercial rent for their lands and are involved in forestry activities. Communities are also creating additional income streams by practising intercropping in fertile soils between trees encouraging food security and enterprise development. PNG Biomass operates in line with the Equator Principles for environmental and social risk through the application of the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards as well as the Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials. It is also working toward certi cation under the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) National Forest Management Standards for PNG and the Gold Standard for the Global Goals. In 2018, the project: Used the local Lanco Zif Faring Business Group to contract 69 additional employees. Was granted an environmental permit and a generation licence. Progressed certi cation under the FSC and Gold Standard standards into the audit phase. Independent auditors assessed the project in December 2018 against the respective requirements. Formalised a community grievance mechanism and created fundamental principles for the project to respect land rights. Developed a Gender Impact Management Plan (GIMP) de ning the project’s approach to women’s empowerment. GIMP is a strategic approach to ensuring the rights of socially-vulnerable groups are respected and positive outcomes are enhanced. During the year, progress towards a nal investment decision faced two key challenges changes to the power tari agreed in the Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) signed in 2015 and prolonged decision-making by the regulators who are progressing the PPA. View the SDG table C AS E S T U DY Switpela Bi Hani Native sugarbag bees, which are stingless and only make and store small quantities of honey, are endemic to the Markham Valley. Their honey is highly prized for its medicinal qualities and its antioxidant, anti-microbial and anti-in ammatory qualities make to it similar to manuka honey, creating strong demand. There are potential opportunities of honey production as an income stream for communities and to improve crop yield in its plantation seed orchards. The Switpela Bi Hani programme developed by PNG Biomass works with communities to build beehives, provide training from experts, support honey production and sales, and monitor the hives and community bene t streams. By December 2018, the programme had ve beehives populated with native bees in the Markham Valley, with the roll-out of 30 more hives planned for 2019. PNG Biomass bene ts from the programme as the owers of the plantation’s eucalyptus trees are a good source of pollen and nectar, leading to improved pollination and genetic diversity in its plantations. Assisting with e ective distribution of bene ts Distribution of revenues from the oil and gas industry in PNG is governed by the Oil and Gas Act. If this distribution does not meet community and national expectations, it can threaten the stability of our operating environment. For this reason, we actively assist the PNG Government to meet its obligations. Read more here. The landowner identi cation process is a highly complex clan-vetting exercise conducted by the PNG Government that is integral to understanding and determining the allocation and value of bene ts to be distributed. With approximately 35,000 landowners undergoing this exercise, in 2018, this process experienced delays due to inter-clan and inter-generational disputes over land ownership and/or legitimacy and slower than anticipated government processes. During the year, despite these delays and the signi cant work required for the earthquake and APEC, the PNG Department of Petroleum focused on resuming the landowner identi cation process and made signi cant progress in completing phase one, which involved mapping, identifying and vetting various clans. Phase two will involve a process of ‘no-objection’ to ensure landowners agree with the clan-vetting process carried out in phase one. Once complete, the Government will work towards opening bank accounts so payments to vetted, impacted bene ciaries can be facilitated. Oil Search continues to support the PNG Government to facilitate the release of landowner bene ts pending the completion of landowner identi cation and veri cation. As a participant in the EITI, Oil Search’s commitment to transparency plays an important role in establishing and maintaining our credibility and supporting strong and e ective relationships. As in previous years, we have voluntarily disclosed our 2018 payments to governments in this Report , our contributions to the PNG EITI report, and our Transparency Report . Proud of what we do and how we do it We seek to adopt industry best practice when managing material social responsibility issues, exceeding stakeholder expectations for governance, environmental and social performance wherever we can PERFORMANCE S U M M A RY U S$52M RELEASED IN SUPPLIER OR our Preliminary Modern CONTRACTOR Slavery Statement 22% reduction in Total Top quartile of Carbon payments to Lancos Recordable Injury Rate Tracker’s climate-resilient oil and gas companies Z ERO TIER 1 process safety incidents Six consecutive years with no Commenced an update of our No signi cant spills major ISO 14001 nonHuman Rights Impact conformances Assessment Understanding climate impacts and opportunities Building understanding of our transition risks In 2018, Oil Search published a Climate Change Resilience Report that is aligned with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. The Report assessed the nancial risks of climate change by examining our existing and future projects and their resilience in a range of decarbonisation scenarios, including a 2°C world. The analysis showed there is a low risk of our low-cost assets being stranded in a carbon-constrained world. The Report also published a cost curve showing Oil Search’s LNG Expansion Project as one of the lowest-cost projects on a 2°C pathway. During 2018, Oil Search undertook direct engagement with key investors and stakeholders to discuss our approach to climate change scenario analysis. Oil Search has continued engaging with lenders and our industry peers to share knowledge, experience gained, and lessons learned. In 2019, Oil Search will build on our experiences and knowledge by leading an IPIECA taskforce on climate change scenarios. C AS E S T U DY Oil Search’s climate e orts recognised Carbon Tracker is an independent nancial think tank that analyses the impact of the energy transition on capital markets and publishes reports on the nancial risks of climate change. In July 2018, Carbon Tracker published its 2 Degrees of Separation report, which estimated the relative climate change transition risk of major oil and gas producers, from the point of view of potential capital expenditure committed to high-cost projects outside a 2°C pathway. The Report placed Oil Search in the top quartile for resilience to nancial transition risk and found all our planned projects would be required in both a 2°C pathway and a 1.75°C pathway. Carbon Tracker’s assessment is consistent with Oil Search’s own analysis and demonstrates to our shareholders, communities, employees and other stakeholders that our climate change risk processes are robust, and our assets have long-term resilience and value-generation in a 2°C world. Physical Climate Change Scenario and Risk Assessment Over time, there is the potential for Oil Search’s long-life assets to experience climate change impacts that are di erent to the impact of current or past climate extremes. To minimise the physical risk of climate change to our assets, we consider climate risks when developing new projects and in our planning procedures. In 2018, Oil Search began a Physical Climate Change Scenario and Risk Assessment (PSRA) to understand and quantify the range of possible scenarios that may pose direct and indirect physical climate risks to our assets, supply chains and project area communities. The PSRA comprises three phases. PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Objective Identify reputable climate change data Quantify physical climate change risks Embed PSRA to conduct a robust PSRA to Oil Search’s existing assets, supply into Oil Search’s chains and communities existing Identify and assess material physical management climate risks for each geographic Develop a methodology for assessing and decisionregion under a range of scenarios and quantifying these risks for new making assets and exploration areas processes Task Climate model and Geographic Risk and Methodology Implement data assessment riskconsequences for for assessing ndings and screening existing assets, new assets embed physical supply chains and and risk assessment communities exploration outcomes into areas existing business processes In 2018 we commenced implementation of phase one of the PSRA. We partnered with a specialist advisory and analytics company with world-class expertise in climate change risk management to: Assess available physical climate change models and review them based on a set of Oil Search criteria so we could identify the most suitable models and data for each geographic region. Assess, identify and categorise material physical climate change risks in Oil Search’s operational geographies. Phase two of the PSRA will commence in early 2019. Our plan is to input the assessment ndings into Oil Search’s engineering and asset development plans for future assets. They will also help inform decisions about major capital expenditure design and future investments. Strengthening methane emissions reporting accuracy During 2018, Oil Search focused on improving our methane reporting methodology and emissions data accuracy. We conducted an extensive review of our existing reporting methodology with the support of our Production and Engineering teams. The improvements identi ed were used to develop a revised methodology that is now the basis for 2018 and future emissions reporting. With the new methodology, approximately 100% of methane-venting emissions are based on measured data, compared to 20% in 2017. Using measured data improves the accuracy and robustness of Oil Search’s Green House Gas (GHG) emissions and the accuracy of our methane emissions. This improvement in accuracy resulted in a lower emissions intensity of 44 ktCO e/mmboe in 2018 compared to 50 2 ktCO e/mmboe in 2017. 2 Oil Search’s operatedelds GHG emissions declined by 41% in 2018, largely resulting from production shut-downs due to the earthquake. As production recovers in 2019, Oil Search’s operated GHG emissions are expected to return to preearthquake levels. We also assessed the Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Methane Guiding Principles during 2018 so we could better understand the initiative and evaluate opportunities to implement the principles. Although we are not currently a signatory, Oil Search has advanced several principles and is strongly aligned with the intent of the initiative. We will continue to evaluate options to strengthen our position with some of the other principles, including the cost and practicality of conducting fugitive methane leak detection, and options for investing in the research and development of innovative technologies and approaches. Partnering to achieve climate outcomes Oil Search is an active member of IPIECA’s Climate Change Working Group and is involved in several task forces and working groups. We are part of an IPIECA Adaptation Working Group that is developing a physical climate change risk methodology for the oil and gas industry; we will participate in IPIECA’s 2019 Methane Working Group, which is monitoring developments in methane reporting and learning good practice for reducing methane emissions; and we are leading the taskforce on climate change scenarios. In November 2018, we signed a historic MoU with the PNG CCDA on collaboration for climate adaptation projects in PNG. The rst project is expected to begin in early 2019 and will focus on aspects of community resilience. The ndings from Oil Search’s PSRA will increase our understanding of how communities may be impacted by climate change and the material risks we need to manage. During the year, we undertook a preliminary review of the stated climate policy positions of our member organisations and con rmed they do not con ict with our Company position. Reinforcing climate commitments through executive remuneration Re ecting the Company’s commitment to managing climate-related risks, Oil Search included the use of an internal carbon price as a component of its 2018 Short-Term Incentive (STI) scheme. Oil Search achieved 100% compliance in 2018. The internal carbon price STI will remain in 2019 and will be bolstered with a STI component focused on proactively managing methane emissions in our operating assets. View the SDG table Strengthening our human rights processes Respect for human rights and the desire to do no harm underpin Oil Search’s commitment to sustainable development and our approach to operating responsibly. They help to build the mutual trust and respect within our communities that we need to maintain our social licence to operate and provide a stable operating environment. Human Rights Impact Assessment updated To con rm Oil Search remains focused on our most important human rights issues, in 2018 we commenced an update of our organisation-wide Human Rights Impact Assessment. This due diligence work examines the human rights risks and impacts associated with each type of Company and supply chain activity, including those associated with our power business and public infrastructure work in PNG and current and planned Alaskan activities. The work is expected to be nalised in early 2019. The assessment includes a review of the human rights risks associated with modern slavery. This highlighted risk factors and other considerations around the potential modern slavery risks in our operations and supply chain. For more information on our approach to addressing modern slavery, see our 2018 Preliminary Modern Slavery Statement and the responsible supply chain management section of this Report. The review results will inform several concurrent initiatives, including reviews of our grievance management system, development of human rights training, responsible supply chain management and readiness preparations for disclosures under the new Australian Modern Slavery Act. Grievance management review commenced A de ned, scalable and culturally appropriate mechanism that implements a process of identi cation, evaluation and remedy for human rights grievances is a core principle of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and fundamental to Oil Search’s approach to stakeholder engagement and human rights risk management. In 2018, we engaged human rights specialists to help us review our community engagement and grievance management practices and update our business requirements for the assessment, escalation, investigation and remedy of community grievances, as well as our needs for resources, training and tools. These will be progressively addressed as a part of our human rights plan. Human rights and security During the year, we conducted an internal review of our performance against the requirements of our MoU with the Royal PNG Constabulary (RPNGC) and our commitments under the VPSHR. We also worked with a range of key stakeholders, including the Australian and PNG governments, peers and civil society to promote understanding, respect for and implementation of the Voluntary Principles. In 2018, Oil Search reported three incidents related to security and human rights to relevant authorities in PNG. They all involved alleged assaults by RPNGC O cers against contractors working with us or community members in our project areas. As a result of the incidents, Oil Search requested the Police command to redeploy the Police o cers, which was agreed. During the year, Oil Search’s operations in one licence area were interrupted due to community unrest resulting, in part, from the non-payment of funds committed by the PNG Government to landowners. The unrest escalated when community members unlawfully entered a well pad and involuntarily detained members of our sta . As a result of extensive negotiations, the detainees were released unharmed in less than 24 hours. The incident is the subject of an ongoing Police investigation. More information on our approach and performance regarding human rights and security providers can be found in our 2018 VPSHR Report . Responsible supply chain management In June 2018, the Board HSSC endorsed a high-level responsible supply chain strategy that included readiness for the requirements of the Australian Modern Slavery Act, which passed in November 2018. This strategy encompasses the risks and impacts relating to human rights including modern slavery, health and safety, bribery and corruption, and the environment for the supply of goods and services. From 2019, progress against the strategy workplan will be overseen by a responsible supply chain governance structure, including an executive Steering Group and subject matter expert working groups. During 2018, we focused on risk and impact identi cation to underpin the workplan for 2019. This included conducting a preliminary assessment of the potential risks and impacts inherent in the Company’s use of PNG landowner companies, as well as working with a human and labour rights specialist to develop a supply chain mapping approach for 2019. The results of the Human Rights Impact Assessment and Modern Slavery Review conducted during the year will also inform this process. The Company’s transition during the year to a new enterprise management system will help facilitate several responsible supply chain management objectives by improving controls, governance and oversight of key elements of supplier and contractor management, including supplier pre-quali cation and performance. Under the Australian Modern Slavery Act, in 2020, Oil Search will be required to issue a Modern Slavery Statement that covers our supply chain. In anticipation of this requirement, and to signal our commitment and intent, we have prepared a Preliminary Modern Slavery Statement to provide an overview of our planned approach. Prioritising safety The remote nature of much of Oil Search’s areas of operation and factors such as dense, steep jungle terrain and Arctic environments, present unique challenges for safety management. Our complex supply chain involves multiple contractors who transport personnel and equipment using rivers, bush tracks, ice roads and helicopters. Occasionally, these challenges are compounded by the risk of natural disasters, including landslips, ooding and earthquakes. The devastating PNG earthquake in February 2018 is one example. It required Oil Search to rapidly transition from planned production, drilling and exploration activities into emergency response, recovery and remediation as well as a return to safe and reliable operations. Thanks to the consistent use of safety processes and procedures, our earthquake recovery and response was completed with zero recordable injuries, despite having limited access to IT systems and communication mechanisms. Prioritising the safety of our people and the community, Oil Search deployed geotechnical experts to earthquakea ected areas to assess structural stability and develop geotechnical risk pro les so we could con rm safe access before commencing remediation construction works. The earthquake response and recovery operation was one of several high-risk activities in 2018, along with two extensive heli-portable seismic acquisition programmes, two exploration drilling campaigns, two well workover programmes, an o shore surface diving campaign and the commencement of Alaskan ice road construction. Despite the high level of signi cantly risky activity, our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) decreased from 1.93 in 2017 to 1.58 in 2018. There were no fatalities and two lost time injuries recorded across our global activities, so the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) decreased from 0.34 in 2017 to 0.19 in 2018. The decrease in injury rates was mostly due to: An improved performance from our PNG production operations, which experienced two recordable injuries during the year compared to six in 2017. The implementation of a safety intervention and improvement plan in response to an early spike in recordable incidents with PNG frontier exploration projects. Comprehensive preparations for our Alaskan ice road construction and drilling readiness activities. While the injury frequency rate improved, Oil Search experienced an increase in the High Potential (HiPo) incident frequency rate, which rose from 0.68 in 2017 to 1.11 in 2018. This was due to several near-miss incidents with the potential to result in serious injury or fatal consequence. All HiPo incidents are subject to detailed incident investigation and analysis and the development of associated corrective action and prevention programmes. The Oil Search safety management approach focuses on the cornerstone principles of strong safety leadership, planning and risk management. In PNG we implemented the Plan, Do, Check (PDC) programme in 2018. This emphasises planning work and managing and measuring its execution, while continually monitoring work quality in accordance with the plan. PDC uses the 10 Oil Search Life Saving Rules as the foundation for identifying and managing risks. Due to the success of this programme, in 2019 it will be strengthened within PNG’s production and operations support and extended to seismic, exploration and drilling safety management plans. We will also develop a global safety management system that supports both our PNG and Alaskan activities. Process safety Process safety at Oil Search focuses on managing the hydrocarbon loss of containment hazards that are associated with drilling and production activities. These can lead to loss of life, environmental damage and asset destruction. We have a Process Safety Framework to manage the hazards, ensuring that robust controls are in place to mitigate them. Our key process safety focus in 2018 was a safe and sustainable return to service a er the earthquake. This required initial shut-in of all facilities, followed by detailed inspection, assessment and t-for-service testing for wells, pipelines and production facilities before the assets were brought back online. Despite the signi cant potential impact of the earthquake, we experienced no Tier 1 process safety events (PSEs). There were three Tier 2 PSEs, none of which were directly related to the earthquake. During 2018, Oil Search introduced measures to continually improve process-safety-related systems and reduce risks related to major hazards. They included: Development and approval of our Basis for Safe Operations for all production facilities. A third-party well control audit and subsequent well blowout contingency planning emergency response exercise for PNG drilling. A third-party Permit to Work audit. A focus on process alarm management, with signi cant reduction in alarm counts at all facilities. The net bene ts of alarm reduction include improved process stability and lower demands on safety systems. Improved compliance with the safety-critical equipment preventative maintenance schedule. Continued improvement of our training and competency assurance processes. Emergency preparedness and crisis management Oil Search’s goal is to create a controlled work environment where people and assets are safe and our impacts on the environment and project area communities are minimised. Contingency measures become critically important during unplanned events and having a robust emergency and crisis response plan helps to ensure we will be able to minimise their impact. The PNG earthquake was a major test for our crisis and emergency preparedness. We learned a valuable lesson regarding the importance of having communication mechanisms such as mobile phones available during a countrywide crisis. We have responded by strengthening our emergency management communications capability and will conduct regular earthquake response drills for our key project sites. To prepare for the 2018/19 ice season in Alaska, in line with our emergency preparedness and crisis management prevention plans, we conducted a critical incident response training exercise with relevant authorities in Anchorage during November 2018. This exercise was monitored by local and State Authorities, who approved Oil Search’s preparedness and capability to conduct the 2019 ice season drilling programme. Managing resources responsibly Our oil and gas operations take place in some of the most remote and environmentally sensitive regions in the world. Extracting and processing hydrocarbons can pose a risk to the natural environment, so our facilities and management systems have been designed to manage these risks to the lowest level reasonably possible. More information on our environmental management approach is on our website. Managing our environmental impacts Our facilities in PNG were impacted signi cantly by the 2018 earthquake. Inspection of production assets indicated the integrity of our infrastructure had been maintained and there was no loss of containment of hydrocarbons. Inspection of our drilling operations identi ed an unintended release of chemicals stored in a tank (benign saline solution) as a result of a landslide. This resulted in a release of 67,407L and was low impact and within the permitted discharge limit and material type prescribed by the Company’s environment permit. The number of spills (>1bbl) that reached the environment in 2018 increased to nine, compared to ve in 2017. Three of these incidents were attributed to damage caused by the earthquake in our non-production facilities and the remainder were due to increased transportation activity involving the movement of liquids and mechanical faults. A performance improvement plan was developed in late 2018 to monitor our spills performance and implement actions to minimise reoccurrences. A er the earthquake, we strengthened governance around managing the environmental impacts associated with our activities by re-introducing a High Priority Tracker. The Tracker consolidates and prioritises requirements from our environmental permit, our operational plan and ndings from periodic ISO 14001 audits, and act as a consistent and e ective management tool for prioritising and managing actions. The Tracker was commended by independent external auditors during our most recent environmental management system audit (ISO 14001:2015), which was completed in November 2018 with no major non-conformances reported. In 2018, we signed a waste management facility-sharing agreement with ExxonMobil that facilitates shared access to waste-processing facilities. The agreement will achieve e ciency gains through increased capacity, improved waste management and reduced maintenance and transportation costs. During the year, the PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum established an Environmental Committee, and Oil Search is an active participant. Comprised of environmental managers from a number of resources companies in PNG, the Committee acts as a local industry body for environmental matters and facilitates collaboration between peers to review issues and provide technical feedback. In Alaska, we conducted numerous eld-based environmental studies on water, air and fauna to ensure our ice roads had a minimal impact on the environment. We also initiated an air monitoring programme to develop a baseline to ensure that air emissions associated with the winter drilling season were minimised and did not impact local communities. As part of the programme, air emissions reduction initiatives were implemented, including one on drilling rig generators, to limit air emissions from both generators and testing equipment. Strategic biodiversity management Oil Search actively works to mitigate our impacts on biodiversity by recognising that these ecosystems support a variety of species and contribute to the sustenance of local communities. In 2018, we continued bringing together our initiatives under a Biodiversity Strategy that is currently being developed. This will provide a strategic framework for preserving biodiversity value in our operational areas. Once nalised, the Strategy will focus our e orts on ensuring biodiversity values are adequately identi ed and considered through the implementation of a management hierarchy of ‘avoid, minimise, mitigate and o set’. During the year, Oil Search’s Eastern Fold Belt seismic programme completed phase one of its activities in the protected Crater Mountain Wildlife Management Area of PNG. We actively engaged local communities and obtained permission from the Crater Mountain Wildlife Management Area Committee for this activity. An evaluation of the implications of working within this protected area was undertaken, and our seismic work was determined to be a low biodiversity risk. A site-speci c Environmental Management Plan with stringent environmental requirements applies to this programme and is supported by ongoing risk assessments. Engaging over our Alaskan footprint As part of the requirements of Oil Search’s proposed development in Alaska, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers prepared an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that evaluated potential environmental and social impacts associated with the Nanushuk Oil Development project in accordance with relevant regulatory requirements. Oil Search actively participated in the EIS by providing detailed information and commissioning background environmental studies. These included an analysis of potential environmental impacts and the proposed avoidance and mitigation measures that have been incorporated into our project design. Developing the EIS created opportunities for North Slope Alaska Natives and the wider community to provide information on local resources, voice concerns, and understand potential impacts. The EIS was completed in early November 2018 and a decision on the permit approval is anticipated to be made by the regulator in early 2019. In 2018, Oil Search began acquiring all the necessary permits and approvals for conducting a multi-well winter appraisal drilling campaign in the Pikka Unit. This included approximately 50 di erent permits/approvals from a range of di erent State and Federal regulators, including those responsible for environment, natural resources and conservation and fauna. Since the drilling locations were located on land owned by traditional Indigenous owners, Oil Search proactively engaged with the recognised local village corporation (Kuukpik Corporation), to secure appropriate levels of approval from the recognised landowner. Operating with integrity Code of Conduct The Oil Search Code of Conduct represents our commitment to upholding ethical business practices that meet or exceed applicable legal requirements. We believe a consistent and principled approach to conduct builds trust and generates stakeholder support. In June 2018, we strengthened our Code of Conduct to include new guidance around personal relationships within the organisation. This reinforces our approach to managing con icts of interest and ensures that all decisions regarding a person’s work, entitlements or position/standing in Oil Search are made without bias or discrimination. During the year, Oil Search investigated all reported and suspected breaches of the Code of Conduct. A er appropriate investigations, 11 records of discussion or written warnings were issued, one termination occurred, and one employee resigned. The breaches related to harassment and bullying; policy or procedures; and health, safety, environment and security. No instances of discrimination were reported. One call was made to our Whistle-blower Hotline during the year relating to con ict of interest. The issue was investigated, found to be unsubstantiated and closed out via our whistle-blower process. Payments transparency Oil Search supports and advocates for improved transparency of payments made to governments by extractive companies, and we voluntarily disclose our payments. Our 2018 Transparency Report and Data Centre summarise information about socio-economic payments we made in 2018 to countries where Oil Search has a presence. This information also informs our Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) submission for PNG. We are long-time supporters of PNG’s journey towards compliance with the EITI, and in 2018, continued to work with the PNG Government, civil society and industry peers to support its implementation in PNG. View the SDG table Measuring our social performance Understanding the actual and potential social impacts of our operations and sustainable development projects is essential. It underpins our approach to social responsibility, helping us realise opportunities and mitigate impacts. Based on current assessments, production of oil and gas in Oil Search’s Gobe oil elds is expected to reach its end-of-life over the medium-term, requiring some assets to be decommissioned. The potential transition represents the rst of its kind in the oil and gas sector in PNG. To e ectively manage it and ensure we set a positive precedent for the asset-planning process, Oil Search developed a detailed Gobe Social Performance Framework in 2018 for long lead-time implementation. The Framework provides an overview of the key social performance deliverables for the transition, along with operating principles and practices for managing stakeholder and social outcomes. It is based around socio-economic baseline studies and a socio-economic impact assessment; encompasses plans to engage with local communities; Lancos and the PNG Government in transition planning; provides genuine opportunities for consultation; and aims to establish local ownership and acceptance of project outcomes. A Sustainable Development Plan will address aspects such as health, education, livelihoods, access to energy, infrastructure planning, and water and sanitation. It will also identify appropriate partners to deliver each development priority and involve an extensive stakeholder engagement process that ensures strong community ownership and acceptance of outcomes. The plan will be implemented and rolled out over the next ve years, starting in 2019. Engaging and empowering our employees We seek to provide a workplace that celebrates diversity, supports learning and development and drives high performance. PERFORMANCE S U M M A RY 84% 66% PNG CITIZENS OF LEADERSHIP ROLES in our PNG workforce in PNG held by PNG citizens 1,410 OSL employees 33% female representation on our Board 192 TO P 2 0 0 CRITICAL ROLES COMPANY assessed for talent succession in Equileap’s global Gender 29% increase in the number 161 participants in our Equality Ranking of women in senior leadership Coaching Our Way roles since 2015 programme Oil Search’s approach to employee engagement and empowerment is guided by one of the Company’s strategic objectives: to enhance our organisational capability to deliver. We work to create an environment for our employees that enables them to do their best within high-performing and diverse teams. We also seek to provide a workplace that celebrates diversity and creates opportunities for learning and growth. Employees receive valuable opportunities to gain experience, skills and vocational quali cations, and this investment enables us to attract and retain a high-performing team to achieve our business and growth objectives. For more detail about Oil Search’s approach to engaging and empowering our employees, see our website. Building organisational competency and capacity Employee development was a key focus for Oil Search in 2018, with several initiatives underway to develop workforce capability, foster employee engagement and manage our pipeline of people with the capability to move into leadership roles. Oil Search conducted the Company’s rst employee engagement survey in 2017 to establish a baseline understanding of engagement across a range of measures and explore perceptions of inclusion and belonging at work. The results from this survey were overlaid with the Company’s 2020 Employee Development Strategy to prioritise areas of focus in 2018. Leadership development programmes Oil Search’s leaders have a signi cant impact and in uence on the workforce. During the year, we expanded the Company’s leadership development curriculum in support of our goal to build a highly capable, committed and diverse workforce. We introduced the Coaching Our Way programme, which aims to equip leaders to create an engaging work environment, making people feel valued and fostering employee development. Fi een Coaching Our Way workshops were held during the year for 161 senior managers, managers, and supervisors in Sydney and Port Moresby. The programme will extend to Alaska and the PNG eld in 2019. Several leadership development programmes are also in place to build leadership capacity throughout the organisation and improve our pipeline of talent across di erent organisational levels. These include the: Graduate Development Programme. Accelerated Development Programme our agship o ering for high potential employees. Senior Leader Development Process. Targeted diversity and inclusion initiatives, including the Leading Our Way for Women programme and the Citizen Development Programme. The Senior Leader Development Process was introduced in 2018 to build a highly capable, committed and diverse leadership group that is well-equipped to execute Oil Search’s Business Strategy. It enables General Managers and senior functional leaders expand their leadership capability by engaging in di erent development pathways within the Company. Six participants were selected across Port Moresby, Sydney and Anchorage, and the programme will be extended in 2019. The process includes a rigorous upfront assessment and individual development strategies deployed over 12 months ranging from executive education, to coaching, mentoring, and involvement in business projects. Performance and development refresh In 2018, we conducted a performance and development refresh to enhance employee engagement through more constructive and frequent conversations and planning. The refreshed process will be implemented in 2019 enabled by a new HR Information System and a comprehensive launch strategy that includes employee and leader workshops. Recognition Guidelines Oil Search developed and implemented Recognition Guidelines in 2018. The aim was to support and encourage managers to recognise (formally and informally) their team members more frequently, and ensure formal recognition is delivered in a proportionate and consistent way. The Guidelines clarify when and how we recognise people at Oil Search and provide guidance on ensuring recognition is authentic, meaningful and motivating. These were used extensively during the year to provide meaningful recognition to employees and contractors who led and participated in Oil Search’s response to the devasting earthquake. Developing our talent pipeline We continue to invest in and improve the depth and diversity of talent across the Company through our extensive leadership development curriculum. Our annual Talent and Succession Review, which was completed between July and September 2018, assessed 192 critical roles for succession, with the following results: 86 employees were evaluated as being high potential (i.e. capable of progressing to leadership or executive levels). 15 individuals were assessed as successor candidates to Executive General Manager roles. 44% of individuals on succession plans were PNG citizens and 31% were female Focusing on diversity and inclusion Having a diverse and inclusive workforce that re ects the areas where we operate strengthens Oil Search’s capability and resilience. We aim to provide an equal opportunity work environment that is free from harassment and promotes decision-making that is free of discrimination. In 2018, Oil Search remained focused on improving diversity through our 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, which addresses gender diversity, PNG citizen development and an inclusive workplace. We improved our Board’s gender diversity with the addition of a new female director, increasing the percentage of women directors from 25% in 2017 to 33% in 2018. The percentage of females in senior management increased from 22% in 2017 to 23% in 2018. We aim to further increase this through programmes and actions identi ed as part of our 2020 Strategy. We are also working to address the gap in women pursuing technical roles across all levels of the organisation through initiatives such as scholarships to support careers in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM). In our Graduate Development Programme, we increased the percentage of female graduates from 36% in the 2017 intake to 46% in 2018. Oil Search’s Leading Our Way for Women programme continued in 2018 for 17 participants across the organisation to support the development of a pipeline of female leaders. Participants bene ted from an intensive development experience, with their managers also involved to promote greater understanding and empathy for the various development barriers women face and how best to address them. Since completing the programme, ve participants have been promoted and another three have had the opportunity to change roles within the business. As part of our 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, Oil Search measures progress against an inclusion index derived from the results of our 2017 employee engagement survey. While a 2017 baseline has been established, progress will be reported once the results of our next employee engagement survey have been reviewed. An organisation-wide employee engagement plan has been implemented to promote an inclusive and positive work environment, with initiatives focused on: Enabling managers to create a safe and trusting environment where people feel valued and can work to their potential. Equipping managers through the Coaching Our Way programme to have engaging conversations and bring out the best in their sta . Recognition Guidelines that support more frequent and consistent manager recognition. Our focus on diversity and our e orts to achieve progress earned Oil Search a spot in the top 200 companies globally for gender balance and equality in the 2018 Equileap Gender Equality Ranking. Progress against Oil Search’s diversity and inclusion goals Focus area 2020 goal 2018 Status results Gender diversity At least 30% female Executive General 11% Progressing, action plans in place. Managers on the Executive Leadership Team by 2020 30% female representation at Senior Manager 23% Progressing, action plans in place. level by 2020 50% female representation in graduate intakes 46% Progressing, action plans in place 2018-2020 Citizen development Increase percentage of PNG citizens in 66% Progressing, action plans in place. leadership roles in the PNG workforce to 73% by 2020 Inclusive workplace Consistently improve results on the Inclusion NA Action plans in place; results Index on the 2017 baseline available in August 2019. View the SDG table Citizen Development Programme Oil Search’s capability and resilience are strengthened by having a diverse and inclusive workforce that re ects the areas in which we operate. Our Citizen Development Programme (CDP) was established in 2016 and provides clear development and employment opportunities for high-performing PNG citizens. During 2018, 17 CDP participants were successfully placed in roles within the business, more than our target of 11. Cumulatively, 66% of our leadership roles in PNG are held by PNG citizens, so we are progressing towards our 2020 goal of 73%. During 2018, 70 individuals attended the annual CDP residential workshop, and all participants have development actions underway with the support of a coach. The workshop was tailored to be culturally sensitive and focused on developing self-con dence, leadership presence, people leadership skills and individual accountability. Seventeen participants progressed into leadership roles during 2018 and eight were provided with a secondment opportunity to Sydney. We also started building a local coaching team with the appointment of a PNG citizen coach, responsible for supporting the development of programme participants. This will continue in 2019. One of our key citizen development initiatives in 2018 was the introduction of a scholarship programme for young PNG citizens with demonstrated potential. The programme takes a planned, consolidated approach to educational scholarships and support. There is a focus on early identi cation and attraction of technical and leadership talent, with education opportunities at both secondary school and university levels in skills shortage areas such as STEM. Oil Search has partnered with the OSF to develop this programme and it will be implemented in 2019. The Company continues to review and refresh citizen development approaches in support of our commitment to local leadership and 2020 targets. View the SDG table C AS E S T U DY Our rst female Production Supervisor Gas from the Hides gas eld supplies the Hides Gas-to-Electricity Project, which is operated by Oil Search. A fully-trained Oil Search process technician, Wendy Bart, was given the opportunity through CDP to be responsible for the high-value Hides gas production facility when she became the Company’s rst female Production Supervisor. We understand this is a rst, not just for us, but for PNG. Wendy comes from East Sepik Province and joined Oil Search in 2006 through the Company’s Apprenticeship Programme. She went on to participate in the Oil Search Accelerated Development Programme and the CDP. In addition, she underwent extensive on and o -the-job development to prepare for her new role, including leadership coaching. I am honoured to work for a company that undoubtedly stands for gender equality right down to the oor and is giving me every support, from training and coaching to exposure to all areas of the business. On top of all that, my children receive education and medical care, and I get time o work to spend with my family she said. Encouraging employee wellbeing Oil Search is committed to protecting and improving the health and wellbeing of our employees and contractors. We are active in a range of multistakeholder forums, including the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA’s Health Committee. Participation supports our e orts to access and share good industry practice and knowledge. In 2018, the Company’s wellbeing programme was rebranded and refreshed then reintroduced as Lifestyle Connect, which builds on the existing platform to deliver a renewed focus on managing the impact of lifestyle diseases. The core programme includes education, health checks, occupational health, and professional support for employees and their families. Lifestyle Connect helps employees to actively manage speci c issues related to occupational health by promoting a proactive and positive approach to health management that includes: Working at altitude, heat or extreme cold. Fatigue. Health impacts of y-in y-out working. Mental health and wellbeing. Drugs and alcohol in the workplace. There is increased awareness regarding mental health conditions globally, so Oil Search is acting to create a psychologically healthy workplace by helping to protect our employees’ mental health. During 2018, Better Mental Health training was conducted by industry experts across the business to: Help sta recognise common mental health problems and o er appropriate support. Provide practical tips for looking a er their personal mental health. Help de-stigmatise mental health. Facilitate common dialogue from the top down. The training was delivered in 42 sessions covering 691 participants (nearly 50% of our employees). Engaging employees on social responsibility priorities Oil Search invests in community organisations to help build their capacity and e ectiveness. Our investment allows us to extend our reach through partnerships and to leverage our partners’ local expertise and knowledge, so we can make greater progress towards shared development outcomes. Also, championing causes that are meaningful to employees improves their engagement with the Company. During 2018, Oil Search employees once again demonstrated their commitment to social responsibility. They were at the forefront of the earthquake relief and response campaign, providing ongoing support as helping hands and through donations. Our employees donated more than US$19,500 in cash and coordinated the collection and delivery of 170 boxes of goods and supplies from sta and their families. The Sydney Social Club supported a Champions of Change initiative to support Bel isi PNG , raising approximately US$4,500. As well as receiving cash donations, the Club sold cards and wrapping paper based on drawings from children in the Kikori Literacy Library around the theme of ‘happy homes’ and ‘what Christmas means to me’. Nearly 2,000 people, including Oil Search employees, walked in support of the 2018 International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women in Port Moresby. The walk was led by the Governor of the National Capital District, a strong advocate of speaking out against violence. From August to December 2018, Sydney and Port Moresby employees participated in Oil Search’s Caring for Kids Corporate Fitness Challenge to raise funds for the Children's Ward at Port Moresby General Hospital. This initiative raised funds while improving health and tness, with people running, cycling and rowing to raise more than US$17,400. Oil Search has sponsored the Da odil Corporate Golf Challenge since 2003, and in 2018 this event helped to raise US$30,000. All the money will go towards bringing cancer education and awareness programmes to communities and schools throughout PNG in 2019. 27 employees and contractors in Port Moresby participated in our corporate blood drive in support of the Port Moresby General Hospital Blood Bank. C AS E S T U DY Championing change in the community Oil Search employee Dinah Gaudi, a member of our Finance team in Port Moresby, worked with 25 families and more than 100 community members in rural Port Moresby to lead the building and installation of four septic toilets to replace pit latrines. The initiative was funded through OSF’s Champions of Change small grants programme. The grant acted as a catalyst for establishing a community planning committee, created awareness and engaged local people as volunteers in the construction. The community appreciated the process of developing committee skills, having women engaged as representatives, and being encouraged to talk about sanitation and safety needs. The toilets are well used and cared for by the community, which is now planning to build water tanks to address the ongoing challenge of sourcing an adequate water supply. Reporting Index Global Reporting Initiative and IPIECA reporting index This material references GRI Standards 2016. The Standards or sections of the Standards referenced are noted in our GRI Content Index. General disclosures Organisation pro le GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/link IPIECA Reference Indicator description GRI 102-1 Name of the Oil Search Limited organisation GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, Website – What we do products, and services GRI 102-3 Location of Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea headquarters GRI 102-4 Location of operations Website – What we do Social Responsibility Report 2018 – About this Report GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal Website – Who we are form Annual Report 2018 – Shareholder information GRI 102-6 Markets served Most of the crude oil and natural gas we produce is sold into the Asia Paci c region. Our customers include integrated oil companies, re ners and commodity trading organisations. GRI 102-7 Scale of the Annual Report 2018 – Overview of organisation Operations Annual Report 2018 – Ten-year summary Annual Report 2018 – Highlights GRI 102-8 Information on Data Centre – People and employees and other organisation – Workforce workers GRI 102-9 Supply chain Website – What we do Website – Human rights Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Responsible supply chain management GRI 102-10 Signi cant changes to Social Responsibility Report 2018 – the organisation and its Message from our leaders supply chain 2018 Annual Report – Update from Peter Botten GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle Social Responsibility Policy or approach Website – Responsible operator GRI 102-12 External initiatives Website – Memberships and commitments GRI 102-13 Membership of Website – Memberships and associations commitments Strategy GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 102-14 Statement from senior Social Responsibility Report 2018 – decision-maker Message from our leaders GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Annual Report 2018 – Directors' opportunities Report: Material business risks Climate Change Resilience Report 2018 Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Engaging with our stakeholders Ethics and integrity GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 102-16 Values, principles, Website – Oil Search leadership Business ethics and standards, and norms behaviours transparency of behaviour Oil Search Code of Conduct Website – Policies and standards GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Website – Corruption Prevention Business ethics and and concerns about Policy transparency ethics Website – Integrity and transparency Governance GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 102-18 Governance structure Website – The Board Website Board Committees GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Website – Health Safety and Sustainability Committee GRI 102-20 Executive-level Website – Board Committees responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics GRI 102-21 Consulting Website Corporate governance stakeholders on economic, environmental and Website – Stakeholder engagement social topics Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Engaging with our stakeholders GRI 102-22 Composition of the Corporate Governance Statement highest governance 2018 body and its committees GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest The Chair of the Board is a Nongovernance body Executive Director. As per the Oil Search Board Charter, the Board will elect one of the Directors to act as Chair who: (a) is a Non-Executive Director, and (b) has not previously served as Managing Director of the Company. GRI 102-24 Nominating and Website – Selection, appointment or selecting the highest election of Directors governance body GRI 102-25 Con icts of interest Website – Corruption Prevention Policy Website – Director independence and other appointments GRI 102-26 Role of highest Website – Roles and responsibilities governance body in of the Board setting purpose, values and strategy GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge Corporate Governance Statement of highest governance 2018 body GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest Website – Board performance governance body’s evaluation performance Corporate Governance Statement 2018 GRI 102-29 Identifying and Corporate Governance Statement managing economic, 2018 environmental and social impacts Website – Health, Safety and Sustainability Committee Website – Risk and assurance GRI 102-30 E ectiveness of risk Website – Roles and responsibilities management processes of the Board Website Risk and assurance GRI 102-31 Review of economic, Website – Health, Safety and environmental and Sustainability Committee Charter social topics GRI 102-32 Highest governance Board Health, Safety and Sustainability body’s role in Committee sustainability reporting GRI 102-33 Communicating critical Corporate Governance Statement concerns 2018 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2018 – Remuneration Report GRI 102-36 Process for determining Annual Report 2018 – Remuneration remuneration Report Website – Remuneration for NonExecutive Directors Stakeholder engagement GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder Website Stakeholder engagement groups Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Engaging with our stakeholders GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining Website – Workforce management agreements GRI 102-42 Identifying and Website – Stakeholder engagement selecting stakeholders GRI 102-43 Approach to Website – Stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and Social Responsibility Report 2018 – concerns raised Engaging with our stakeholders GRI 102-45 Entities included in the Annual Report 2018 – Subsidiaries consolidated nancial and interests in joint arrangements statements Reporting practice GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 102-46 De ning Report Social Responsibility Report 2018 – content and topic About this Report Boundaries GRI 102-47 List of material topics Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Social Responsibility Strategy Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Engaging with our stakeholders GRI 102-48 Restatements of Changes and restatements, where information made, are indicated as footnotes in the Data Centre GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Material developments in 2018 GRI 102-50 Reporting period The 2018 Social Responsibility Report covers performance between 1 January and 31 December 2018. GRI 102-51 Date of most recent The previous Social Responsibility Report Report was released in March 2018 and covered the period 1 January to 31 December 2017. GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for SocialResponsibility@oilsearch.com questions regarding the Report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in GRI-referenced Report accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Reporting Index GRI 102-56 External assurance Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Independent limited assurance Management approach GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Indicator Description GRI 103-1 Explanation of the Social Responsibility Report 2018 SE1; SE2; SE9; SE18 material topic and its Boundary Website – How we work Social Responsibility Report 2018 – About this Report GRI 103-2 The management Website – How we work SE1; SE2; SE9; SE18 approach and its components Economic indicators Economic performance GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 201-1 Direct economic value Data Centre – Integrity SE4; SE13 generated and distributed and transparency Sustainable development Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Making lives better Transparency Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 – Ten-year summary GRI 201-2 Financial implications and Climate Change other risks and Resilience Report 2018 opportunities due to climate change Website – Climate change Annual Report 2018 – Directors' Report Material business risks GRI 201-3 De ned bene t plan No Oil Search employees obligations and other are in a de ned bene t retirement plans fund GRI 201-4 Financial assistance Social Responsibility Report SE13 received from government 2018 Contributing to infrastructure development No other signi cant nancial assistance has been received from governments at any of our operational areas. Market presence GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior Social Responsibility Report SE6 management hired from 2018 – Citizen the local community Development Programme Data Centre – People and organisation Workforce and senior management diversity Annual Report 2018 – Organisational Capability Indirect economic impacts GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments Social Responsibility Report SE4 and services supported 2018 Contributing to infrastructure development GRI 203-2 Signi cant indirect Social Responsibility Report SE4; SE6 economic impacts 2018 – Making lives better OG1 Volume and type of Annual Report 2018 – estimated proved reserves Reserves and resources and production Procurement practices GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on Data Centre – Sustainable SE5; SE7 local suppliers development Supplier and contractor payments Social Responsibility Report 2018 Responsible supply chain management Anti-corruption GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 205-2 Communication and Website – Integrity and SE11 training about antitransparency corruption policies and procedures Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Operating with integrity GRI 205-3 Con rmed incidents of Social Responsibility Report SE11 corruption and actions 2018 – Operating with taken integrity Environmental indicators Energy GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Data Centre – Responsible E2 within the organisation operator Energy GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Data Centre – Responsible E2 operator Energy OG2 Total amount invested in Data Centre – Responsible E3 renewable energy operator Energy Water GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by Data Centre – Responsible E6 source operator – Water use Emissions GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Data Centre – Responsible E1 emissions operator Climate change GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Data Centre – Responsible E1 GHG emissions operator Climate change GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Data Centre – Responsible E1 GHG emissions operator Climate change GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Data Centre – Responsible E1 operator Climate change Climate Change Resilience Report 2018 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG Social Responsibility Report E1 emissions 2018 – Physical climate change scenario and risk assessment E uents and waste GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality Data Centre – Responsible E7 and destination operator Water use GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Data Centre – Responsible E10 method operator Waste GRI 306-3 Signi cant spills Data Centre – Responsible E9 operator Spills that reach the environment OG5 Volume and disposal of Data Centre – Responsible E7 formation or produced operator Water use water Environmental compliance GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with Oil Search has had no environmental laws and sanctions or nes for nonregulations compliance with any environmental laws and regulations Social indicators Employment GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 401-1 New employee hires and Data Centre – People and SE15 employee turnover organisation GRI 401-2 Bene ts provided to fullWebsite – Performance time employees that are not and remuneration provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 401-3 Parental leave Data Centre – People and organisation Occupational Health and Safety GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 403-1 Workers representation in Website – Personal safety HS1 formal joint management– worker health and safety committees GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Social Responsibility Report HS3 injury, occupational 2018 – Prioritising safety diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Data Centre – Responsible operator OG13 Number of process safety Social Responsibility Report HS5 events by business activity 2018 – Prioritising safety Data Centre – Responsible operator Training and education GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 404-1 Average hours of training Data Centre – People and SE17 per year per employee organisation GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading Website – Training and SE17 employee skills and development transition assistance programmes Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Building organisational competency and capacity GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees Data Centre – People and SE17 receiving regular organisation performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance Data Centre – People and SE15 bodies and employees organisation GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Data Centre – People and SE15 remuneration of women to organisation men Non-discrimination GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Social Responsibility Report SE8; SE18 and corrective actions 2018 – Operating with taken integrity Security practices GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained VPSHR Annual Report SE10 in human rights policies or 2018 procedures Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Strengthening our human rights processes Human rights GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 412-1 Operations that have been Social Responsibility Report SE8 subject to human rights 2018 – Strengthening our reviews or impact human rights processes assessments VPSHR Annual Report 2018 GRI 412-2 Employee training on VPSHR Annual Report SE8 human rights policies or 2018 procedures GRI 412-3 Signi cant investment VPSHR Annual Report SE8 agreements and contracts 2018 that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening OG12 Operations where Nil SE3 involuntary resettlement took place, number of households resettled and how livelihoods were a ected Local communities GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 413-1 Operations with local Website – Society SE1 community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes Website – Sustainable development Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Making lives better Social Responsibility Report 2018 – Proud of what we do and how we do it Public policy GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 415-1 Political contributions We are politically neutral SE13; SE14 and do not make nancial contributions to any government o cial, political party, political party o cial, election committee or political candidate. We prohibit payment of bribes, kickbacks, inducements or illegal payments of any kind that might in uence a government o cial to obtain a business advantage for us. Socio-economic compliance GRI number(2016) GRI Standard Indicator Page number/Link IPIECA Reference Description GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Oil Search has had no nonand regulations in the monetary sanctions or social and economic area nes issued for noncompliance with laws and regulations. There have been no nes issued against us for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Contribution to PNG Vision 2050 and the SDGs Making lives better SR REPORT PNG VISION 2050 SDG Direct Impact SDG Indirect Impact SECTIONS Strategic 19.15 Sustainable sustainable development development policies Strengthening 1.17.3 Health government health services Providing 1.17.2 Education education opportunities Strengthening 1.17.7.3 community Infrastructure and resilience Utilities Building local 1.17.4.1.2 enterprises and Agriculture; opportunity 1.17.6.14 Robust Economic Growth; 1.17.9 Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change Empowering and 1.7.2 Equality and protecting women Participation Contributing to 1.17.7.3 infrastructure Infrastructure and development Utilities; 1.17.1 Human Development; 1.23.1 Infrastructure Enabling access to 1.17.7.3 power Infrastructure and Utilities; 1.17.9 Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change Assisting with 1.7.2 Equality and e ective Participation distribution of bene ts Proud of what we do and how we do it SR REPORT PNG VISION 2050 SDG Direct Impact SDG Indirect Impact SECTIONS Understanding 1.17.9 Environmental climate impacts Sustainability and and opportunities Climate Change Strengthening our 1.17.1 Human human rights Development processes Responsible supply 1.17.6 Robust chain management Economic Growth Prioritising safety 1.17.3 Health Managing 1.17.9 Environmental resources Sustainability and responsibly Climate Change Operating with 1.7.1 Integral Human integrity Development Measuring our 1.17.7.2.10 Establish social performance an appropriate policy and legislative framework for good governance. Engaging and empowering our people SR REPORT PNG VISION 2050 SDG Direct Impact SDG Indirect Impact SECTIONS Building 1.7.1 Integral Human organisational Development competency and capacity Focusing on 1.7.2 Equality and diversity and Participation inclusion Citizen 1.25 Citizen Development Participation Programme Encouraging 1.17.3 Health employee wellbeing Engaging 1.7.2 Equality and employees on Participation social responsibility priorities Data Centre Data tables Integrity and Transparency PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Direct payments Royalties 5,885 8,360 8,403 Development levies 2,222 2,461 2,371 Oil Search Directors’ tax 636 660 637 Petroleum Tax 22,121 1,191 11,829 Payments to the PNG Police 1,357 701 n/a Other Govt. fees & charges 540 616 809 Indirect payments Salary & Wages Tax 27,911 28,108 26,860 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Other Govt. taxes 14,730 14,654 9,900 Other Oil Search Share Dividend 0 5,976 7,470 Pre-payment of tax for Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme projects* 39,311 60,689 32,209 Total paid to PNG Government 114,714 62,728 68,279 *Included in ‘total paid to the PNG Government’ gure from 2018 onward. Previous n/a n/a n/a year's numbers were not classi ed as a payment to government and therefore have not been readjusted to include this gure. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Total paid to Alaska Deptartment of Environmental Conservation 22 n/a n/a Total paid to Alaska Geological and Geophysical 284 n/a n/a Total paid to Alaska Waste 0 n/a n/a Total paid to City of Nuiqsut 5 n/a n/a Total paid to North Slope Borough 4 n/a n/a Total paid to Department of Natural Resource 3,913 n/a n/a Total paid to Native Village of Nuiqsut 4 n/a n/a Total paid to Resource Development Council 2 n/a n/a PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Payroll Tax 2,273 n/a n/a Total paid to USA Government 6,506 n/a n/a AUSTRALIA Total paid to Australian Taxation O ce 27,985 23,855 22,513 Total paid to NSW O ce of State Revenue 4,057 2,967 2,825 Total paid to other Australian Government entities 4 4 5 Total paid to Australian Government 32,046 26,826 25,343 TUNISIA ETAP (State Oil Company) 0 0 0 Ministry of Finance 10 0 89 Total paid to Tunisian Government 10 0 89 IRAQ KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT Total paid to KRG Ministry of Natural Resources 0 0 0 Total paid to KRG Ministry of Finance and Economy 2 12 91 Total paid to Kurdistan Government 2 12 91 YEMEN PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total paid to the Ministry of Oil & Minerals 0 0 0 Total paid to the Ministry of Finance and Social Security Organisation 0 0 0 Total paid to Yemeni Government 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N TS (US $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total payments to governments 153,278 89,566 93,802 F I N E S PA I D F O R N O N -CO M PL I A N CE (US $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Fines paid for non-compliance with laws and regulations Anti-competitive 0 0 0 Environmental 0 0 0 Corruption 0 0 0 Total nes paid 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO A S S O C I AT I O N S A N D N E T W O R K S ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Payments made to associations and networks PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum 78 88 73 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Business Council of PNG 2 14 4 Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 40 40 25 Transparency International PNG 5 1 1 Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association 33 32 Institute of National A airs PNG 3 3 International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) 30 122 n/a United Nations Global Compact 12 21 n/a Carbon Disclosure Project 2 3 n/a IPIECA 45 17 n/a PNG Business Coalition for Women 0 n/a Voluntary Principles Initiative 27 35 n/a Total payments made to associations and networks 278 342 138 CO N DUCT Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of code of conduct breaches by type Business ethics 2 3 n/a PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Con ict of interest 0 6 n/a Computer usage 0 0 0 Drugs and alcohol 1 1 1 Fraud 1 2 0 Harassment and bullying 2 3 2 Health, Safety, Environment & Security 2 3 3 Outside employment 4 0 0 Share trading 0 8 0 Respect con dentiality, privacy & property 1 2 n/a Discrimination 0 0 0 Number of employee Code of Conduct breaches 13 28 6 Oil Search Whistle-blower Hotline calls Number of calls to Oil Search's Whistle-blower Hotline 1 5 0 People and Organisation I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 WORKFORCE Total workforce Total employees 1,410 1,286 1,206 Total workforce by employment type M F M F M F Permanent full-time 838 287 788 231 783 224 Permanent part-time 1 17 1 11 2 15 Fixed-term contract 77 33 60 45 43 33 Casual 7 3 9 5 3 3 Contractors 128 19 121 15 85 15 Total workforce by location M F M F M F Total employees in PNG 676 201 678 189 669 181 Total employees in Australia 204 113 176 101 155 92 Total employees in MENA 1 2 4 2 7 2 Total employees in USA 40 23 n/a n/a Total employees in Japan 2 1 n/a n/a Total workforce by age M F M F M F <30 87 64 76 52 92 57 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 30-50 597 236 544 204 526 187 >50 239 40 238 36 213 31 Total workforce by category M F M F M F Graduates and apprentices 15 12 27 15 47 19 Employees 179 101 188 96 170 92 Supervisors/professional or technical 317 99 298 79 297 80 Managers or technical specialists 326 102 280 84 256 68 Senior managers or technical experts 79 25 56 17 52 16 Executive management 7 1 9 1 9 0 WORKFORCE AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY Diversity in the total workforce Number of female employees 340 292 275 % women in the total workforce 27% 25% 25% Number of PNG citizens 736 731 709 % PNG citizens in the total workforce 58% 64% 64% Diversity in the PNG workforce Number of female employees 201 189 173 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 % women in the PNG workforce 23% 22% 20% Number of PNG citizens 734 721 709 % PNG Citizens in the PNG workforce 84% 83% 83% Diversity in the USA workforce Number of female employees 23 n/a n/a % women in the US workforce 37% n/a n/a Diversity in management roles Number of females in senior leadership roles 26 18 16 Number of PNG citizens in senior leadership roles 22 19 18 Total number employees in senior leadership roles 112 83 77 % PNG citizens in senior leadership roles 20% 23% 23% % Women in senior leadership roles 23% 22% 21% % women in junior management positions 24% 23% 21% Board diversity Number of Board members 9 8 9 % female 33% 25% 11% % PNG citizens 11% 25% 22% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 % PNG citizens in PNG workforce by gender and M F M F M F category Graduates and apprentices 2% 1% 4% 2% 6% 2% Employees 21% 8% 23% 8% 22% 7% Supervisors/professional or technical 29% 8% 28% 7% 29% 8% Managers or technical specialists 20% 8% 19% 7% 17% 5% Senior managers or technical experts 2% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Executive management 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total 74% 26% 75% 25% 76% 24% % female and male employees by category M F M F M F Graduates and apprentices 1% 1% 2% 1% 4% 2% Employees 14% 8% 16% 8% 15% 8% Supervisors/professional or technical 25% 8% 26% 7% 27% 7% Managers or technical specialists 26% 8% 24% 7% 23% 6% Senior managers or technical experts 6% 2% 5% 1% 5% 1% Executive management 1% 0% 1% 0% 1% 0% Total 73% 27% 75% 25% 75% 25% REMUNERATION I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – PNG Graduates and apprentices 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.08 1 0.94 Employees 1.00 0.92 1.00 0.99 1 0.99 Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 0.96 1.00 0.98 1 1.03 Managers or technical specialists 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.09 1 1.12 Senior managers or technical experts 1.00 0.74 1.00 0.81 1 0.87 Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio PNG 1.00 1.02 1.00 1.01 1 1.05 Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – USA Graduates and apprentices n/a n/a n/a n/a Employees n/a n/a n/a n/a Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 1.07 n/a n/a Managers or technical specialists 1.00 1.02 n/a n/a Senior managers or technical experts n/a n/a n/a n/a Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio USA 1.00 1.05 n/a n/a I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – Australia Senior managers or technical experts 1.00 0.93 1.00 0.96 1 1.18 Graduates and apprentices n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Employees 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.08 1 1.14 Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.02 1 1.06 Managers or technical specialists 1.00 0.96 1.00 1.01 1 0.91 Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio AUS 1.00 0.98 1.00 1.00 1 1.02 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT % of workforce who received a performance M F M F M F review % of workforce who received a performance review 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99% % of workforce who received a performance M F M F M F review by employee category Graduates and apprentices 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Employees 100% 100% 100% 99% 99% 98% Supervisors/professional or technical 100% 100% 99% 100% 100% 100% Managers or technical specialists 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Senior managers or technical experts 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Executive management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% n/a Average training and development hours and M F M F M F spend by gender Average hours of training and development per 29.20 28.50 34.46 30.53 37.48 16.52 employee Average amount spent per employee on training and 2,794 2,414 589 development (US$) Average training and development hours by employee category Graduates and apprentices 7.36 6.75 6.41 Employees 7.55 6.49 3.97 Supervisors/professional or technical 9.19 6.67 20.51 Managers or technical specialists 7.64 5.52 3.54 Senior managers or technical experts 7.67 4.62 3.32 Executive management 9.50 6.1 4.5 Development programme participation (% of workforce involved) Accelerated Development Programme 0% 1% 1% Citizen Development Programme 5% 5% 7% Graduate Development Programme 1% 2% 3% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Apprentice Programme 2% 2% 3% Supervisor Development Programme 13% 13% 11% Leading our Way for Women Programme 1% 1% n/a Coaching our Way Programme 11% n/a n/a Senior Leadership Pathway Programme 0% n/a n/a PAYMENTS TO EMPLOYEES PNG Wages and salaries 21,473 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 0 n/a n/a Total payments to employees in PNG 21,473 n/a n/a USA Wages and salaries 4,409 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 9,216 n/a n/a Total payments to employees in USA 13,626 n/a n/a AUS Wages and salaries 88,063 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 17,644 n/a n/a I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Total payments to employees in AUS 105,707 n/a n/a RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION 12-month turnover rate (%) Voluntary turnover rate 7% 6% 6% Involuntary turnover rate 2% 4% 9% Total annual turnover rate (%) 9% 10% 15% 12-month turnover rate by age (%) M F M F M F <30 8% 8% 9% 15% 9% 11% 30-50 8% 11% 9% 13% 15% 10% >50 10% 15% 7% 6% 18% 16% Total Company turnover 8% 11% 9% 12% 15% 11% Return to work and retention rates a er parental leave Number of employees entitled to parental leave 991 960 902 Number of employees who took parental leave 53 14 24 Number of employees who returned a er parental 46 10 23 leave Retention rate of employees who returned to work 87% 83% 96% a er parental leave ended (%) I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Percent of eligible employees entitled to paid 100% 100% 100% superannunation on parental leave Internal movement and opportunities % of open positions lled by internal candidates 61% 52% 62% Number of employees promoted 54 58 35 Collective bargaining agreements % of employees in collective bargaining agreements 0% 0% 1% Responsible Operator C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS UNDER OPERATIONAL CONTROL Total greenhouse gas emissions (ktCO2-e) GHG total (Sc 1 & 2) 570 962 941 Greenhouse gas emissions by scope (ktCO2-e) Total Scope 1 emissions 566 957 937 Total Scope 2 emissions 3 5 5 Total Scope 3 emissions 9,213 11,074 11,406 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions at signi cant areas of operation (ktCO2-e) Gobe 156 186 186 Kutubu Re nery 8 39 32 Central Processing Facility (CPF) 245 381 365 Agogo Processing Facility (APF) 88 256 278 Hides 44 82 61 Kumul 8 12 12 Kopi and Moro 21 6 8 Greenhouse gas emissions by type (ktCO2 e) Combustion 319 407 438 Flaring 82 107 114 Liquid fuels 33 41 40 Venting 64 301 261 Fugitives 69 102 84 Electricity 3 5 5 Scope 3 GHG emissions by category (ktCO2 e) C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Category 3 Fuel and energy 2 1 1 Category 10 Processing of sold products 468 525 543 Category 11Use of sold products 8,417 10,298 10,612 Category 15 Investments 327 250 251 Emission composition Methane (ktCH4) 5 12 13 Carbon dioxide (ktCO2) 438 615 679 Production greenhouse gas emission intensity Gross annual production (mmboe) 13 19 20 GHG emissions intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 44 50 46 Flaring intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 6 6 6 Venting intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 5 16 13 ENERGY Direct energy consumption (GJ) Total direct energy produced 86,173,367 125,596,368 135,005,512 Total direct energy purchased 392,817 245,004 264,010 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total direct energy sold 79,051,495 116,148,819 124,285,468 Total energy consumed 6,215,376 8,005,749 8,553,579 Direct energy consumption by source (GJ) Associated gas used as fuel 5,771,280 7,449,651 8,032,283 Liquid fuel 444,096 556,098 521,296 Indirect energy (GJ) Total electricity purchased and consumed 15,950 24,698 23,700 Energy intensity (GJ/'000 boe) Energy intensity of oil and gas production 502 445 469 Investment in renewable energy (US$'000) Total amount invested in biomass 4,182 9,800 12,317 ENVIRONMENT Indicator 2018 2017 2016 WASTE DATA BY COUNTRY (tonnes)* Total waste data Total waste generated 6,877 9,507 12,790 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total waste disposed 6,877 9,507 12,790 Waste generated (PNG) Hazardous 667 535 860 Non-hazardous 6,104 8,972 11,930 Waste by disposal method (PNG) Incineration (mass burn) 4,615 8,499 9,744 On-site storage 1,114 304 1,132 Land ll 1,042 486 1,705 Recycling 0 218 210 Other 0 n/a n/a Waste generated (USA) Hazardous 0 n/a n/a Non-hazardous 106 n/a n/a Waste by disposal method (USA) Incineration (mass burn) 0 n/a n/a On-site storage 0 n/a n/a C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Land ll 24 n/a n/a Recycling 0 n/a n/a Underground Injection Control 82 n/a n/a Other 0 n/a n/a *Data for previous years have been converted to tonnes for n/a n/a n/a comparability SPILLS THAT REACH THE ENVIRONMENT PNG Number of spills > 1 bbl. that reached the environment 9 5 4 Volume of spills hydrocarbon spills (L) 3,530 159 900 Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills (L) 84,586 2,105 1,790 Number of signi cant spills 0 0 0 Number of signi cant spills from third parties under contractual 0 0 0 obligations USA Number of spills > 1 bbl. that reached the environment 0 n/a n/a Volume of hydrocarbon spilt 0 n/a n/a C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Volume of non-hydrocarbon spilt 0 n/a n/a Number of signi cant spills 0 n/a n/a Number of signi cant spills from third parties under contractual 0 n/a n/a obligations WATER USE BY COUNTRY (mega litres) Total water use Total water withdrawn 552 690 612 Total water discharged 315 188 178 Produced water (PNG) Volume of produced water 766 882 864 Volume of produced water re-injected 806 887 860 % produced water re-injected 100% 100% 100% Water withdrawals (PNG) Surface water 152 240 144 Groundwater (renewable) 299 451 468 Water discharges (PNG) Surface water 58 71 47 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Seawater 0 0 13 Groundwater 157 117 118 Total water discharges n/a 188 178 Water withdrawals (USA) Surface water 100 n/a n/a Tanker water 0 n/a n/a Water discharges (USA) Surface water 100 n/a n/a Other 0 n/a n/a H E A LTH A N D S A FE TY Indicator 2018 2017 2016 RECORDABLE INJURIES AND INJURY RATES Total recordable injuries Total number of recordable injuries 17 17 12 Total employee recordable injuries by gender M F M F M F Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Lost Work Day Cases 0 0 1 0 0 0 Medical Treatment Cases or Restricted Work Day Cases 0 0 2 0 0 0 Total contractor recordable injuries by gender M F M F M F Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Work Day Cases 2 0 2 0 2 0 Medical Treatment Cases or Restricted Work Day Cases 15 0 12 0 9 1 Recordable injuries by region and gender M F M F M F Papua New Guinea 17 0 16 0 10 1 USA 0 0 n/a n/a Middle East & North Africa 0 0 0 0 1 0 Australia 0 0 1 0 0 0 Japan 0 0 n/a n/a Hours worked Oil Search employees 2,281,100 2,371,822 2,304,181 Contractors 8,501,628 6,424,156 5,530,252 Total hours worked 10,782,728 8,795,978 7,834,433 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Injury frequency rates Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 1.58 1.93 1.53 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.19 0.34 0.26 Oil Search employees Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.00 0.42 0 Contractors Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.24 0.31 0.36 PROCESS SAFETY Tier 1 and 2 process safety events by business activity Tier Tier Tier Tier Tier Tier 1 2 1 2 1 2 Total events 0 3 1 0 0 2 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Production 0 3 1 0 0 2 HIGH POTENTIAL INCIDENTS AND RATES High Potential Incident rate (HIPO) 1.11 0.68 1.79 Total number of High Potential Incidents 12 6 14 MEDICAL EVACUATIONS (PNG) Number of community members evacuated 58 69 109 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of workforce members (employee & contractor) evacuated 25 14 33 CLINIC VISITS Total number of patients treated (PNG) Community 8,089 4,983 3,992 Workforce (employee & contractor) 13,061 14,135 14,794 Total number of patients treated (AUS) Workforce (employee & contractor) 701 635 350 Total patients treated 21,851 19,753 19,136 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLBEING Total number of employee sta medicals conducted 357 414 592 Personalised health assessments conducted (PNG) 300 392 440 S O CI E TY Indicator 2018 2017 2016 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND COMPENSATION (PNG) Contacts # of community meetings held 151 181 231 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 # of eld visits conducted 786 1,007 860 # of community Oil Search contacts (interactions) 32,224 1,619 1,170 Issues management # of landowner issues raised 78 88 90 # of landowner issues closed 56 74 68 Involuntary resettlement Number of sites where involuntary resettlement took place 0 0 n/a Total direct cash payments to the community (US$'000) Land rental cash payments to community 266 705 254 Land compensation cash payments to community 13 10 339 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND COMPENSATION (ALASKA) Contacts # of community meetings held 3 n/a n/a # of eld visits conducted 10 n/a n/a Involuntary resettlement Number of sites where involuntary resettlement took place 0 n/a n/a C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total direct cash payments to the community (US$'000) Land rental cash payments to community 0 n/a n/a Land compensation cash payments to community 0 n/a n/a Sustainable Development S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION IN PNG* Socio-economic contribution by stakeholder Total paid to suppliers 247,703 208,182 148,393 Total paid to shareholders 21,473 6,836 7,604 Total paid to PNG-based employees 1,083 23,048 21,110 Total community investment 65,838 88,828 46,143 Total payments to PNG government 114,714 56,752 60,808 Total socio-economic contribution to PNG 450,810 383,647 284,058 *New methodology used in 2018. Refer 2018 Basis of Preparation. n/a n/a n/a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Cash Contributions Oil Search Foundation donation 14,242 13,207 12,294 Brand-based sponsorships 242 n/a n/a Partnerships 873 512 503 Other donations 49 387 321 Costs associated with delivering/running community development projects Community education support 404 359 236 Infrastructure development (non-tax credit) 0 n/a n/a Community health programmes 3,110 n/a n/a Water, sanitation and hygiene programmes 0 n/a n/a Local business and enterprise development 126 n/a n/a Women's empowerment programmes 0 n/a n/a Disaster and drought relief programmes 5,049 n/a n/a Total investment in power projects 41,653 20,031 16,687 Other community development projects 91 509 580 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total sustainable development investment by region PNG 65,838 14,933 13,855 USA 179 n/a n/a Middle East & North Africa 0 41 79 Total paid to the community 66,017 14,974 13,934 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T P E R F O R M A N C E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme projects completed 3 0 0 Oil Search community assistance projects Community Assistance Projects (CAP) completed 0 15 14 Tertiary sponsorships M F M F M F Students enrolled in a tertiary education facility receiving Oil Search's 73 32 52 25 30 16 support PNG students who received support from Oil Search whilst studying who 24 12 23 12 6 3 graduated during the year Diploma in Education Primary In-Service (DEPI) M F M F M F S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Teachers who completed DEPI quali cation with Oil Search support 12 1 0 0 11 1 Compliance training M F M F M F Landowner companies that completed NASFUND compliance training 9 3 9 4 n/a Landowner companies that completed tax compliance training 3 0 7 4 n/a Landowner companies that completed Investment Promotion Authority 4 2 8 2 n/a (IPA) compliance training Business skills training M F M F M F Attendees who completed nancial literacy/basic business skills training 0 0 60 38 0 68 sessions Attendees who completed Lanco Directors' training 0 0 0 0 22 0 Attendees who complete basic bookkeeping training 0 0 0 0 3 11 Agricultural training M F M F M F Attendees who completed agriculture training 10 2 0 0 0 0 Attendees who completed life skills training sessions 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of agricultural co-operatives supported during the year 0 5 n/a S UPPL I ER A N D C O N T R A C TO R PA Y M E N T S Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total payments to suppliers and contractors in PNG (USD '000) PNG owned and operated suppliers and contractors 184,532 143,090 83,947 State Owned Enterprises 11,361 13,148 12,158 Lancos 51,810 51,944 52,289 Total paid to PNG suppliers and contractors 247,703 208,182 148,394 Payments to PNG Lancos, by company Eurest Gigira Limited 0 0 0 Eurest Kikori Oil Limited 0 0 0 Gigira Development Corporation 4,042 4,123 3,957 Gobe Catering Limited 0 0 0 Gobe Field Engineering Limited 2,226 4,122 4,036 Gobe Freight Services Limited 6,982 5,155 3,378 Kawaso Limited 1,399 1,602 1,374 Kikori Oil Investments 0 0 0 Kutubu Catering Limited 0 0 0 Kutubu Security Services 2,189 2,057 1,894 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Kutmor Limited 8,628 8,934 8,093 Maka Investment Corporation 903 1,453 1,938 Mananda Umbrella JV 348 1,173 1,228 Moran Ina Naga Limited 163 984 1,184 Trans Wonderland Limited 13,198 11,171 11,894 Yasuku Oil & Gas Investment 0 0 0 PNG Mining and Petroleum Hospitality Services 11,732 11,170 13,313 Wel Gris Fuel Distributers Ltd 0 n/a n/a Tari Pori Development Corporation Ltd 0 n/a n/a Total paid to PNG Lancos 51,810 51,944 52,289 USA Total payments to suppliers and contractors in USA (USD '000) USA owned and operated suppliers and contractors 48,942 n/a n/a OIL S E A R CH F O U N D AT I O N Indicator 2018 2017 2016 CONTRIBUTORS TO THE OIL SEARCH FOUNDATION ($US'000) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria -527 5,120 5,611 DFAT Aid Programme (previously AusAID) 2,946 3,000 485 Oil Search Limited 14,242 13,207 12,294 Other 1,297 885 226 Total contribution to the Oil Search Foundation 17,958 22,211 18,616 HEALTH PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Coverage Total number of clinics supported by OSF 70 67 49 Number of outreach patrols and clinics delivered by OSF supported health 1,930 1,364 1,277 facilities Number of extended outreach patrols/clinics supported by OSF to remote 13 n/a n/a villages Number of health facility support visits conducted by OSF sta 84 465 585 Immunisations Number of children under 1 who are immunised against measles at OSF 4,156 3,662 2,841 supported health facilities Number of children under 1 who received pentavalent vaccinations at OSF 5,250 n/a n/a supported health facilities Total number of vaccination across all OSF supported health facilities 366,750 68,386 60,000 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 HIV Number of condoms distributed to OSF supported facilities 24,924 295,332 131,800 Number of people who received an HIV test in the last 12 months and who 877 7,126 14,101 know their results Number of pregnant women who were tested for HIV and who know their 345 2,414 4,532 results Percentage of HIV negative infants born to HIV infected mothers from OSF 88% 100% 98% supported facilities Number of infants born to HIV-infected mothers who are infected in OSF 1 0 1 supported programme areas Malaria Percentage of slides or rapid diagnostic tests found positive among all 26% 7% 3% slides and rapid diagnostic tests Number of con rmed community positive malaria cases from OSF 21 6 13 supported health facilities Tuberculosis (TB) Number of community members who completed 6 months TB treatment 250 197 n/a Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WaSH) Number of water tanks distributed to installation site 86 n/a n/a Number of site assessments of schools and health facilities 45 n/a n/a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Combined capacity of water tanks distributed and installed (L) 1,423,350 n/a n/a EDUCATION AND LITERACY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Literacy and education Number of Buk Bilong Pikinini libraries established 3 1 0 Number of children attending the OSF-supported Buk Bilong Pikinini 85 80 80 literacy library Number of scholarships awarded 14 n/a n/a Training Occasions of capacity building training for community health workers by 294 371 1,972 OSF WOMEN'S PROTECTION AND EMPOWERMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Support Number of new clients attending at Tari Family Support Centre 542 n/a n/a Total occasions of service delivered through Tari Family Support Centre 930 1,440 1,174 Number of family planning interventions 543 n/a n/a Couple Years Protection (CYP) provided through family planning 1,489 3,374 n/a interventions Maternal and Child Health (MCH) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of women receiving antenatal care at OSF-supported health 4,489 4,819 5,626 facilities Number of children below ve years of age who attended MCH clinics, 8,847 6,339 8,333 who are below 80% weight for age Number of supervised deliveries attended by skilled personnel at OSF2,945 3,306 3,754 supported health facilities Percentage of OSF supported health facilities that have running water to 84% 84% 87% the delivery room Financial I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Revenue (US$ 000) 1,535,800 1,446,001 1,235,908 Total net annual production (mmboe) 25.21 30.31 30.24 EBIT (US$ 000) 717,242 635,602 381,031 EBITDAX (US$ 000) 1,109,999 1,052,101 852,203 Pro t before income tax (US$ 000) 507,392 440,874 185,032 Net pro t a er tax (US$ 000) 341,202 302,092 89,795 Core pro t (US$ 000) 341,202 302,092 106,701 Average realised oil and condensate price (US$/bbl) 70.65 55.68 45.04 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Average realised LNG and gas price (US$/mmBtu) 10.06 7.67 6.36 Integrity and Transparency Data tables Integrity and Transparency PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Direct payments Royalties 5,885 8,360 8,403 Development levies 2,222 2,461 2,371 Oil Search Directors’ tax 636 660 637 Petroleum Tax 22,121 1,191 11,829 Payments to the PNG Police 1,357 701 n/a Other Govt. fees & charges 540 616 809 Indirect payments Salary & Wages Tax 27,911 28,108 26,860 Other Govt. taxes 14,730 14,654 9,900 Other PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Oil Search Share Dividend 0 5,976 7,470 Pre-payment of tax for Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme projects* 39,311 60,689 32,209 Total paid to PNG Government 114,714 62,728 68,279 *Included in ‘total paid to the PNG Government’ gure from 2018 onward. Previous n/a n/a n/a year's numbers were not classi ed as a payment to government and therefore have not been readjusted to include this gure. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Total paid to Alaska Deptartment of Environmental Conservation 22 n/a n/a Total paid to Alaska Geological and Geophysical 284 n/a n/a Total paid to Alaska Waste 0 n/a n/a Total paid to City of Nuiqsut 5 n/a n/a Total paid to North Slope Borough 4 n/a n/a Total paid to Department of Natural Resource 3,913 n/a n/a Total paid to Native Village of Nuiqsut 4 n/a n/a Total paid to Resource Development Council 2 n/a n/a Payroll Tax 2,273 n/a n/a Total paid to USA Government 6,506 n/a n/a PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 AUSTRALIA Total paid to Australian Taxation O ce 27,985 23,855 22,513 Total paid to NSW O ce of State Revenue 4,057 2,967 2,825 Total paid to other Australian Government entities 4 4 5 Total paid to Australian Government 32,046 26,826 25,343 TUNISIA ETAP (State Oil Company) 0 0 0 Ministry of Finance 10 0 89 Total paid to Tunisian Government 10 0 89 IRAQ KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT Total paid to KRG Ministry of Natural Resources 0 0 0 Total paid to KRG Ministry of Finance and Economy 2 12 91 Total paid to Kurdistan Government 2 12 91 YEMEN Total paid to the Ministry of Oil & Minerals 0 0 0 Total paid to the Ministry of Finance and Social Security Organisation 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total paid to Yemeni Government 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N TS (US $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total payments to governments 153,278 89,566 93,802 F I N E S PA I D F O R N O N -CO M PL I A N CE (US $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Fines paid for non-compliance with laws and regulations Anti-competitive 0 0 0 Environmental 0 0 0 Corruption 0 0 0 Total nes paid 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO A S S O C I AT I O N S A N D N E T W O R K S ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Payments made to associations and networks PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum 78 88 73 Business Council of PNG 2 14 4 Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 40 40 25 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Transparency International PNG 5 1 1 Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association 33 32 Institute of National A airs PNG 3 3 International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) 30 122 n/a United Nations Global Compact 12 21 n/a Carbon Disclosure Project 2 3 n/a IPIECA 45 17 n/a PNG Business Coalition for Women 0 n/a Voluntary Principles Initiative 27 35 n/a Total payments made to associations and networks 278 342 138 CO N DUCT Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of code of conduct breaches by type Business ethics 2 3 n/a Con ict of interest 0 6 n/a Computer usage 0 0 0 PA Y M E N T S TO G O V E R N M E N T S BY C O U N T R Y ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Drugs and alcohol 1 1 1 Fraud 1 2 0 Harassment and bullying 2 3 2 Health, Safety, Environment & Security 2 3 3 Outside employment 4 0 0 Share trading 0 8 0 Respect con dentiality, privacy & property 1 2 n/a Discrimination 0 0 0 Number of employee Code of Conduct breaches 13 28 6 Oil Search Whistle-blower Hotline calls Number of calls to Oil Search's Whistle-blower Hotline 1 5 0 People and Organisation Data tables People and Organisation I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 WORKFORCE Total workforce Total employees 1,410 1,286 1,206 Total workforce by employment type M F M F M F Permanent full-time 838 287 788 231 783 224 Permanent part-time 1 17 1 11 2 15 Fixed-term contract 77 33 60 45 43 33 Casual 7 3 9 5 3 3 Contractors 128 19 121 15 85 15 Total workforce by location M F M F M F Total employees in PNG 676 201 678 189 669 181 Total employees in Australia 204 113 176 101 155 92 Total employees in MENA 1 2 4 2 7 2 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Total employees in USA 40 23 n/a n/a Total employees in Japan 2 1 n/a n/a Total workforce by age M F M F M F <30 87 64 76 52 92 57 30-50 597 236 544 204 526 187 >50 239 40 238 36 213 31 Total workforce by category M F M F M F Graduates and apprentices 15 12 27 15 47 19 Employees 179 101 188 96 170 92 Supervisors/professional or technical 317 99 298 79 297 80 Managers or technical specialists 326 102 280 84 256 68 Senior managers or technical experts 79 25 56 17 52 16 Executive management 7 1 9 1 9 0 WORKFORCE AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY Diversity in the total workforce Number of female employees 340 292 275 % women in the total workforce 27% 25% 25% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Number of PNG citizens 736 731 709 % PNG citizens in the total workforce 58% 64% 64% Diversity in the PNG workforce Number of female employees 201 189 173 % women in the PNG workforce 23% 22% 20% Number of PNG citizens 734 721 709 % PNG Citizens in the PNG workforce 84% 83% 83% Diversity in the USA workforce Number of female employees 23 n/a n/a % women in the US workforce 37% n/a n/a Diversity in management roles Number of females in senior leadership roles 26 18 16 Number of PNG citizens in senior leadership roles 22 19 18 Total number employees in senior leadership roles 112 83 77 % PNG citizens in senior leadership roles 20% 23% 23% % Women in senior leadership roles 23% 22% 21% % women in junior management positions 24% 23% 21% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Board diversity Number of Board members 9 8 9 % female 33% 25% 11% % PNG citizens 11% 25% 22% % PNG citizens in PNG workforce by gender and M F M F M F category Graduates and apprentices 2% 1% 4% 2% 6% 2% Employees 21% 8% 23% 8% 22% 7% Supervisors/professional or technical 29% 8% 28% 7% 29% 8% Managers or technical specialists 20% 8% 19% 7% 17% 5% Senior managers or technical experts 2% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Executive management 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total 74% 26% 75% 25% 76% 24% % female and male employees by category M F M F M F Graduates and apprentices 1% 1% 2% 1% 4% 2% Employees 14% 8% 16% 8% 15% 8% Supervisors/professional or technical 25% 8% 26% 7% 27% 7% Managers or technical specialists 26% 8% 24% 7% 23% 6% I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Senior managers or technical experts 6% 2% 5% 1% 5% 1% Executive management 1% 0% 1% 0% 1% 0% Total 73% 27% 75% 25% 75% 25% REMUNERATION Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – PNG Graduates and apprentices 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.08 1 0.94 Employees 1.00 0.92 1.00 0.99 1 0.99 Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 0.96 1.00 0.98 1 1.03 Managers or technical specialists 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.09 1 1.12 Senior managers or technical experts 1.00 0.74 1.00 0.81 1 0.87 Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio PNG 1.00 1.02 1.00 1.01 1 1.05 Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – USA Graduates and apprentices n/a n/a n/a n/a Employees n/a n/a n/a n/a Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 1.07 n/a n/a I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Managers or technical specialists 1.00 1.02 n/a n/a Senior managers or technical experts n/a n/a n/a n/a Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio USA 1.00 1.05 n/a n/a Ratio of basic salary by gender and employee M F M F M F category – Australia Senior managers or technical experts 1.00 0.93 1.00 0.96 1 1.18 Graduates and apprentices n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Employees 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.08 1 1.14 Supervisors/professional or technical 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.02 1 1.06 Managers or technical specialists 1.00 0.96 1.00 1.01 1 0.91 Executive management n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total remuneration ratio AUS 1.00 0.98 1.00 1.00 1 1.02 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT % of workforce who received a performance M F M F M F review % of workforce who received a performance review 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99% % of workforce who received a performance M F M F M F review by employee category I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Graduates and apprentices 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Employees 100% 100% 100% 99% 99% 98% Supervisors/professional or technical 100% 100% 99% 100% 100% 100% Managers or technical specialists 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Senior managers or technical experts 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Executive management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% n/a Average training and development hours and M F M F M F spend by gender Average hours of training and development per 29.20 28.50 34.46 30.53 37.48 16.52 employee Average amount spent per employee on training and 2,794 2,414 589 development (US$) Average training and development hours by employee category Graduates and apprentices 7.36 6.75 6.41 Employees 7.55 6.49 3.97 Supervisors/professional or technical 9.19 6.67 20.51 Managers or technical specialists 7.64 5.52 3.54 Senior managers or technical experts 7.67 4.62 3.32 Executive management 9.50 6.1 4.5 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Development programme participation (% of workforce involved) Accelerated Development Programme 0% 1% 1% Citizen Development Programme 5% 5% 7% Graduate Development Programme 1% 2% 3% Apprentice Programme 2% 2% 3% Supervisor Development Programme 13% 13% 11% Leading our Way for Women Programme 1% 1% n/a Coaching our Way Programme 11% n/a n/a Senior Leadership Pathway Programme 0% n/a n/a PAYMENTS TO EMPLOYEES PNG Wages and salaries 21,473 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 0 n/a n/a Total payments to employees in PNG 21,473 n/a n/a USA Wages and salaries 4,409 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 9,216 n/a n/a I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Total payments to employees in USA 13,626 n/a n/a AUS Wages and salaries 88,063 n/a n/a Bene ts and other employee expenses and support 17,644 n/a n/a Total payments to employees in AUS 105,707 n/a n/a RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION 12-month turnover rate (%) Voluntary turnover rate 7% 6% 6% Involuntary turnover rate 2% 4% 9% Total annual turnover rate (%) 9% 10% 15% 12-month turnover rate by age (%) M F M F M F <30 8% 8% 9% 15% 9% 11% 30-50 8% 11% 9% 13% 15% 10% >50 10% 15% 7% 6% 18% 16% Total Company turnover 8% 11% 9% 12% 15% 11% Return to work and retention rates a er parental leave Number of employees entitled to parental leave 991 960 902 I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Number of employees who took parental leave 53 14 24 Number of employees who returned a er parental 46 10 23 leave Retention rate of employees who returned to work 87% 83% 96% a er parental leave ended (%) Percent of eligible employees entitled to paid 100% 100% 100% superannunation on parental leave Internal movement and opportunities % of open positions lled by internal candidates 61% 52% 62% Number of employees promoted 54 58 35 Collective bargaining agreements % of employees in collective bargaining agreements 0% 0% 1% Responsible Operator Data tables Responsible Operator C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS UNDER OPERATIONAL CONTROL Total greenhouse gas emissions (ktCO2-e) GHG total (Sc 1 & 2) 570 962 941 Greenhouse gas emissions by scope (ktCO2-e) Total Scope 1 emissions 566 957 937 Total Scope 2 emissions 3 5 5 Total Scope 3 emissions 9,213 11,074 11,406 Greenhouse gas emissions at signi cant areas of operation (ktCO2-e) Gobe 156 186 186 Kutubu Re nery 8 39 32 Central Processing Facility (CPF) 245 381 365 Agogo Processing Facility (APF) 88 256 278 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Hides 44 82 61 Kumul 8 12 12 Kopi and Moro 21 6 8 Greenhouse gas emissions by type (ktCO2 e) Combustion 319 407 438 Flaring 82 107 114 Liquid fuels 33 41 40 Venting 64 301 261 Fugitives 69 102 84 Electricity 3 5 5 Scope 3 GHG emissions by category (ktCO2 e) Category 3 Fuel and energy 2 1 1 Category 10 Processing of sold products 468 525 543 Category 11Use of sold products 8,417 10,298 10,612 Category 15 Investments 327 250 251 Emission composition C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Methane (ktCH4) 5 12 13 Carbon dioxide (ktCO2) 438 615 679 Production greenhouse gas emission intensity Gross annual production (mmboe) 13 19 20 GHG emissions intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 44 50 46 Flaring intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 6 6 6 Venting intensity (ktCO2-e /mmboe) 5 16 13 ENERGY Direct energy consumption (GJ) Total direct energy produced 86,173,367 125,596,368 135,005,512 Total direct energy purchased 392,817 245,004 264,010 Total direct energy sold 79,051,495 116,148,819 124,285,468 Total energy consumed 6,215,376 8,005,749 8,553,579 Direct energy consumption by source (GJ) Associated gas used as fuel 5,771,280 7,449,651 8,032,283 Liquid fuel 444,096 556,098 521,296 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Indirect energy (GJ) Total electricity purchased and consumed 15,950 24,698 23,700 Energy intensity (GJ/'000 boe) Energy intensity of oil and gas production 502 445 469 Investment in renewable energy (US$'000) Total amount invested in biomass 4,182 9,800 12,317 ENVIRONMENT Indicator 2018 2017 2016 WASTE DATA BY COUNTRY (tonnes)* Total waste data Total waste generated 6,877 9,507 12,790 Total waste disposed 6,877 9,507 12,790 Waste generated (PNG) Hazardous 667 535 860 Non-hazardous 6,104 8,972 11,930 Waste by disposal method (PNG) C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Incineration (mass burn) 4,615 8,499 9,744 On-site storage 1,114 304 1,132 Land ll 1,042 486 1,705 Recycling 0 218 210 Other 0 n/a n/a Waste generated (USA) Hazardous 0 n/a n/a Non-hazardous 106 n/a n/a Waste by disposal method (USA) Incineration (mass burn) 0 n/a n/a On-site storage 0 n/a n/a Land ll 24 n/a n/a Recycling 0 n/a n/a Underground Injection Control 82 n/a n/a Other 0 n/a n/a *Data for previous years have been converted to tonnes for n/a n/a n/a comparability C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 SPILLS THAT REACH THE ENVIRONMENT PNG Number of spills > 1 bbl. that reached the environment 9 5 4 Volume of spills hydrocarbon spills (L) 3,530 159 900 Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills (L) 84,586 2,105 1,790 Number of signi cant spills 0 0 0 Number of signi cant spills from third parties under contractual 0 0 0 obligations USA Number of spills > 1 bbl. that reached the environment 0 n/a n/a Volume of hydrocarbon spilt 0 n/a n/a Volume of non-hydrocarbon spilt 0 n/a n/a Number of signi cant spills 0 n/a n/a Number of signi cant spills from third parties under contractual 0 n/a n/a obligations WATER USE BY COUNTRY (mega litres) Total water use C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total water withdrawn 552 690 612 Total water discharged 315 188 178 Produced water (PNG) Volume of produced water 766 882 864 Volume of produced water re-injected 806 887 860 % produced water re-injected 100% 100% 100% Water withdrawals (PNG) Surface water 152 240 144 Groundwater (renewable) 299 451 468 Water discharges (PNG) Surface water 58 71 47 Seawater 0 0 13 Groundwater 157 117 118 Total water discharges n/a 188 178 Water withdrawals (USA) Surface water 100 n/a n/a C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Tanker water 0 n/a n/a Water discharges (USA) Surface water 100 n/a n/a Other 0 n/a n/a H E A LTH A N D S A FE TY Indicator 2018 2017 2016 RECORDABLE INJURIES AND INJURY RATES Total recordable injuries Total number of recordable injuries 17 17 12 Total employee recordable injuries by gender M F M F M F Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Work Day Cases 0 0 1 0 0 0 Medical Treatment Cases or Restricted Work Day Cases 0 0 2 0 0 0 Total contractor recordable injuries by gender M F M F M F Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Work Day Cases 2 0 2 0 2 0 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Medical Treatment Cases or Restricted Work Day Cases 15 0 12 0 9 1 Recordable injuries by region and gender M F M F M F Papua New Guinea 17 0 16 0 10 1 USA 0 0 n/a n/a Middle East & North Africa 0 0 0 0 1 0 Australia 0 0 1 0 0 0 Japan 0 0 n/a n/a Hours worked Oil Search employees 2,281,100 2,371,822 2,304,181 Contractors 8,501,628 6,424,156 5,530,252 Total hours worked 10,782,728 8,795,978 7,834,433 Injury frequency rates Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 1.58 1.93 1.53 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.19 0.34 0.26 Oil Search employees Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.00 0.42 0 Contractors Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.24 0.31 0.36 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PROCESS SAFETY Tier 1 and 2 process safety events by business activity Tier Tier Tier Tier Tier Tier 1 2 1 2 1 2 Total events 0 3 1 0 0 2 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Production 0 3 1 0 0 2 HIGH POTENTIAL INCIDENTS AND RATES High Potential Incident rate (HIPO) 1.11 0.68 1.79 Total number of High Potential Incidents 12 6 14 MEDICAL EVACUATIONS (PNG) Number of community members evacuated 58 69 109 Number of workforce members (employee & contractor) evacuated 25 14 33 CLINIC VISITS Total number of patients treated (PNG) Community 8,089 4,983 3,992 Workforce (employee & contractor) 13,061 14,135 14,794 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Total number of patients treated (AUS) Workforce (employee & contractor) 701 635 350 Total patients treated 21,851 19,753 19,136 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLBEING Total number of employee sta medicals conducted 357 414 592 Personalised health assessments conducted (PNG) 300 392 440 S O CI E TY Indicator 2018 2017 2016 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND COMPENSATION (PNG) Contacts # of community meetings held 151 181 231 # of eld visits conducted 786 1,007 860 # of community Oil Search contacts (interactions) 32,224 1,619 1,170 Issues management # of landowner issues raised 78 88 90 # of landowner issues closed 56 74 68 C L I M AT E C H A N G E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Involuntary resettlement Number of sites where involuntary resettlement took place 0 0 n/a Total direct cash payments to the community (US$'000) Land rental cash payments to community 266 705 254 Land compensation cash payments to community 13 10 339 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND COMPENSATION (ALASKA) Contacts # of community meetings held 3 n/a n/a # of eld visits conducted 10 n/a n/a Involuntary resettlement Number of sites where involuntary resettlement took place 0 n/a n/a Total direct cash payments to the community (US$'000) Land rental cash payments to community 0 n/a n/a Land compensation cash payments to community 0 n/a n/a Sustainable Development Data tables Sustainable Development S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION IN PNG* Socio-economic contribution by stakeholder Total paid to suppliers 247,703 208,182 148,393 Total paid to shareholders 21,473 6,836 7,604 Total paid to PNG-based employees 1,083 23,048 21,110 Total community investment 65,838 88,828 46,143 Total payments to PNG government 114,714 56,752 60,808 Total socio-economic contribution to PNG 450,810 383,647 284,058 *New methodology used in 2018. Refer 2018 Basis of Preparation. n/a n/a n/a COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Cash Contributions Oil Search Foundation donation 14,242 13,207 12,294 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Brand-based sponsorships 242 n/a n/a Partnerships 873 512 503 Other donations 49 387 321 Costs associated with delivering/running community development projects Community education support 404 359 236 Infrastructure development (non-tax credit) 0 n/a n/a Community health programmes 3,110 n/a n/a Water, sanitation and hygiene programmes 0 n/a n/a Local business and enterprise development 126 n/a n/a Women's empowerment programmes 0 n/a n/a Disaster and drought relief programmes 5,049 n/a n/a Total investment in power projects 41,653 20,031 16,687 Other community development projects 91 509 580 Total sustainable development investment by region PNG 65,838 14,933 13,855 USA 179 n/a n/a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Middle East & North Africa 0 41 79 Total paid to the community 66,017 14,974 13,934 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T P E R F O R M A N C E Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme projects completed 3 0 0 Oil Search community assistance projects Community Assistance Projects (CAP) completed 0 15 14 Tertiary sponsorships M F M F M F Students enrolled in a tertiary education facility receiving Oil Search's 73 32 52 25 30 16 support PNG students who received support from Oil Search whilst studying who 24 12 23 12 6 3 graduated during the year Diploma in Education Primary In-Service (DEPI) M F M F M F Teachers who completed DEPI quali cation with Oil Search support 12 1 0 0 11 1 Compliance training M F M F M F Landowner companies that completed NASFUND compliance training 9 3 9 4 n/a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Landowner companies that completed tax compliance training 3 0 7 4 n/a Landowner companies that completed Investment Promotion Authority 4 2 8 2 n/a (IPA) compliance training Business skills training M F M F M F Attendees who completed nancial literacy/basic business skills training 0 0 60 38 0 68 sessions Attendees who completed Lanco Directors' training 0 0 0 0 22 0 Attendees who complete basic bookkeeping training 0 0 0 0 3 11 Agricultural training M F M F M F Attendees who completed agriculture training 10 2 0 0 0 0 Attendees who completed life skills training sessions 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of agricultural co-operatives supported during the year 0 5 n/a S UPPL I ER A N D C O N T R A C TO R PA Y M E N T S Indicator 2018 2017 2016 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Total payments to suppliers and contractors in PNG (USD '000) PNG owned and operated suppliers and contractors 184,532 143,090 83,947 State Owned Enterprises 11,361 13,148 12,158 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Lancos 51,810 51,944 52,289 Total paid to PNG suppliers and contractors 247,703 208,182 148,394 Payments to PNG Lancos, by company Eurest Gigira Limited 0 0 0 Eurest Kikori Oil Limited 0 0 0 Gigira Development Corporation 4,042 4,123 3,957 Gobe Catering Limited 0 0 0 Gobe Field Engineering Limited 2,226 4,122 4,036 Gobe Freight Services Limited 6,982 5,155 3,378 Kawaso Limited 1,399 1,602 1,374 Kikori Oil Investments 0 0 0 Kutubu Catering Limited 0 0 0 Kutubu Security Services 2,189 2,057 1,894 Kutmor Limited 8,628 8,934 8,093 Maka Investment Corporation 903 1,453 1,938 Mananda Umbrella JV 348 1,173 1,228 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Moran Ina Naga Limited 163 984 1,184 Trans Wonderland Limited 13,198 11,171 11,894 Yasuku Oil & Gas Investment 0 0 0 PNG Mining and Petroleum Hospitality Services 11,732 11,170 13,313 Wel Gris Fuel Distributers Ltd 0 n/a n/a Tari Pori Development Corporation Ltd 0 n/a n/a Total paid to PNG Lancos 51,810 51,944 52,289 USA Total payments to suppliers and contractors in USA (USD '000) USA owned and operated suppliers and contractors 48,942 n/a n/a OIL S E A R CH F O U N D AT I O N Indicator 2018 2017 2016 CONTRIBUTORS TO THE OIL SEARCH FOUNDATION ($US'000) Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria -527 5,120 5,611 DFAT Aid Programme (previously AusAID) 2,946 3,000 485 Oil Search Limited 14,242 13,207 12,294 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Other 1,297 885 226 Total contribution to the Oil Search Foundation 17,958 22,211 18,616 HEALTH PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Coverage Total number of clinics supported by OSF 70 67 49 Number of outreach patrols and clinics delivered by OSF supported health 1,930 1,364 1,277 facilities Number of extended outreach patrols/clinics supported by OSF to remote 13 n/a n/a villages Number of health facility support visits conducted by OSF sta 84 465 585 Immunisations Number of children under 1 who are immunised against measles at OSF 4,156 3,662 2,841 supported health facilities Number of children under 1 who received pentavalent vaccinations at OSF 5,250 n/a n/a supported health facilities Total number of vaccination across all OSF supported health facilities 366,750 68,386 60,000 HIV Number of condoms distributed to OSF supported facilities 24,924 295,332 131,800 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of people who received an HIV test in the last 12 months and who 877 7,126 14,101 know their results Number of pregnant women who were tested for HIV and who know their 345 2,414 4,532 results Percentage of HIV negative infants born to HIV infected mothers from OSF 88% 100% 98% supported facilities Number of infants born to HIV-infected mothers who are infected in OSF 1 0 1 supported programme areas Malaria Percentage of slides or rapid diagnostic tests found positive among all 26% 7% 3% slides and rapid diagnostic tests Number of con rmed community positive malaria cases from OSF 21 6 13 supported health facilities Tuberculosis (TB) Number of community members who completed 6 months TB treatment 250 197 n/a Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WaSH) Number of water tanks distributed to installation site 86 n/a n/a Number of site assessments of schools and health facilities 45 n/a n/a Combined capacity of water tanks distributed and installed (L) 1,423,350 n/a n/a EDUCATION AND LITERACY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Literacy and education Number of Buk Bilong Pikinini libraries established 3 1 0 Number of children attending the OSF-supported Buk Bilong Pikinini 85 80 80 literacy library Number of scholarships awarded 14 n/a n/a Training Occasions of capacity building training for community health workers by 294 371 1,972 OSF WOMEN'S PROTECTION AND EMPOWERMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Support Number of new clients attending at Tari Family Support Centre 542 n/a n/a Total occasions of service delivered through Tari Family Support Centre 930 1,440 1,174 Number of family planning interventions 543 n/a n/a Couple Years Protection (CYP) provided through family planning 1,489 3,374 n/a interventions Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Number of women receiving antenatal care at OSF-supported health 4,489 4,819 5,626 facilities S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T I N V E S T M E N T ( U S $ ' 0 0 0 ) Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Number of children below ve years of age who attended MCH clinics, 8,847 6,339 8,333 who are below 80% weight for age Number of supervised deliveries attended by skilled personnel at OSF2,945 3,306 3,754 supported health facilities Percentage of OSF supported health facilities that have running water to 84% 84% 87% the delivery room Financial Data tables Financial I N D I C A TO R 2 0 18 2 0 17 2 0 16 Revenue (US$ 000) 1,535,800 1,446,001 1,235,908 Total net annual production (mmboe) 25.21 30.31 30.24 EBIT (US$ 000) 717,242 635,602 381,031 EBITDAX (US$ 000) 1,109,999 1,052,101 852,203 Pro t before income tax (US$ 000) 507,392 440,874 185,032 Net pro t a er tax (US$ 000) 341,202 302,092 89,795 Core pro t (US$ 000) 341,202 302,092 106,701 Average realised oil and condensate price (US$/bbl) 70.65 55.68 45.04 Average realised LNG and gas price (US$/mmBtu) 10.06 7.67 6.36
