Global Compact: Communication On Progress, 2019 Page |1 Page |2 Commitment to Global Compact: Communication on progress at Oil India Limited, 2019 Oil India Limited (OIL) is a Navaratna Company under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India. It is engaged in the business of Exploration, Production and Transportation of crude oil and natural gas and production of LPG. OIL is the second largest National upstream oil and gas Company in India as measured by total proved plus probable reserves and production. With a glorious legacy of hydrocarbon exploration spanning over five decades and with the Core Purpose of becoming “The fastest growing Energy Company with Global presence providing value to stakeholders” OIL has carved a niche as a premier national oil Company in the upstream sector with a share of over 8.8% of the country’s total crude oil and natural gas production. The Authorized share capital of the Company is Rs. 2000 Crores. The Issued, Subscribed and Paid share capital of the Company is Rs. 756.60 Crores. At present, the Government of India, the Promoter of the Company is holding 66.13% of the total Issued & Paid-up Capital of the Company. The balance 33.87% of the Equity capital is held by Public and others including Corporate Bodies, Mutual Funds, Banks, FIIs, Resident Individuals etc. Oil India Limited (OIL) is committed to the principles of Global Compact. The policies followed by OIL support and respect these principles which also form a part of the Company’s vision statement, thereby integrating them into its short term and long term goals and objectives to:  Inculcate high standards of business ethics  Involve participation and support innovation for employee growth and satisfaction  Care for the community, ecology and environment. Page |3 During the year 2017-18, OIL carried out its policies re-affirming commitment to the following ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights OIL has always subscribed to the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. It ensures that its employees and communities living in and around its operational areas are not adversely affected by its operations and that there is no danger to life or damage to the environment in any way. It deploys technology which is safe, efficient and employee friendly. Its work and maintenance programmes ensure safety and security of its employees and people living in and around its operational areas. The Company organizes safety training courses and health check-ups round the year to ensure a fit and healthy staff. Officials from State & Central Pollution Control Board, MOE&F(Ministry of Environment & Forest), DGMS (Director General Mines Safety) authorities, OISD (Oil Industry Safety Directorate) External Safety Audit team members (under MOP&NG) inspect OIL’s installations from time to time. Institution / No. of No. of Audits/ No. of Audits/ No. of No. of Govt. Audits/Inspe Inspections Inspections Audits/ Audits/ Agency ctions during during 2015 during 2016 Inspections Inspections 2014 during 2017 during State Over 8 8 Inspections 3 Inspections 9 20182017 8 Pollution Inspections Inspections Inspections Control MOEF Over 3 1 Inspection 2 Inspections 2 Inspections 1 Inspection Inspections DGMS 13 97 Inspections 71 Inspections 33 05 Inspections Inspections Inspections OISD 9 Audits NIL 5 Audits 2 Audits 1 Audits 2. Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses We at OIL believe that employees are not to be subjected to forced or compulsory labour which is also a fundamental provision of the principle of human rights. The same is also in accordance with UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is subject to ILO Core Conventions 29 & 105. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. Page |4 3. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Collective bargaining is the protection of the right of workers to organize collectively in organizations of their own choice. We uphold and support the freedom of association of our employees by recognizing and encouraging the right to collective bargaining. The employees’ union engages with the management through structured as well as informal mechanisms. We also keep a close eye on the operations in which the freedom of association might be at risk. For the last three years we have not been able to identify a single such instance and it speaks volumes about the efficiency of our control system. We have organized discussion sessions with the officers’ association for understanding their basic needs and developing plan of action for acting on those requirements. We ensure all around participation in the events of workers union. 4. Organization supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour OIL believes in voluntary labour and right to work. As per directives of the Government of India, the Company ensures payment of minimum wages to labour. The Company also abides by the strict statutory guidelines laid down by the Mines Safety Directorate, the Industrial Act and other statutory regulations of the Government of India. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. 5. The organization supports effective abolition of child labour OIL ensures that every single one of its installations is routinely monitored to ensure that no child labour is employed at any of them. We strongly condemn the use of child labour and the nature of our operations that require years of training and experience to carry out are a natural barrier to prevent child labour. We also perform a rigorous process of due diligence before employing suppliers to ensure that there is no incidence of child labour in their operations among other ills. 6. Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment The Company is an equal opportunity employer. There is no discrimination for employment or career progression on the basis of caste, gender, colour or religion. Government guidelines are strictly followed for employment of scheduled castes/scheduled tribes and physically challenged persons. 7. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges OIL is well aware of the myriad impacts that its operations have on the Environment. Our business operations by their very nature are prone to negative environmental impacts. We take this fact very seriously and have therefore made a commitment to ourselves and our stakeholders to ensure that we mitigate our environmental impacts to the greatest extent possible. OIL follows the precautionary approach to manage its environmental challenges. We also put a lot of emphasis on control of environmental pollution and conservation of energy and have always adopted a proactive approach to the conservation of the environment. This endeavour of the Company is reflected in the vision of the Company which clearly mentions OIL’s commitment to Safety, Health & Environment. Page |5 Following are the existing environmental standards/rules acts enforceable under mandatory regulations and strictly followed by the organization:  Tolerance Limits prescribed by State Pollution Control Board, Assam and Central Pollution Control Board for effluent discharge.  Environmental Protection Act, 1986 & Rules.  Water Act & Rules.  Air Ac t & Rule s.  The Batteries (Management & Handling) Rules, 2001.  The Municipal Solid Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2000.  The Bio-Medical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 1998.  Noise Pollution (Regulation or control) Rules.  Public Liability Insurance Act & Rules, 1991.  The Ozone Depleting substances (Regulation & control) Rules, 2000.  Hazardous Waste (management, handling, & trans boundary movement) rules, 2008 8. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility OIL has adopted key environmental management practices, pollution control measures and environmental management systems as crucial mitigation measures. Several Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies have been carried out for all its upcoming projects. The social issues and societal impacts are assessed & measured and mitigation measures are implemented as per the recommendations of the EIA studies. Some of the key Environment Mitigation Measures Adopted in OIL are detailed below:  As a measure of safeguarding the environment a policy decision has been taken for mandatory use of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody Certified Paper and Print Products in all sphere of OIL, w.e.f. 12.09.2012 and same is followed.  For judicious use of paper, OIL has adopted a policy wef 18.12.2014 on “Economic Use of Paper in Offices” in all spheres of OIL, as the trees are considered the major source of paper pulp production and injudicious use of paper would create bad impacts on the environment. The basic guidelines of the policy are – To use both side of the paper, Single spacing typings, Policy or other circulars through website instead of paper circulation, switching over to eform system than manual submission of returns etc and recasting of proforma etc in a Simplified & shortened format.  Rain Water Harvesting has been made mandatory for all upcoming projects.  OIL has carried out a full-fledged study on effect of gas flare on surrounding paddy crop and initiated mitigation measures accordingly.  Green belts are developed and maintained around major installations. Annually 7,000-8,000 trees are planted in different operational areas, survival rate of which is about 80-90%. Page |6 OIL’s endeavor to harness Non-conventional Energy sources:  We, at OIL have installed 13.6 MW & 54 MW Wind Power plants in Jaisalmer district, Rajasthan, which are supplying power to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (RRVUNL).  The other major Wind Energy project of OIL is of 54 MW, which is a split project between the states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh (16 MW Wind Farm at Patan in Gujarat and 38 MW Wind Farm at Chandgarh in Madhya Pradesh).  We also installed mega Solar Power Plants of capacity 9 MW and 5 MW in Ramgarh, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan.  In 2017-18, OIL undertook its fourth Wind energy Power Project of 52.5 MW capacity, which was again a split project with 14.7 MW completed in 2016-17 and remaining 37.8 MW completed in 2017-18.  The total installed capacity of OIL’s Wind Energy and Solar Energy projects stands at 188.10 MW. OIL generated revenue of Rs. 120.82 Crore in FY 2017-18 from Renewable Sources. Other initiatives:  OIL has Installed Solar Power Plants of various ratings – 100 KW at Joypur OCS 100 KW at Tanot Village Complex, Jaisalmer, 30 KW at Corporate Office, 20 KW at Jagi Road Repeater Stations in PipelineWe have plans to install more such solar plants at various locations including Gujrat & Madhya Pradesh.  Replacement of conventional Generator Sets with a 30 KVA Solar Generator Set in FHQ for night illumination purpose at Work-over locations has been carried out and is proposed for more locations  OIL has carried out installation of Solar Lighting Systems, Solar Lanterns & Solar Photo-Voltaic cells atTanot-GGS , Baghewala (Rajasthan), Security Camp at Well279. It is also used for MART Communication system at Fields Head Quarters of OIL, and in OIL’s pipeline systems. Its use is proposed for more similar locations. Page |7 In addition to having a sound Environment Policy, the Company also has a robust Sustainable Development Policy. The Sustainable Development Policy of OIL outlines its commitment towards reducing its carbon footprint. The Company calculates the carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission level of various operational units. To reduce GHG emissions, a Low Carbon Strategy is evolved as part of which OIL has identified opportunities for reducing GHG emissions through technology, process improvement levers and a strategic implementation plan. This strategy is then extended in initiating projects such as the proposed 5.0 MW Kumchai Power Plant (KPP), which was inaugurated in November, 2013. The proposed site of power plant is in the Changlang District of Arunachal Pradesh and is about 450 Kms from Itanagar. The power plant is to be fed with the associated gas production (presently approximately of 30,000 SCMD) for running this KPP. It is proposed that the existing 11 KV line would be converted to 33 KV line for evacuation of power. The project will lead to a reduction in GHG emissions because of a reduction in the flaring of gas. It will also lead to the utilisation of high calorific value gas, which is presently flared as a substitute for higher carbon intensive fuels. Finally it is set to have the beneficial impact towards conservation of depleting non-renewable natural resources and thus the promotion of sustainable economic growth via the implementation of an environment friendly technology. Presently the Project is under Environmental Clearance State. OIL aims at reduction of Gas Flaring through initiatives such as the one mentioned above The Company has also planned a project on mass tree plantation in degraded forest landscapes in and around its operational areas, which is set to provide a solution to combat Climate Change through sequestration of GHGs through the plantation of trees with high carbon absorption potential. As such, OIL carries out compensatory & obligatory tree plantation in its operational areas. Page |8 The Company has taken many other proactive measures on the front of environmental management and Sustainable Development, including initiation of projects on conservation of endangered biodiversity in and around its operational areas in India. The company has adopted Rhino calves after the devastating floods during the last monsoon in the Kaziranga Tiger Reserve and is providing support for their rearing and reintroduction in the wild in the next 3 years. The company has also in the past provided financial support for procurement of Solar lanterns for the forest guard posts in the Kaziranga Tiger Reserve. Secondly, the Company has also provided support for wetland conservation through eco-tourism in its operational areas in Assam, by aiding the Sasoni Merbeel Eco-tourism project. The company has provided for a Solar Power Plant, Pedal Boats, Eco-friendly vehicles, bio-digester plant, etc. for making this eco-friendly tourism project a success in this remote part of the country. A view of the wetland, Sasoni Merbeel, in Dibrugarh district, Assam 9. Organization should encourage development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies In the above context, the following Environment Mitigation Measures have been adopted in OIL:  Pilot project of using Bio Diesel fuel in Diesel Engines, is an initiative of OIL towards implementation of Bio-fuel policy of Govt. of India.  OIL in collaboration with TERI has taken up bioremediation project for treating the hazardous waste.  In collaboration with Institute of Advanced studies in Science & Technology, Guwahati OIL had taken up a Pilot Project on Phytoremediation, where selected species of plants were planted in oil contaminated plot of land size (30m X 20m) near Jorajan OCS. These plants degraded the hydrocarbon and heavy metal content of the contaminated area was restored to its normalcy – considering the success, OIL is planning to take out more such projects in other areas.  OIL has undertaken various environmental projects such as bioremediation, GHG emission & carbon footprint mapping, E-Waste management, Integarted Waste Mangement etc in all spheres of OIL . Page |9  Proper enclosures around the flare pits are provided, which helps in combating the effect of heat & light on the crops/environment  Flare pits are properly designed with multi burner facilities with arrangement of abundant supply of air for proper combustion  95% of the Produced Formation Water is Recycled to Subsurface for the purpose of maintaining formation pressure  Water oil clarification plants are installed wherever necessary to restrict the oil content less than 10 ppm  Solid waste and biomedical waste are disposed as per Municipal Solid Waste Rules & Biomedical Waste Rules .  OIL has disposed of 38 tonnes of E waste through Certified Recyclers from different spheres of its activities.  Hazardous wastes are treated as per “The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and Trans boundary Movement) Rules, 2008, and sent to TSDF facilities (Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facilities), for which OIL has taken Membership  Oily sludge is recycled through registered recyclers.  OIL has installed a sludge treatment and recovery plant.  Lining of drill site waste pits with High Density Poly Ethylene Sheets(HDPE) is carried out  All Oil Collecting Stations, Gas Collecting Stations and LPG plant are connected with Flare Systems and Closed Blow Down Vessels & safety release flare systems for arresting hydrocarbon emissions  Floating Roof Tanks are used for Crude Oil Storage Tanks of the Pipeline Department, in order to minimize emission of hydrocarbons  Noise attenuators/barriers are provided at the source  Acoustic enclosures are provided around gen sets to reduce noise pollution.  Personnel Protective Equipments (PPE) like ear muff/plugs are provided to personnel working in noise prone areas.  Environmental protection measures are safe guarded by monitoring the Environmental parameters with the process of their continual improvement  Oil India Limited has established a state-of-the-art research facility in its Fields Headquarters in Duliajan, for application of Biotechnology in E&P thrust areas. The Centre, by the name of, “Jaivalaya”, was inaugurated and inducted into the service of the Company on 26th September, 2014. In addition, a number of OIL’s facilities are certified by ISO and other certifier agencies. The detailed list is given below. OIL Installations Certified with [ISO-9001:2008, ISO-14001:2004, OHSAS-18001:2007 & ISO/IEC 17025 :2005]: The following installations/ departments of the Company are ISO/OHSAS/IEC certified P a g e | 10  Pipeline Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  LPG Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Fire Service Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Power House: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Water Treatment Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Transport Maintenance Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Medical Deptt. : (ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007)  Well Logging Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008)  Central Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008)  Chemical Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008)  ER Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008)  L&D Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008)  Kolkota Office: (ISO 9001:2008)  R&D Centre of OIL: ISO/IEC 17025 :2005 (NABL Accreditation) OHSAS-18001: Occupational Health & Safety Management System ISO-9001: Quality Management System ISO: 14001: Environment Management System ISO/IEC 17025: Competency of Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL: National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) 10. Organization should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Oil India Limited is a signatory to Integrity pact with Transparency international for following strict & transparent policies. OIL endeavors to work against corruption in all its forms through well-defined Whistle Blower Policy. The policy provides all the employees with free access to the Management in case they observe unethical and improper practices or any other wrongful conduct in the Company and to prohibit managerial personnel from taking any adverse personal action against those employees. Oil India Limited has also adopted a Conduct Discipline & Appeal Rules and any unethical behaviour is construed as misconduct. An employee violating these codes is subjected to investigation and appropriate action. Vigilance cell of the Company looks into any such misdoings for investigations. Care for the Community: OIL as a Responsible Corporate Citizen The CSR vision statement is embedded as one of the core vision statements of the Company which mandates OIL to operate in a legal, ethical and economic environment, committed towards the society, to contribute to sustainable socio-economic development in its areas of operations for the community, employees and their families, shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders in ways that enhance the value for both the business and society. Every single one of our spheres of P a g e | 11 operations carries out some form of CSR. The Vision statement reads as under: OIL’S CSR Vision Statement “OIL is a Responsible Corporate Citizen deeply committed to socioeconomic development in its areas of operations.” CSR Policy The broad objectives of OIL’s CSR policy are as under: a) To provide a basis for decision making and execution of CSR initiatives as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. b) To help OIL remain focused on its CSR Vision. c) To bring about tangible socio-economic development in operational areas of OIL. d) To improve community well-being through discretionary business practices and contributions of corporate resources. The core philosophy on corporate social responsibility in Oil India Limited (OIL) is the firm conviction that islands of prosperity cannot survive in a sea of poverty. This is a typical scenario in the oil and gas Exploration and Production industry in developing countries, where companies operate in populated remote rural locations. As mandated by guidelines of Department of Public Enterprise on CSR for CPSEs as well as the provisions under the new Company’s Act 2013, OIL’s CSR projects and initiatives are carried out in different thrust areas such as Health, Education, Sustainable Livelihood generation, Rural development, Skill development, Augmentation of Rural infrastructure etc. in its operational areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Major CSR projects of Oil India Limited under Key Thrust Areas:  HEALTHCARE AND SANITATION Project SparshaThe Mobile Dispensary Services: It has always been one of the most significant community welfare projects of the Company. Started way back in the early eighties, the mobile health care project “Sparsha” covers OIL operational areas of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. This effort of OIL caters to the primary health care needs of the people in OIL operational areas. The project is conducted through St. Luke’s Hospital in addition to OIL’s in-house Mobile Health Care team. In 2017-18, 1712 health camps were conducted, screening and primary healthcare services were extended to around 2,50,000 patients. Mobile Dispensary services under Project Sparsha, being provided to local people of OIL operational areas of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh P a g e | 12 Project Arogya: Reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) & Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR), is an initiative with an umbrella focus on reduction of Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) and Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) in and around OIL’s operational areas of Tinsukia & Dibrugarh districts in the state of Assam. The Program aims at caring for the new born, as well as addressing maternal and adolescent health issues at various stages of life. OIL provides pre-natal & post-natal check-up facilities sensitizing women on maternal, child health and benefits of institutional delivery, tracking and counselling of pregnant women, immunization of babies and pregnant women, training in and awareness on community health for better hygiene, sanitation and family planning . During the year, OIL had conducted pre-natal & postnatal health check-up camps in 20 villages screening around 1,484 women & children, 1,893 babies (0-5 yrs) were immunised, provided training to 301 women on community health, 235 ANC/PNC women and 278 children (0-5yrs) were tracked and 840 home visits were carried out benefitting/counselling 631 women. In addition, a total of 522 adolescent girl students of four girls’ schools adopted by OIL, were provided counselling on menstrual hygiene, family planning, STDs and HIV/AIDS besides gynaecological and anaemia tests. Sanitary napkins were distributed along with general awareness amongst more than 200 adolescent girls and mothers of identified villages of OIL’s operational areas Glimpses of Project Arogya on reduction of IMR/MMR and general awareness in OIL’s operational areas P a g e | 13  Swachh Bhart Abhiyan OIL has rendered complete commitment to Hon’ble Prime Minister’s Flagship programme “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,” undertaking various projects and activities in all spheres of the company. Most notable among all being the development & maintenance of Kamakhya temple, Guwahati under Swachh Iconic Place initiative and construction of 1500 individual household latrine (IHHL) with an aim to achieve 100% Open Defecation Free (ODF) status of Dibrugarh District under Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin). Further, continuing with “Swachh BharatSwachh Vidalaya Abhiyan ” initiatives, the Company has provided financial assistance towards maintenance of 1471 school toilets constructed during the year 2014-15 . OIL has also initiated (phase-wise) development and beautification of Tinsukia Town in Assam. Various other events such as Walkathon, Cleanliness & plantation drive of office premises, market areas & public places and awareness programs were also carried out on cleanliness and hygiene (amongst school students) under Swachha Bharat Pakhwada in all spheres of the company . OIL employees also carried out Cleanliness campaigns through ‘Shramdaan. Initiatives undertaken by OIL under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan are as follows:  Construction of 1471 school toilets in the 7 (seven) districts of Assam, namely, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Barpeta, Bongaigaon and Dhubri.  Installation of 20 nos. of RO/UV drinking water plants in villages of East Godavari District, in the operational area of the Issuer's KG Basin project.  Construction of 2 nos. of separate toilet for men & women in Ranau and Ramgarh villages of Jaisalmer district in the OIL’s operational area of Rajasthan, which did not have such facilities  Cleaning and maintenance of Bondajan water body within the periphery and campus of the Issuer's Pipeline Headquarters, at Narangi, Guwahati, Assam  Providing garbage bins & garbage disposal trucks to Guwahati Municipal Corporation for garbage collection and cleanliness in different locations of Guwahati city 1000 nos. of garbage bins & 2 nos. of garbage disposal trucks.  Undertaking Project Anubhav, a program for training and sensitisation of the company’s sanitation workers.  Providing financial assistance for development of digital applications (both mobile & web based) for implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan objectives in the city of Varanasi, etc.  The company’s employees have been regularly participating in cleanliness drives (Shramdaan) and walkathons in and around its offices and operational sites, to spread awareness regarding the campaign across its various spheres of operations and particularly in and around its Fields Headquarters in Duliajan, Assam. P a g e | 14  Education Oil India Ltd.’s commitment to socio-economic development in its areas of operations encompasses education as one of the most important areas indispensable for the overall development of an individual and well-being of the society at large. Project OIL Super 30: The project is a meaningful CSR initiative under the key thrust area of Education, which provides 11 month free residential coaching on IIT entrance examination for admission to IITs and other engineering colleges to students from marginalized section of society, in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Company has 6 (Six) OIL Super 30 centres at Guwahati, Jorhat Dibrugarh and Nogaon in Assam, Jodhpur in Rajasthan and Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh, with annual intake of 30 students per centre. The success rate of the project is over 95% with OIL Super 30 students getting admission to IITs as well as in many other prestigious institutions/universities in the country. During the FY 2017-18, 149 out of 181 students qualified for IIT-JEE (Main) while 77 students qualified IIT-JEE (Advance). Project ‘Dikhya’: OIL has taken up the project for promoting computer literacy and adult literacy in the selected areas of OIL’s operational districts under the aegis of Project ‘Dikhya’ since 2012. During 2017-18, computer education was imparted to 7,094 students of Classes VI to VIII in 30 rural schools through mobile computer lab (bus). Value added sessions on creative studies, environmental science, cleanliness, and behavioural science too are taught along with the computer classes. Adult education classes are conducted in 30 areas targeting illiterate and semi-literate people of rural areas and tea gardens. The course module is designed based on Government of Assam approved text books of Sarva Shikshya Abhiyan. During 2017-18, 1500 nos. of elderly persons have benefitted from the program. P a g e | 15 OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar: Oil India Limited introduced “OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar” in 2013-14 for recognizing the all-round contribution of the teaching fraternity from provincialized schools and colleges of Assam. The awards consist of cash incentive of Rupees one lakh and a citation is given to each awardee. During the FY 2017-18, 05 teachers were awarded the OIL Shikshya Ratna Puruskar. Since, 2013, 28 teachers had received the OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar. OIL Awards and Merit Scholarships: Every year, OIL rewards meritorious students from operational areas passing class X & XII with OIL Awards and OIL Merit Scholarships for encouraging the students to perform better. Since inception, OIL has awarded scholarships to more than 25,000 students. Project Sakshyam for the differently abled: Every year as a special gesture under the OIL Merit Scholarship Scheme, OIL provides scholarship in the form of monetary support to students with disabilities and special needs, studying in two special schools of Mrinaljyoti Rehabilitation Centre and Moran Blind School. The two schools visibly located in the OIL’s operational areas of Upper Assam in Duliajan and Moran respectively cater to students not only from Upper Assam but also from far flung areas of North East. The Project was initiated with the prime objective of catering to the needs of the P a g e | 16 two schools whether in terms of infrastructure development, running costs or any special project which will act as a support base for enabling the students as productive and independent citizens of the mainstream.  SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD GENERATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT Project Rupantar : A flagship CSR project of OIL, launched in 2003, towards generating alternate and sustainable sources of livelihood for unemployed youth of its operational areas. The project, implemented by State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam, focuses on strengthening the rural economy by creation and training of Self Help Groups (SHG)/ Joint Liability Group (JLG) of youth, on various economic activities in the agro-based industry, providing opportunities for selfemployment and rural entrepreneurship. During 2017-18, 400 JLGs were formed and trained on handloom, poultry, farm mechanization etc. assisting 1850 families. Also, a computer education programme under OIL’s Project Rupantar has been training students on Information Education and Communication (IEC) and Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI), Rural Development etc. During 2017-18, a total of 919 students were trained. Keeping in perspective the visible success of the project and the requests from the local residents of OIL operational areas for enlarging the project, OIL had supported another 500 SHGs/JLGs under CSR in the financial year 2017-18. Left: Women participants at the training session for SHGs under the project Right: Students taking classes at the Computer Centre under the project P a g e | 17 Project OIL ‘Jeevika’: Launched in 2016-17 fiscal and implemented by India Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE), Guwahati, Project OIL Jeevika is a community cluster based sustainable livelihood promotion project is currently implemented in OIL’s operational villages of Arunachal Pradesh aiming to benefitting 400 households. The project aims at imparting skill development and upgradation training to the targeted beneficiaries on beekeeping & honey processing, mustard buckwheat and local pulses processing for generating alternate source of income and formation of self-sustainable livelihood clusters. In FY 2017-18, all trainings under the economic activity of beekeeping and honey processing have been completed. Apart from trainings on mustard, buckwheat & local pulse processing, the beneficiaries are also trained on packaging and marketing techniques. Agriculture Project under Oil India Rural Development Society: The primary objective of Agriculture Project is to introduce modern methods of cultivation to generate large scale production and thus provide an opportunity to the unemployed youth to adopt agriculture as a means of earning livelihood and thereby attain economic empowerment. While doing so, maximum emphasis is given in extending in-field training by experts from Agriculture Department, Government of Assam & Assam Agriculture University for proper and adequate use of technology. To boost the encouragement of the farmers, the Oil India Rural Development Society (OIRDS) introduces high yielding paddy seeds specially collected from Regional Agriculture Research Centre, Titabor and organic manure to revitalize the paddy fields. Till date, OIRDS has adopted more than 115 villages, covering more than 15,500 farm families under its Agriculture Project. In 2015-16, 16 villages were adopted under the project. A glimpse of the Agriculture Project of OIRDS P a g e | 18  Capacity Buiding and Empowerment of Women Handicraft Training & Production Centre (HTPC): OIL’s Handicraft Training and Production Centre, located at Duliajan, Assam has been imparting nine-month stipendiary training in Weaving, Cutting & Tailoring, Embroidery & Knitting to young girls from OIL operational areas. The students are selected through written test and viva-voce. During 2014-15, a total of 42 Nos. of rural women were imparted such training. In the current year a total of 42 nos. of women are undergoing similar training in the training centre. Post training assistance are also provided to the trainees. Since 1984, more than 900 women have been trained. Trainees at the HTPC centre, practising the art of weaving General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training: The nursing school in OIL Hospital Duliajan conducts 3 years General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training course, which is recognized by the Directorate of Medical Education, Government of Assam. Stipend is paid to the students in addition to limited hostel accommodation, uniform and protective clothing. Started in 1991, the school has provided training to more than 300 candidates, who have also been employed in different health institutions across the state. P a g e | 19  SKILL Development Project Swabalamban on Skill Building: Launched in 2013, This project is in line with the National Skill Development Mission of Government of India under which placement linked skill training is provided to unemployed youth / women of OIL operational areas. During 2017-18, the project has imparted placement linked skills training to 3000 Nos. unemployed youth of OIL’s areas of operation and 22 districts of Assam on various trades, out of which 2381 youth have been placed in different organisations across the country, thus enabling these youth to enhance their employability and charter a career path for a better future. Since 2013-14 till 2017-18 fiscal, a total of 11,680 candidates were successfully trained and 9,171 have been placed in various industries across the country Candidates of Project Swabalamban undergoing training in various vocations Contribution towards Skill Development Institute, Guwahati: Oil India limited (OIL) has set up SDI Guwahati to cater the skilling need of youth of North East region in order to enhance their employability in hydrocarbon as well as other sectors. The Centre was dedicated to the nation on the 8th of December, 2017 by Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam and Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon’ble Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development in presence of host of other dignitaries. The institute has been set up to cater to the skilling needs of the youth of the entire North East region. The institute has become functional from the 24th of August 2017 with two courses namely, Industrial Electrician and Industrial Welder of duration six (06) months each, in which two batches of about 60 students underwent training and more than 70% of them has already been successfully placed. P a g e | 20 5. Promotion of Sports Promotion of Sports as a CSR initiative apart from providing a platform and motivating the budding talent from the rural parts of OIL’s operational areas, plays the role of uniting the communities, mobilizing, inspiring and instilling responsible behavior among the children and youth. OIL’s contribution and collaboration with the social groups, district administration and sports bodies, has helped in making rural sports as one of the most popular sports event in the rural areas creating social advantage, over the years. Young children participating in the OIL Rural Sports initiative  Preservation of Environment and Biodiversity Project OIL Urja: Started in 2016-17, to create a safer environment and enable reduction of carbon emissions through the use of renewable energy and prevention of indoor air pollution for communities of OIL’s operational areas. In FY 2017-18 under the project, fuel efficient cook stoves with chimneys were constructed and installed in 3000 rural households in 6 nos. of tea gardens in OIL’s operational areas of upper Assam. Unemployed youth were imparted training on technology of construction of fuel efficient challahs with chimneys so that installation service and minor repairs / breakages could be done at doorstep. Further, solar solutions in alignment with the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Govt. of India (MNRE) clean cooking & lighting solutions under Happy Home package will be provided targeting 400 households in a span of 2 years. Adoption of orphaned rhino calves in Kaziranga: Under this project OIL has adopted 3 (three) rhino calves in 2016-17, which were severely affected by devastating floods in Assam. The project is in association with Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) under its Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation located near Kaziranga. The project is underway during the FY 2017-18. P a g e | 21 Promotion of Art, Culture and Heritage: Renovation & Preservation of Berry White Medical School in Dibrugarh: Currently known as Assam Medical College, “Berry White Medical School” was established by Dr. John Berry White, in the year 1900. The first medical school in North-eastern India. However, despite its glorious past, the building of Dr. John Berry White Medical School is in a dilapidated condition and required urgent restoration. Taking the onus OIL alongwith District Commissioner (Dibrugarh) and INTACH, New Delhi entered into a tripartite partnership to achieve the objective of preserving, restoring and renovating the cherished heritage of John Berry White Medical School  Rural development Projects  OIL has been developing rural infrastructure in and around its operational areas for the people and communities residing in these areas to bring about all round development of the region. Over the years the company has built over 1500 kilometres of roads to facilitate and improve basic communication. Further the company constructed many public stages, auditoriums, libraries, lecture Halls, Computer Centres, roadside waiting sheds, upgraded & developed rural hospitals, rural schools & educational institute of higher development in various OIL operational areas of North East India. In FY 2017-18, OIL has constructed over 203.189 kms of rural roads, 56 nos. of rural culverts, development of around 05 nos. of playgrounds and around 07 nos. of waiting sheds in various villages of OIL operational areas of Tinsukia, Dibrugarh. -----------------------------------------------------x---------------------------------------------------P a g e | 22
