Sixth AP Fund Annual Report 2018 4 STABLE EARNINGS Net profit for the year was SEK 3,042 million, which 6 WELL-DIVERSIFIED There are now approx. 30 collaborations with PE 14 GENDER EQUALITY For the second time, AP6 invited representatives corresponds to a return funds in the portfolio (apfrom Nordic PE funds to of 9.6 percent. Return on prox. 450 portfolio comdiscuss ways of increasing the PE portfolio was 16.1 panies) and approx. 40 gender equality and percent. direct investments. diversity in the sector. Visit our website for more information: More information about the organization, investing activities, holdings, sustainability, etc. is available on AP6’s website. There are also reports and documents that can be downloaded. www.apfond6.se/en Explanation of terminology used in the annual report AP6 invests in unlisted assets. In this obtains an ownership interest, which Secondary: This is when an investor sector, some specific terminology is is shares in the unlisted company. This wants to sell its share before the fund used. To facilitate understanding, a list gives the investor direct ownership in is closed. with explanations has been compiled. the company. Limited Partner (LP): Investors in a (A more extensive glossary is provided With a fund investment, the investor fund, such as AP6. at the end of the annual report). obtains ownership interest in the fund. General Partner (GP): The PE firm that The fund then invests in unlisted commanages the fund. Typically, a GP manaUnlisted assets: these are primarily panies. This gives the investor indirect ges several funds. unlisted companies, i.e. shares are not ownership in the companies. Buyout: Mature companies with an estatraded on a stock exchange. Capital commitment a decision to inblished business model. They have both Venture capital and private equity (PE): vest in a fund: When an investor decides market position and positive cash flows. used to describe unlisted assets. Typito invest in a fund, it is for a specific Venture: Start-up companies with a cally, this refers to unlisted companies, amount (which is the commitment business concept requiring long-term i.e. specific unlisted companies and made). That amount is later paid out in funding before it obtains market position funds that are invested in such. installments. It is paid at the rate that and generates a profit. the fund invests in companies. Direct investment and fund investment: Co-investment: This is when AP6 invests Investments in unlisted companies are in a fund and then also directly invests primarily categorized as either direct or in a company, together with the fund. indirect. Co-investments are typically made witWith a direct investment. the investor hout any fees or profit sharing. Contents Sixth AP Fund in brief 1 Management 25 Sixth AP Fund in figures 2 Remuneration levels, etc. 26 Key events in 2018 3 Directors’ Report 27 Managing Director’s Statement 4 Income statement 34 Investment Strategy 5 Balance sheet 35 Portfolio 6 Notes 36 Sustainability Report 9 Auditor’s report 46 Fund Governance Statement 22 Definitions and Glossary 48 Board of Directors 24 | Sjätte AP-fonden 2014 SIXTH AP FUND IN BRIEF << Sixth AP Fund (AP6) in brief Specialized in unlisted with indirect investments (funds). AP funds Accordingly, this lowers the average assets management costs for investing Unlike the other AP funds, AP6 is activities. entirely focused on investments in Pension Pension unlisted assets, which is not the asset liability (employer (payment to same as investing in listed companies traded on a stock exchange. Special Responsible contributions) pensioners) expertise and experience is required investments when investing in unlisted compaSustainability is an integral part of nies. They are long-term investments, AP6’s investing activities. It is, for exwhere agreement among the owners ample, a component of the review and is essential. They also require access to capital for making additional follow-up on investments. As an inPart of the Swedish vestor in various types of businesses, investments aimed at developing the sectors and geographic locations, it is pension system company during the holding period. necessary to have a wide approach to The five AP funds (AP1-4 and AP6) are AP6 invests in unlisted companies in sustainability that is consistent with referred to as buffer capital. Together, two ways. It invests directly by buying international agreements on human they comprise approximately 10-15 shares in an unlisted company and rights, labor rights, the environment percent of the pension system. AP1-4 indirectly by investing in a fund, which and anti-corruption. are similar in size, with the same then invests in unlisted companies. In AP6’s Code of Conduct provides the investment rules. They also invest in the first example, AP6 obtains direct foundation for its responsible investmany types of assets. Each of them ownership in the company, in the ment activities. One important tool has inflows and outflows to the pensecond, indirect ownership. for this is AP6’s own template for sion system. Since 2009, payments evaluating the sustainability efforts of to current pensioners have exceeded PE funds. the amount of inflow (e.g. derived from Lower costs thanks to employer contributions). Because of that, funds are extracted from AP1-4 network and experience each year to cover the pension payAP6 has been an active investor in unments to current pensioners. AP6, is listed assets for more than 20 years. a closed fund. It means that there are During that time, the organization has no inflows or outflows to the pension built up a large network, extensive system. When it was set up, in 1996, experience and vast expertise. AP6 received SEK 10.4 billion. AP6 Because of that, AP6 is able to covers its own costs and the profits participate in a variety of investment from its investments are continually schemes. When AP6 makes direct reinvested. At year-end 2018, the investments, the costs are lower than original capital had grown to SEK 34.7 billion. 34,7 billion (SEK) managed 3 042 9,6 million (SEK) – percent – by Sixth AP Fund net profit 2018 net return 2018 Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 1 >> SIXTH AP FUND IN FIGURES Sixth AP Fund in figures Sixth AP Fund Return after costs 2009–2018 Assets under management % SEK 34.7 billion 11,3 12,2 12,3 9,4 9,2 9,2 9,6 6,5 6,5 –6,9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Direct investments, 39% /40+ companies Funds, 37% /450+ companies Return after costs, rolling five years, AP6’s total return Liquidity, 24% compared to return target* Buyout (mature companies) SIX Nordic 200 Cap GI +2.5% % 19,2 18,9 18,1 16,1% 14,7 13,4 11,6 12,2 12,0 10,8 11,0 10,8 11,3 8,7 9,3 9,4 7,1 7,1 7,1 6,2 5,8 5,3 Return for the year on capital employed 2009–2011 2010–2014 2011–2015 2012–2016 2013–2017 2014–2018 * Buyout (mature companies) is reported separately since investments in this segment are in line with AP6’s strategy since 2011. 11,9% Return over ten and five years, and in 2018 Years Totalt buyout, % 2009–2018 11.9 2014–2018 12.2 2018 11.4 Average return – Funds 13.4 13.3 15.6 – Direct 10.9 11.4 7.8 on mature investments Totalt venture capital, % 0.3 19.2 50.5 for the last 10 years – Funds 13.0 23.7 88.6 – Direct –8.8 11.9 9.4 Return target 15.5 12.0 –0.6 Profit/loss breakdown by segment, 2009-2018 Average SEK Million 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 return, % Buyout (mature companies) 937 1,548 1,104 1,566 998 971 2,177 1,424 2,718 1,998 11.9 Venture Capital (early phase) –121 –683 –2 087 –131 176 196 331 192 732 1,439 0.3 Return on capital employed 816 865 –983 1,435 1,174 1,167 2,508 1,616 3,450 3,437 8.6 Treasury management, risk management and internal costs 1,037 841 –397 266 686 274 359 106 20 –395 – Profit/Loss 1,853 1,706 –1,380 1,701 1,860 1,441 2,867 1,722 3,470 3,042 7.8 2 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 KEY EVENTS IN 2018 << Key events in 2018 High rate of investment Two investments, EasyPark and Na(buyout), Silicon Valley and Sequoia vex, were made with partners where (both, venture). Like last year, there was a high rate of AP6 is not an investor in the fund. In AP6 also strengthened existing investment as regards both new fund total, investments were made with relationships via new commitments commitments and direct investments. eight different principal owners, reto new funds set up by five PE firms. In total, SEK 2.4 billion has been insulting from AP6‘s wide network with These include commitments to, for vested directly in companies. Commitleading international PE funds. example, Triton, Bridgepoint, Carlyle ments to new funds (paid out as the Around half of the new investments and HgCapital. funds acquire companies), amounts to (both number and amount), were Of the year’s total fund commitments, SEK 5.3 billion. made in Nordic companies. At yearapproximately 10 percent were venend 2018, the portfolio of direct ture and 90 percent were to buyout Direct investments investments consisted of around 40 funds. Ten new investments were made companies. The new commitments have further during the year. They were all minority expanded the geographic scope of investments, which is in line with the Fund investments AP6’s fund portfolio, both in Europe strategy. In other words, AP6 coland USA. Of the SEK 5.9 billion in total comlaborated with another investor, who AP6’s fund portfolio now includes colmitments for the year, SEK 5.3 billion is the principal owner. Eight of these laboration with more than 30 teams was commitments to eleven new fund new investments were co-investments managing more than 80 active funds. investments. Five of these commitmade together with funds where AP6 It gives AP6 exposure to approximaments are new collaborations for AP6, has also committed capital. For extely 450 portfolio companies. Through corresponding to approx. SEK 1.8 ample, AP6 made two co-investments the existing fund portfolio, approxbillion. In Europe, AP6 started collabowith both Nordic Capital and EQT, imately SEK 4.4 billion in capital was rating with Equistone and Astorg (both which are long-term collaborations of employed in new, indirect holdings active in the mid-market segment). AP6. Co-investments were also made during the year. The fund portfolio has been expanded with Permira, Bridgepoint and Cinven. to include new PE firms in USA via The remaining ones were made in the commitments to American Securities Nordic company, Envirotainer. Large inflow of capital vestments, partial divestments and Creandum has been extraordinary, dividends from existing direct investwith a return corresponding to 8.4 tiagain in 2018 ments. For example, Netcompany was mes the amount of capital invested. It Many holdings were also sold during partially divested in 2018. It was a corresponds to an IRR of 33 percent. the year, resulting in a large inflow of very successful co-investment with capital that will be reinvested. ApproxFSN. imately SEK 6.7 billion was received in conjunction with divestments of direct and indirect portfolio companies. Fund Investments The most high-profile divestment in Overall, funds resulting from divestDirect Investments 2018 was Creandum’s sale of Spotifiy ments of portfolio companies repaid following the company’s successful more than SEK 5 billion to AP6 during Approximately SEK 1.6 billion was IPO in USA. The fund investment in the year. received during the year from diSixth AP Fund 2018 | 3 >> MANAGING DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT Strong performance from implementation of our strategy There was a high rate of investment during the year and strong performance from the portfolio once again. It results from our dedicated efforts in pursuing the investment strategy, where the combination of fund commitments and direct investments as a minority investor sets us apart. It’s a strategy that has continuously generated interesting investment opportunities with both existing partners and new ones. D edicated implementation of the The share of capital invested outside the strategy continues to strengthen and Nordic region has increased in recent years. improve AP6 as a specialist in Private Temporary excess liquidity generated from the Equity investments. The core of our conversion to AP6’s current strategy, continues strategy involves combining investments in to diminish, in accordance with plan. At yearexternal funds with direct minority investments end, AP6’s total liquidity equaled 24 percent of in specific companies. AP6 is selective in its fund capital, which is a reduction of 30 percent approach. We seek collaboration with leading over the year. players and our investment decisions are based Performance of AP6’s PE portfolio was once on own analyses and assessments. again strong in 2018. The return on capital We seek long-term, close collaboration, employed was 16.1 percent for the year. Perforwhere AP6 can exercise active ownership over mance of the fund portfolio was particularly time. It’s a unique, niched strategy, which is apgood, with a return of more than 25 percent. preciated in the market. In 2018, AP6 has had The largest individual contribution came access to many interesting investment opportufrom AP6‘s long-term collaboration with Crenities thanks to its investment direction, extenandum and, more specifically, the investment sive expertise acquired over decades and a wide in Spotify. With its amazing growth, successful network of partners. This, in turn, has resulted IPO and, later on, divestment of the holding, in a high rate of investment, with 11 new fund this has been an exceptionally successful investcommitments totaling SEK 5.3 billion. ment of pension assets. AP6 also made 10 new direct investments AP6’s net profit for the year, including its totaling SEK 2.4 billion. Following several years management of excess liquidity was SEK 3,042 with a high rate of investment, AP6’s portfolio million. It corresponds to return of 9.6 percent. of holdings has grown substantially and become Over the last five years, net return has been more diversified. AP6 collaborates with more relatively stable, with an annual return of 9.4 than 30 external fund teams managing more percent. than 80 active funds. Via these funds, AP6 has Employed capital during this same period indirect ownership in approximately 450 portfogenerated an annual return of 13.2 percent, lio companies. which is very much on a par with the comparaThe portfolio currently includes more than ble index for the European PE sector. 40 direct investments where AP6 is a minoBy pursuing our strategy, which is based on rity investor. AP6’s invested capital is equally collaboration in the international market, AP6 spread across two types of investments: fund generates significant value from our employees’ investments for SEK 13.0 billion and direct extensive expertise and experience. investments for SEK 13.5 billion. AP6 has a We’re convinced that it creates the prerequiwell-diversified portfolio of holdings. No single sites for generating a consistent, high return on portfolio accounts from more than 3 percent pension assets. of fund capital. Risk has been spread across a variety of sectors and geographic locations. 4 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 INVESTMENT STRATEGY << Investment strategy based on ­ specialization in PE More internationalization and a large inflow create more opportunities for collaboration between investors and PE firms. The demand for flexibility and expertise is increasing. Expertise in various types of transactions is a competitive advantage. The niched investment approach that AP6 pursues in the PE sector opens up a variety of attractive investment opportunities in Fund, Direct and Secondary. A P6’s investment strategy stems investment strategy, facilitated by its ability particular category of investment. from a Riksdag decision to conduct own analyses and evaluations of When AP6 makes a direct investment whereby AP6 has been issued a both potential fund commitments and diin an unlisted company, it does so together directive to invest in the market rect investments. When making fund comwith other investment organizations that for unlisted companies. Based on 20-years mitments, the goal is to collaborate with have extensive experience. It makes such of experience, AP6 has decided to pursue leading players in relevant sub-sections and investments together with a PE firm or an investment strategy specialized in the geographic locations. other players specialized in Private Equity. PE asset class, with special emphasis on AP6 always takes a minority position when mature companies (buyout). Within that making such investments. segment, AP6 invests directly in compaAP6’s direct investments fall into two nies (Direct Investments) and indirectly in categories. For joint investments, AP6 companies, via funds (Fund investments) helps evaluate the company. It also has a The organization’s extensive expertise in both types of transactions has proven to be a competitive advantage. F more active ownership role and larger ownership share (but always less than 50 %). The combination of Fund and Direct Co-investments are typically investments creates flexibility and made together with funds where AP6 facilitates collaboration with other has also made a capital commitment. investors and PE firms. A decisive factor in obtaining access to attractive direct investments D S For these, AP6‘s ownership share typically ranges from 2-15 percent. With co-investments, there typically is that AP6 always acts as a minority are not any fees or profit sharing, which investor. It makes us a partner to other lowers the management costs compared to investors, rather than a competitor for the traditional fund commitments. role of principal owner. For more than 20 Besides combining direct investments years, AP6 has been an active investor in and fund investments, AP6 is also involved unlisted assets, during which it has acquiin Secondary transactions. This involves red experience and expertise that gives our When evaluating PE firms, AP6 looks acquiring (or divesting) fund units before partners assurance and predictability. at returns, investment strategy, sustaithe fund is closed. Often, a customized For example, AP6’s partners appreciate nability efforts and the terms & condisolution is required that brings together our high demands on evaluation processes tions. There is tough competition among several partners. and decision-making, with deadlines on international investors in gaining access to These types of transactions are very delivery. AP6 is a long-term investor that the top PE firms that have a long history of complex, which is why AP6 only collaboclosely collaborates with selected partners. generating high returns. rates with international players who are Based on its reputation, AP6 has direct AP6 is often selected as an attractive inspecialized in this area. AP6 also conducts contact with both PE firms and holdings, vestor based on its focused strategy, extensecondary transactions in funds as an LP, which enables it to exercise an active sive experience and strong market position. so that it can increase or decrease its expoownership role. It has given AP6 access to the leading PE sure to the particular fund. AP6’s strategy is based on a selective firms with the highest rankings for their Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 5 >> DESCRIPTION OF THE PORTFOLIO Balanced and well-diversified portfolio of holdings Based on its chosen strategy, AP6 has built up a high-quality PE portfolio over the last 5 years. The scope is much wider and particularly in Europe, AP6 has much more access to interesting direct investment opportunities. There has been a high rate of investment for both Fund and Direct Investments yielding a well-diversified portfolio with good balance between the two. A P6’s PE portfolio currently sumer Discretionary. The has a market value of SEK portfolio has been realig26.5 billion. Five years ago, its ned in recent years. It was value was SEK 15.0 billion. It previously over-exposed results from many years with a high rate to real estate. Now, the of investment and good performance from spread across the sectors the portfolio companies. are more balanced. Approximately 51 % of the portfolio The portfolio‘s spread is direct investments and 49 % is indiacross geographic sectors rect investments via PE funds. The fund has also increased. It is portfolio currently has some 30 external PE now much more internafirms managing funds in which AP6 has tional, with a rising share invested. Via these funds, AP6 has indirect of European companies. ownership in approximately 450 portfolio It is also now adding some companies. US companies. The portfolio of direct investments conSlightly more than half sists of more than 40 companies in which of the portfolio compaAP6 has a minority investment made tonies are domiciled in the Nordic region. AP6’s portfolio of holdings is still gether with an experienced PE firm. AP6’s This results from the very strong Nordic relatively young. The average holding overall portfolio is well-diversified across fund portfolio and the fact that AP6 is a time in a portfolio is just over three years, industrial sectors. particularly attractive co-investor for direct which has to do with realignment to a new Similar to most European PE portfoinvestments in its home market. strategy and a high rate of investment in lios, AP6’s portfolio has four main sectors: The buyout segment (mature comrecent years. Healthcare, IT, Industrial Goods and Conpanies), accounts for 88 % of capital In 2018, there was much activity in the employed. The remaining 12 portfolio. In total, investments were made % is venture. for approximately SEK 6.8 billion via exisVenture’s share fell slightly Sixth AP Fund ting funds and new direct investments. during the year, due to the Assets under management sale of Spotify. AP6 has Divestments were made (indirect SEK 34.7 billion strong relations with leading and direct holdings) for almost the same amount. Accordingly, approximately 25% Liquidity, PE firms, not least in USA. of the portfolio was replaced by new hol24% Direct Accordingly, venture will Investments, dings during the year. 39% continue to be an important component of the portfolio going forward. AP6 only invests in venture via specialized funds Funds, 37% (i.e. not through own direct investments). 6 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 4% 24% Syssatt kapital 76% DESCRIPTION OF THE PORTFOLIO << Fondinvesteringar 37% Capital employed Capital employed (SEK 26.5 billion) Capital employed (SEK 26.5 billion) allocated across market segments allocated across sectors Fund Investments Venture 7% Direct Investments Venture 5% Fund Investments Secondary 5% Other 21% Healthcare 23% Venture 12% Direct Fund Investments Investments Buyout Buyout 46% Consumer 37% Buyout discretionary 88% 17% Industrial goods 20% IT 19% Geographic location Capital employed allocated More diversified portfolio across geographic areas 2018 across geographic areas 100% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Global 1% 3% 3% 7% 10% 13% 90% 7% 8% USA 13% 80% 21% 20% 24% Fördelning av 25% 70% 30% sysselsatt kapital Sweden 35% 60% Secondary 5% 34% 24% 50% 21% 40% Europe 30% 64% 67% 30% Venture 20% 41% 12% 38% 35% 10% Direkt 51% Primary 0% Buyout Other Nordic 21% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 44% 88% Sweden Other Nordic Europe USA Global Sector More diversified portfolio 2018 across sectors Sectors 100% Communikation 3% Industrial Other 3% Energy 2% goods 80% IT Consumer 4% Healthcare Property 4% 23% Healthcare 60% Financial 5% Consumer discretionary 40% Property Consumer discretionary Industrial Financial 17% goods 20% 20% Consumer Other IT 19% 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 7 >> DESCRIPTION OF THE PORTFOLIO Direct investments • For Direct Investments, total Major Direct investments managed assets amounts to SEK 13.5 billion Castellum Salcomp • The portfolio consists of more than Other 40 holdings Visma • Approximately 70 % are co-investBygghemma Navex ments made together with GPs and Anticimex approximately 30 % were made with Atos Medical other co-investors Kuoni Travel Bluestep Envirotainer Alloheim • The 15 largest holdings have, on eRT Lindorff/Intrum average, a market value of around Apotea Zenith SEK 600 million each Aibel Evidensia Riviera Travel Gyros • In 2018, there were 10 new direct investments, of which 8 were made together with PE firms managing funds in which AP6 has invested Fund investments Geographic focus, investments in funds Major Fund investments Geographic focus, investments in funds The amountsThe show total amounts exposure show total exposure value + + (marketvalue (market remaining remaining amount) amount) committed committed Other EQT SEK 11.6 billion SEK 13.5 billion SEK 19.1 billion SEK 22.7 billion SEK 28.6 billion Waterland 100% CVC 90% TDR Accent 80% SVB Nordic FSN Capital 70% American 60% Securities 50% HgCapital Carlyle CapMan 40% Cinven Bridgepoint 30% LGT 20% Creandum Alpinvest Triton 10% Permira Vista 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nordic Europe North America Global • For Fund Investments, total • The portfolio contains more than • Approximately 90 % of invested managed assets amounts to SEK 30 private equity firms manacapital is in the buyout segment and 13.0 billion. The remaining commitging more than 80 funds that are 10 % is in venture ted capital, which will be invested by invested in more than 450 portfolio the funds during the next 3-5 years, companies amounts to SEK 15.6 billion • Of the 30 PE firms, around a dozen • In 2018, 11 new fund commitments are invested in Nordic companies, were made totaling SEK 5.3 billion. approximately half are European Five of these were new collaborations funds and a few are US funds for AP6. 8 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << Sophia Bendz, Investment Partner Atomico, was one of the many who participated in AP6’s seminar, “Gender and Diversity in Nordic Private Equity – Are we on track?” Sustainability Report Gender equality and diversity is one of AP6‘s focus areas. As part of AP6‘s efforts to increase gender equality and diversity in the private equity sector, a round table discussion was organized where Nordic PE firms participated and shared their experiences. AP6 has continued to further develop existing tools and processes for responsible investments. The annual ESG assessment of private equity funds has since its launch in 2014, proved itself as being a valuable process of monitoring and engagement. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 9 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis O ne fundamental expectation been defined. Various stakeholder groups STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT on a state-owned pension fund in society also have expectations on AP6. In Stakeholder engagement in 2018 did not such as AP6 is for the organiza2017, AP6 held discussions with many of its reveal any major changes to stakeholders’ tion to be run in accordance stakeholder groups to learn more about their expectations on AP6 as a state-owned with the Sixth AP Fund Act (2000:193), expectations. Similar stakeholder dialoguespension fund manager. AP6 has therefore where the goals for investing activities have will be held regularly. continued to assume its efforts on the indepth stakeholder discussions of 2017. It revealed that there was variation in the Public confidence knowledge levels and expectations of AP6’s Long-term high return with balanced risk stakeholders. As expected, those with the most knowledge, were AP6‘s partners who Expertise Active SustainDistinct work with unlisted investments. Every ownership ability communication stakeholder group, however, showed great Professionalism Value Responsible Transparency interest in AP6’s operations. creation investments Easily accessible MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT information The 2017 stakeholder dialogue generated valuable information that was used by Code of conduct and other governing documents AP6’s Board and management to prepare Governance and management the materiality assessment. It was adopted in 2017 and both the Board and manaAP6’s model for meeting the requirements of legislators and stakeholders gement feel that it still provides a correct To meet its stakeholders’ requirements and expectations, AP6 has a model that is based summary of the most important issues that on its code of conduct and investment strategy. Four pillars stem from that foundation, which are the specific competencies and values AP6 should address. The conclusions are required. The foundation and pillars create the conditions for AP6 being able to deliver a reflected in the business plan created by long-term high return and maintain public confidence. management for 2019. More Ministry of Finance Employees Materiality Investments Pension group assessment Investment partners Creating a return for pensioners and AP6 IS AFFECTED BY The AP Funds General public maintaining public confidence are Trade Unions Nature & Ecosystems Media prerequisites for AP6’s existence. Trade Associations It requires: Expertise and professionalism of AP6 Banks employees Disciplined, systematic value-creation Pension companies within the scope of a clear investment Non-governmental strategy Suppiers organizations Active efforts with responsible invest(internally) Less More ments based on a wide sustainability perspective encompassing human AP6 AFFECTS rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption AP6’s most important stakeholders, adopted by its Board of Directors Good business ethics and morals The upper right quadrant contains the stakeholders who have the biggest impact on, and Distinct communication and easily acwho are most impacted by, AP6. AP6 held in-depth stakeholder discussions with each cessible information about operations group in 2017. (Some stakeholder organizations were included as representatives for “the Openness and transparency Public” and “Nature & Ecosystems”). 10 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << Responsible investments SUSTAINABILITY IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF AP6’S INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES AND HOW IT GENERATES VALUE Due diligence process Investment decision Investment agreement Ownership Exit prior to investment •Evaluation of sustainability: •Sustainability is always part of •Standard text on sustainability •Annual assessment and review •Inclusion of sustainability environment, labor law, human the supporting documentation in the fund agreement (funds) •Requirements on governing in the marketing material for rights, anti-corruption. used for decisions by the Invest•Inclusion in the acquisition dodocuments & processes with direct investments •Scope depends on the type of ment Committee and Board of cumentation, as needed (direct focus on continual development investment, geographic location, Directors investments) and improvement line of business, etc. •On the Board‘s agenda/the •Internal or external resources agenda for the funds’ advisory body •Selected company meetings F or AP6, responsible investments has to do with divestment of companies sustainability. and sustainability are prerequisites that had well-established sustainability Performance improved in 2018 on two for delivering a long-term high routines. Furthermore, for three of the goals. The share of funds reporting in return. Sustainable development is new investments made during the year, accordance with PRI or similar increased fundamental to the well-being of future gethe companies did not have a code of from 56 to 72 percent. Also, the share nerations and for generating an economic conduct. Efforts are however underway at of funds working with climate impact, return to future pensioners. As a Swedish, those companies to review and improve climate strategy, etc. increased from 54 to state-owned pension fund, AP6 can and governing documents associated with 57 percent. should be a forerunner for responsible LONG-TERM GOALS FOR DIRECT INVESTMENTS investments and sustainability. The Deputy Area Targets Status MD leads sustainability efforts, which are Sustainability ana100% of all investments 100 % (100) coordinated by the Sustainability Manager. lysis as part of due Investment Managers are responsible for diligence day to day integration of ESG in compaCode of Conduct Must be in place for all significant holdings 92 % (100) nies and funds. Sustainability Companies corresponding to 80 % of the value in 40 % (44) Since 2013, sustainability has been an report the portfolio for direct investments should report integral part of AP6’s investing activities, in line with GRI or similar reporting guidelines e.g. as a component of the review and Climate Companies corresponding to 80 % of the value follow-up on investments. As an investor in the portfolio for direct investments should 31 % (37) in various types of businesses, sectors and report GHG emissions and document climategeographic locations, it is necessary to have related risks & opportunities a broad approach to sustainability that is Gender equality Equal distribution between men and women on 17 % (17) based on international agreements on huboards of portfolio companies man rights, labor rights, the environment LONG-TERM GOALS FOR FUND INVESTMENTS and anti-corruption. AP6’s Code of Conduct provides the Area Targets Status foundation for its responsible investment Sustainability ana100% of all investments 100 % (100) activities. Each year, the Board sets specific lysis as part of due diligence sustainability goals for investing activities. Performance fell in 2018 on three goals. Code of Conduct Must be in place for all significant holdings 100 % (100) The share of companies with a code of Sustainability Funds corresponding to 80 % of the value in the conduct fell from 100 to 92 percent. In report portfolio for fund investments should report in 72 % (56) line with PRI or similar the portfolio of Direct Investments, 40 % of the companies publish a sustainability Climate Funds corresponding to 80 % of the value in the portfolio for fund investments should address 57 % (54) report (last year, 44 %). In that same portclimate issues (climate impact, climate strategy folio, 31 % of companies reported GHG or similar) emissions and documented climate-related Equality/diversity AP6 will take steps to ensure that equality is Page 14 risks & opportunities (last year, 37 %). In a measurable objective for funds and portfolio each instance, the reason for the decline companies Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 11 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PE Fund 1. Implementation in the 2. Integration in the 3. Reporting investment process ownership phase 0% 25% 50% 75% 0% 25% 50% 75% 0% 25% 50% 75% PE Fund A PE Fund B PE Fund C PE Fund D PE Fund E 2017 2017 2017 PE Fund F Average 73% Average 74% Average 70% PE Fund G PE Fund H PE Fund I PE Fund J PE Fund K 2018 2018 2018 PE Fund L Average 73% Average 78% Average 78% PE Fund M PE Fund N PE Fund 0 PE Fund P PE Fund Q PE Fund R PE Fund S PE Fund T PE Fund U PE Fund V 1. How are sustainability-related 2. How are the portfolio compa3. How are sustainability and rerisks and opportunities reviewed nies’ sustainability-related risks sponsible investments reported? Thprior to acquisition? What procesand opportunities for value crearough, for example, public reporting ses and resources are used? How tion managed during the holding and regular reporting to investors. is the investment decision impacted period? by sustainability factors? ESG ASSESSMENT OF FUNDS In 2018, AP6 met with 22 fund managers ment is that all funds strive to actively fund managers, but scores are not currently as part of the annual ESG assessment of address sustainability and many have made awarded in these areas. the fund portfolio. AP6 uses its own model significant progress. Although there is a positive correlafor this, which is aligned with an industryLike last year, funds with formalized tion between the size of a fund (and thus specific template for sustainability evaESG processes and a high level of ESG its resources) and the score received, some luation of fund managers in the unlisted expertise received the highest scores. The smaller funds received high scores thanks investment asset category. evaluation also revealed that many funds to their structured, efficient ESG processes. The average score in the fund portfolio have increased the focus on climate and For each fund, detailed feedback is increased in 2018 compared to 2017 largely gender. Both these areas are focus areas in provided in separate meetings. The feedbecause many funds improved their score AP6‘s sustainability approach and are inteback includes both open discussions and in one or more areas. The overall assessgrated into the annual ESG follow-up with possible areas for improvement. AP6’S TEMPLATE FOR ESG ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING OF PE FUNDS. + Continuous reporting AP6’s annual Annual result Yearly feedback and interaction assessment for all funds to each fund 12 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << PRI’s annual evaluation Share of PRI’s requirements that must be met in POTENTIAL INVESTMENTS THAT AP6 DECLINED BASED ON ESG ASPECTS order to obtain a certain grade / Rating scale Each year, AP6 considers many new investment opportunities. AP6 is open to a variety 0% >0-25% >25-50% >50-75% >75-95% >95% E D C B A A+ of sectors but in the end, each investment is assessed based on its own characteristics. The decision to decline an investment is often due to several factors, like commercial AP6 considerations, terms & conditions, sustainability, etc. All companies face sustainability Median rating challenges. Many deal with them via an active approach to sustainability, while others need to become more engaged. There are certain types of operations, however, that AP6 avoids because they are simply not compatible with sustainable development and AP6 responsible investment activities, irrespective of how the company handles sustainability. Median rating Examples are weapons, pornography and fossil fuels. AP6 Investment type Investment opportunity Motivation Median rating Direct Companies with exposure to the AP6 avoids exposure to the tobacco industry. tobacco industry due to the negative health effects of these Strategy and governance products. Indirect investments (funds) Direct Service companies in the finanRisks related to tax advice. Direct investments and active cial sector. ownership in unlisted companies Fund No investment opportunities N/A PRI’S ANNUAL ASSESSMENT were rejected during the year As a signatory of PRI, AP6 reports each based on ESG aspects. year in accordance with PRI’s responsible Secondary No investment opportunities N/A investment reporting framework. Based were rejected during the year based on ESG aspects. on the report, PRI compiles a confidential assessment report, where A+ is the highest EXAMPLES OF ESG-RELATED INCIDENTS IN THE PORTFOLIO, 2018 possible rating. AP6 is a demanding investor in many ways, e.g. when it comes to such things as informaIn the latest assessment, AP6 received tion and how potential incidents are managed. AP6 expects quick, clear feed-back from the following ratings: companies or funds if any ESG-related incidents arise. Below are some examples of Strategy and governance: A+ important or serious ESG-related events in the portfolio during 2018. Indirect investments (funds): A Investment Event Action taken by AP6 Status Direct investments and active ownership in Fund Allegation of sexual Dialogue on investigaThe allegations were unlisted companies: A harassment. tion, action and preveninvestigated and action tive measures. was taken. Fund Allegation of corrupOngoing dialogue with An investigation was initiation was revealed the fund manager. ted via a third party. MEMBERSHIPS during the final stage Invest Europe (previously European Venof an acquisition ture Capital Association, EVCA), process. www.investeurope.eu/ Fund Investigation on finanDialogue on investigaDismissal of a senior exeInstitutional Limited Partners Association, cial mismanagement tion, action and prevencutive. Audit of operations ILPA, www.ilpa.org/ in a subsidiary. tive measures. and preventive measures Swedish Private Equity & Venture Capital taken. Association, SVCA Direct Employee committed Dialogue with the comInvestigation by authorities www.svca.se/ suicide near the workpany on investigation and the company demonSwedens Forum for Sustainable Investplace. and crisis managestrated that the suicide ments, SWE-SIF ment. was not work-related. The www.swesif.org/ company took appropriate action. COMMITMENTS, AFFILIATIONS Direct Extreme heat in Dialogue with the Preventive measures and Europe resulted in company on preventive higher insurance coverage UN Global Compact, UNGC, www.unglodisruptions to operameasures. for similar situations is balcompact.org/ tions. being investigated. UN Principles for Responsible InvestDirect Senior executive acOngoing dialogue with The person has moved to ments, UNPRI, www.unpri.org cused of tax crimes the fund manager. another position until the CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Framalleged to have occurmatter has been decided ework), www.cdp.net red while employed at in court. another company. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 13 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gender equality and diversity gender-neutral recruiting processes and use of mentors. Encouragingly, some have started seeing results, such as an increasing share of female professionals in the investment teams, particularly at junior levels. Several PE firms also noticed that the attitudes of its employees had shifted. For example, the issue has been picked up by male employees at senior and midlevels who desire routines that make it easier for them to balance family and career. The debate and attention given to #metoo also increased the focus on gender equality and diversity during the year. The conclusion of participants at the round table discussion was that collaboration is the key to Exchange of experience. Anna Wahlström, Global Head of Human Resources, EQT, was one improving the image of the PE sector and of several participants who shared her experiences during AP6‘s seminar on gender equality and diversity in the Nordic PE sector. attracting a wider range of candidates. Change will take time and many chalI lenges remain, but results will be possible n 2018, AP6 invited all the Nordic focus on equality and diversity in the secas knowledge and experience in the sector funds in its portfolio to a round table tor. Several of the funds that AP6 invests increases. discussion on gender equality and in have taken bold steps to change their AP6 will continue encouraging greater diversity. It was an opportunity to folprocesses for recruiting, promotion and gender equality and diversity in the PE low up on similar round table discussions how they both identify, and make, new sector. in 2016. Focus was on sharing experiences deals and investments. Reasons for doing around specific measures and results. so include higher awareness of the positive Currently, in the PE sector, there are effects of better diversity and a desire to many homogeneous organizations with both recruit and retain the best talent. predominately male employees, partiOne obstacle though, is that the recruiters This was the second time that AP6 organized a seminar on equality and cularly among those making investments. tend to favor candidates like those already diversity in the Nordic PE sector. The Also, for venture capital (early phase) in employed, perhaps making them blind to first was in 2016. Gender and diparticular, most of the capital is being new talent. Young employees also get a versity are two of the focus areas for invested in companies founded by men. negative impression of the PE sector, since AP6‘s sustainability efforts. The other There is awareness in the sector that greater it poorly reflects diversity in our society. focus area is climate. Representatives from the following diversity leads to better decisions and Furthermore, investors, such as AP6, are PE firms participated in AP6’s semiresults over the long term. However, the asking for inclusion and diversity in the nar, “Gender and diversity in Nordic road ahead still seems long. Problems arise sector. Private Equity Are we on track?”: already at university, where more men than At AP6‘s round table discussions, there Triton, Norvestor, Atomico, Northzone, women choose to specialize in finance. was great interest and openness demonFSN, Accent, EQT, Creandum and Nordic Capital. The industry‘s reputation for being malestrated. Participants freely shared their dominated is a further deterrent for female experiences on what has worked, and A story covering the seminar is professionals. Recruiting and pro-motion what hasn’t. Actions they‘ve taken have available at: processes also tend to favor men and preincluded internal inclusion training, higher https://www.apfond6.se/en/ vent progress on gender equality. demands on recruiting agencies, measurakategori/actualities/ In recent years, there has been much ble targets on recruiting and promotion, 14 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << Continued focus on climate change S ince 2015, AP6 has played an te-neutral economy creates active role in promoting an inopportunities such as higher creased focus on climate change energy efficiency, innovain PE. Climate change is a threat tion and new business areas. to future economic prosperity, since it This is why it‘s important undermines the stable climate required for to have a broad perspective human activity. AP6 is part of the Swedish on climate change and work pension system, with the mandate of with climate-related risks securing pensions for many generations to and opportunities, as well as come. As such, climate change is a prioriticompany emissions. sed topic. Managing pension assets requires AP6 supports the Task Force a long-term perspective and understanding on Climate-related Financial that the earth‘s resources must be shared Disclosures (TCFD), publiswith future generations. Also, climate, hed in 2017. These are internature and ecosystems must be in balance. national recommendation on AP6 is committed to demonstrating the how companies and investors importance of climate change from an incan report on climate-related vestor perspective. It also strives for higher risks and opportunities. The transparency on climate-related areas. recommendations contain suggestions on climate-related information that should nies and funds it invests in take action on BROAD PERSPECTIVE ON CLIMATE be included in an organization’s financial climate-related risks and opportunities”. Companies that AP6 invests in both reporting as regards governance, strategy, Climate-related targets have been establisimpact, and are impacted by, climate risk management, metrics and targets. hed by the AP6 Board of Directors (see change. The scope of this includes how the page 11). company‘s operations are affected by exCLIMATE IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF Climate is an integral part of AP6‘s treme weather and higher temperatures, as THE INVESTMENT PROCESS evaluation process for new investments. well as changes in taxes, fees and other leAP6‘s Code of Conduct states that “AP6 is It reviews the climate-related risks and gal requirements. The transition to a climacommitted to ensuring that the compaopportunities that could impact the investment decision or ownership plan. Evaluating a partner‘s views on investing in CLIMATE REPORTING BASED ON TCFD’S RECOMMENDATIONS fossil fuels is just one example. Another is FOR CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL REPORTING posing relevant questions on how climate change could impact commodity prices, Governance Strategy Risk management Metrics and targets which could have a significant impact on Organization‘s goverActual and potential How the organization Metrics and targets a company’s production costs and, in the nance of climateimpact on operations, identifies, evaluates used by the organizaend, the profit and return it generates for related risks and strategy or planning. and manages climation to evaluate and opportunities te-related risks. manage climateinvestors. related risks and Climate is also part of AP6‘s continuous opportunities. monitoring and follow-up on companies Page 15 Page 15 Page 32 Page 11 and 16 and funds and it’s an important component of ESG reporting. The annual ESG AP6 has initiated efforts to report in accordance with TCFD‘s recommendations. The table assessment of fund managers contains references the parts of the annual report containing information on the four recommended areas: governance, strategy, risk management, metric & targets. One area for AP6 to devequestions on climate-related risks and lop further is a forward looking analysis of how various climate scenarios might impact the opportunities, integration in governance portfolio. See also AP6’s Climate Transparency Report, www.apfond6.se and strategy, metrics, GHG reporting and Link to TCFD’s recommendations: https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/publications/final-recommendamore (see page 12). tions-eport/ Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 15 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOSSIL FUELS gathering carbon emissions data, few comcarbon emission data from their portfolio Given its mandate and focus, AP6 seldom panies measure and report this informacompanies. However, the information is of invests in resource extraction. AP6 has tion. AP6 appreciates that several of AP6‘s varying quality and does not always reach very few investments in the energy sector fund managers systematically gathers AP6. (as of year-end 2018, 1.7 % of its total managed assets). Of that amount, most are companies that provide services/support to extraction industries. Accordingly, AP6 has Weighted Average Carbon Intensity 2018 tCO2e/SEK million very little direct exposure to extraction and 25 *The comparison is based on the 22.6 distribution of fossil fuels. In general, AP6 AP6 exchange-traded fund, which is linked to MSCI All Countries World avoids investments in fossil fuels and has, 20 MSCI World* Index (MSCI ACWI ETF). It means that information on Holdings and on various occasions, declined such oppor15 weighting in MSCI‘s index is based Weighted Average Carbon on publicly available information. tunities (see 2017 Sustainability Report). Intensity measures companies’ 10 The reason for this the negative climate carbon intensity in relation to sales multiplied by the impact associated with fossil fuels and the 5 7.2 company’s share of the risk of stranded assets. This means assets portfolio based on its market 0 value (tCO2e/SEK million). that are no longer possible to extract due to limitation imposed via a global carbon Carbon footprint *The comparison is based2018 on the exchange-traded fund that is budget. There are other financial risks to linked to MSCI Thousand AlleCountries World Index tCO 2 e/SEKACWI tCO2(MSCI ETF). million tCO2e/SEK million It means that information on holdings and weighting in the consider as well. 350000 MSCI index is317based on publicly available information. 20 30 27.5 300000 15.7 25 CARBON FOOTPRINT 250000 15 20 For the fifth year in a row, AP6 has 200000 measured the carbon footprint its unlisted 10 15 150000 investments. 10 100000 Carbon footprint is one of the tools 94 5 4.7 5 7.7 50000 that AP6 uses for demanding higher 0 0 0 transparency regarding carbon emissions 1. 2. 3. of unlisted companies. By demanding AP6 MSCI World* higher transparency in this area, AP6 also helps raise awareness of the importance of AP6’s carbon footprint shown as three indicators, compared with the carbon footprint of corresponding capital invested in a global equity index (MSCI World): climate change in a broader sense in the PE 1. The absolute carbon footprint of AP6's investments corresponds to the ownership sector. share of the companies’ total emissions (thousand tCO2) AP6 reports the carbon footprint of 2. Carbon intensity, shown as the absolute carbon footprint in relation to the its portfolio based on information on the ownership share of the companies’ market value (tCO2e/SEK million) carbon emissions of the portfolio compa3. Carbon intensity, shown as the absolute carbon footprint in relation to the ownership share of the companies’ market value (tCO2e/SEK million) nies together with estimated emissions. It‘s the same method used in prior years. It is Scope *The of carbon comparison on the stock2018 is basedfootprint exchange fund that isPercentage linked to MSCI All of reported and Countries World Index (MSCI ACWI ETF). It means that all information on holdings and weightings in calculated as of year-end, using the latest (as a percentage of capital employed) MSCI's index are based on publicly available information. estimated CO 2 emissions 2018 (as a percentage of the absolute carbon footprint) available data on emissions, in accordance with an agreement with the other Swedish AP Funds. AP6‘s carbon footprint for 2018 corresponds to approximately 30 percent of Percentage of the carbon footprint from an equally large companies that investment as per a global index for listed report CO2 emissions, 7% companies. This is partially explained by the value for “carbon intensity – weighted Percentage Percentage of Reported, 25% covered, 74% companies where average.” The carbon intensity of portfolio CO2emissions Estimated, 75% companies is simply low, regardless of Percentage are estimated, 93% not covered, 26%** ownership share. In spite of higher requirements from **For practical reasons, companies under a certain value or not included. The portfolio contains a large number **Av praktiska skäl omfattas inte bolag under ett visst värde. I portföljen finns ett stort antal små ägarandelar, of small ownership shares, each of which has a relatively low value. Approximately 90 companies represent 74 % both PE firms and society at large for var och en med of the value, the förhållandevis and ett remaining ones,litet approximately 90 bolag värde. Cirka400, 26 %. 74 procent av värdet, medan motsvarar represent resterande bolag i portföljen, drygt 400 stycken, motsvarar 26 procent. 16 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << AP6’s internal sustainability A P6’s own sustainability efforts cover several areas. They include everything from applying good business ethics and morals, to sustainable business travel. AP6‘s must always maintain public confidence and its sustainability efforts must reflect that. AP6’s owner, represented by the Ministry of Finance, has, in collaboration with the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions, issued guidelines on what constitutes bribes and conflicts of interest. AP6 maintains a wide margin to what is allowed. The closer to the allowed limit, the greater the risk of exceeding it. AP6 has also issued its own guidelines aimed at protecting the organization‘s credibility and impartiality when it comes to decision making. “AP6 employees must never act in a way that The guidelines are strict. For example, risks damaging public confidence in how pension they state that employees may never accept fund assets are managed.” gifts. Invitations to individual employees must always have a clear and relevant professional purpose. Whatever is offered in by someone else who may influence their does not allow secondary occupations that the form of meeting setting, location, food decision. conflict with the requirement for loyalty to and drink should be reasonable. AP6 employees must never act in a way the employer. Secondary occupations are An employee of AP6 must never risk that risks damaging public confidence in regulated in the Act on Public Employacting in their own interest – or be swayed how pension fund assets are managed. AP6 ment (LOA). AP6’s Ethics Committee acts as an advisory body in matters concerning the The environmental impact Enviroment and climate from own operations is low. ethics, credibility and appropriateness of Business travel has the anything associated with AP6. This may 72 tons biggest impact, representing involve everything from invitations to in65 tons 491 489 430 88 % of AP6‘s own carbon 56 tons dioxide emissions. The dustry events to specific portfolio company 222 223 158 mode of transport must business considerations. The Ethics Comhave the lowest possible mittee deals with cases both on its own environmental impact. Train 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 and video conferencing initiative and on the initiative of employCARBON EMISSIONS* DOMESTIC TRAVEL DOMESTIC FLIGHTS should be used instead of ees. Ethical issues are also discussed on an Carbon emissions Number of travel by rail Decrease in the flights, whenever posare decreasing due remains at the same level. number of flights. ongoing basis within the organization. The to a lower number Number of travel by sible. AP6 is increasing its of flights. air decreases. international collaboration. composition of the Ethics Committee is *The calculation includes direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emisNevertheless, it managed described on page 20. sions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (Scope 2) and to significantly lower its The AP6 Code of Conduct (www. indirect emissions from business travel and commuting (Scope 3). amount of domestic and The calculation is based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, an international air travel, and apfond6.se) describes the values that apply international standard for calculating and reporting carbon emissions. Calculations do not include the added impact from high altitude thus its carbon emissions, to the organization and is aimed at employemissions. A rough estimate is that the impact from high altitude in 2018. AP6 offsets the ees, partners and holdings. emissions adds an approximate 30 tons of carbon emissions. Carbon emissions from investments (Scope 3) are reported separately on organization’s emissions page 16. through carbon offsetting. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 17 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN AP6 is subject to the Act on Public Procurement (LOU). AP6 continually assesses its suppliers and sustainability is just one of several important factors. AP6’s suppliers consist of a dozen or so service providers based in Sweden. One procurement category is goods and services associated with office operations. This covers consumables, rental of premises, various services, etc. An important area in this sphere is providers of transport for business travel. AP6 has different objectives for stimulating sustainable travel for business purposes. Financial services in connection with the issue, sale, acquisition or transfer of securities or financial instruments are excluded properly. Salary trends are documented and employees, and low turnover, in a sector from LOU. monitored at all times and the results show that is very homogeneous. This makes it that AP6 complies with the applicable particularly important to have an overall, INTERNAL FOLLOW-UP legislation, regulations and guidelines. long-term plan for diversity. Diversity and As regards AP6’s office-based operations, gender equality are part of the recruitment sustainability is followed up during the DIVERSITY specification, both in terms of fixed-term year when preparing the GRI report. The A professional organization that constantly and permanent positions. A balanced gender evaluation and revision of the Code of strives to improve will utilize all the skills distribution at all levels is a prerequisite for Conduct, policies and goals take place once and talents of its employees. People with running an optimal organization. a year. AP6 has set up an anonymous whisdifferent experiences and backgrounds AP6 actively strives to increase diversity tleblower system. No reports were received can offer new perspectives when analyzing in the PE sector and during fall 2018, it held in 2018. and evaluating things like new investment round table discussions on gender equality opportunities and sustainability efforts. It and diversity in the Nordic PE sector. It GENDER EQUALITY AND EQUAL PAY is therefore important that the composition was follow-up on the seminar held in 2016. It is important that people with the same of employees is diverse. As a government Besides AP6, nine Nordic PE firms particiskills, experience and job description have authority, AP6 must also strive to reflect the pated. See page 14 for more information. the same terms of employment. This is a diversity of Swedish society. AP6 also maintains a continuous prerequisite for an organization to function For its size, AP6 has relatively few dialogue on diversity with PE firms and companies in the portfolio, and other partners. It is also a topic that AP6 discusses in Internal sustainability Action/fulfillment international forums and seminars. targets (selection) ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Gender equality For recruitment to new or existing posiIt is of strategic importance that AP6 is an tions, the list of finalists must be 50 % Gender balance in all departments. men, 50% women. Measurement is on attractive employer who is able to recruit/ Diversity a 3-year rolling basis, start-ing in 2018. retain employees and help them continuA workplace that reflects diversity in ally develop their skills. Management of For recruitment to new or existing public pension funds through investments society (ethnic, background, gender, positions, AP6 must actively strive to age, etc.) in unlisted assets, places high demands achieve its diversity goals. Climate on expertise and judgment. AP6 recruits Business travel; For domestic travel, at Train travel accounted for 63 % (55) of employees in a competitive market. To least 75 % should be by train. domestic travel during the year. accomplish this and be perceived as an Suppliers When selecting new suppliers, sustaiattractive employer, AP6 strives to provide: An evaluation is required before selecnability is part of the evaluation. 1. Interesting and worthwhile assignting a vendor It must always contain an ments. evaluation of sustainability. AP6 is a major player in the Nordic market 18 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << for unlisted companies. AP6’s partners return. Health risks may consist of stress or REPORT PROFILE include several top ranked European and stress-related illnesses and ergonomic issues This is AP6’s sixth GRI report and the North American PE firms. It generates related to office work. reporting period is the calendar year 2018. many interesting and challenging tasks for All employees are covered by occupatioAP6 has elected to report in accordance employees. In addition AP6 has a strong nal health services with a check-up every with GRI Standards at the Core level. This focus on active ownership and sustainabitwo years. They are also offered health inmeans that the report is based on factors lity. surance and a fitness subsidy. AP6 engages relevant to AP6’s operations and which 2. A good work-life balance. a consultancy firm to carry out employee AP6 can influence in different ways. The It should be possible to combine a demansurveys every second year. report covers every part of AP6’s operading professional role with e.g. being a tions. There is no division into regions. Employees – composition/ key ratios The sustainability report is prepared once a parent to young children. The total number of employees was 32 year. No new circumstances or significant 3. Relevant remuneration. (31), consisting of 16 (15) women and 16 changes have occurred since the previous Within the framework of the guidelines (16) men. Age distribution: year. The GRI report is a component of the for remuneration and benefits, staff should <30 years 2 people 30–49 years 18 people AP6 annual report. The GRI report has not be able to earn a good salary and receive 50-70 years 12 people been examined by auditors. The auditors reasonable benefits. Senior management consists of 7 people; have, however, reviewed the Sustainability of which 6 men and 1 woman. Report. See page 21. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Continuous professional development is a Of the 32 (31) employees, 26 (25) work at the head office in Gothenburg and 6 For information or comments on the suskey issue when it comes to retaining expertainability report, please contact: (6) in Stockholm. tise and being regarded as an attractive emThe Board of Directors consists of 5 (5) ployer. Skills development is planned at the Margareta Alestig Johnson people, 3 (2) women and 2 (3) men. The annual appraisal. The amount of training Deputy MD, with responsibility for sustaiChairman of the Board is a woman. nability per employee was approximately 38 hours Absence due to illness 0.9 % (3.1) in 2018, broken down into 26 hours for Employee turnover, recruiting 6.3 % (6.4), margareta.alestig@apfond6.se management and 41 hours for employees. severance 3.2 % (9.5). The fitness subsidy Each employee received approximately was utilized by 94 % (93). 3 hours of training on: anti-corruption, human rights and global sustainability goals. Updates on sustainability issues occur regularly and in a variety of contexts. “It should be possible to combine a demanding WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH professional role with e.g. being a parent to The health of employees is important for AP6’s development and ability to deliver a young children.” Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 19 >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organizational chart Functions Managing Director GLOBAL COMPACT AND PRI Business support AP6 is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, and remains Accounting/ HR finance committed to implementing and integrating the principles of IT Legal human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption in Sustainability Communication its operations and to influencing other companies to follow the Global Compact. The Sustainability Report also Direct investments Fund investments contains the 2018 Communication on Progress as regards AP6’s Global Compact commitments. Decision-making processes and committees AP6 is also a signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). AP6 is thus comInformation mitted to considering, among Board of Directors other things, environment, social aspects, and business ethics prior to an investment or during ownership. AP6 also actively Board/remuneration issues strives to promote the PRI princiNomination & Investment Committee Remuneration Committee ples in the PE sector. AP6 participates in relevant PRI working groups aimed at sharing Valuation issues knowledge and experience Investment team Valuation Committee regarding sustainability in the context of unlisted investments and helping promote the PRI principles in the PE sector. For Sustainability issues more information on AP6‘s reInvestment Manager Senior Management sponsible investment activities, please see its annual report to PRI, www.unpri.org Senior management and committees SENIOR MANAGEMENT: INVESTMENT VALUATION ETHICS COMMITTEE: Remuneration Committee Karl Swartling (MD) COMMITTEE: COMMITTEE: Ulf Lindqvist (Chairman) Urban Lindskog (Chairman) Margareta Alestig Johnson Margareta Alestig Johnson Henrik Dahl (Chairman) Jonas Lidholm Katarina Staaf (Deputy MD) (Chairman) Karl Swartling Margareta Alestig Johnson Henrik Dahl (CFO) Karl Swartling Margareta Alestig Johnson Sustainability Committee Mats Lindahl (Head of Direct Henrik Dahl AP6 BOARD Catrina Ingelstam (ChairInvestments) Mats Lindahl NOMINATION AND COMMITTEES man) Karl Falk (Head of Fund Karl Falk REMUNERATION Karin Reuterskiöld Investments) Jonas Lidholm COMMITTEE: Audit Committee Jonas Lidholm (General Ulf Lindqvist Jonas Lidholm (Chairman) Katarina Staaf (Chairman) Counsel) Mats Lindahl Alexander Ljungqvist Ulf Lindqvist (Head of Margareta Alestig Johnson Communications) Karl Swartling 20 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT << 2018 GRI index for the Sixth AP Fund AUDITOR’S STATEMENT ON THE Reporting area Page SIXTH AP FUND’S SUSTAINABISTRATEGY AND ANALYSIS LITY REPORT 102-14 Statement from the Managing Director 4 For the Sixth AP Fund CIN: 855104-0721 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Assignment and delegation of respon102-1 Name of the organization 27 sibility 102-2 Operations 27 102-3 Location of the organization’s head office 30 The Board of Directors is ultimately 102-4 Countries where the organization operates 7 responsible for the Sustainability Report 102-5 Ownership 30 for 2018 and ensuring that it has been 102-6 Markets E/T* prepared in accordance with the Sixth 102-7 Scale of organization 19,40 AP Fund‘s principles for sustainability 102-8 Employees 19 reporting, which correspond to those 102-41 Employees covered by collective bargaining stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act. agreements 39 102-9 Supply chain 17 Focus and scope of the review 102-10 Significant changes during the year 19 102-11 Precautionary principle 30 Our review was conducted in accordance 102-12 Commitments, affiliations 13 with FAR‘s recommendation RevR 12, 102-13 Memberships 13 Auditor’s report for companies preparing the statutory sustainabil-ity report. It meMATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES ans that our review of the sustainability 102-45 Scope of financial/sustainability reporting 19 report has a different focus and a much 102-46 Process for content and boundaries 19 smaller scope compared to the focus and 102-47 Material aspects www.apfond6.se scope of and audit in accordance with 103-1 Internal boundaries for each aspect www.apfond6.se International Standards on Auditing and 103-1 External boundaries for each aspect www.apfond6.se generally accepted auditing standards in 102-48 New assumptions 19 Sweden. We feel that this review has pro102-49 Significant changes since the previous year 19 vided an adequate basis for our opinion. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Opinion 102-40 Stakeholders 10 A sustainability report has been prepa102-42 Process for selection of stakeholders 10 red. 102-43 Stakeholder engagement 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders 10 REPORT PROFILE Stockholm, 22 February 2019 102-50 Reporting period 19 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB 102-51 Date of most recent report 19 102-52 Reporting cycle 19 102-53 Contacts 19 Magnus Svensson Henryson 102-54 Level for reporting 19 102-55 GRI reference list 19 102-56 External audit 19,21 GOVERNANCE Authorised Public Accountant 102-18 Governance of sustainability issues 20 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Code of Conduct 17 * N/A = Not applicable ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT occurs, internally or externally. The However, it has nevertheless elected The report covers AP6’s internal opeanalysis is based on GRI’s principles for to report in accordance with this law. rations. It also outlines AP6’s areas of selection of content. It also means that the auditors have influence as determined by the analysis. conducted a review of the sustainability AP6 is not subject to the requirements The analysis includes an assessment of report as prescribed by law, see the on sustainability reporting from 2018 the importance of every relevant issue, Auditor’s Report on page 46. stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act. as well as identifying where this effect Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 21 >> FUND GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Fund Governance Statement T he Fund Governance Statement is in 2018. Urban Lindskog was appointed as also meet AP6’s auditors at regular interbased on the Swedish Corporate deputy Chairman. Karin Reuterskiöld and vals for briefings on the audit and on risk Governance Code. It is a set of Alexander Ljungqvist joined the Board as exposure. The Committee is required to guidelines on good governance new members. meet at least three times a year, with AP6’s for listed companies and it has become auditors attending on at least one occasion. standard practice for industry, government BOARD WORK The Committee must consist of two memagencies and other types of companies. The The Board has full responsibility for AP6’s bers from the Board, one of whom should report must, at the same time, cover AP6’s activities and in those areas where the be appointed chairman. The Managing specific status as a government agency and Board’s work is not regulated by the Sixth Director, Deputy Manag-ing Director, AP fund. Compared to other public authoAP Fund Act (2000:193), it is regulated by CFO and a keeper of the minutes are corities, the difference is large. The various AP the Rules of Procedure set by the Board opted members. funds have a very special status, with their each year. The Board held 6 ordinary and activities regulated by law. The Swedish 7 extra board meetings in 2018. Besides REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Government does not have any regulatory the Board members, board meetings are The Remuneration Committee assists the authority over the funds, in contrast to attended by AP6’s Managing Director and Board in a drafting capacity in matters what applies for other public authorities. relevant employees who possess specialist concerning remuneration policies, remuneexpertise or who are reporting on a particuration and other terms of employment for PROGRESS IN 2018 lar topic. The most important tasks of the AP6’s management. The Committee must There was a high level of investment activity Board include setting AP6’s performance monitor and evaluate the application of the during the year, with decisions made on 10 target, deciding on investments, appointing guidelines for the terms of employment for direct investments and 11 fund investments. and evaluating the Managing Director and senior executives decided by the Board and Several additional, smaller investments were ensuring that AP6 has sound procedures in use the government’s guidelines issued in also made in existing holdings. place for internal controls and monitoring. April 2009 as a basis for its approach. This Furthermore, the Board conducts an anapplies to AP6 employees and direct holSUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS nual assessment of day-to-day operations, dings. The Committee must prepare draft AP6 made additional progress during the focusing on the long-term perspective. proposals for a framework for annual salary year with its sustainability efforts. Special reviews for AP6’s employees. The Comfocus was on equality/diversity and climaThe owner appoints the Board mittee consists of two members from the te. For example, AP6 followed up on the Board, one of whom should be appointed equality seminar with Nordic PE funds Government chairman. The Managing Director, Deputy in 2016. More information about this is Managing Director and a keeper of the provided on page 14. The sustainability Board of Directors minutes are co-opted members. model for evaluating fund investments was refined and meetings were held with Managing Director SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE some companies where AP6 has made a The Sustainability Committee assists the direct investment. AP6 also worked with AUDIT COMMITTEE Board in a drafting capacity in matters PRI and engaged with trade associations. The Audit Committee assists the Board concerning AP6’s sustainability efforts. The in a drafting capacity in matters concerCommittee must, in collaboration with BOARD COMPOSITION ning audits and financial reporting. The AP6’s management prepare the following: The Board of Directors, consisting of five Committee’s task is to monitor AP6’s The annual plan for sustainability efforts members, is appointed by the government, financial reporting and the efficiency of its Relevant sustainability goals which also appoints the Chairman and internal controls, internal audit (as requiCriteria and methods for measuring and Deputy Chairman. The government applies red) and risk management, as well as brieevaluating AP6’s sustainability efforts one-year mandate periods for the Board fing the Board on the audit of the annual Guidelines for annual sustainability members, which means that the current report. It is also the Audit Committee’s reporting appointments are valid until the governtask to approve the Valuation Committee’s The Committee must meet twice per year ment has adopted AP6’s balance sheet and proposed valuations of unlisted assets each and consist of two members from the income statement for 2018. Per Strömberg year when the annual financial statements Board, one of whom should be appointed and Klas Eklund resigned from the Board are being prepared. The Committee must chairman. 22 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 FUND GOVERNANCE STATEMENT << FEES, SALARIES AND AP6 is supported by four different comAUDIT INCENTIVE SCHEMES mittees: AP6’s auditors are appointed by the goFees and other remuneration paid to the • The Investment Committee is involved vernment. The current auditors are Magnus Board are decided by the government. in investment decisions and prepares Svensson Henryson (PwC) and Peter Nilssupporting documentation on investAnnual remuneration amounts to SEK son (PwC), whose appointment runs until ments that will be considered by the 100,000 for the Chairman, SEK 75,000 for Board. 31 May 2019. the Deputy Chairman and SEK 50,000 for •T he Valuation Committee, which, prior The auditors’ work includes examining other Board members. The Board decides to the publication of annual and interim AP6’s operating activities, administration, on remuneration for the Managing Director financial statements, must approve the financial statements and annual report. and pay scales for all other employees. The valuations of unlisted holdings. Based on their audit, the auditors express Board also decides whether to offer any in•T  he Nomination and Remuneration an opinion on the accounting records centive schemes. AP6 does not offer variable Committee, monitors the nominaand the administration. Their work also tion and remuneration issues faced remuneration or incentive schemes for maincludes verifying that AP6 follows geneby investment managers at portfolio nagement or other employees. In 2009, the companies. rally accepted accounting and valuation government issued new guidelines on the •T  he Ethics Committee, handles ethical principles, and that the accounting records remuneration of AP fund senior executives. issues that arise within the organizaprovide a true and fair view of operations. These guidelines rule out variable remuneration. An audit of AP6’s IT environment was also tion, introduce limits on pension benefits responsibility. These changes are communiconducted. and regulate retirement age. See Note 6 for cated in the policies adopted by the Board, At least once per year, the auditors premore details. as well as in the directives decided by the sent a written and oral report on their audit Managing Director. Documents and tools to the Board, along with a written report INTERNAL CONTROL to assist with day-to-day operations are also on their audit of the administration and Internal controls are essential to efficient created. financial statements. In addition to this, operations. The Board is responsible for For financial institutions with larger the auditors report verbally to the Ministry internal controls. The Board may be asorganizations, and those following the of Finance once a year. sisted by the Managing Director and, if Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s necessary, internal audit if a particular (FI) regulations, functions are required for THE BOARD‘S OWN ASSESSMENT area requiring an audit has been identified. managing compliance and risk. At AP6, Under the Sixth AP Fund Act (2000:193), Since AP6 has few employees, and no these functions are shared between different the Board must carry out its own annual separate (in-house) function for internal levels of the organization. The compliance assessment of its management of the fund audit, external consultants with the right function is shared by AP6’s legal adviser assets, i.e. a performance review. This asexpertise are instead engaged. The risks (legislation and regulations) and the CFO sessment must be submitted to the governidentified by internal auditors and through (financial reporting). The risk management ment in conjunction with the presentation internal controls, are managed by introdufunction is performed by a risk controlof the annual report and the auditors’ cing specific activities to the process flow. ler who reports regularly to the Deputy report. It is presented in a separate report New or modified activities mainly relate to Managing Director. Risk management is a published on the AP6 website. organizational structure, decision-making natural part of ongoing investing activities. paths, levels of authority or allocation of Risks are accordingly managed and reported THE GOVERNMENT‘S ASSESSMENT directly by the relevant investment manager In addition to the Board’s own assessment, Internal control of operations for the funds and companies in which AP6 the Ministry of Finance conducts an anhas invested. nual assessment of AP6’s operations on Board of Directors Targets behalf of the government. This assessment Reports Policies The owner exercises control Internal is carried out for all AP funds with the Instructions Control VD assistance of external consultants. The Managing Director Controls Government assessment is presented in a written communication to the Swedish Parliament Nomination & ReInvestment Committee Valuation Committee Accountants which is published in conjunction with the Ethics Committee government adopting the income stateAP6 ments and balance sheets of the AP funds muneration Committee for the 2018 financial year Ministry of Finance Annual evaluation of operations Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 23 >> BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors CATRINA INGELSTAM URBAN LINDSKOG KARIN REUTERSKIÖLD Chairman Deputy Chairman Board member BORN: 1961 BORN: 1965 BORN: 1959 E LECTE D: 2016 E LECTE D: 2015 E LECTE D: 2018 OTHE R APPOINTME NTS: OTHE R APPOINTME NTS: OTHE R APPOINTME NTS: Board member and member of Board member at Scanmast AB. Business Strategist at the Risk & Capital Committee Vice President Division CommuHållbarhet Danske Bank. at KPA Pensionsförsäkring AB. nication Lagercrantz Group AB. Advisor at MISTRA Carbon Exit. Board member and member of Chairman of the Board at: MISTRA the Risk & Capital Committee Direktronik AB, Exidor AB, Liab Sustainability Committee, at Sparbanken Sjuhärad AB. Load Indicator AB, Gasiq AB, Swedish Banker’s Association. Board member, member of the Radonova Labratories AB, LeSustainability Group. Remuneration Committee and teng AS, Precimeter Control AB/ Menber of The Swedish Society Chairman of the Audit CommitPrecimeter Inc of Financial Analysts (SFF). tee at Orio AB. KATARINA STAAF ALEXANDER LJUNGQVIST Board member Board member BORN: 1967 BORN: 1971 E LECTE D: 2017 E LECTE D: 2018 OTHE R APPOINTME NTS: OTHE R APPOINTME NTS: Head Recruiter, Poolia ExecuThe Stefan Persson Family tive Search AB. Professor of Entreprenurial Board member at Finance at Stockholm School FastPartner AB. of Economics. Board member and member of CEO at Nordic Economics the Audit Committee at Entra Consulting AB. ASA. Board member at Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning AB. Board member at Sensys Gatso Group AB. Board member at Staaf och Partners AB. 24 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 MANAGEMENT << Management KARL SWARTLING MARGARETA HENRIK DAHL KARL FALK Mangaging Director ALESTIG JOHNSON CFO Head of Fund Investments Deputy Managing Director and BORN: 1965 BORN: 1975 BORN: 1972 Administrative Manager E MPLOYE D: 2012 E MPLOYE D: 2008 E MPLOYE D: 2012 BOARD APPOINTME NTS: BORN: 1961 BOARD APPOINTME NTS: BOARD APPOINTME NTS: None E MPLOYE D: 2013 None None No holdings in unlisted comBOARD APPOINTME NTS: No holdings in unlisted comNo holdings in unlisted companies. Green Cargo AB and Wallenius panies. panies. Wilhelmsen Logistics ASA. No holdings in unlisted companies. MATS LINDAHL JONAS LIDHOLM ULF LINDQVIST Head of Direct Investments General Counsel Head of Communications BORN: 1964 BORN: 1970 BORN: 1963 E MPLOYE D: 2012 E MPLOYE D: 2001 E MPLOYE D: 2008 BOARD APPOINTME NTS: BOARD APPOINTME NTS: BOARD APPOINTME NTS: SLS Invest AB and Bergsala None None AB. No holdings in unlisted comNo holdings in unlisted comNo holdings in unlisted companies. panies. panies. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 25 >> REMUNERATION LEVELS Remuneration levels, benefits and representation costs The government adopted guidelines in AP6’s Board of Directors has decided Total remuneration (salary and pension) 2009 on remuneration of senior executives that: for employees at AP6 in comparison at the AP funds. The main objective of this • A ll employees, not just senior executives, with measure was to protect public confidence fall within the scope of the government in the AP funds. Viewed from a larger guidelines Average AP6 2017 AP6 2016 perspective, the issue of confidence encom• There will be no opportunities for variPrivate market –23 % –21 % passes many aspects. Remuneration is just able salary (i.e. bonuses) Government market –2 % +1 % one part, responsible investments another. AP6 must also encourage the applicaOpenness and transparency are additional tion of the guidelines in companies where Median factors that build confidence. AP6 has an ownership interest, to the Private market –17 % –15 % extent it is commercially feasible. Government market +15 % +14 % AP6 reports on its work on responsible investments in various places in the Annual Report, including the GRI report. Below, ANALYSIS OF AP6’S The Board’s conclusion is that remuneraare the guidelines on remuneration, the REMUNERATION LEVELS tion to AP6 employees is reasonable and results from a comparison of remuneration In 2017, AP6 commissioned an evaluain line with the Government guidelines. levels for all employees (from 2017) and tion of total remuneration levels (salary details concerning benefits and entertainand pension) for all of its employees. Aon COSTS OF REPRESENTATION AND ment expenses. Every second year, a full Hewitt carried out the evaluation. It is part TAXABLE BENEFITS IN 2018 remuneration analysis is carried out, where of Aon Consulting Company, an external AP6 has restrictive guidelines when it comparisons are made with organizations and independent international consultancy comes to representation and benefits. For in both the private and public sectors. firm. The comparison material was divided example, company cars were withdrawn There were no major changes to remunerainto two catego-ries to allow for the difand public transport passes introduced tion paid to AP6 employees in 2018. ferences in remuneration structure and in 2012. Representation costs should be remuneration levels between them. One careasonable and appropriate. For example, Government guidelines for senior tegory is private asset managers. The other alcohol may not be included in internal executives of the AP funds is state-owned companies and agencies.* entertainment expenses. • The total remuneration paid to senior SEK/employee/ executives of the AP funds should be Results of the evaluation Cost year reasonable and motivated The results of Aon Hewitt’s 2017 evaluaRepresentation • It should also be competitive, have a tion show that AP6’s total remuneration (internal and external) 273 ceiling, be appropriate for the work con(salary and pension) was 23 % below the Taxable benefit cerned and contributing to a good ethical average for the private sector and 17 % (Public transport passes, code and organizational culture lower than the median remuneration. meals subsidy, health insur• The remuneration should not be higher Compared to the public sector, AP6‘s ance) 18,962 than at comparable institutions, rather, average total remuneration was 2 % below characterized by moderation comparable positions and 15 % higher * In instances where there was insufficient data, • Variable salary (i.e. bonuses) may not be than the median remuneration. Aon Hewitt indexed the previous year’s data by an paid Because changes in the market occur average of approximately 2.8 %. • Other employees may receive variable over time, comparison to the prior year salary, although no more than the equihave been affected by changes in the refevalent of two months’ salary rence group. AP6’s goal is to, every second year, conduct a comparison with a similar reference group in order to monitor the salary trend in the chosen market. 26 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT << Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and Managing Director of the Sixth AP Fund (AP6) hereby present the Annual Report for the 2018 financial year. The Annual Report consists of a Directors’ Report, Income Statement Balance Sheet, and Notes. GENERAL invested in unlisted companies. An analysis shows that during the The Sixth AP Fund is a specialist fund in the Swedish pension period 2009-2018 (the last 10 years) fund capital has grown from system with the unique mandate of investing in the market for SEK 16.4 billion to SEK 34.7 billion, which corresponds to an unlisted assets (Private Equity). The goal is to create a long-term, average annual growth rate of 7.8 %. high return with adequate spread of risk. Investing activities are AP6 is a closed buffer fund, which means that there is no requifocused on the buyout segment (mature companies), which have rement to annually pay in or receive funds to balance the national delivered very good returns over time. Investments in the venture pension scheme’s payment flows. This means that gains are reinsegment (early phase) are only made indirectly, via funds. Direct vested and that any losses must be covered by the fund capital. investments are ideally made together with other financial and industrial investors. For such collaborations, AP6 takes a minority Commitments to future investments position and works closely with or via a partner. Accordingly, it is Investing in PE funds involves making a commitment for an possible to either be a partner or investor by committing capital agreed amount. It is then paid out in installments, at the rate that to a management team or setting up collaboration by making a investments are made. Typically, an investment period is 5 years, direct investment in a company. AP6 currently has many longafter which the fund transitions to managing, and later exiting, term relationships in place with both direct investments and fund its holding. At that point, the return is realized. At year-end, investments. Continuous engagement with them leads to costremaining committed capital amounted to SEK 16.9 (13.1) billion, efficient management and creates the conditions for generating a of which funds were SEK 15.6 (12.7) billion and direct investments high return. were 1.3 (0.4) billion. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR Targets and benchmarks for AP6 Profit/Loss The Board has selected “SIX Nordic 200 Cap GI” as the benchThe net profit for 2018 amounted to SEK 3,042 (3,470) million, mark for AP6’s performance. It is a Nordic index that includes the which corresponds to a return of 9.6 (12.3) %. The return should 200 largest companies. A risk premium of 2.5 % is added to cover be compared to the performance target for the year, which was the illiquid asset class, unlisted companies. The benchmark is used -0.6 %. The return on capital employed was SEK 3,437 million, not only to evaluate performance, but also provide an indication which corresponds to a return of 16.1 %. Of that amount, fund inof the return that could have been generated if AP6’s capital had vestments were SEK 2,550 million (a return of 25.6 %) and direct been invested in that index. All of AP6’s investments, however, are investments were SEK 887 million (a return of 8.0 %). in unlisted assets, which is why the target is supplemented with an AP6 strives to base the annual report on the latest available inunlisted benchmark (Burgiss, unlisted median fund in Europe, less formation. For some fund and direct investments, it means that the return for normal liquidity). This benchmark answers the primary value is based on reporting through the third quarter. Adjustment question of how the fund performed in comparison to other PE is made afterwards for the cash flows that occur through to yearfunds. Both reference points on AP6’s return should be used to end. For direct investments where AP6 establish the value through evaluate the fund’s return over the long term and several business own assessments, all companies are valued at year end. cycles. Performance of fund capital Overall return analysis At the end of 1996, AP6 started with fund capital of SEK 10.4 AP6’s net return for the year was 9.6 % and the return on capital billion, which by the end of 2018 had grown by SEK 24.3 billion employed was 16.1 %. The difference primarily results from the to SEK 34.7 billion. This is equivalent to a total increase in value high share of liquidity and the prevailing negative interest rates of 234 % since AP6 was established and an annual average growth in the market. During the last 6 months of 2018, and particularly rate of 5.6 %. Since 2003, the majority of AP6’s assets has been in Q4, there was turbulence in stock markets worldwide. AP6’s Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 27 >> DIRECTORS’ REPORT performance target for the year ended at -0.6 % In comparison, internal expenses came to SEK 124 (294) million. This profit level the unlisted benchmark increased by 13.1 %. yields a return for the year of 9.4 (27.8) %. The venture portfoThe holding period for PE investments is typically long, so the lio is relatively limited and no new investments are made here. return should also be evaluated over time and several business The return for this segment is thus attributable to just a handful cycles. AP6 focuses on investing in mature companies that have companies. delivered very good returns over time. Analysis of the period since In 2018, there was a high level of activity in terms of new investthe start (22 years ago) and the last 5 years shows returns in the ments. In total, SEK 2.4 billion was invested resulting in 10 new mature companies’ segment of 14.8 % and 12.2 % respectively, portfolio companies for a total of SEK 2.3 billion. Two of these which should be compared to the targets for these periods of 11.9 were investments made with new partners. % and 12.0 %, respectively. It is not possible to calculate AP6’s The return for the buyout business area since inception (1997benchmark since inception, due to the limited amount of data. 2018) and for the last 10 years (2009-2018) is 15.0 % and 10.9 % Comparisons are thus made over 5 years (benchmark increase of respectively. The corresponding figures for venture capital are -8.6 12.6 %) and 10 years (8.7 %). The performance of mature compa% and -8.8 %. These lower returns are primarily a result of the prenies exceeded the benchmark over the last 10 years (11.9 %) and vious strategic direction. Investments within the mature segment is on a par with the benchmark over the last 5 years (12.2 %). The have outperformed the target that was originally 11.9 %, but are net return for the fund does not exceed the benchmark for either just under the target for the last 10 years of 15.5 %. The return for period of time. For the 10-year period, the lower return results the buyout segment over time is considered to be sufficiently high from prior strategic directions, primarily, AP6’s direct investments and prospects for these investments remain good. in venture. The main reason for the lower return over the 5-year period stems from realignment of the portfolio, which generated Fund investments excess liquidity in a climate were market interest rates have been The market value assets of the business area amounted to SEK 13.0 low or negative. (10.7) billion at the end of 2018, while the profit for the year before The chosen benchmark should primarily be used to evaluate internal expenses came to SEK 2,550 (1,679) million. Profit for the the return prospectively. In this context, AP6‘s Board and senior year corresponds to a return of 25.6 (19.6) %. executives are convinced that net return will improve even more The market value assets in the buyout portfolio amounted to once excess liquidity has been reduced. SEK 11.3 (8.5) billion, while the profit for the year before internal expenses came to SEK 1,235 (1,241) million. This profit level yields INVESTING ACTIVITIES a return for the year of 15.6 (17.5) %. The profit level was affected AP6 operations are divided into investing activities and liquidity positively by widespread portfolio re-valuations and by realizing management. Investing activities comprise direct investments in assets at values higher than the opening market value. companies and indirect investments in companies through funds. The market value assets in the venture portfolio amounted to SEK 1.7 (2.2) billion, while the profit for the year before internal Direct investments expenses came to SEK 1,315 (438) million, which is primarily The market value assets of the business area amounted to SEK 13.5 attributable to Creandum’s investment in Spotify. The profit level (11.5) billion at the end of 2018, while the profit for the year before in this segment yields a return for the year of 88.6 (28.1) %. internal expenses came to SEK 887 (1,771) million. Profit for the Fund Investments invest in funds managed by experienced year corresponds to a return of 8.0 (21.1) %. management teams, who invest in companies in the buyout and The market value of investments in companies in mature phase venture market segments. Investments are made mainly in primary (buyout) amounted to SEK 12.0 (10.1) billion and profit for the funds, but also in the secondary market by making commitments year before internal management costs was SEK 763 (1,477) milto secondary funds, or through the purchase of own secondary lion. It yields a return for the year of 7.8 (20.1) %. shares. The portfolio consists of more than 80 active funds that are The return for mature companies is considered to be good, invested in more than 450 companies. even though it is lower than last year (highest to date) for this Many new commitments were once again made in 2018, relatively young portfolio. The lower return is in part explained by totaling SEK 5.9 billion, of which SEK 5.3 billion was into 11 new turbulence in global stock markets during the last half of the year, funds. AP6 continuously evaluates new and existing teams and five which impacted performance of the companies still in the portfolio new partners were added to the portfolio during the year. The new after their IPO. Also, one of AP6’s major holdings was revalued partners are high-quality PE firms with a very good history of re(downwards) due to higher risk in its future business plan. On the turns. Three are in USA, which has further widened the portfolio’s whole, the portfolio is well-diversified and most of the companies geographic scope. contributed to the overall good performance. The return for the buyout business area since inception (1997The market value of investments in early phase (venture capital) 2018) and for the last 10 years (2009-2018) is 14.6 % and 13.4 amounted to SEK 1.4 (1.3) billion and the profit for the year before % respectively. The corresponding figures for venture capital are 28 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT << 2.3 % and 13.0 %, respectively. Investments within the mature AP6’s operations are not subject to VAT, input VAT cannot be segment have outperformed the target that was originally 11.9 %, deducted. but are just under the target for the last 10 years of 15.5 %. As with The management fees and acquisition costs attributable to the direct investments, this return further motivates the focus on holdings in funds and companies are expensed as incurred and mature companies. The performance of venture in recent years has recognized in unrealized gain/loss. In total, these costs amounted significantly improved and return over the last five years is 23.7 %. to SEK 377 (310) million, of which SEK 367 (300) million is There are relatively few high-performance teams and fewer funds attributable to the management costs for funds. The management on the market. Accordingly, commitments made here will continue costs for funds corresponds to 1.3 (1.3) % in relation to the total to be limited compared to the major buyout funds. managed assets for funds, which, at year end, amounted to SEK 28.6 (23.4) billion. That amount consists of current market value MANAGEMENT OF LIQUIDITY RESERVE and remaining committed capital. The cost increase in SEK is & EXCESS LIQUIDITY attributable to having acquired a greater number of reputable funds At year-end, liquidity totaled SEK 8.1 (9.6) billion. This is the porwhich, over time, are expected to generate high, stable returns. tion of AP6’s capital that has not been invested as part of investing Total costs for AP6 amounted to SEK 101 (117) million in activities. Outcome for the liquidity management amounted to 2018, with SEK 54 (72) million of this sum attributable to investSEK -302 (107) million. ing activities and liquidity management, while SEK 47 (45) million Payment readiness is just one aspect of liquidity management. relates to joint costs. For this, the funds are invested in highly liquid interest-bearing securities (where there is low risk and adequate risk diversification). ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES The management objective for debt securities is to achieve a return AP6 is owned by the government and reports to the Ministry of in line with OMRX T-Bill. The size of the amount corresponds Finance. In terms of structure, the investment organization is dito payment readiness of approximately 6-12 months of the net vided into two business areas, Direct Investments and Fund Investoutflow for investing activities. ments. These two business areas manage what AP6, in an analysis What remains after that is managed as excess liquidity by context, refers to as investing activities. In addition to that, AP6 AP6. Because AP6 is a closed fund that makes long-term investmanages liquidity which involves maintaining payment readiness, ments in unlisted assets, excess liquidity will be generated during along with managing excess liquidity and borrowing needs. periods of high returns. Accordingly, a long-term investment Shared functions such as legal affairs, finance, business control, horizon must be applied. With the aim of achieving an adequate, sustainability, HR and IT support the organization’s investing risk-adjusted return, excess liquidity is thus invested at a higher activities. The head office is located in Gothenburg. risk than the amount set aside for payment readiness. Following At year-end, AP6 had 32 (31) employees. See Note 6 for addithis approach, AP6 invests 30 % in five geographically widestional information on staff. For more information on AP6’s organipread, passive stock index. The remaining portion is invested in zation and employees, please visit the website, www.apfond6.se. external fixed-income funds with balanced interest rate risk and credit risk. The management is thus considered to be very well EVALUATION AGAINST OPERATIONAL TARGETS diversified and the current broader exposure to shares partially Under the Sixth AP Fund Act (2000:193), the Board of AP6 must replaces the prior exposure to Lannebo Microcap, which was carry out its own annual assessment of its management of the fund divested during the year. assets, i.e. a per-formance review. This assessment must be submitLiquidity management must also consider the financial risks ted to the government in conjunction with the presentation of the that could arise within the business, and any borrowing needs. annual report and the auditors’ report. It is presented in a separate report published on the AP6 website. MANAGEMENT COSTS The costs are divided into external and internal management costs THE GOVERNMENT‘S ASSESSMENT and shared costs (Notes 4 and 5). The Ministry of Finance conducts an annual assessment of AP6’s External management costs refer primarily to the management operations on behalf of the government. This is done for all AP fees payable to the managers of listed holdings. funds with the assistance of external consultants. The assessment is Internal management costs include staff costs related to investpresented in a written communication to the Swedish Parliament ments in funds, directly-owned companies and liquidity manageand published in conjunction with the government adopting the ment holdings. They also include costs that are directly attributable income statements and balance sheets for the year; this is normally to investing activities. done in May of the following year. Shared costs include staff costs for the Managing Director The assessment is primarily of the performance targets set by and shared specialist functions, plus the cost of premises, services the Board and the extent to which investing activities achieved purchased externally, IT and general office expenses. Because them. Analyses are also performed to assess the efficiency of the Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 29 >> DIRECTORS’ REPORT AP fund system from a general perspective. The latest document is rent holdings, as well as how these risks are managed. published on the websites of the Swedish government and AP6. To begin with, it should be mentioned that under the Sixth AP Fund Act (2000:193), financial instruments must be valued at RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS fair value. For a financial instrument, fair value is defined as the Sustainability applies to investments, organization and leadership. amount at which an asset could be transferred, or a liability settled. The sustainability aspect is an important starting point and a preThis must take place between knowledgeable parties that are requisite for being able to generate a long-term high return on the independent of each other and have an interest in the transaction pension fund assets that AP6 is entrusted with managing. Another being carried out. AP6 classifies its assets at fair value according to reason for working with sustainability is to comply with the legal the following valuation hierarchy. The levels are set based on the requirements set out in the Swedish Environmental Code, which market data available on the date of valuation. includes applying the precautionary principle. AP6 reports in line with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and is a member of the PRI Total Fair value hierarchy fair (UN initiative for responsible investment) and the Global Compact. SEK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value The requirements are thus clearly formalized for both the investment Shares and fund units 8,033 – 25,009 33,042 process and when sustainability issues arise in existing holdings in Interest-bearing securities 760 –65 349 1,044 companies and funds. The prerequi-sites for the two types of investCash 641 – – 641 ment are not the same, which is also reflected in how sustainability is implemented. A common denominator is, however, that AP6 sets the Level 1) Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets requirements. Companies in which AP6 has a direct ownership inteand liabilities. rest are encouraged to join the Global Compact. Direct Investments Level 2) F inancial instruments that do not belong to level 1 instead belong to level 2 if there are quoted prices on inactive markets or if the consist of holdings of different sizes and ownership stakes, which value can be derived from quoted prices. means that AP6 must adapt the models accordingly. Funds in which Level 3) There is no observable market data that can be used on asset. AP6 has an ownership stake are encouraged to adopt or adhere to the principles of PRI. Regardless of the type of investment, direct or inChange within level 3 for Fund direct, the ongoing work with sustainability issues involves ensuring the year Direct ininvestthere are models for setting requirements, monitor-ing and controls, SEK million vestments ments Total as well as for reporting deviations and subsequent action. Opening balance 1 January 9,721 10,707 20,428 AP6 has a Sustainability Committee consisting of two Board Investments 2,422 4,015 6,437 members. The Committee decides on the guidelines for sustainability Value changes* 683 2,999 3,682 reporting, along with the criteria for measurement and evaluation. Divestments –752 –4,928 –5,680 It also establishes an overall strategic plan together with long-term Exchange rate differences goals. The Committee provides sustainability efforts with a clear link and other adjustments 249 242 491 between the Board’s strategic efforts and the organization’s operaClosing balance tional activities. The goal, however, is clear: for AP6 to be a leader 31 December 12,323 13,035 25,358 in sustainability for unlisted companies. Accordingly, efforts are continually being improved in order to meet the high requirements *D erivative instruments for foreign currency hedging are not included and expectations in this area. in level 3. The closing balance may thus differ slightly from the figures specified in the main text. Direct Investments for existing listed holdings are also adjusted. AP6’S FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR IMPACT ON PERFORMANCE As is apparent from the table above, the majority of AP6’s International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of invested capital is classified as level 3. This means that in many internationally accepted regulations and AP6 continually assesses cases no market data are available when the assets are to be valued. the way in which its annual report can be changed and improved AP6 uses IPEV’s principles as the framework for performing a in order to provide a fair and transparent view of operations. These valuation. When the valuation takes place most of the methods are regulations require significant disclosures on financial instruments. applied, such as discounted cash flow, net assets valuation, multiple Disclosures in accordance with IFRS 7 are meant to make it posvaluation, etc. (please see the accounting policies in Note 1). sible for a user to assess the importance of financial instruments to Some of AP6’s companies are valued based on a model in which AP6’s financial position and performance, as well as the nature and future cash flows are an indicator of the company’s value. For this extent of the financial risks resulting from holdings and to which valuation method to work, the company must be able to forecast AP6 is thus exposed. its future cash flow with reasonable certainty. As future cash flows A description is provided below of how the financial instruments are discounted to their present value, it is important to use the corimpact performance, financial position and risks that exist for currect cost of capital. This represents a weighting of the cost of loan 30 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT << capital and equity, referred to as “WACC” (Weighted Average Cost RISKS IN AP6’S OPERATIONS of Capital). The cost of equity is on a par with the benchmark set Each year, AP6 conducts a thorough review of risks, which involby AP6 for the element of the company’s operations that cannot be ves documenting the risks associated with its operations. Each area financed externally by, for example, a bank loan. Borrowing costs of risk has its risk-drivers and these are analyzed. Afterwards, each are generally lower than the cost of equity, especially because interisk and its likelihood of occurring are discussed, along with the rest expenses are tax deductible for the company. The performance impact it would have on operations. Mitigating factors are then target for equity for a company in early phase without opportuniidentified, along with the level of net risk deemed acceptable. Such ties for external financing is thus relatively high, thereby providing efforts are carried out by the AP6’s senior management team and a much more restrictive valuation in the form of lower company reported to the audit committee (and, where relevant, the sustainavalue. Conversely, this means that a company with good financing bility committee). As with most organizations, there are many risks opportunities has a lower WACC and thereby also a higher comthat must be managed. Below is a list of the six risks considered to pany value in the model. The cost of capital that AP6 uses is key be most significant to AP6. to how the company is valued and thus also how changes in value Market risk: Market risk is the risk that a fair value or future may arise in AP6’s income statement. The most important paracash flow from an investment will vary due to changes in the meters in the model are, however, the assessment of the company’s market. The market risks that predominantly affect AP6 are share future development in terms of e.g. growth, operating margin, price, currency and interest rate risks. Since both fund investments investment requirements, etc. The risks that therefore primarily afand company investments are exposed to these risks, they are mofect the company’s value are market risk and perform-ance risk (see nitored continuously. A maximum of 10 % of AP6’s assets, valued the section “Risks in the Sixth AP Fund’s operations”). at market value, may be exposed to currency risk. For this reason, The most common valuation method, which is also the method AP6 uses derivative instruments to hedge the currency risk. used most frequently by AP6, is multiple valuation against peer AP6’s market valued assets in foreign currency at the end of the groups. These consist of a cluster of similar companies, usually year amounted to SEK 18,280 (13,518) million; of this sum assets listed, which are reminiscent of the company to be valued. A in EUR were the largest individual currency with a market value of downturn in the stock market is likely to lead to lower multiples, SEK 7,444 (5,114) million. Of the total market value, SEK 18,161 thereby also leading to lower values in an unlisted portfolio. If the (12,820) million was hedged, providing a currency exposure of 2.1 stock market is turbulent, a certain degree of caution must also (2.2) % in relation to the fund capital. In line with the establisbe exercised when the valuation is partly based on multiples. The hed investment policy, AP6’s target is for currency exposure to be multiples that occur most frequently in AP6’s valuations are EV/ within the range 0-7.5 %. Sales and EV/EBITDA (see the definitions on page 48). Credit and counterparty risk: This arises as an effect of the inabiValuation at visible net asset value is a method often used by lity or unwillingness of a fund or company to carry out its contracasset-intensive companies. With this method, there is no direct astual obligations or other commitments, a factor which could lead sessment of the company’s future earnings potential. Based on the to losses. In these cases, AP6 is working to diversify the portfolio visible net asset value, an assessment is instead made of the need so that its exposure to individual holdings will not be too high. for a discount or premium, depending on how comparable listed Risk is also managed by, each year, the Board adopting a future companies (peers) are valued. allocation plan that shows how the assets will in future be distribuValuation according to the latest round of financing may also be ted between asset classes and business areas. part of the estimate. If a substantial part of the round is directed Liquidity risk: This risk is best described as the risk of a financing outside the existing ownership structure, the valuation will then crisis. One of the ways in which liquidity risk arises is when assets, often be a central part of the estimate of the fair value. A few liabilities and commitments have different maturities. As AP6 does holdings are pre-revenue companies, i.e. the company does not yet not have any inflows or outflows to the pension scheme, AP6 only have any operations that generate income. These companies are needs to consider its own investing activities. Unlike other buffer very difficult to value, so naturally a restrictive valuation is used, funds, there is no legal requirement on the proportion of assets which often means at cost of acquisition or lower. that must be placed in investments with a low liquidity risk. AP6’s The private equity funds in which AP6 invests apply the same target is for the liquidity reserve to normally account for 5 -10 % of valuation methods outlined above. AP6 continually assesses both AP6’s total managed assets. There is also a line of credit that can be the valuation methods used and the valuations reported quarterly. utilized if a need for financing arises. In the case of AP6’s listed holdings, up-to-date market data Performance risk: Refers to the risk that a holding fails to are obtained at the end of the financial year. Investments of this perform in accordance with the objectives set in, for example, the kind thus do not have any element of estimation in the valuation ownership plan or business plan. The risk is monitored by both process. direct investments and fund investments, but for the former a more proactive approach must be taken if the risk increases. AP6 Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 31 >> DIRECTORS’ REPORT monitors its investments by being an active owner. It aims to have a representative on the board of the unlisted companies when the ownership interest makes this feasible. The companies’ financial development is also continuously monitored. Operational risks: The risk of financial loss as a result of human error, inadequate processes, external events or faulty systems. The ways in which AP6 manages these risks include documenting and mapping different process flows. In addition, employees continually develop their skills via training. Sustainability risks: These risks exist in all types of operations, but AP6’s exposure is primarily associated with its investing activities in companies and funds. The sustainability risks vary, based on company‘s or fund‘s operations and geographic locations. Types of risks include: violation of human rights or labor laws, corruption, environmental damage and climate risks. AP6 manages its sustainability risks by systematically reviewing and assessing them prior to an investment, then, working continually with them during the ownership phase. Another component of risk management is the annual goals for AP6‘s systematic sustainability work, set by the Board. 32 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT << THE SIXTH AP FUND’S PERFORMANCE 2009 -2018 (10 YEARS) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Trend in return, % 11.3 9.4 –6.9 9.2 9.2 6.5 12.2 6.5 12.3 9.6 Benchmark index1 7.5 6.5 7.7 20.2 30.0 19.5 15.4 10.5 16.2 –0.6 Unlisted benchmark 2 –6.1 –3.0 2.0 1.1 7.5 15.9 6.9 8.3 6.6 13.1 Fund capital, SEK bn 18.2 19.9 18.5 20.2 22.1 23.6 26.4 28.1 31.6 34.7 Profit/loss summary, SEK m Profit/loss before costs 1,999 1,874 –1,237 1,838 1,982 1,561 2,994 1,827 3,587 3,143 External management costs –16 –22 –23 –21 –24 –22 –21 –13 –31 –8 Internal management costs and shared costs –130 –146 –120 –116 –98 –98 –106 –92 –86 –93 Profit/loss for the year 1,853 1,706 –1,380 1,701 1,860 1,441 2,867 1,722 3,470 3,042 1. B enchmark index: 2003–2011 absolute performance target. 2012-2018 performance target SIX Nordic 200 Cap GI +2.5%. 2. Burgiss Europe, median all assets. Adjusted for normal liquidity. SIXTH AP FUND’S PROFIT/LOSS AND FUND CAPITAL BY BUSINESS AREA Profit/Loss Return before Market value costs, % assets SEK million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Summa 2014–2018 2018-12-30 Direct investments 372 1,788 1,013 1,771 887 5,831 11.5 13,457 Fund investments 796 720 603 1,678 2,550 6,347 15.6 13,038 Liquidity & risk management 371 465 198 107 –302 839 – 8,141 Shared assets, net 1 – – – – – – – 14 Internal management costs –50 –59 –47 –41 –46 –243 – – Shared costs –48 –47 –45 –45 –47 –232 – – Total 1,441 2,867 1,722 3,470 3,042 12,542 9,4 34,650 1. Shared assets, net, consists of other working capital. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 33 >> INCOME STATEMENT Income statement SEK million Note 2018 2017 Investing activities Net gain/loss, listed shares and participations –104 192 Net profit/loss, unlisted shares and participations 2 3,192 3,299 Dividends received 59 105 Other financial income and expenses 3 –4 –9 Management costs 4,6 –54 –72 Shared costs 5,6 –47 –45 Profit/loss for the year 3,042 3,470 34 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 BALANCE SHEET << Balance sheet SEK million Note 2018-12-31 2017-12-31 ASSETS Investment assets Shares and participations in listed companies and funds 7.8 8,033 2,050 Shares and participations in unlisted companies and funds 7.9 25,009 20,158 Other interest-bearing instruments 7.10 1,109 8,311 Total investment assets 34,151 30,519 Receivables and other assets Derivative for currency hedging 144 136 Other current receivables 11 16 405 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 12 68 86 Cash and cash equivalents 7 641 819 Total receivables and other assets 869 1,446 TOTAL ASSETS 35,020 31,965 FUND CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES Fund capital Initial capital 10,366 10,366 Retained earnings 21,242 17,772 Profit/loss for the year 3,042 3,470 Total fund capital 34 650 31 608 Current liabilities Derivative for currency hedging 209 216 Accrued expenses 14 56 91 Other current liabilities 15 105 50 Total current liabilities 370 357 TOTAL FUND CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES 35,020 31,965 Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 35 >> NOTES Notes All amounts are in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK million) unless otherwise stated. interest in the company is minimal. In such cases a write-down of Note 1 Accounting policies the holding should be considered. In all cases, events that have taken place between the timing of the transaction and the timing The Sixth AP Fund (AP6) complies with the provisions of the of recognition are taken into consideration. Sixth Swedish National Pension (AP) Fund Act (2000:193). This Act came into force on 1 January 2001. The Annual Report has Discounted cash flow been prepared in accordance with Swedish GAAP. Due to the law This method involves measuring the value of the company on the governing AP6, all investments must be measured at fair value in basis of discounted future continuous cash flows. Thereafter, AP6’s accounting. No changes took place in the Fund’s accounting the relevant net inter-est-bearing debt is subtracted. Future cash policies in 2018. flows are discounted to present value based on a risk-adjusted interest rate. The required return used in the model, and thus for Accounting according to IFRS the investment, must correspond to the average expected market IFRS is a set of internationally accepted accounting rules and rate of return for a portfolio with a comparable level of risk and AP6 therefore continuously evaluates changes taking place in this investment horizon. In those cases where, at the time of measuarea. AP6 meets the definition of an investment entity as per IFRS rement, the investment does not yet show a positive cash flow, 10. AP6 must decide what is relevant for each individual standard and an alternative valuation showing a more accurate value has and then assess the data that should be presented in order for an not been performed, a more cautious estimate of the value of the external reader to obtain a true and fair view while also ensuring company should be made. In such cases, the market value of the that the Annual Report remains clear. It has been determined that investment is often its cost of acquisition, or lower. the year’s results are consistent with IFRS. As with the other AP Funds, a separate cash flow statement is not prepared for the anNet asset method nual report. This is the only exception to IFRS. This method is appropriate for property or finance companies, whose value consists primarily of the company’s net assets. Recognition and measurement of unlisted securities Afterwards, consideration is given to comparable listed companies AP6 measures all holdings at fair value and uses the IPEV (Intervalue as regards a premium or discount to net asset value. national Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Board, www.privateequityvaluation.com) guidelines as a valuation frameValuation using multiples work. Essentially this means holdings should be recognized at fair This valuation technique is the most common and is often based value. It should be noted that it is not a requirement that these on multiples such as EV/EBITDA and EV/Sales. Valuation using guidelines be followed, but as they are internationally accepted multiples is traditionally easier to implement in the case of more and are consistent with the way the other AP funds measure their mature companies because of the availability of listed comparable unlisted holdings, AP6 has chosen to follow these principles. The companies for reference (peer groups). In the case of individual annual report is based on the latest available information, which small companies, it may be difficult to identify comparable comfor some of the fund and direct investments means that valuation panies for valuation using multiples. This often results in a more is based on reporting through the third quarter. In all instances, cautious valuation which is instead based on discounted cash flow adjustment is made afterwards for the cash flows that occur thor the transaction price as per the latest round of investments. rough to year-end. For direct investments, where AP6 establishes AP6’s valuation process includes stress testing of investthe value through own assessments, all companies are valued in ments in order to show the effect of various scenarios on the conjunction with year-end. The focus is on companies whose value valuation range. If an investment is very volatile, AP6 opts for a in relation to the total portfolio is significant. The measurement more restrictive assessment of value. of unlisted holdings includes a significant degree of judgment, as a result of which any changes in the assumptions made can Other accounting policies have a significant impact on results. In each individual case, AP6 Revaluations of unlisted holdings are recognized in the Income attempts to determine which combination of valuation techniques statement under the heading Net gain/loss, unlisted shares and is best suited to measure the fair value of the investment. The participations, and are also detailed in Note 2. However, in the following valuation techniques are used: case of a permanent and significant impairment (e.g. bankruptcy) an impairment loss is recognized, usually for the entire amount of Transaction price as per the latest round of investments the investment. This impairment loss is recognized in the Income AP6 has investments involving third party transactions. If such statement under the heading Net gain/loss, unlisted shares and transactions have taken place during the financial year, they form participations, and is also detailed in Note 2. an important part of the valuation. Share issues directed at exisValuations of holdings in funds that invest in unlisted compating shareholders (internal rounds) must also be taken into consinies are primarily based on valuations received from the respecderation. If internal rounds indicate a write-down, a more detailed tive funds as at 31 December 2018. In the case of holdings analysis must be made, and if a company has been unsuccessful where AP6 has not as yet received valuations taking into account in its attempts to attract an external party, this could indicate that performance in the fourth quarter of 2018, the most recent valua36 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 NOTES << tion has been adjusted for actual cash flows. Purchases and sales tions of debt securities, the asset is recognized in the Balance of financial instruments are recognized on the trade date. sheet under the item Other debt securities. Any interest accrued Convertible loans are reported under Shares and participaat the time of acquisition is recognized as accrued income. Quotions in unlisted companies and funds and recognized at amortited prices are available for all debt securities that AP6 invests in, zed cost. excluding investments in accounts with credit institutions, such as For funds, the cost of acquisition refers to all payments that deposit accounts. All assets must be measured at market value, have been made, excluding external management costs. External with value changes recognized in the Income Statement together management costs are expensed and recognized as part of the with accrued interest in Note 3, “Other financial income and year’s unrealized value change, in Note 2. The total amount is also expenses”. provided in the running text of Note 4. Changes in the value of unlisted securities, whether realized Management costs or unrealized, are recognized in the Income statement under AP6’s management costs are split between external and internal Profit/loss for the year. The realized gain/loss represents the management costs as well as shared costs. External management difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount costs relating to management fees for listed and unlisted holdings on the date of sale. The realized gain/loss also includes any are expensed as incurred and reported in the income statement impairment losses on carrying amounts which may arise in the in unrealized gain/loss. There is no capitalization of management case of bankruptcies, for instance. Impairment losses otherwise fees or acquisition costs for investments. only arises when a PE firm in which AP6 has invested declares Internal management costs, which primarily comprise the bankruptcy. It means that bankruptcies or liquidations of the cost of AP6’s own employees working in investment activities, are fund’s individual portfolio companies are not reported as an imexpensed as incurred together with shared costs, which primarily pairment loss, since AP6 is not directly invested in them. refer to personnel costs relating to the managing director and shaAP6 manages some co-investments via dedicated holding red specialist functions, as well as the cost of premises, IT costs companies. When a holding company’s holdings are sold, there and general office expenses. is revaluation to the transaction value. Once the dividend and Internal and external management costs are accounted for payment is received by AP6, realized gain/loss will be recognized. separately in Notes 4 and 5. Typically, it takes some time before AP6 receives the dividend, Performance-based remuneration is not included in external once the holding in the holding company has been sold. So, AP6 management costs but instead reduces the capital gain/loss in may report that a co-investment has been sold before it is able to respect of the asset under management. No such remuneration report the realized gain/loss. was paid in 2018. Recognition and measurement of listed securities Other accounting policies Assets in which the fund’s capital has been invested are recogniConsolidated accounts have not been prepared because shares zed in the Annual Report at fair value. Listed assets are compriand participations in subsidiaries must be measured at fair value. sed of shares, derivative instruments and fund units. AP6 is a public authority and therefore not a legal entity, and The fair value is based on quoted prices at the close of buconsequently not a parent company. siness on the last trading day of the year. Transactions involving Receivables are recognized at the net realizable value. Liabilispot rates, options, forward contracts and swaps are recognized ties are measured at amortized cost. Acquisition of equipment is on the date that the material risks and rights are transferred expensed as incurred. between the parties, i.e. on the trade date. This principle applies Realized and unrealized gains/losses are reported as net to transactions on the money and bond markets, as well as the amounts in the Income statement. Gross amounts are reported in equity markets. the Notes. For shares and other securities, the cost of acquisition AP6 is exempt from income tax and the activities are not liable includes brokerage fees and other direct costs relating to the for VAT. However, AP6 is liable to pay VAT on purchases of foreign purchase. goods and services. Input VAT cannot be claimed and is instead The realized gain/loss is measured on an average cost basis. entered as a cost to the business. The last traded price on the last trading day of the year is Assets under management comprise initial capital and retaiusually used for valuation. ned earnings. The initial capital consists of transfers from the forIf the closing price (traded price) is not considered represenmer Fondstyrelserna 1–3 (Swedish National Pension Fund, Boards tative because of special circumstances in a particular market, 1–3) and a sum of SEK 366 million, which represents the residue a price quoted at a different time may be used to measure fair from the winding up board for Fund 92–94. AP6 is not liable for value. payments into or out of the pension system. Positions in derivatives are measured at fair value and recognized in the same item as the instrument‘s underlying asset class. Related parties Changes in value, whether realized or unrealized, are recogniDefined as companies or funds in which AP6 has a holding of at zed in the Income statement as Profit/loss for the year. least 20 % and/or in which it has significant influence. Key indiviCapital gain/loss is the difference between sales proceeds duals in leading positions are also defined as related parties. and the cost of acquisition. Capital gain/loss is the gain/loss Participating interests in companies and funds are accounted arising on the disposal of investment assets. for in Note 9. Remuneration to senior executives is accounted for in Note 6. Remuneration has been evaluated by an external conRecognition and measurement of debt securities sultant, who has reached the conclusion that the remunerations The extent of investments in debt securities varies in line with are fair and in line with government guidelines. All transactions changes in the fund’s liquidity reserve, the size of which depends between companies and funds are conducted on market terms as on acquisitions and disposals of holdings. In respect of acquisipart of investing activities. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 37 >> NOTES Commitments to investments With regard to investments in private equity funds, a contractual Note 4 Management costs commitment is made to invest a certain amount of capital. The capital is invested over time and paid out in line with investments. 2018 2017 When payment is made, and cost of acquisition is known, the holding is reported in Note 9. The difference between committed External management costs capital and capital paid out, plus any amounts to be reinvested, is Listed holdings 8 31 recognized as a commitment and presented in Note 16. Internal management costs Personnel costs 39 36 Legal consultants 0 0 Net profit/loss, unlisted shares and Other external services 3 1 Note 2 participations Travel expenses, etc. 2 2 Charged VAT 1 1 2018 2017 Other costs 1 1 Realized Total 54 72 Income from disposals 5,840 3,882 Capital invested –1,848 –2,472 Reversed value change on divested holdings –3,806 –1,453 There were no performance-based costs in 2018 (–). 186 –43 External management and acquisition costs attributable to holdings in unlisted private equity funds and companies amounted to SEK 367 (300) million and 10 (10) million, respectively. At Unrealized year-end, all management costs has been expensed and recognized in the income statement. They are reported in the year’s Value change for the year 3,304 3,327 value change on unrealized holdings in Note 2. Exchange rate difference –298 15 Liquidity management holdings include listed funds, for 3,006 3,342 which management fees are deducted directly from the holding. Such fees amount to approximately SEK 1.5 (0) million and they impact each fund‘s market value. Total 3,192 3,299 Note 3 Other financial income and expenses 2018 2017 Interest income 26 20 Interest expenses –30 –32 Exchange rate difference 0 3 –4 –9 38 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 NOTES << the Employer’s Organisation of the Swedish Banking Institutions Note 5 Shared costs (Bankinstitutens Arbetsgivareorganisation, BAO) and the Swedish Union of University Graduates of Law, Business Administration and Economics, Computer and Systems Science, Personnel Mana2018 2017 gement, Professional Communicators and Social Sciences (Jusek) Personnel costs 29 28 /the Swedish Association of Graduates in Business AdministraPremises costs 6 6 tion and Economics (Civilekonomernas Riksförbund)/the Swedish IT costs 4 4 Association of Graduate Engineers (Sveriges Ingenjörer) and the External services 1 1 Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations (SACO). Management costs 2 1 Travel expenses, etc. 1 1 Salaries and benefits Charged VAT 2 2 The salaries, fees and benefits of the board, managing director, other senior executives and other staff are shown in the table Other costs 2 2 on page 40. Remuneration to senior executives is accounted for Total 47 45 under a separate heading. Shared personnel costs include costs for the Managing Director Pensions and the support organization. Senior management, including the managing director, are entitled to receive a pension when they reach the age of 65 and have paid annual contributions corresponding to 30 % of pensionable Management costs include remuneration salary. to audit firms as follows: AP6 does not have any commitments concerning future pensions and pension terms and conditions. 2018 2017 Audit assignment Severance pay Statutory audit (PwC) 0.8 0.7 Terms and conditions of employment are negotiated on an indiviOther audit (PwC) 0.1 – dual basis. For termination of employment at the request of AP6, a period of notice of up to six months shall apply and salary and Total 0.9 0.7 other benefits will remain unchanged. According to the Board’s guidelines, an executive may receive severance pay equal to a maximum of 18 months’ salary, but AP6’s policy is to pay severance pay of no more than six months’ salary. Employment contracts Note 6 Personnel completed earlier may constitute an exception from this policy. Severance pay is paid on a monthly basis and comprises the fixed monthly salary without any additional benefits. Deductions are Government guidelines on the terms and conditions made for remuneration received from other sources during the of appointment of senior executives period for which severance pay is paid. In 2009, the government issued new guidelines on the terms and conditions of employment of senior executives in the AP funds. The guidelines include the withdrawal of variable remuneration, Incentive schemes restrictions on pension benefits and regulation of retirement age. AP6 does not have an incentive scheme, which applies to both The guidelines also apply to other employees with the exception senior executives and other employees. that it is possible to pay variable remuneration to employees other than senior executives; however, this is not implemented in AP6, Decisions on fees and remuneration which does not offer any variable remuneration. Senior executives Board fees are determined by the Government. Remuneration are defined as employees participating in AP6’s senior manageamounts to SEK 100,000 per year for the chairman, SEK 75,000 ment team. The Board of Directors’ guidelines on the terms and for the deputy chairman and SEK 50,000 for other board memconditions of employment of senior executives and other employbers. ees at AP6 are published on www.apfond6.se. No remuneration other than board fees were paid to AP6’s board. Applied regulations for remuneration and benefits in 2018 Every year, the Board determines the managing director’s The Board of Directors decides the total annual salary revision salary, as well as the general development of salary levels for and any variable remuneration. In 2017, a comparison was carried staff and any incentive schemes. However, AP6 does not have an out of remuneration paid by comparable institutions, companies incentive scheme. and funds. This type of analysis is made every other year. The next one will be in 2019. The Board of Directors’ view is that the Remuneration to the Board of Directors remuneration and benefits of AP6’s senior executives and other In 2018, remuneration to Board members was as follows (SEK/ staff are fair, moderate and competitive. year); Catrina Ingelstam 100,000, Katarina Staaf 50,000, Per All employees are covered by collective agreements between Strömberg 29,625, (member until 23 May), Karin Reuterskiöld Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 39 >> NOTES 30,250 (new member as of 24 May), Alexander Ljungqvist 30,250 2018 2017 (new member as of 24 May), Klas Eklund 19,750 SEK (member until 23 May) and Urban Lindskog 65,125 SEK (Deputy Chairman Salaries and fees as of 24 May). Chairman of the Board 0.1 0.1 Board of Directors, excl. Chairman 0.2 0.2 Remuneration to senior executives Managing Director 3.4 3.2 According to government guidelines, the salaries and remuneraSenior Management, tion, pension expenses and other benefits of senior executives excl. Managing Director 11.3 11.0 other than the managing director should also be disclosed. Other employees 23.7 22.5 The Managing Director and senior executives at year-end 2018 were as follow: Karl Swartling (MD), Margareta Alestig Total 38.7 37.0 Johnson, Jonas Lidholm, Karl Falk, Mats Lindahl, Ulf Lindqvist and Henrik Dahl. The total amount of salaries and remuneration paid were as Other benefits follows, in the same order as above: SEK 3.4 m, SEK 2.1 m, SEK Managing Director 0.0 0.0 1.9 m, SEK 1.9 m, SEK 2.0 m, SEK 1.7 m and SEK 1.7 m. Senior Management, Pensions, excluding employer’s contribution, are as follows: excl. Managing Director 0.1 0.1 SEK 1.0 m, SEK 0.6 m, SEK 0.5 m, SEK 0.6 m, SEK 0.6 m, Other employees 0.6 0.5 SEK 0.5 m and SEK 0.5 m. Total 0.7 0.6 In addition to salaries, other remuneration and pensions, the following benefits were received: SEK 2 t, SEK 20 t, SEK 20 t, SEK 25 t, SEK 28 t, SEK 2 t and SEK 28 t. Pension expenses Chairman of the Board – – 2018 2017 Board of Directors, excl. Chairman – – Average number of employees Men 16 17 Managing Director 1.0 1.0 Women 16 15 Senior executives 32 32 excl. Managing Director 3.3 3.2 Other employees 7.5 6.8 Number of employees as of 11.8 11.0 2018-12-31* Men 16 16 Social security expenses, incl. employers’ Women 16 15 contribution, excl. pension expenses 15.3 14.4 32 31 Personnel costs – Total 66.5 63.0 Board of Directors Men 2 3 Women 3 2 5 5 Senior management Men 6 6 Women 1 1 7 7 * The full-time/part-time categories are not reported due to the exemption rule in the legislation that says this information should not be disclosed if it could be linked to a specific individual. 40 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 NOTES << Note 7 Financial assets and liabilities by category Derivatives Measured at at fair value Loans and other Total fair value via via the income receivables/ carrying 2018 the income statement statement liabilities amount Fair value Financial assets at fair value 33,042 144 349 33,535 33,535 Other current assets – – 84 84 84 Short-term investments 760 – – 760 760 Cash and bank balances 641 – – 641 641 Total financial assets 34,443 144 433 35,020 35,020 Accounts payables – – 2 2 2 Other liabilities – 209 159 368 368 Total financial liabilities – 209 161 370 370 Derivatives Measured at at fair value Loans and other Total fair value via via the income receivables/ carrying 2017 the income statement statement liabilities amount Fair value Financial assets at fair value 22,208 136 270 22,614 22,614 Other current assets – – 491 491 491 Short-term investments 8,041 – – 8,041 8,041 Cash and bank balances 819 – – 819 819 Total financial assets 31,068 136 761 31,965 31,965 Accounts payables – – 2 2 2 Other liabilities – 216 139 355 355 Total financial liabilities – 216 141 357 357 Note 8 Shares and participations in listed companies and funds Holding Number of shares/ Share of Share of Fair value, units of participation equity, % voting power, % SEK million Equity Castellum 6,700,583 2.4 2.4 1,095 Tobii 4,000,630 4.1 4.1 108 Asset class and manager for liquidity management Index fund SEB 698 Swedbank Robur 684 Fixed-income funds SEB 1,742 Swedbank Robur 1,755 Mixed funds Amundi 1,951 Total 8,033 Brokerage fees paid in 2018 amount to approximately SEK 1.1 (0.3) million. Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 41 >> NOTES Note 9 Shares and participations in unlisted companies and funds Number of shares/ units of Share of Registered particivoting Share of Company CIN office pation rights % equity % Amplico Kapital AB 2 556703-3161 Gothenburg 5,000,000 100.0 100.0 AP Partnerinvest Sec AB 2 556754-2583 Gothenburg 100,000 100.0 100.0 AP Riskkapital AB 2 556711-0407 Gothenburg 1,000 100.0 100.0 Aumar AB 556631-5932 Gothenburg 16,093 100.0 100.0 Gar Förvaltnings AB 2 556312-2968 Gothenburg 10,000 100.0 100.0 Industrial Equity (I.E.) AB 556599-9702 Gothenburg 1,000 100.0 100.0 Iqube Holding AB 556676-0764 Stockholm 226,889 13.2 13.2 Johanneberg Campusbo AB 556658-6730 Gothenburg 800 80.0 80.0 Johanneberg Campusbo KB 969704-9451 Gothenburg n/a 79.2 Krigskassa Blekinge AB 556709-7992 Karlskrona 30,000 50.0 50.0 NCS Invest AB (Aibel) 556914-7530 Stockholm 360,000 36.0 36.0 Neqst 2017 AB 559061-7063 Stockholm 41,493 4.1 4.1 NetSys Technology Group Holding AB 2 556550-2191 Mölndal 100,000 100.0 100.0 Nordia Innovation AB 3 556228-6855 Stockholm 6,357,197 3.5 3.5 Pagero AB 556581-4696 Gothenburg 378,696 3.7 3.7 Primelog Holding AB 3 556680-6914 Stockholm 331,552 53.4 53.4 Primelog Intressenter AB 556727-5135 Stockholm 224 11.5 11.5 Salcomp Holding AB 556868-7999 Stockholm 225,000 45.0 45.0 SLS Invest AB 556730-2038 Stockholm 500 100.0 100.0 Vega Ronneby AB 556762-7798 Ronneby 2,017,365 25.0 25.0 Yanzi Networks Holding AB 559153-7849 Stockholm 2,430 28.6 28.6 Share of Co-investments Investment equity % 4 Adagio Co-Invest L.P. Allegro 5.5 Anticimex New TopHolding AB Anticimex 4.5 Atos Medical Co-Invest SCSp Atos Medical 10.2 BC European Capital X Navigator Co-Investment (2) LP Navex 25.2 BKF Co-Investment LP Burger King 23.5 Carlyle Erpe-Mere Partners, L.P. Praesidiad 10.7 Cidron Lot Limited European Dental Group 3.6 Cinven Cullinan L.P. Allegro 5.5 Cinven Envirotainer Limited Partnership Envirotainer 100.0 EQT Aslan Co-Investment L.P. Evidensia 46.2 EQT Auris Co-Investment L.P. Sivantos 3.8 EQT Auris II Co-Investment L.P. Sivantos 4.2 EQT Butterfly Co-Investment SCSp Bluestep 50.0 EQT Dynamite2 Co-Investment L.P. Sitecore 5.8 EQT Kfzteile24 Co-Investment L.P. Kfzteile24 33.3 EQT Kiwi Co-Investment L.P. Kuoni Travel 11.0 EQT Mid Market US Co-Investment Coöperatief U.A. Class C Data Intensity 33.3 EQT Mid Market US Co-Investment Coöperatief U.A. Class D Zemax 35.3 EQT Nile Co-Investment Limited Partnership IP-Only 87.3 EQT Yellow Maple Co-Investment L.P. n/a 11.2 Everest Co-Invest SCSp Exclusive Group 13.2 Farfalle L.P. Fläkt Wood Group 100.0 FSN Capital IV Netcompany Co-Investment L.P. Netcompany 58.3 42 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 NOTES << Share of Co-investments (cont.) Investment equity % FSN Capital Project Growth Co-Investment L.P. Bygghemma 34.3 HgCapital Gabriel Co-Invest L.P. Visma 12.7 NC Alexander Co-Invest, L.P. Lindorff/Intrum 13.1 NC Alexander 2 Co-Invest, L.P. Lindorff/Intrum 30.0 NC Atrium Co-Invest Alpha, L.P. Alloheim 81.1 NC Mighty Co-Invest Beta, L.P. eResearch Technology 18.6 Nordic Capital VIII UF Co-Invest Beta, L.P. n/a 23.3 Red Garden Invest (E) AB EasyPark 18.1 Roima Intelligence Holding Oy Roima 5.7 Silverfleet Capital Partners Project Maverick A L.P. Riviera Travel 80.0 Willa C L.P. Werner 100.0 Zeus Co-Investment L.P. Zenith 19.5 In cases where the name of the legal entity through which the fund investment was made does not reflect the actual investment, the name of the investment is shown in brackets. Cost amounts reported below have been extracted from AP6’s accounting records. They are not based on information from each fund. Registered Share of Cost of Funds CIN 1 office 1 equity % acquisition Accent Equity 2003 KB 969694-7739 Stockholm 65.6 23 Accent Equity 2012 L.P. 10.0 187 AE Intressenter KB (Accent Equity 2008, L.P.) 969724-7873 Järfälla 100.0 75 AEP 2003 KB 969694-5196 Stockholm 15.8 0 AlpInvest Co-Investment Fund (Lux Feeder) VII, SCSp 23.6 268 AlpInvest Secondaries Fund (Lux Feeder) VI, SCSp 32.8 220 Atomico IV (Guernsey) L.P. 21.2 155 Auvimo AB 556587-9565 Gothenburg 100.0 0 Auvimo KB 969621-7729 Gothenburg 100.0 4 Axcel IV K/S 2 9.7 110 Bridgepoint Europe V C L.P. 2.5 777 CapMan Buyout VIII Fund B KB 969705-5342 Stockholm 100.0 110 CapMan Buyout IX Fund A L.P. 8.5 145 CapMan Equity Sweden KB 969683-1321 Stockholm 96.5 63 CapMan Technology Fund 2007 B KB 969720-4288 Stockholm 100.0 30 Carlyle Europe Partners IV, L.P. 2.7 848 Chalmers Innovation Seed Fund AB 556759-5003 Gothenburg 23.7 27 Co-Invest Fund 2B L.P. 4.4 15 Creandum Advisor AB 556644-0300 Stockholm 34.0 1 Creandum I Annex Fund AB 556759-5623 Stockholm 49.2 4 Creandum II KB 969708-0274 Stockholm 98.5 66 Creandum III L.P. 18.6 145 Creandum IV L.P. 13.7 110 Creandum KB 969690-4771 Stockholm 49.3 3 Crown Global Secondaries IV PLC 2.7 142 Cubera VI L.P. 9.0 0 Cubera VII L.P. 15.0 0 Cubera VIII L.P. 7.4 142 CVC Capital Partners VII Limited 0.3 71 EQT V (No. 1) L.P. 3.5 79 EQT VI (No. 1) L.P. 1.6 263 EQT VII (No. 1) L.P. 2.3 696 EQT Expansion Capital II (No. 1) L.P. 4.2 57 EQT Mid Market (No. 1) Feeder L.P. 8.1 399 EQT Mid Market Europe (No. 1) Feeder L.P. 4.9 272 Equistone Partners Europe Fund VI ”A” SCSp 7.1 23 Eurazeo Capital III SCSp 2.9 89 Femfond KB (Nordic Capital V, L.P.) 969687-5062 Stockholm 100.0 0 FSN Capital IV L.P. 7.1 153 Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 43 >> NOTES Registered Share of Cost of Funds (cont.) CIN 1 office 1 equity % acquisition FSN Capital V LP 4.4 74 Fyrsikten KB (Nordic Capital VI Alpha, L.P.) 969712-1029 Stockholm 100.0 0 HealthCap Annex Fund I-II KB 969690-2049 Stockholm 38.9 148 HealthCap III Sidefund KB 969699-4830 Stockholm 22.7 0 HgCapital 8 B L.P. 7.0 3 HgCapital Saturn B L.P. 12.9 49 HitecVision Private Equity IV L.P. 1.4 16 HitecVision V L.P. 0.8 24 InnKap 2 Partners KB 3 969661-4735 Gothenburg 5.4 0 Intera Fund I Ky 12.0 63 Intera Fund II Ky 10.0 94 Intera Fund III Ky 10.0 120 Nordic Capital CV1 Alpha, L.P. 6.6 228 Nordic Capital CV1 Beta, L.P. 1.7 296 Nordic Capital V, L.P. 3.3 0 Nordic Capital VI Alpha, L.P. 5.7 1 Nordic Capital VII Alpha, L.P. 2.6 55 Nordic Capital VII Beta, L.P. 2.8 77 Nordic Capital VIII Beta, L.P. 4.4 628 Northzone VII L.P. 8.0 137 Northzone VIII L.P. 7.1 130 Norvestor V L.P. 8.5 29 Norvestor VII L.P 7.3 179 Permira VI L.P. 1.4 483 Scope Growth II L.P. 24.1 91 Scope Growth III L.P. 16.7 83 Silverfleet Capital Partners II LP 6.6 223 Sixth Cinven Fund (No.2) L.P. 1.0 235 Southern Capital Fund IIB L.P. 3.4 82 Sprout Endurance Partners Cayman, L.P. 16.7 30 Strategic Investors Fund IX Cayman, L.P. 22.2 15 Sustainable Technologies Fund I KB 3 969734-9620 Stockholm 100.0 38 TDR Capital IV ”A” L.P. 1.8 0 Triton Fund IV L.P. 1.3 246 Valedo Partners Fund I AB 556709-5434 Stockholm 25.0 21 VEEF I Co-Invest 1, L.P. 71.8 51 VEPF VI Co-Invest 1, L.P. 57.1 84 VEPF VI Co-Invest 2, L.P. 18.3 84 VFF III Co-Invest 1, L.P. 71.9 91 Vista Equity Partners Fund VI-A, L.P. 0.6 195 WPEF VII Feeder LP 2.8 17 Total cost 20,914 Change in value 4,095 TOTAL MARKET VALUE 25,009 1. Corporate identity number and registered office are not shown for foreign holdings. 2. The company is dormant. 3. The company is undergoing liquidation. 4. Refers to the share of equity in the investment. 44 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 NOTES << Note 10 Other interest-bearing instruments Note 14 Accrued expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 Short-term interest-bearing securities 760 8 041 Accrued management fee 51 85 Loans to unlisted companies 349 270 Other 5 6 Total 1,109 8,311 Total 56 91 Note 11 Other current receivables Note 15 Other current liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Transactions not yet liquidated at year-end 11 400 Transactions not yet liquidated at year-end 101 46 Other 5 5 Accounts payables 2 2 Total 16 405 Other 2 2 Total 105 50 Note 12 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note 16 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2018 2017 Accrued interest income 3 47 2018 2017 Prepaid management fee 60 34 Contingent liabilities 197 207 Other prepaid expenses and income 5 5 Commitments – capital committed, 16,872 13,112 not yet paid out Total 68 86 Total 17,069 13,319 Note 13 Liabilities to credit institutions Significant events after the Note 17 financial year-end 2018 2017 There have not been any significant events outside the scope of regular operations subsequent to year-end. Uncommitted credit limit 1,500 1,500 Unutilized part –1,500 –1,500 Utilized amount of credit 0 0 Utilized amount of credit is regarded as short-term and temporary financing with an estimated maturity of less than a year. Uncommitted credit limit within the framework of the group account structure amounts to SEK 1.5 billion. Gothenburg, 21 February 2019 Catrina Ingelstam Urban Lindskog Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman of the Board Karin Reuterskiöld Katarina Staaf Alexander Ljungqvist Board member Board member Board member Karl Swartling Managing Director Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 45 >> AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report For the Sixth AP Fund, CIN 855104-0721 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Opinions This document also contains other information than the annual We have audited the annual accounts for the Sixth AP Fund for accounts and is found on pages 1-26. The Board of Directors and the year 2018. The annual accounts of the Sixth AP Fund are the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. included on pages 27–45 of this document. Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover this other inIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in formation and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion accordance with the Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund Act regarding this other information. (2000:193) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial In connection with our audit of the annual accounts, our reposition of the Sixth AP Fund as of 31 December 2018 and its sponsibility is to read the information identified above and consider financial performance for the year in accordance with the Sixth whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual Swedish National Pension Fund Act. The statutory administration accounts. In this procedure, we also take into account our knowreport is consistent with the other parts of the annual report. We ledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the infortherefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders mation otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we, based adopt the income statement and balance sheet. on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are reBasis for opinions quired to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. We conducted our audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible ent of The Sixth AP Fund in accordance with the professional ethics for the preparation of the annual accounts and that they give a fair for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical presentation in accordance with the Sixth Swedish National Penresponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. sion Fund Act. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. OUR AUDIT APPROACH In preparing the annual accounts, the Board of Directors and Focus and scope of the audit the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the fund’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particuapplicable, matters related to going concern and using the going lar, we considered where management made subjective judgments; concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing involved making assumptions and considering future events that are Director intends to liquidate the fund, to cease operations, or has inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the no realistic alternative but to do so. risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias Auditor‘s responsibility that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufthe annual accounts as a whole are free from material misstateficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high fund, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted which the fund operates. in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards The Sixth AP Fund invests directly and indirectly in unquotin Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exed equity instruments to obtain return on investment, primarily ists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered through increase in values. Our audit has focused on the investmaterial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably ments in unquoted equity instruments and the matters relating to be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on ensure a fair presentation of investments when they are acquired, at the basis of these annual accounts. As part of an audit in accordtheir disposal and during the holding period. ance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 46 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT << professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: section. We are independent of The Sixth AP Fund in accordance −Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the with the professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perotherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with form audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit these requirements. evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepDirector resentations or the override of internal control. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible −Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relefor the administration of the Sixth AP Fund’s assets in accordance vant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are approwith the Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund Act. priate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an The Board of Directors is responsible for the Sixth Fund’s opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. organization and the administration of the fund’s affairs. This −Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the includes among other things continuous assessment of the fund’s reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures financial situation and ensuring that the Sixth Fund’s organization made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the −Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and Sixth Fund’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reasthe Managing Director‘s use of the going concern basis of accountsuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing ing in preparing the annual accounts. We also draw a conclusion, administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material and instructions and among other matters take measures that are uncertainty exists relate to events or conditions that may cast necessary to fulfill the Sixth Fund’s accounting in accordance with significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related Auditor‘s responsibility disclosures in the annual accounts or, if such disclosures are inadOur objective for the audit of the administration is to obtain audit equate, to modify our opinions about the annual accounts. Our evidence to assess, with a reasonable degree of assurance, whether conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date there are any remarks regarding the Board of Directors’ or the of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may Managing Director’s administration of the Sixth AP Fund for the cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. year 2018. −Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a annual accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annuguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally al accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or manner that achieves fair presentation. omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matproposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in ters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inaccordance with the Companies Act. form of significant audit findings during our audit, including any As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing significant deficiencies in internal control that we have identified. standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL administration is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. AddiAND OTHER REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS tional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgOpinions ment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have audited focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that the inventory of assets managed by the Sixth AP Fund. We have are material for the operations and where deviations and violations also examined whether there are any remarks against the Board of would have a particular importance for the company’s situation. We Directors’ and the Managing Director‘s administration of the Sixth examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions AP Fund for 2018. taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion. The audit has given no reason to remark on the inventory of the assets or any other aspect of the administration. Stockholm, 22 February 2019 Basis for opinions Magnus Svensson Henryson Peter Nilsson We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those Appointed by the Swedish Appointed by the Swedish standards are further described in the Auditor‘s Responsibilities Government Government Sixth AP Fund 2018 | 47 >> DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY Definitions and Glossary Buffer funds – The AP funds are public pension funds that time, the fund typically invests in around 15-20 (i.e. not traded on a stock exchange), in part unlisted that have existed in Sweden since the 1960s They have companies. These companies are developed in a way companies and in part funds investing in unlisted changed in character, number and focus over the years. that will generate higher value. The fund is closed once companies. The five AP funds (AP1-4 and AP6) are buffer funds and all of the companies have been divested and the investPrivate Equity Fund – see Fund investment. they are included as a minor portion of the income pened capital, including the gains, have been distributed to sion system’s assets. The Seventh AP Fund manages the investors. Profit/loss – The total change in the value, both realized the funded capital of the premium pension system. and unrealized, of assets, returns in the form of interest Fund capital AP6 – The initial capital allocated to the As of 2009 and for approximately 25 years into the and dividends, less external management fees and Sixth AP Fund at inception, together with accumulated future, pension disbursements will exceed the pension internal expenses. profits/losses. AP6 covers its own costs. Profits from contributions. The AP Funds are mandated to even out investments are continually reinvested. Risk premium – The compensation required by an investhe temporary variations between pension contributions tor in return for investing in shares, for instance, rather and pensions disbursements. They must also contribute General Partner (GP) – the private equity firm that manthan investing in risk-free assets. to the long-term financing of the pension system. ages the fund. Typically, a GP manages several funds. Scope 1, 2, 3 – Measurement of carbon emissions Buyout – Unlisted mature companies with an estabGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) – An international gathers direct and indirect emissions into three groups: lished business model that have established a market reporting framework for organizations’ economic, enviScope 1 consists of direct emissions from sources position and have a positive cash flow. It is an English ronmental and social impact. owned or controlled by the reporting entity. Scope 2 expression that originates from transactions where an consists of indirect emissions generated from purinvestor “buys out” the existing owners in an unlisted Governance – see corporate governance. chased electricity, heating or cooling. Scope 3 consists company. Sustainability Report – A report describing how a comof other indirect emissions that are a consequence of Co-investing – This is when a Limited Partner (LP), such pany, PE firm, pension funds and other investors work the reporting entity’s activities, but which occur from as AP6, has invested in a fund and then invests directly with economic, environmental and social issues. sources owned or controlled by another entity, for in a company together with the fund. instance production of materials and fuel, supplier and ILPA – Institutional Limited Partners Association. customer transports, waste management, etc. Compliance – Adherence to regulations. International trade association for investors in private Secondary – This is when an investor wants to sell its equity funds. Corporate Governance – A collective term to describe share before the fund is closed. Typically, this requires issues relating to the way companies are governed. Indirect investment in an unlisted company – With a a customized solution that brings together several Central to the concept of corporate governance is fund investment, the investor obtains indirect ownerinterested investors. With a secondary transaction, the relationship between the various executive and ship. It occurs from the investor obtaining a holding in a main player typically solves various problems for a shareholder functions of a company (general meeting of a fund, which in turn invests in the unlisted company. number of investors, while simultaneously creating new shareholders, board of directors, managing director). The fund is the formal owner of these companies, while opportunities. the investor in the fund has an indirect ownership in the Direct investment – With a direct investment, the Structural capital – A company’s or organization’s company. See also Fund investment. investor obtains a holding in the form of shares in the shared intellectual capital, collected and documented in unlisted company. This gives the investor direct ownerInvest Europe – European trade association for private the systems of the company/ organization. ship in the company. equity funds. Included here is buyout, venture and SVCA – Swedish Private Equity & Venture Capital infrastructure. Association. Due diligence – a work process and method for gathering and analyzing information about a company or a fund IPEV – International Private Equity and Venture Capital UN Global Compact – Ten principles about companies prior to making an investment. Valuation Board. and human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption, which companies can support and which ESG – Acronym for environmental, social and corporate IRR – Internal rate of Return – Describes the return on were launched by the UN in 1999. governance. an investment in the form of interest. Code of Conduct – The Board of AP6 has established EV/EBITDA – Calculated by dividing the company’s Carbon Footprint – a measure of an investment and adopted a code of conduct that describes the valenterprise value by the operating profit (before depreciaportfolio’s carbon dioxide emissions and it comprises ues that apply to the business and is intended for use tion and amortization, net financial items and tax). the investor’s share of the portfolio companies’ total by employees, partners and investments. The Code of emissions. Conduct is actively communicated to these groups. EV/Sales – Calculated by dividing the company’s enterprise value by sales. Limited Partner (LP) – an investor in a fund, such as Core areas covered by the Code of Conduct are: AP6. Employee and stakeholder training and know-how Fund investment (unlisted assets) – The market for Requirements for business partners and holdings in fund investments is comprised of a variety of different Management fee – Refers to fees paid for the managecompanies and funds private equity firms with different focuses and profiles. ment of a fund. Anti-corruption, bribes and gifts A private equity firm that would like to establish a new Human rights and social justice Market value assets – Listed securities valued at marfund and is seeking investors for that, thus engages in Environmental principles and considerations ket value at year-end and unlisted securities valued acfundraising. The new fund will have a specific size as Compliance, dialog and consequences/controls cording to IPEV principles. See Note 1 for more details. regards the total amount invested. Investors who have Committed capital – When an investor decides to notified that they are interested (such as pension funds, Unlisted assets – These are primarily unlisted compainvest in a fund, it is for a specific amount (which is the insurance companies, etc.) are then allocated a share of nies, which means companies that are not traded on a commitment made). That amount is later paid out in the new fund. The investors make a commitment, which stock exchange. installments. It is paid at the rate that the fund invests means that they commit to paying in a certain amount Operative share % – Refers to the ownership interest in in companies. See also Fund investment. corresponding to their share of the fund. If there is a private equity fund irrespective of legal structure. The much interest from potential investors, they may not be Venture – Newly started companies with a business conlegal ownership is reported in Note 9. given the opportunity of investing the entire amount that cept that typically will require capital over a long period they were willing to commit. It may also be the case that Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) – Six of time before the company succeeds in establishing a some investors are not given the opportunity to invest principles that investors can adopt and which encourmarket position and generating a profit. at all. That happens when the fund is oversubscribed age companies to incorporate environmental, social Fair value – Fair value is defined as the amount at which and there simply aren’t enough allotments for all of the responsibility and corporate governance issues into an asset could be transferred or a liability settled, investors wanting to participate. Once the shares in the their investment analyses, decision-making processes, between parties who are independent of each other but new fund have been allocated, the fundraising stage is guidelines and procedures. The principles were initiated who both have an interest in ensuring that the transacofficially over. However, the amounts that the various by the UN and launched in 2006. tion goes ahead. In normal circumstances this means investors have committed are not paid in a lump sum. Risk Capital or Private Equity (PE) – Both of these are that listed assets are valued at the purchase price Rather, payments from investors are made at the rate collective terms for unlisted assets. Typically, it refers (market value) and that the fair value of unlisted assets that the fund acquires companies. to unlisted companies, i.e. specific unlisted companies is estimated using generally accepted valuation models. A typical fund has a lifespan of about 10 years. During 48 | Sixth AP Fund 2018 Production: Sixth AP Fund in association with Silo Design Photos: Johan Olsson Printed by: Lenanders Grafiska 2019 P. O. Box 11395, SE-404 28 Gothenburg Visiting address Gothenburg Östra Hamngatan 18, HQ Stockholm Norrlandsgatan 16 Tel. +46 (0)31 741 10 00 www.apfond6.se info@apfond6.se
