UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT We are pleased to confirm that Cheval Blanc Fortunately enhancing its social responsibility as acknowledge that all of the Sustainable Kantiner A/S once again reaffirms its support of the an element of market competitiveness and Development Goals encompasses extremely Ten Principles of the United Nations Global actualizing its cooperative identity also along the important issues that needs to be dealt with. As a Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, supply chain is an important objective for Camst company we feel it is important that our sustainable Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since 2011 we thus our work with sustainability and our wish to strategy and business conduct is aligned and we have been part of the collaboration and followed integrate it further into our business strategy will be know that focusing on the areas where we can the guidelines according to the UN Global main focus in the future. As something new we make a difference is how we can contribute Compact's 10 principles. This ensures that we wish to incorporate The Sustainable Development successfully to the tasks that the Sustainable continuously are focused on human and labor Goals (SDG’s) into our core strategy as we believe Development Goals present. In this annual rights, environmental considerations and this provides us with a long-term perspective and Communication on Progress, we describe how we anticorruption and this has been a part of our an opportunity to examine our sustainable are planning our strategy in this new setup and ongoing business strategy. In 2018 we have business long-term. In the future we want to focus thoughts on how we can continually improve the experienced big changes to our coporation as we on the most important elements of the Sustainable integration of the SDG’s and the United Nations have merged with Claus Tingstrøm A/S and thus Development Goals (SDG’s) and incorporate these Global Compact and its principles into our business became a part of Camst International s.r.l. As a in our CSR strategy. In this report we will identify strategy, culture and daily operations. We also result of this our Communication on Progress will the SDG’s that we believe that Cheval Blanc commit us to share this information with our be a bit different from previous reports. There has Kantiner A/S can impact. Not all the SDG’s are stakeholders using our primary channels of been many changes to the structure of our equally important to our type of business so we communication. organization and many new routines that needs to have chosen to analyze the SDG’s and their align with the overall goal of Cheval Blanc Kantiner, underlying goals to determine where we can make Claus Tingstrøm and Camst International. a difference. It is important to emphasize that we Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our overall CSR Strategy will be characterized by change and remodeling in 2019. As part of a brand new cooperation we have to reshape our strategies in regards to social responsibility and sustainability. We want to raise the bar in regards to how we conduct our business in a more sustainable manner. Further we are working on determining which goals we want to reach and how to incorporate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this Communication on Progress we have selected the goals that we all believe are highly relevant to our business and we wish to analyze our impact on each of them. We have so far selected seven goals that we believe we can facilitate and work with through our business activities. It is within these goals that we have the most impact at present. Especially four goals – number 3 “Good Health and Well-Being”, number 8 “Decent work and economic growth” and number 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production” will be important elements in structuring our new CSR policies. SDG number 17 “Partnerships for the goals” is also of tremendous value to us and will certainly be regarded as one of the more important aspect of our CSR-strategy in the communications to come. In the following we will make assessments on how we can contribute and where we in the future can do more to reach even further. HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS At Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S we acknowledge that During 2019 we have much work in regards to our we have a responsibility towards our employees and policies as we have a different organization since our the people our business is related to. We believe that last communication on Progress. Our review on we are given a huge responsibility as the entire group relevant policies will have to be more thorough this produces more than 116 million meals a day. For year but we will still evaluate these on an ongoing many years we have been working with SDG 3 as it basis and regulate our systems to be certain that they has been an important aspect to ensure the health are relevant in respect to our high ethical standards. and well-being of all those in contact with our business. We have done so in collaboration with We always wish to engage in dialogue and we try to registered dietitians and through our canteens and teach our suppliers about the importance of safety the meals we prepare. Our guests must be able to and health through our Code of Conduct we can help benefit from a healthy diet and a nutritious meal so suppliers understand what we expect and together they can maintain stable blood sugar levels throughout the day. work towards better standards and more secure working environments. At our own locations we work We are a huge part of local communities as most of with identification, assessment and reduction of risks our employees live in the same area as our and prevention of potential accidents, injuries and customers and share their workspace every single occupational illness at the workplace which is in line day. Because of this realization our CSR strategy has with the group identity. become an even more important aspect of how we conduct our business. In this regard and going All our new suppliers are part of an initial screening forward we have chosen to work with the SGD where we make an assessment in regards of relevant number 8. CSR-elements. First, we ensure that basics are in place in regards to Labour and Human Rights We support Human and Labour Rights in all its forms (working conditions, safety, working hours, child and recognizes its importance in an increasingly labour exc.) and then we establish a basis for globalized work environment. We wish to provide all remodeling their current setups if needed. humans the rights and freedoms they deserve to enjoy. This not only applies to our employees but is We work to see progress in regards to sustainability equally important for the workers of our suppliers. A year after year. Our vision is structured around longportion of the raw materials we use in the preparation term partnerships focused on a trust-based of meals to our customers are from countries with relationship. Our method in regards to Human and other standards than the Danish. Therefor all of our Labour Rights are in accordance to both SDG 8 and suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct to ensure 17. that they understand and adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact and the Human and Labour Rights. ENVIRONMENT We make food with attitude, and we want to be At Cheval Blanc Kantiner we want to show that responsible in regards to the footprint we leave sustainability and business goes hand in hand and behind and help to ensure that the globe does not that production patterns needs to be more thought reach the boiling point. We hope that through our through and that resources can and should be more cuisine we can inspire more people to live healthier, sustainably chosen. This will enable the regeneration more organic and more sustainable lives. At Cheval of resources in the future. We still work to increase Blanc Kantiner we work with initiatives that reduce our organic percentage at our canteens, and are food waste, better manage available resources and aiming for an increase in the number of our canteens increase the amount of organic raw materials used. to get labeled with The Organic Cuisine Label a state guaranteed label indicating that a kitchen is Fortunately, we still experience a great demand in serious about organics. This year we have 17 regards to these projects at our local canteens. It canteens with the ecological bronze mark, two with simply confirms that it is the right path we have the ecological silver mark and one with the gold. We chosen. In 2019 we will also be looking into the still have two Swan-labeled canteens. possibility to work on initiatives that can help promote a more sustainable change and reduction of energy We want to combine innovative solutions to prevent consumption so we can reduce our environmental pollution of the world's oceans and the remaining impact. planet in our production and preparation. We want to reduce food waste and ensure that more of our All the products and meals being made by our skillful products are sustainable and ecological. Among employees and in our industry in general is reliant other and as a part of SDG 17 we are working closely on the environment and its resources. We are with “Aarstiderne” to increase our percentage of dependent on the surrounding societies and organic processed foods. communities from where the food is being sourced. We think about the environment, sustainability and We want to reduce the environmental and social the origin of the raw materials into all processes. On impact of our meals. In the future we want to continue a global scale the population is still growing and it is to find new ways and approaches to reduce our a fact that resources become scarcer, more impact on the environment. We have worked and still expensive and constrained. This is why SDG 12 is work with many different NGOs and initiatives such one of the important goals for us to focus on in the as KlimaKlar (Climate Ready), Netværk for Food future. It is important that we recognize just how Service (Network for Food Service) Grøn Innovation important the accessibility to raw materials is to a (Green Innovation) and “Deka Refood”. We have business like ours and the industry in general. learned so much through these collaborations and we are looking forward to be able to engage in these partnerships soon again. ANTI CORRUPTION It is Cheval Blanc Kantiner’s policy and core value to be in compliance with national and international laws at all levels of our organization. We do of cause also comply with all internationally recognized standards. Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S does not trade with suppliers of goods or services if they significantly breaches the guidelines of Anti-Bribery in accordance to the UN Global Compact and our Code of Conduct. As a result, we have changed bank. Further extortion or unethical conduct will not be accepted, but we have not experienced or been made aware of any violations or misconduct to date. We will continue to focus on this matter, and management will continue to inform employees about our Code of Conduct and our zero tolerance in respect to corruption.
