Annual & ­ Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Introduction This is Sobi 2 CEO letter 6 Sobi’s market in rare diseases 8 Business overview Strategy 10 Meeting patient needs 15 Innovation 30 Manufacture and supply of biologics 34 We make it happen 36 Our Responsibility 40 History and financial overview Sobi’s history 42 The share 44 Five-year summary 47 Reporting Director’s report 50 Financial statements 64 Notes 74 Corporate governance Letter from the Chairman 107 Corporate Governance Report 108 Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance statement 115 The Board 116 Executive Committee 118 Auditor’s report 120 Sustainability Sustainability management 123 GRI index 130 Auditor’s report on the statutory ­Sustainability statement 133 Additional information 2019 Annual General Meeting 134 Definitions 135 Glossary 136 This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2018. The audited Annual Report includes pages 50–106. The Sustainability Report is found on pages 12–13, 15–17, 30–31, 34–41, 58–63 and 123–133 and ­consists of the Company and the Group’s legally ­required ­sustainability report according to the Annual Accounts Act, 6 chap. 11§. The report also constitutes our reporting to the UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress. rare strength A specialised biopharmaceutical company dedicated to rare diseases At Sobi, we bring something rare to the rare disease space. By turning our clinical research into treatments that transform lives, and getting them to the people who need them as quickly as p ­ ossible, we help make medicine more accessible, opening up possibilities for patients and those caring for them. This is Sobi This is Sobi Sobi is an international biopharmaceutical company dedicated to rare diseases. As an integrated company, we have extensive capabilities across the value chain, from the discovery, development and manufacture of medicines to patient access and support. Our plan is to continue diversifying to create a broader yet focused R&D and product portfolio. Haemophilia, Immunology Integrated biopharmaceutical company gically with multiple stakeholders, we create and Specialty Care We cover the entire value chain, from ideation value for all parties – patients and their Our therapies are concentrated within the and research, through preclinical and clinical families, healthcare systems, payers, our areas of Haemophilia, Immunology and development, biologics manufacturing, employees, investors and the pharmaceu­Specialty Care. Uptake of our extended halfregulatory affairs to patient access and distical industry – to deliver new treatments to life recombinant treatments for ­haemophilia tribution. Our commercial success allows us the people who need them. A and haemophilia B, developed in conjunct­ to reinvest in the research and development ion with Sanofi (formerly Bioverativ), is of new therapies that transform the lives of Responsible pricing growing rapidly as they become increasingly people with rare diseases. A vital factor in access to treatment is responsiaccepted as the standard of care in several By promptly turning our clinical research ble pricing. That means balancing the role of a countries. During 2018, we created a strong into groundbreaking treatments, we help sustainable company with being a sustainable Immunology portfolio, and have important make medicine more accessible more part of the healthcare system. Our continual specialty treatments in the area of genetics quickly, opening up new possibilities for dialogue with rare-disease communities, regand metabolism. patients and more opportunities for those ulators and budget holders allows us to create caring for them. powerful value propositions and product valiPatients in over 70 countries Our focus and capabilities, track record dations enabling us to get therapies to patients With our global head office in Stockholm, of bringing rare-disease products to market, efficiently and responsibly. Sweden, our organisation spans 19 counand ability to find creative business develTogether with our partners and stake­ tries, delivering treatments to patients in opment and licensing solutions make us an holders, we ensure that we create solutions over 70 countries around the globe. Europe ideal partner for biotech companies with that serve the needs of those affected by and the Middle East – which together promising drug candidates which could rare diseases while also facilitating sustainwith Russia and North Africa comprise our have a high impact in small populations. able growth. EMENAR region – are the core markets for We bring something rare to rare diseases our ­Haemophilia franchise, while acquisiPatients’ needs first – a belief in the strength of being focused, tions during 2018 greatly strengthened our In all our partnerships, we put the needs of the power of agility and the potential of the business and footprint in North America, patients first, in the knowledge that good people our business is designed to serve. balancing our success in Europe. medicine is good business. Working strate70 We serve patients in over 935 Employees 9,139 SEK M in revenue 70 countries 2 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 This is Sobi Focus is strength As a specialised biopharmaceutical company, we are dedicated to rare diseases. We see this focus as a strength. With over 80 years of experience, Sobi has a lot to offer in product development and commercialisation. Research R&D enables us to generate innovative treatments, as well as evaluate projects and products from outside Commercialisation Research and further develop them in-house. and patient access Development We cover the entire development process, from pre­ clinical and clinical development, to post-approval ­clinical studies in a real-world setting. rare Manufacturing In addition to in-house biological manufacturing, Sobi strength works with 15 contract manufacturing organisations (CMOs) in Europe and the US. Regulatory Development and Safety Regulatory and safety Patient safety is of utmost importance, and is the guiding principle for our work in the regulatory area, including distribution. Stringent pharmacovigilance and drug safety systems help protect patient safety. Commercialisation and patient access, Manufacturing worldwide The footprint of our commercial organisation continues to grow and covers issues including access to treatment, responsible pricing and education of healthcare professionals. +40% Share of total revenue, by business area 66% Haemophilia of which manufacturing revenue accounts for 5% Revenue growth 2018 34% Specialty Care S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 3 This is Sobi The year in figures 2018 was a year of impressive growth. Revenue was up 40 per cent year on year, with EBITA rising 74 per cent. Product sales in Haemophilia more than doubled, and we achieved double-digit growth in Specialty Care. Key figures 40% SEK M 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total revenue 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 Gross profit 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 Gross margin, % 59 62 70 72 74 Operating expenses 1,873 1,861 2,518 3,057 3,601 Revenue growth EBITA –44 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 EBIT –325 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 74% Profit/loss for the year –270 83 802 1,149 2,418 Earnings per share, SEK –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 Cash flow from operations 234 507 343 1,333 2,090 Equity per share, SEK 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 Equity assets ratio, % 71 56 54 61 53 Dividend 0 0 0 0 0 EBITA growth No. of employees (full-time equivalent) 589 702 760 800 902 Overview of most important products by revenue Haemophilia Specialty Care SEK M 2018 2017 Change, % SEK M 2018 2017 Change, % Elocta® 3,261 1,557 109 Kineret® 1,320 1,142 16 Alprolix® 974 363 168 Orfadin® 899 862 4 Manufacturing 436 559 –22 Other 908 825 10 Royalty1 1,341 1,203 12 Total 3,127 2,829 11 Total 6,012 3,682 63 1. See page 82 for details. Specialty Care There was a strong performance across the Specialty Care portfolio. Haemophilia Solid growth for Kineret continued across all regions for the full year. Product sales more than doubled. The main countries contributing to this growth were France, Germany, Italy and the UK. 4 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 This is Sobi The year in brief Acquisitions helped take Sobi to a new level in 2018. Synagis® will strengthen our footprint in the North American market, where business will almost triple compared with 2018. The acquisitions of rights to emapalumab and Synagis create a strong second leg in ­Immunology to better balance our success in Haemophilia. Haemophilia Specialty Care Research & Organisation Development Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Ireland becomes the first counSobi launches Ravicti® in FDA accepts investigational new Torbjörn Hallberg joins Sobi as try in Europe where every person Europe and advances the care drug application and grants Fast General Counsel and Head of with haemophilia has access to of patients with urea-cycle Track Designation for SOBI003 Legal Affairs. extended half-life (EHL) theradisorders. for the treatment of mucopolyOn Rare Disease Day, Sobi pies after new supply contracts saccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA. launches an enhanced corporate are signed with Sobi. Q2 sustainability programme with Sobi becomes the first comKineret approved in the EuroQ2 a strong connection to the pany in France to make EHL pean Union for the treatment of Preliminary phase 1/2a data on company’s strategy of providing treatments available for both Still’s disease. BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN)1, sustainable access to treatments haemophilia A and B. presented at the WFH World for rare diseases. Q3 Congress. Q2 Sobi strengthens the ImmunolQ2 Data released at the World ogy franchise by acquiring the Q3 Sobi appoints Henrik Stenqvist ­Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) global rights for emapalumab First patient dosed in phase 1/2 as Chief Financial Officer and World Congress in Glasgow from Novimmune. trial evaluating SOBI003 for Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head show quality-of-life improvetreatment of MPS IIIA. of Human Resources. ments for patients treated Q4 Results presented from the prophylactically with Elocta Sobi acquires US rights to anaGO study, a phase 2 trial with Q3 and Alprolix EHL ­haemophilia anakinra in patients with acute Anne Marie de Jonge ­Synagis from AstraZeneca, therapies. gout. Schuermans joins Sobi as creating a platform for global growth. The acquisition was Head of Technical Operations. Q4 finalised in January 2019. Q4 At the American Society of The Food & Drug Administration BIVV0011 phase 1/2a data Hematology (ASH) conference, (FDA) approves Gamifant® presented at ASH underscores data is presented showing that (emapalumab) in the US, the first potential for once-weekly dosing EHL therapies Elocta and Alprolix approved treatment for primary with sustained high factor levels in demonstrate proven efficacy and haemophagocytic lympho­ haemophilia A. well-characterised safety over histiocytosis (HLH). four years. Data presented at ASH supports emapalumab as an innovative, targeted therapeutic option for primary HLH. Total sales: SEK 4,235M Total sales: SEK 3,127M Total products in Number of employees2: 935 Sales growth: 145% Sales growth: 11% pre-clinical stage: 3 Number of new markets: 10 Total products in Elocta and Alprolix – clinical stages: 14 market leaders in France. 1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. 2. Number of employees at end of year. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 5 C E O L etter Growing globally 2018 was a year of transformation for Sobi. Our progress in Haemophilia, acquisitions in Immunology and sales growth in Specialty Care mean that the company is essentially, on a pro-forma basis, two-and-a-half times the size it was at the end of 2016. But it is important to understand that we see this as an important stepping stone. Our achievements demonstrate that we are We have been able to accelerate Kineret Emapalumab creates a significant growth delivering on every aspect of our strategy. significantly, and full-year growth of 16 per opportunity for the Group, but also requires By continuing with substantial growth in cent for 2018 is a testament to this. The further investment. Launch costs for the US Haemophilia, enlarging our Specialty Care approval of Kineret as a treatment for Still’s were seen in Q4, while future investment portfolio and building a new Immunology disease in Europe helped in this regard. We will focus on commercialisation, seeking franchise, through expansion in North expect more growth in the near future from approval in primary HLH in the EU, and ­America and continued growth in EMENAR, our investment in Kineret in the US. advancing the development of emapalumab. and by strengthening our innovation pipeOn the other side, with regard to Orfadin, Clinical development activities to expand line, we are ensuring the company can conwe have maintained market share in the face indications, such as into secondary HLH, tinue to grow. This is essential for achieving of emerging competition. are under preparation. our vision of being recognised as a global leader in providing innovative treatments that A strong emphasis on immunology Tripled size in north America transform life for people with rare diseases. Our acquisitions in 2018 were a huge step With the Synagis rights acquisition signed forward for the company. They help articin November 2018, and finalised in January The most prescribed EHL treatments ulate what we mean by specialty care, and 2019, we now have a very strong field force We have positioned Sobi as a leading player give us a strong emphasis on immunology. in the US, more than 270 people in total. in haemophilia in many markets. Elocta (sold On a pro-forma basis, the acquisitions of This positions Sobi on a completely different by Sanofi as Eloctate® in Sanofi territories) rights to Synagis and emapalumab mean scale in the North American market, where and Alprolix are now the most prescribed that more than 70 per cent of the Specialty business will essentially triple what we extended half-life treatments in the world 1. Care business will be driven by Immunology. recorded in 2018. Under a committed leadWe have made a significant leap in terms of This gives the Group a strong second leg to ership, we have a skilled team with a strong market share to become one of the top three balance our success in Haemophilia. paediatric focus that will serve us well in the companies in Europe, in both haemophilia A The acquisition of global rights to years to come. I was particularly pleased that and B, on a consolidated basis. emapalumab last summer represented the all 133 people from AstraZeneca who we We – along with patients, carers, treaters first major step in our transformation. The invited to join in conjunction with the acquiand payers – have seen how our products therapy was approved as Gamifant in the US sition accepted our offer. This confirms to help people with haemophilia to liberate late last year, as the first approved treatment me that Sobi is an attractive company to join. their lives and expect more from their for primary haemophagocytic lymphohistio­ In both deals, we were able to demontreatment. And we are seeing positive results cytosis (HLH). We have seen good results strate that not only are we an attractive from the phase 1/2a data for BIVV001. I in the clinical data. It is very encouraging partner, but that we can also provide creative expect the strong growth of our Haemoto have such a life-changing product with solutions that address our business partners’ philia franchise to continue as more people the financial potential to further transform needs and create value for both parties. gain and seek access to our treatments. the Group. The combined effect of our commercial success ensures that we have significant 1. Data on file. 6 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C E O L etter »We have laid the foundations and now we have to build. With our capabilities, commitment, strategy and financial strength, I am confident we will succeed.« earning capacity to support research and performing teams. While maintaining our We now have an R&D portfolio with a signi­ development, and particularly strong latefoundational focus on patients, we as a ficant collection of late-stage assets, includstage development. company are learning to assert ourselves ing BIVV001, financial rights to MEDI8897, In R&D, it was gratifying to see that more strongly and compete in the market. additional indications for emapalumab and SOBI003 has now advanced into the clinical This is a trait that we will increasingly need further opportunities in Kineret. We also have phase 1/2 study, and that we are recruiting as we see more competitors entering the high hopes for the future of SOBI003. well for the continuing study. The entire haemophilia space. The evolved Sobi values As well as the transformational changes organisation has done a fantastic job in introduced in 2017 and implemented in on the R&D side, we have Gamifant in launch achieving this major milestone, and I am 2018 – Care, Ambition, Urgency, Ownership phase in the US, and substantial potential in proud of the team for showing that we can and Partnership – provide the guiding prinboth haemophilia and with Kineret. We are take a molecule and potential treatment ciples for everything we do every day. I have also confident that Synagis can grow further from idea to patient. been pleased to see that people across the under our ownership. As part of our collaboration partnership organisation have embraced these as part In the months and years ahead, we will agreement with Sanofi, we have seen of their work. These are values that guide continue to search for more late-stage encouraging results in the phase 1/2 trial and empower us all, and are essential for the assets that will diversify the company further, of the Fc fusion follow-on drug candidate growth journey we are on. particularly in the areas of haematology and BIVV001 1 , showing unprecedented levels Growth empowers us to meet our responimmunology. of protection in factor VIII therapy. This sibility of providing sustainable access to our I am proud to be working with the great investigational treatment shows potential to treatments for the people who need them. people here at Sobi. I would like to thank become one of the products of choice in the This is the most obvious aspect of our work all my colleagues for their efforts during a treatment of haemophilia A. The results conin sustainability, but we also continue to demanding and eventful year, and for their firm our commitment to play a very active advance in areas including corporate govercontinuing dedication and commitment. role in this partnership with Sanofi. nance, ethical partnerships and behaviour, And I would also like to thank our shareand strong corporate citizenship. holders for their support and trust throughout Stronger organisation I am pleased to confirm that Sobi con2018 and beyond. In 2018, we also strengthened our leadership tinues to support the ten principles of the We have laid the foundations, and now we team with Torbjörn Hallberg as General United Nations Global Compact in the areas have to build. It is a big challenge that we are Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs, Henrik of human rights, labour, environment and taking on. With our capabilities and commitStenqvist as CFO and Fredrik Wetterlundh anti-corruption, and that we are committed ment, strategy and financial strength, I am as Head of Human Resources. In October, to making the Global Compact and its princonvinced we will succeed. Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans joined ciples part of our strategy, culture and daily In summary, I can say that 2018 was a year Sobi as head of our new Technical Operaoperations. of achievements and great strides towards tions unit, which brings together a variety our vision. But this was only the beginning. of functions including the development, Building our pipeline manufacture and supply of medicines. Anne We are staking out Sobi’s direction in terms Guido Oelkers Marie is building a technical organisation of building our pipeline and looking for Chief Executive Officer with strong discipline, a focus on costs and further value-creating acquisitions to accelthe scale required to serve Sobi for the years erate growth. Our vision is to be recognised to come. as a global leader in the rare disease space. Our entire organisation continues to We have made significant progress, but to evolve, with a strong emphasis on the achieve our vision, we still have more to do. development and maintenance of high-­ 1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 7 S o b i ’ s m ar k et i n rare d i s ea s e s Rare diseases There are an estimated 6,000–8,000 rare diseases in the world today affecting more than 300 million people1. Because only around 500 of these diseases have approved treatments, this is a hugely under-served area with great unmet medical needs. At Sobi, we specialise in rare diseases because it is where we can make the greatest difference to people’s lives. The rare disease space is unlike any other in the problem caused by the defective gene, functions and with external stakeholders medicine. In Europe, a rare disease is defined alleviating the symptoms and allowing the to achieve the best possible outcome. as one affecting fewer than one person per person to live a more normal life. An example is the way we work with regula2,000. In the US, the Orphan Drug Act of The price of orphan drugs is relatively tory authorities to get treatments to patients 1983 defines a rare disease as a condition high compared with other treatments target­ as quickly as possible. In small trials, the proaffecting fewer than 200,000 people. ing larger patient populations. However, the cess can be accelerated if a candi­date treatBecause physicians may never have seen total cost for the healthcare system is not as ment demonstrates transformative results the condition before, many cases can go great as perceived, particularly considering for trial patients. Both the FDA and European undiagnosed for years. the transformative value that orphan drugs Medicine Agency (EMA) can allow such Around 75 per cent2 of identified rare bring to patients. breakthrough therapies to be fast-tracked diseases affect children, and many have a through the approval process, ­providing pridevastating effect on life expectancy and Rare challenges ority review procedures. SOBI003, for examquality of life. An estimated 35 per cent of The rare disease landscape also presents ple, has been granted Fast Track ­Designation children with a rare disease will not live to specific challenges – scientific, medical by the FDA. see their fifth birthday, and rare diseases are and commercial. They range from underThe growth we have experienced in thought to be responsible for around 35 per standing the biology of a disease, identifying recent years demonstrates that doing good cent of deaths during the first year of life. molecules that can become successful for patients can also be good business. We Around 80 per cent of rare diseases are treatments, developing the complex biofocus on small patient populations and are inherited rather than acquired: they involve pharmaceutical processes to manufacture a sized accordingly. We know rare diseases, a defect in the genes that tell our bodies drug, designing and running clinical trials in and that is where we concentrate our efforts. how to work. As a result, the body may fail to extremely small patient populations, obtainWhen assessing a potential treatment, we produce an essential enzyme or protein, for ing regulatory approvals, negotiating pricing look at where our know-how and capabilexample, or its own immune defences may and reimbursement, through to working ities can play a significant role, and where attack its own systems. with healthcare professionals and patients we can stand out from the crowd. Because they are most commonly genetic to ensure access for the people who need Being the first to bring a new orphan disorders, rare diseases tend to be lifelong. the treatment. At each step, we draw on our therapy to patients also brings advantages. Treatment is often focused on resolving expertise and experience, working across In such a case, regulatory authorities can 1. Global Genes, www.globalgenes.org 2. ËURORDIS, www.eurordis.org 8 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S o b i ’ s m ar k et i n rare d i s ea s e s grant market exclusivity for a specific allows us to learn how, for example, new about novel therapies, and better informed time, allowing the company to recoup its formulations can better meet an emerging patients feel more able to discuss possible investment in the discovery, development patient need. We also reinvest revenues back new treatments with their physicians. Many and regulatory review processes. Backed into developing new treatments. people with rare diseases – who historically by solid science, and with an understanding Our close contact with patient and treater have been and often still are under-served by of the approval, pricing and reimbursecommunities allows us to identify other their healthcare systems – are increasingly ment mechan­isms, a new therapy can be non-drug measures to address unmet becoming empowered to pursue treatments launched without delay and reach patients needs. These can include educational prothat can improve their lives. in the shortest possible time. grammes, disease awareness and bridging In many countries with less-developed finance initiatives.1 healthcare systems, improving finances and Our size is a strength better infrastructure are also allowing the We have the scale to invest in innovation Treatments reaching more people expansion of screening programmes that and provide comprehensive support in all Advances in scientific knowledge allow us can detect rare diseases. In many cases, early our territories, yet still have the flexibility and other companies in the industry to idendiagnosis and treatment can ­prevent longand agility required to act quickly. As an tify and develop new treatments for more of term injury and reduced ­quality of life. integrated biopharmaceutical company, we those 6,000–8,000 rare diseases that have work in cross-functional teams, across our been identified. In the US, the FDA approved disciplines. Having patient access experts 80 new orphan indications in 2017, with involved in the early stages of the devel59 approvals within the first eight months opment process, regulatory approval and of 20182, the highest figures since the intropricing negotiations, for example, allows us duction of the Orphan Drug Act in 1983. to get treatments to patients more quickly. The small size of rare disease populations, Our commercial, medical and research and the often high levels of engagement teams work together with healthcare proamong patients, families and treaters, also fessionals, external researchers and other stimulate the uptake of new treatments. stakeholders to improve understanding of Such closely connected, well-informed evolving patient and treater needs. This also disease communities share information 1. www.sobi.com 2. www.iqvia.com S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 9 Strate g y Delivering on our strategy for growth Sobi’s strategy is based on our vision of becoming a global leader in getting transformational treatments to people with rare diseases. In 2018, we have seen major progress in all four areas of our strategy. Our strategy for growth is built on four care systems is a moral imperative. The EMENAR-region, allows our business ­cornerstones: dramatic commercial growth in this area is to b­ etter match the overall geographic • Increasing access to our treatments for also generating significant revenue, allowing balance of the global rare-disease domain. haemophilia us to invest further in the haemophilia space. The growth in both regions strengthens • Enlarging our Specialty Care franchise Enlarging our Specialty Care portfolio our commercial platform and adds to our • Expanding our position in EMENAR, allows us to create a better balance for our ­financial capacity. and growing in North America overall business operations, while ensuring We continue to advance and expand our • Strengthening our R&D pipeline. sustainable growth in both the short and research & development pipeline. With our long term. Acquisitions in 2018 have allowed ongoing investment in R&D, we are develThe strategy builds on our strong position as us to create a strong Immunology franchise; oping new therapies in-house and bringing an integrated biopharmaceutical company these therapies, together with our other in external late-stage candidate drugs that covering the entire value chain of treatment products in the Specialty Care area, will address significant unmet medical needs, for rare diseases in EMENAR and North bene­fit from our extensive commercialis­ create synergies in our portfolio, expand America. ation platform in Europe and emerging our global platform and show potential for We continue to invest in our strongly strength in North America. The addition of future growth. growing market position in haemophilia. new treatments to our Immunology and The combination of our strength with Having seen the transformative benefits of Specialty Care portfolios allows us to bring that of our partners creates unique opporour extended half-life treatments for people further transformative therapies to patients. tunities to create added value in the rare-­ with haemophilia A and B, enabling access Major expansion in North America, disease field. for more people through their local healthcombined with continued growth in our 10 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Strate g y Delivering on our strategy Outcome • 109 per cent increase in sales for Elocta. Increasing access • 168 per cent increase in sales for Alprolix. to our treatments • 10 new markets reached agreement on pricing and reimbursement. for haemophilia • Synagis rights acquisition provides further diversification into immunology. • Acquisition of the global rights to emapalumab. Enlarging • Emapalumab was approved as Gamifant in the US. our Specialty Care • 16 per cent increase in sales of Kineret across NA and EMENAR. franchise • Kineret for Still’s disease approved and launched in EU. Expanding our • Acquisition of global rights to emapalumab strengthens geographic footprint, position in EMENAR, particularly in the US. and growing in • Acquisition of US rights to Synagis nearly triples commercial footprint in the North America US and allows us to expand our presence beyond Synagis. • Encouraging data from the phase 1/2 study of BIVV001 presented. • Acquired rights to 50 per cent of future earnings from the MEDI8897 Strengthening drug ­candidate in the US. our R&D pipeline • First patient enrolled in SOBI003 phase 1/2 trial in August 2018. • Key results for the phase 2 anaGO trial with anakinra published. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2018 FINANCIAL OUTCOME 2018 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2019 Revenues: SEK 7,500–7,700 M Revenues: SEK 9,139 M Revenues: SEK 12,500–13,000 M EBITA: SEK 2,500–2,700 M EBITA: SEK 3,571 M EBITA: SEK 5,000–5,300 M Gross margin of at least 70 per cent Gross margin 74 per cent S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 11 Strate g y Sobi’s value creation Our vision and mission For whom Vision We provide treatments that transform life for people with rare Our vision is to be recognised as a global leader in providing access ­diseases. These people, their families, the healthcare community to innovative treatments that transform the lives of ­individuals with and society at large benefit from sustainable access to treatment. rare diseases. Through good business practice, we also provide solid returns on investment and reinvestment in further R&D and business Mission ­development. Our mission is to develop and deliver innovative therapies and ­services to improve the lives of patients. Input Stakeholders • Rare disease space – high unmet medical need, • Patients, families, carers and patient organisations favourable ­regulatory environment and growing market • Regulatory authorities and healthcare systems • Patient involvement and patient journey insights • Payers and insurance companies • Skilled workforce specialising in rare diseases and • Pharmaceutical companies ­biopharmaceuticals • Healthcare professionals and experts • Manufacturing facilities • Capital markets • Intellectual property and innovation capital • Shareholders • Reputational capital – partnerships and networks • Proprietary and licensed products • Strong earnings platform and financial resources • Geographical footprint in EMENAR and North America Business model AN INTEGRATED PROCESS We use an integrated process, from in-house research in protein characte­risation, and the development and industrial manufactur5 1 ing of biologics, to providing sustainable access to treatments for rare diseases. Insights about the patient journey and the needs of patient representatives and healthcare systems are ­continuously fed back into rare the process to enhance our offering of treatments. strength 1. 4 2 Research 2. Development 3. Manufacturing 3 4. Regulatory and safety 5. Commercialisation and patient access 12 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Strate g y Value for stakeholders • Access to treatments that transform life • Good business practice helps combat • Sustainable organisational growth, short for people with rare diseases. corruption. and long term. • Evidence-based generation of treatments • Strategic partnerships and integrated, • Engaged and skilled people. Creating and increased knowledge-sharing with ­efficient and innovative processes that jobs and a skilled workforce. rare-disease and patient communities. create value for shareholders. • Reduced inequalities and transformative • Financial strength enabling investment circumstances for people with rare into research & development. diseases. SEK 507M Total corporate income tax for 2017, 12% Percentage of revenue reinvested >70 Number of countries with to be paid in 2018 in R&D to deliver potential future access Sobi’s treatments treatments for rare diseases 935 Number of people employed 88% Increase of patients 8.97 Earnings per share (SEK) 72% Share price increase by Sobi at year-end 2018 on our haemophilia treatments SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations describes its 17 Sustainable Development Goals as “a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity”. Business can and must play an important role in the achievement of these goals. While our operations support several of the goals, based on our growth strategy and materiality analysis, we have focused our efforts on three goals in 2018: Improving global health by making treatments Transparency regarding business ethics and By working strategically with multiple partners, for rare diseases more accessible is what we do corruption form the foundation of strong collab­ we create value for a variety of stakeholders every day. We contribute to the pursuit of universal orations for qualitative research, development including patients and their families, healthcare health coverage, including financial risk protection, and manufacturing. We work actively to combat systems, payers, our employees, investors and the access to quality essential healthcare services and corruption in all of its forms, and to ensure complipharmaceutical industry. We see partnership – with access to safe, effective, quality and affordable ance with our ethical standards in all our dealings. healthcare authorities, patient organisations and essential medicines and vaccines for all. other stakeholders – as essential for providing sustainable access to treatment. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 13 Strate g y Business fundamentals Key considerations when developing new treatments for rare diseases Demand/need Incidence and prevalence Current standard of care Horizon scanning Is there a high unmet medical need? Is the Are there treatments in use today? If so, Are there any other prospective treatments condition life-threatening or debilitating? what are the safety and efficacy profiles? currently under development? Can our How many people does it affect? How Are there significant side-effects? Are curpotential treatment be developed further? can patients be identified? Is the biology rent treatments transformative, or do they Would it be possible to extend the label to understood? Does the condition represent alleviate symptoms? Would a new treatment other indications or patient groups? one disease or a syndrome of related disorbe a complement to existing treatments or ders? How does the disorder develop and a replacement? progress? What is the prognosis for patients? In what way would the new treatment be transformative? Feasibility R&D capabilities Clinical and regulatory planning Sourcing capabilities Does the new treatment fit with the profile Are there any clinical obstacles to conductDo we have the in-house manufacturing of our R&D expertise? Is this something ing trials? What are the validated end-points capacity for this therapy? Is it something we we could research and develop in-house? for measuring clinical benefit? Is historical can manufacture together with a partner? Could we conduct the required R&D in clinical data available, from within Sobi or Can we guarantee supply in both the short partnership? externally? What new data is required? Is this and long term? treatment likely to be approved by regulatory bodies? What clinical end-points would they require? Will the trials be blinded or not? What are the safety requirements? How long will the trials take? Market potential and commercialisation (viability) Potential Position Sustainable access to treatment How many patients will benefit from this What is the treatment paradigm? What is the How can we engage with patient communitherapy? How many are eligible for treatcompetitive landscape like? Will this product ties, regulators and payers to ensure patients ment? How long will they require treatment? be first to market? How is the competitive get sustainable access to the treatment? landscape likely to develop? How can our pricing and reimbursement submissions help more people get access to treatment? Is the revenue stream sustainable in the long term? 14 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 m eet i n g pat i ent need s Taking the treatment to the patient Our patients cannot wait. The nature of many rare diseases makes it imperative to bring treatments to patients, to save and transform lives. Our experience in rare diseases has helped us refine our processes and systems to bring medicines as promptly as possible to the people who need them, while always having patient safety as the top priority. At Sobi, we are committed to supporting the burden of the disease, for patients and careThis means that the entire process is aligned, rare disease community and partnering with givers, to shine a light on what is important avoiding the need for delays to find addihealthcare systems to ensure that our medifor them. tional information later on. A smoother cines are accessible to the vulnerable patient By having these insights early on, we can process means earlier access to life-saving population for which they are intended. ensure that the clinical endpoints for trials treatment. are the correct ones, to make sure that any Insight and understanding eventual therapy truly addresses the unmet Responsible pricing The special circumstances of the rare disease medical need. We conduct extensive stakeholder research landscape create specific challenges in In parallel, we work with healthcare to ensure that that the price of our meditaking treatment to patients. Bringing innoand regulatory authorities, to provide an cines is aligned with the benefit they provide vative therapies that address unmet medical all-round understanding of what is relevant to patients, healthcare systems and payers. needs to market requires insight and underfor patients, physicians and payers. Our Such analysis includes discussions of the standing, a commitment to partnership, and Regulatory Affairs team – with a combined indicated usage and evidence package with determination. 400 years of experience from the pharmaclinical experts and payers/HTA (health For us, the process is built on understandceutical industry, regulatory consultancy technology assessment) bodies, as well as an ing the needs of people with rare diseases. services and regulatory bodies – contributes evaluation of analogues for other ultra-rare, From early research through to pricing and with its knowledge to the development, life-threatening disease medicines. reimbursement negotiations, we work in approval and maintenance of our products. Combined with understanding of patient close consultation with stakeholders who Early dialogue with bodies such as the EU needs, insight into the requirements of and are united in their determination to improve Network for Health Technology Assessment demands on healthcare systems are also the lives of patients and their families. (EUnetHTA) helps ensure quality data that vital in ensuring that pricing levels are negoIn clinical research, for example, we work allows rapid advancement through regulatiated to provide truly sustainable access to closely with patient advocacy groups and tory approval and pricing/reimbursement treatment. healthcare professionals right from the processes. beginning. This includes discussing the true S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 15 m eet i n g pat i ent need s All our pricing decisions balance three basic we have gained a deeper understanding of people with rare diseases drives us to find principles: the specific challenges facing rare-disease the best way of bringing the treatment to • The benefit that the innovation provides ­communities in countries and regions the patient. to patients around the world. • The impact on healthcare systems With offices in 19 countries, serving more Partnership and collaboration • The costs required to sustain innovation than 70 national markets, we have patient We see partnership as essential to our efforts and continue to meet medical needs in access experts on the ground who know to provide sustainable access to treatment the future. what problems can arise and are working around the world. Our collaboration with to ensure that patients get the medicines Novimmune brought emapalumab to Our haemophilia therapies are a perfect they need. the market quickly, being approved and example. To make the benefits of our In rare diseases, the patient populations launched in the US late in 2018 as Gamifant, extended half-life treatments available to as are by definition small. In some cases, there the world’s first approved treatment for many people as possible, we have worked is no regional patient organisation, only primary HLH. We partner with several other together with healthcare systems to apply a national ones; in such a situation, insight into pharmaceutical companies to bring their pricing strategy based on annual parity with local challenges is vital. treatments to patients across our territories. conventional treatments available on the Our agile organisation and depth of As well as a range of healthcare authormarket. This means that our products can understanding allows us to support patients ities, payers, researchers and other bodies, reach everyone with haemophilia without across the broad scope of rare diseases – we also work with patient organisations to any significant extra cost and no additional from ultra-rare conditions such as MPS IIIA support their initiatives to provide access in barriers. to the comparatively large group of people under-developed countries and regions. living with haemophilia. Whether the therapy Our largest such commitment is our Enabling global access we provide is the first approved, such as donation, together with Sanofi Genzyme, By working closely with patient organisaemapalumab, or an innovative alternative the specialty care business of Sanofi, of tions, healthcare authorities and payers, to existing treatments, our commitment to 1 billion international units (IU) of extended 16 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 m eet i n g pat i ent need s Fc fusion Elocta is an extended half-life recombinant clotting factor VIII replacement therapy for treatment of haemophilia A. Seen here in orange, Elocta is an FVIII molecule fused to the Fc domain of immunoglobulin-gamma (in blue). Elocta binds to FcRn receptors (in grey) on the surface of endothelial cells, initiating the recycling pathway which drives the Fc-driven prolongation of its half-life. half-life clotting replacement factor for use in developing countries: 500 million IUs have been committed to the World Federation Patient safety and product quality of Haemophilia’s Humanitarian Donation Program over a five-year period starting in Patient safety throughout the product life cycle is one of our most important tasks. 2015. We were also a founding sponsor of With a robust pharmacovigilance system in place, we continuously oversee the the European Haemophilia Consortium’s benefit/risk profiles of our products. The pharmacovigilance system complies with all PARTNERS programme, to increase access global, national and local regulations. The main purpose of the system is to guarantee to haemophilia treatment in countries in patient safety in regards to our products. Europe that currently provide little or no Annual training is provided for all employees to ensure that all safety information such treatment. in relation to our products is reported. By collecting and analysing safety data from Our patient-centric approach, partnership all sources, we aim to provide accurate and up-to-date information to regulators, capabilities and in-house expertise and healthcare professionals and patients. capacity give us the power to deliver on our promise of providing sustainable access to life-changing treatments for people with rare diseases. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 17 Our aim in each country is the same: to provide timely and sustainable access to transformative treatment for every person with haemophilia. The most common rare disease in the world With nearly 200,000 people diagnosed across the globe, haemophilia is the most common rare disease in the world. It is a genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births annually, and more rarely in females. Haemophilia B occurs in about one in 28,000 male births annually, and more rarely in females. The World Federation of Haemophilia estimates that approximately 196,700 people are currently diagnosed with haemophilia A and B worldwide.1 People with haemophilia A or B experience bleeding episodes that can cause pain, irreversible joint damage and lifse-threatening haemorrhages. Prophylactic injections of factor VIII or IX can temporarily replace the clotting factors that are needed to control bleeding and prevent new bleeding episodes. The World Federation of Haemophilia recommends prophylaxis as the optimal therapy as it can prevent bleedings and joint destruction. 1. World Federation of Haemophilia. Report on the Annual Global Survey 2017. Available at: www.wfh.org m eet i n g pat i ent need s ­Haemophilia More and more people living with haemophilia A and B, and their treaters, are seeing the improvements in quality of life that treatment with Elocta and Alprolix brings. This was the key driver of continued strong growth for our Haemophilia ­franchise throughout 2018. T 6,012M he ambition within Haemophilia their activities on non-treatment days, of continues: we will do our best to missing out on opportunities to spend time enable access to our treatments for everyone in our territories who with friends. Adults spoke of having to cope with everyday pain, of living with stiff joints, SEK has a need. More people are getting access having to live with constraints. Total revenue, Haemophilia to Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) and Alprolix This study showed us that people with (eftrenonacog alfa), and more are choosing haemophilia can liberate their lives when to switch to them. Sales of both products treatment delivers in four fundamental areas. showed strong and consistent quarter-­onTreatment needs to: • Allow you to feel safe +88% quarter growth throughout 2018. The platform that we and Sanofi have • Provide protection from all types of bleeds developed with Elocta and Alprolix has • Preserve long-term joint health and reshaped the expectations that people with reduce pain; and haemophilia A and B can have for their lives. • Remove the mental burden of haemophilia. Increased number of patients Liberate life We believe that every person with haemoon Elocta and Alprolix For many people with haemophilia, the main philia has the right to live well, to live a life goal of treatment over the years has been free from constraints and compromises. safe protection from bleeds. This is obviously That is why we have a vision of liberating a primary consideration, but replacement people’s lives. treatment has now progressed beyond In recent years, increasing levels of Share of total revenue, bleed prevention. As well as protection understanding and experience with Elocta by business area from bleeds, extended half-life treatments and Aprolix, among thousands of people are allowing people with haemophilia to of all ages, have spread throughout the expect less pain, better target joint resoluhaemophilia community. Patients, carers tion (halting repetitive bleeds into a specific and treaters talk to each other about lower joint and reversing joint damage) and fewer levels of pain and higher quality of life. This days when they have to worry about their has created a momentum for change, and treatment. The main benefit of extended as a result, we have seen higher numbers of half-life treatments is no longer seen simply people switching to our treatments. as convenience but rather the way these treatments let people with haemophilia live Proven safety and efficacy well and feel confident. The latest research1, released at the Ameri­ 66% Haemophilia In 2018, we undertook an extensive can Society of Hematology (ASH) annual ethnographic study of people living with meeting in December, confirms the efficacy haemophilia. Despite advances in recent and safety profiles of Elocta and Alprolix. years, many people in the study told how The results from the ASPIRE and B-YOND they have to live with compromises and studies demonstrate that long-term ­limitations. Younger people told of restricting prophylactic treatment with Elocta and 1. Sobi press release: At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta® and Alprolix® demonstrate proven efficacy and well-characterised safety over four years, 12 January 2018 www.sobi.com S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 19 m eet i n g pat i ent need s Alprolix consistently improved annualised EHL factor replacement a mainstay Slovakia, Poland, Portugal, Croatia and the bleed rates, including joint bleeds, across of treatment Czech Republic; Alprolix in Austria, France, all patient populations studied and at We remain convinced that the well-estabSweden, Slovakia and Hungary. A filing for extended dosing intervals. No inhibitors lished safety and efficacy profile of both approval for Elocta in Russia was filed in July were observed in subjects enrolled in either Elocta and Alprolix, confirmed by several following successful GMP inspections. of the two extension studies and the overall years of real-world data from thousands of safety ­profile was consistent with the pivotal patients, and their suitability for all patient Committed to treatment for all phase 3 trials. groups and ages, position them and Sobi Every person with haemophilia should have Debilitating joint disease, which is caused well to withstand competition from treatan equal right to treatment that can liberate by repeated bleeds into joints over time, is ments now entering the market (see box). their lives and lead to a better tomorrow. But one of the most common complications We see replacement factor as funda­ people in different countries face different for people with haemophilia. In ASPIRE and mental to the wellbeing of people with challenges. So we are working actively to B-YOND, subjects on prophylactic treatment ­haemophilia, and expect it to be the main­ find ways to provide sustainable treatment for experienced low joint and spontaneous stay of treatment for the foreseeable future. as many people with haemophilia as possible. joint annualised bleed rates (ABRs) across all We see significant opportunities for growth Our aim is the same in each country: to dosing regimens. These results support the in the treatment of haemophilia A and B provide timely and sustainable access to conclusion that prophylactic dosing with in our t­ erritories, notwithstanding the transformative treatment for every person Elocta and Alprolix can effectively manage ­eventual uptake of alternative treatments. with haemophilia. and control all types of joint bleeds. We estimate the market value of haemoYet only 30 per cent of people diagnosed In addition to providing the clinical evidence philia A treatments to be around USD 3.5 worldwide are currently receiving access to to support the long-term use of our thera­ billion and USD 500 million for haemophilia B. clotting factor replacement treatment. To pies, we continue to explore the impact Sobi’s market share is estimated at 15 to overcome this fact, we work with stakeholdof Fc fusion on joint health. An interim, 20 per cent. ers to improve access to sustainable treatpost-hoc analysis of ASPIRE1 published ment. Two key initiatives in this commitment in ­Haemophilia found that a prophylactic 2018 access achievements are the World Federation of Haemophilia’s regimen of efmoroctocog alfa can lead to Elocta is now available and reimbursed in Humanitarian Donation Program and continuous improvement in joint health, 26 countries, and Alprolix in 19 countries. the European Haemophilia Consortium’s regardless of prior treatment regimen, Both received new reimbursement in five ­PARTNERS programme. ­severity of joint damage, or target joints. countries respectively during 2018, Elocta in 1. Sobi press release: At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta® and Alprolix® demonstrate proven efficacy and well-characterised safety over four years, 12 January 2018 www.sobi.com About the Sobi-Sanofi Manufacturing of clotting ­collaboration factors We work together with Sanofi on the development and commercialiAs part of our commitment to providing treatment for haemosation of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix. We have final development and philia, we continue to manufacture the drug substance for Pfizer’s commercialisation rights in our territory – essentially Europe, most haemophilia product ReFacto AF, which is produced according Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in our biologics facility in Sanofi has manufacturing responsibility for the products as well as Stockholm, Sweden. final development and commercialisation rights in North America and We have more than 35 years’ experience in developing therapies all other regions of the world excluding the Sobi territory. for haemophilia. Together with Biogen/Bioverativ (now Sanofi), we Our development and commercialisation agreement also includes developed the process for large-scale manufacturing of Alprolix, BIVV0011 (added 2014), an engineered factor VIII molecule that uses based on our experience from manufacturing the drug substance Fc fusion and XTEN, a half-life extension technology, and BIVV002 for ReFacto AF. (added 2017), a novel factor IX fusion protein, that also uses Fc fusion As the global supplier, we receive manufacturing revenues on and XTEN. Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto AF. Manufacturing capacity was decreased BIVV001 is a Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected during 2018, in line with Pfizer’s requirements. to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but Read more on page 51. has not yet opted in. 1. The financial terms of the agreement between the ­companies are described in more detail in Note 17. 20 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 m eet i n g pat i ent need s As visionary contributors to the WFH that currently have insufficient budgets »More and more patients ­donation programme, Sobi and Sanofi to provide sustainable access to the level Genzyme, Sanofi’s specialty care business, recommended by the European Directorate in France are converting have committed to donate 1 billion internafor the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare to our therapies for tional units of our EHL factor treatments to (EDQM)2. the haemophilia community, of which 500 Sobi was one of the two founding corpo­haemophilia.« million IUs has been committed to the WFH rate partners in the programme, which aims Humanitarian Donation Program over a fiveto provide subsidised treatment to countries Sofiane Fahmy, Head of Southern and Western year period which started in 2015. As well as that commit to increasing their investment Europe and North Africa treatment and the necessary transportation, in haemophilia to ensure sustainable access we are supporting the programme’s efforts to treatment. We are pleased to see other to build up infrastructure and expertise in the companies now agreeing to support the recipient countries. This will enable them to PARTNERS programme. provide ongoing, sustainable treatment for In developed countries in our territory, people with haemophilia. we work together with healthcare systems The impact of the donation programme to apply a pricing strategy based on annual so far has been extensive and rewarding1: parity with conventional treatments available • More than 16,800 people reported treated on the market. This means that our products in 45 countries can reach everyone with haemophilia • Nearly 2,000 surgeries including operawithout any significant extra cost and no tions that have saved people’s lives and additional barriers. limbs We work closely with the community • More than 117,000 acute bleeds treated. – patients, caregivers, treaters and payers – in areas such as education and support More than 370 million IUs of factor have services. This is part of our commitment to already been donated to the WFH. enabling people living with haemophilia to The EHC PARTNERS programme is liberate their lives. designed to improve access to treatment in countries in Central and Eastern Europe 1. www.wfh.org 2. www.edqm.eu Brief facts about Sobi’s Haemophilia portfolio: ELOCTA® ALPROLIX® Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) is a recombinant clotting factor VIII Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) is a recombinant clotting factor therapy therapy developed for haemo­philia A with prolonged circulation developed for haemophilia B using Fc fusion technology to prolong in the body using Fc fusion technology. Elocta is approved for circulation in the body. Alprolix is approved for the treatment of the treatment of haemophilia A in adults and children of all ages haemophilia B in adults and children of all ages in the EU, Iceland, and marketed by Sobi in the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, where Switzerland, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. It is approved under the name it is marketed by Sobi. Alprolix is approved for the treatment of Eloctate, for the US, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil ­haemophilia B in the US, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and other countries, where it is marketed by Sanofi. Brazil and other countries, where it is marketed by Sanofi. For full prescribing information, please see the EMA’s website. For full prescribing information, please see the EMA’s website. Total sales: SEK 3,261M Total sales: SEK 974M Sales growth: 109% Sales growth: 168% Number of new markets: 5 Number of new markets: 5 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 21 m e e t i n g pat i e n t n e e d s Therapeutic options for haemophilia A and B Haemophilia therapy has undergone a major factor, which allows improved protection through Immune Tolerance Induction evolution over the past decade. Because without increasing treatment burden. Half(ITI) therapy is considered a first-choice haemophilia A and B are caused by deficienlife extension can be accomplished by fusion treatment. To prevent or treat breakthrough cies in factor VIII (FVIII) and factor IX (FIX) of factor to the Fc part of antibodies (IgG) bleeds, by­passing agents such as FVIII inhi­ respectively, replacement of the missing or albumin, or the addition of synthetic bitor bypass agent and recombinant FVIIa factor has been and remains the standard ­polyethylene glycol (PEG). In contrast to FIX, can be used. Recently, a bispecific antibody of care for both the prevention of bleeding the extension of the half-life of FVIII has so mimicking FVIIIa has been approved for episodes (prophylaxis) and the treatment of far been limited by the binding of FVIII to the prevention of bleeding in haemophilia breakthrough bleeds (on-demand therapy). von Willebrand Factor (VWF), a problem A patients with or without inhibitors. These Factor concentrates were initially which is circumvented by the development patients would however still need alternaproduced from plasma, but large-scale of the VWF-independent product candidate tive/bypass therapy for the treatment of production first became possible with the rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN (BIVV001)1. The longbreakthrough bleeds. development of recombinant technology, term safety and efficacy of factor replaceOther non-factor replacement therapies which also avoids the inherent risks of using ment therapies using Fc fusion to extend are under development. Gene therapy has pooled human plasma in the manufacturing half-life have been demonstrated in trials been under investigation for quite some time process. including ASPIRE and B-YOND. now for haemophilia A and B, but remains A more recent evolution in factor replaceWhen haemophilia patients develop in clinical development and the long-term ment therapy is the use of technologies to ­neutralising/inhibitory antibodies to infused efficacy and safety of this potentially curative extend the relatively short half-life of clotting factor, eradication of those inhibitors approach have yet to be established. 1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. Reference: Peters R, Harris T. Advances and innovations in haemophilia treatment. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2018 Jul;17(7):493-508. »Believe in yourself. You can achieve anything.« Alexis Perdikis has a message for people with “Secondly, it’s about your mental health. haemophilia: “Believe in yourself. You can It’s a sense of freedom. You feel freer. You achieve anything. This is what I feel, it comes feel that you can do things you couldn’t right from my heart.” do before.” Alexis, 33, is a sports journalist in Athens, He emphasises the importance of self-­ the capital of Greece. confidence and self-esteem for people living He also has severe haemophilia A. with haemophilia. “It’s all about believing Today, he lives a life full of opportunity and in yourself. To realise, I can have a normal possibility. “I can go to work without having job like anyone else, a girlfriend or a family. to worry about getting a bleed. I can go This is so, so important.” swimming, which is very important for my For the past five years, Alexis has served as quality of life.” secretary general of the Greek Haemophilia But life hasn’t always been so free of Society. He sees national member organlimitations. As a boy, Alexis experienced the isations as playing an essential role in the restrictions familiar to many who grow up haemophilia community: “They are a link in with haemophilia. Alexis Perdikis is a sports journalist the chain between the patients and all the “Growing up with severe haemophilia is in Athens. other stakeholders: government, ministry difficult, a bit tough. It is very strange for a of health, hospitals, administration, the parent to have to explain to a little child, you ­companies. Patient organisations must help cannot play, you cannot play football with ‘I won’t be able to do this or that’. This is bring those different parts together.” your friends, you cannot run, you cannot probably the biggest limitation.” Asked what someone with haemophilia ride your bicycle. It’s like there is a big DON’T Alexis was receiving on-demand treatment should expect from their treatment, Alexis above your head all the time. Don’t do this, until the age of 27. For five years he has been says people can set their own ambitions: don’t do that. on prophylaxis, the past two years with Elocta. “Be strong. Use your inner power to achieve “That is one part. The second part is your “There have been many differences. The whatever you want. Of course, good treatpsychology. Haemophilia hits your self-conmost important at first was zero bleeds – ment is important. But in the end everything fidence and self-esteem. You grow up and less pain in my joints and muscles, in my has to do with you, and with what you want you don’t believe in yourself. You think, body in general.” to achieve.” 22 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 m eet i n g pat i ent need s »Sobi is seen today as a major player, making a real difference to the lives of people with rare diseases.« Armin Reininger Our Head of Global Medical and Scientific Affairs reflects on highlights from 2018, and emerging trends for the years ahead. Background of real-world experience from thousands of patients. They have When Armin joined Sobi in January 2017, it was the latest step in a been shown conclusively to be suitable for all patient groups and distinguished career in medicine and research. With extensive expeages, and provide the flexibility to truly match treatment to expected rience in both blood research and transfusion medicine, Armin has outcomes. published more than 70 scientific articles. He has also held senior I hear clear feedback from physicians that they and their patients positions at Harvard Medical School, Scripps Research Institute, and appreciate the very physiological approach of replacing the missing at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich where he continues as clotting factor: you can measure the factor level, you can increase a professor of anatomy. He has served on the boards and committhe dose to the level needed. I remain convinced that proven and tees of several international organisations in the areas of thrombosis effective factor replacement that can be matched to an individual’s and haemostasis. When Armin joined Sobi, he came from a position treatment goals in all situations will continue to be the mainstay of as Head of Medical Affairs EMEA at Shire/Baxalta. treatment for the future. What have been the highlights for you in Haemophilia in 2018? What do you see as some other major highlights from 2018? The most important is that more people are benefiting from our One was definitely emapalumab. This is a huge step forward for Sobi, treatments. As word spreads through the patient and treater combecause it confirms our commitment to the immunology space munities about the difference our treatments can bring, people and demonstrates how our success in haemophilia lets us invest in are re-examining their initial hesitation about switching from conhelping more children with a severe unmet medical need. Our most ventional therapies. Key opinion leaders tell us they see significant recent addition, Synagis, fulfils the same fundamental ambition. It benefits for patients on EHL treatments. helps as a prophylactic treatment so that premature babies survive Real-world experience is showing that patients can expect more better, and require fewer hospitalisations and intensive care unit from life, and truly live well with haemophilia. Just a few decades admissions when exposed to RSV (respiratory syncytial virus), which ago, we told people with haemophilia not to move – stay at home, causes respiratory tract infections. don’t do anything, in order to avoid bleeds. That has changed draAnother highlight for me is the way everyone within Sobi – from matically. Now we offer them EHL products that can liberate their the Executive Committee to the many teams throughout the organlives. isation – works together to find innovative treatments and get them Looking forward, we can see from the preliminary data released to the people who need them. This is a long-standing strength at last year (see Haemophilia section) that BIVV001 has potential to Sobi. Our position today, as a leading player in rare diseases, is built build on where we have already taken treatment for haemophilia A. on a lot of partnership over the years, internally and externally, as We continue to streng­then our relationship with Sanofi, and I see a well as on our core values, which have been evolved to address the very bright future here. challenges we encounter on a daily basis. We have a clear strategy on which we are delivering, and a clear How do you see the haemophilia landscape developing? path ahead of us. We really have made a mark, in haemophilia in There is a lot of hype about new treatments being approved. I particular, and are no longer the new kid on the block. Sobi is seen believe strongly, and I hear constantly from the treater community, today as a major player, making a real difference to the lives of peothat replacing the missing clotting factor is fundamental to the ple with rare diseases. And as a physician that is my main motivation wellbeing of people with haemophilia. The safety and efficacy for trying to do better every day. profiles of Elocta and Alprolix have been confirmed by several years S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 23 Better meeting patient needs We are working actively to find better ways to meet patient needs. This can entail product development and innovation driven by medical needs. New medical needs may arise when people with certain rare diseases grow up, reaching adolescence and adulthood for the first time thanks to the treatments we provide. m eet i n g pat i ent need s Specialty Care More patients than ever before are being helped by our treatments. Sales for ­Specialty Care surpassed SEK 3 billion for the first time in 2018, with a solid performance across the portfolio. Two major acquisitions in 2018 have given Specialty Care a clear focus on Immunology, creating a strong s­ econd leg to our business. S 3,127M pecialty Care concentrates on • Accelerates US commercial platform rare diseases and niche indica– Both acquisitions strengthen our tions, with treatments that aim to transform life for patients. commercial platform in North America, providing critical scale to drive sustainable SEK The two key acquisitions during growth in the US. We see this as imperTotal revenue, Specialty Care 2018 – for the global licence to emapalumab ative for the company to be recognised and the US rights for Synagis (palivizumab) as a preferred partner in future global – have shifted the weight of the Specialty deals. The Synagis acquisition includes Care portfolio significantly. The resulting the transfer of AstraZeneca employees strong Immunology franchise – comprising from a highly qualified sales & marketing Share of total revenue, emapalumab, Synagis and Kineret (anakinra) team. Synagis is thereby expected to by business area – will comprise the majority of sales in nearly triple both the revenue and size of ­Specialty Care, and we see immunology as our US organisation. We have also been a promising area of development in which expanding our North American organisawe will invest further. tion to address the expected demand for Synagis is the only approved medicine for emapalumab. the prevention of serious lower respiratory • Enhances financial strength tract infections (LRTI) caused by respiratory – Synagis will provide substantial recursyncytial virus in high-risk infants. As an ring revenue, and we believe that our important treatment for vulnerable children, specialist competence in this area will Synagis matches our expertise in paediatrics allow us to extract more value from the and we are convinced we can get more value product. In the coming year, we expect 34% Specialty Care from the product. Synagis will constitute the revenues from Synagis and emapalumab majority share of total Specialty Care sales. to help us advance our geographical Emapalumab, approved in November expansion, enable future strategic acquiin the US as Gamifant for the treatment of sitions over the mid-term and allow us primary HLH, is also a perfect fit with our to continue to invest in our own research expertise, strategy and infrastructure. As the and development. first approved treatment, it demonstrates our ability to bring innovative solutions to As well as its primary focus on Immunology, address highly unmet medical needs, and our portfolio also includes products in the as a therapeutic concept shows potential areas of genetics & metabolism. Specialty for expansion into other indications. Care has a distribution network across It will also provide growth in North EMENAR used to sell both proprietary and ­America in line with our strategy. partner products, while in North America The acquisitions are transformative for we currently sell Sobi’s own products the company in several ways, and are an exclusively. In 2018, total sales amounted excellent fit with our strategy: to SEK 3,127 M. Specialty Care’s largest • New Immunology franchise products in 2018 were Kineret and Orfadin, – By creating a strong second leg to representing 42 and 29 per cent of sales our portfolio, the acquisitions enable respectively. The portfolio currently consists the company to diversify our revenue of 39 products. From 2019, Synagis will be base and balance our strong growth the largest single product in Specialty Care. in Haemophilia. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 25 m eet i n g pat i ent need s We have offices in 19 countries, managing products in over 70 countries. Rising standards of living and improving healthcare systems are allowing more people with unmet medical needs to receive treatment. We continue to adapt and develop our organisation to match this growing demand, particularly in more populous countries. Throughout 2018, the Specialty Care franchise demonstrated our ability to manage products at different stages of the life cycle in diverse regions, and contrasting competitive and payment environments. As well as double-digit growth for Kineret and a maintained market position for Orfadin despite emerging competition, newly launched Ravicti is now improving quality of Binding blocks signalling cascade life for an increasing number of people with Anakinra is a recombinant interleukin (IL)-1 receptor urea cycle disorders (UCD). ­antagonist. It binds to the IL-1 receptor on the lymphocyte We continue to seek further new products surface, reducing the IL-1-mediated signalling cascade. to improve our ability to meet the evolving needs of patients. To make better use of our IL-1 is involved in several severe inflammatory diseases. capabilities, we are also seeking to attain more extensive product rights through external opportunities. We also support rare-disease communities We hope to offer these capabilities to in various ways, including through ambassafuture partnering companies to do their Better ways to meet patient needs dor programmes, financial support to bridge therapeutic solutions justice and bring them We work actively to find better ways to meet reimbursement, and teaching tools for successfully to patients in North America patient needs. This can entail product develhealthcare providers, patients and carers. and EMENAR. opment and innovation driven by medical The continuing growth of our business, needs. New medical needs may arise when the overall development of our products people with certain rare diseases reach and the successful acquisitions in 2018 all adolescence and adulthood for the first underline our capabilities in the area of rare time thanks to the treatments we provide. diseases and specialty care. Building up capacity in North America Our operations in North America expanded Expanding our footprint in the US and Canada is an important part of our strategy – the North American market represents ­dramatically during 2018. From 55 employees at around 50 per cent of the worldwide market for rare disease the start of 2018, we grew to 270 colleagues in treatments. Having a stronger footprint there opens up the the US and Canada in early 2019. ­possibility of even greater growth opportunities. One effect of the expansion has been continued double-digit More than 130 people are joining Sobi from AstraZeneca as growth for Kineret, approved in the US for rheumatoid arthritis part of the Synagis deal. and neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID). Revenue from North America is expected to account for Additional staff are reaching out to 1,000 new physicians, who around one-third of global total revenue, up from around have now started to prescribe Kineret and already represent a 14 per cent. double-digit share of prescriptions. As a result, 180 new patients The additional staff greatly reinforce our medical, commercial are now benefiting from treatment with Kineret. and market access capabilities, and will work both with our new The additional capacity is also helping to maintain sales products Synagis and Gamifant, and the existing portfolio. momentum for Orfadin, which is starting to face generic ­competition. 26 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 m eet i n g pat i ent need s Brief facts about Sobi’s Immunology portfolio: EMAPALUMAB AND HLH Synagis is an attractive product for Sobi due In August, we published the primary ­efficacy to its orphan-sized paediatric patient popresults from the anaGO phase 2 trial into We acquired the global rights to emapaulation and immunology profile. It remains anakinra (Kineret) as a possible treatment for lumab from Novimmune SA in August the only product preventing RSV infection in acute gout. 2018. In November, it was approved by a young vulnerable patient population with Kineret is a biologic that reduces the the US Food and Drug Administration and a great medical need. RSV is a virus that can activity of interleukin-1 (IL-1), a key medilaunched under the name Gamifant in the cause severe lung disease in infants who ator of inflammation in autoinflammatory US in December as world’s first approved are born either prematurely or during RSV and autoimmune diseases. Kineret blocks drug therapy for primary haemophagocytic season. the biological activity of 1 and IL-1 by lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a rare and For full US prescribing information please binding to the interleukin-1 type 1 receptor life-threatening syndrome of extreme see synagis.com (IL-1RI), expressed in a variety of tissues and immune activation. An application for marorgans, and thereby blocking interleukin-1 ket authorisation in the EU was submitted in (IL-1) signalling. This signal blockade helps mid-2018. KINERET manage excess levels of IL-1 in the body, The primary form of the disease (inherited) and consequently, inflammation and other mainly occurs in infants and young children, The case of Kineret also illustrates how symptoms. Kineret has a well-characterised while the secondary form of the disease is we work continuously to find new ways to safety profile, a quick onset of action and a acquired from or associated with infection, help people with rare diseases. Originally short half-life. autoimmune diseases or malignancy. introduced in 2002, Kineret continues to Kineret is approved for the treatment of Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is show potential for the treatment of various rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults, neonaa clinical syndrome of hyper inflammation, illnesses involving interleukin-1 (IL-1), a tal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease driven by high interferon gamma (IFN ) key mediator of inflammation. Increasing (NOMID) in children and adults (in the US production, characterised by fever, swelling interest in and understanding of the IL-1 and Canada), and cryopyrin-associated of the liver and spleen, severe low red and field is supporting the continued growth of periodic syndrome (CAPS) in adult patients, white blood cell counts, bleeding disorders, Kineret, which again reached double digits and in children from eight months and older infections, neurological symptoms, organ during 2018. (in the EU). It is also approved in Australia for dysfunction and organ failure. Primary HLH In 2013, when it was approved for CAPS the treatment of RA, CAPS and also for the typically arises in paediatric patients, is fatal (cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome) treatment of active SJIA in patients aged two if untreated, and has a 40 per cent mortality in Europe, we made a fundamental revision years and above who have failed to respond rate with current best available care. of our strategy for Kineret, establishing an adequately to non-biological disease modThe patient population in the US, EU and organisation focused on patients and treatifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and in Israel for Japan is estimated at around 5,000 people ers to identify and address their needs. As RA and CAPS. across both primary and secondary HLH. specialists learn more about how Kineret has For full European prescribing information, For full US prescribing information please improved their patients’ lives, they share their please visit the EMA website. see gamifant.com insights with us and the patient community. For full US prescribing information please Physicians and patients see Sobi as good see kineretrx.com. partner: we take their insights seriously, and SYNAGIS AND RSV try to follow their leads. Then together we Total sales: SEK 1,320M examine how we can develop the treatment Sales growth: 16% Synagis is the only approved medicine for to benefit patients in other indications. the prevention of serious lower respiratory In 2018 Kineret was approved by the tract infections (LRTI) caused by respiratory European Medicines Agency (EMA) for use in syncytial virus (RSV) in high-risk infants. We all 28 European Union (EU) member states announced in November that we acquired for the treatment of Still’s disease, including the US rights to Synagis from AstraZeneca Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD) and and will also participate in 50 per cent of Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA), the future US earnings from the follow-up the most severe form of arthritis in children. candidate drug MEDI8897, a monoclonal Still’s disease affects approximately 25,0001 antibody (mAb) being investigated for children and adults in the EU. Uptake in the the prevention of LRTI caused by RSV in a Still’s population is expected to accelerate larger patient population. The completion over the coming year. A phase 3 trial (ana-​ of the acquisition was announced on STILLS) is ongoing in the United States, for 24 January 2019. the use of Kineret in the treatment of Still’s disease (SJIA and AOSD). 1. Data on file. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 27 m eet i n g pat i ent need s Brief facts about Sobi’s Specialty Care portfolio: ORFADIN Generic competition is now entering some People with a UCD have difficulty removing markets, although uptake of these generic ammonia – naturally formed as a by-prodOur patient-centric approach can be seen formulations has been slower than expected. uct of metabolising protein – from their clearly in the way we have worked with During 2018, Orfadin continued to maintain bloodstream. Ammonia is toxic, and if it Orfadin. When it was first launched in 2002, its market position – we remain strongly reaches the brain it can cause irreversible few patients living with hereditary tyroscommitted to the HT-1 community and probrain damage, coma and even death. inaemia type 1 (HT-1) would celebrate their viding life-long treatment with Orfadin and Despite the launch of Ravicti in Europe second birthday. Today, thanks to improved associated patient support services. being slightly delayed, there are indications newborn screening, effective treatment and of an accelerated uptake in the second dietary management, we are seeing the first Total sales: SEK 899M half of 2018. Feedback from physicians generation of patients with HT-1 to reach Sales growth: 4% indicates that patients appreciate the fact an age where they are starting their own that Ravicti is tasteless and odourless, and is families. required in smaller volumes than other UCD Over the years, we have worked closely UCD PORTFOLIO treatments. A study has also shown fewer with the HT-1 community, and seen that treatment-related symptoms, such as body people with HT-1 face different challenges Ravicti® (glycerol phenylbutyrate) was odour, abdominal pain, nausea, burning during different stages of life. In 2015 and made available across Europe in 2018, as sensation in mouth, vomiting and heartburn, 2016, an oral suspension for infants and a treatment for all six urea-cycle disorder with Ravicti than with treatment using a 20 mg capsule for older patients were (UCD) indications. The six, all referred to sodium phenylbutyrate. All these factors are approved and introduced for patients in by the name of the missing enzyme, are: expected to contribute to better adherence Europe and the US. CPS1 (Carbamoyl Phosphate Synthetase); and compliance, particularly among children With an increase in newborn screening in NAGS (N-Acetylglutamate Synthetase); OTC with UCD, leading not only to improved several countries, more patients are being Deficiency (Ornithine Transcarbamylase); AS treatment outcomes but greatly improved diagnosed earlier. The oral suspension (Argininosuccinic Acid Synthetase (Citrulli­ quality of life. makes treatment simpler for younger nemia)); ASL (Argininosuccinate Lyase (ArgiFor full European prescribing information, infants. At the other end of the scale, the ninosuccinic Aciduria)); and AG (Arginase). please see ema.europa.eu. larger 20 mg capsule allows older patients Our other UCD treatment, Ammonaps®, is to reduce the number of times they have to approved for three indications: CPS1, OTC take their treatment every day. Both formuand ASL. lations are exclusive to Sobi. »Every person with a rare disease has the right to live the life they choose. They deserve to feel safe in making their own c ­ hoices.« Cecilia, Drug Safety Manager 28 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Finding creative ways to help Our close contact with patient and treater communities follows us to identify non-drug measures to address unmet needs. These can include educational programmes, disease awareness and bridging finance iniatives. Inn o vat i o n Innovation At Sobi, we are driven by science, and drive science in turn. Building on our heritage, we continue to invest in innovation and have made progress on several fronts during 2018. Our most advanced early-stage programme, SOBI003, moved into clinical studies during 2018 with the first patients dosed. And acquisition of the global rights to emapalumab has significantly strengthened our late-stage pipeline. Strong platform for growth the molecular format to clinical experience, Our Immunology franchise emerged largely Innovation is part of our DNA. Throughout manufacturing, regulatory, commercialisathrough anakinra, and our subsequent the history of Sobi and our predecessors, tion and patient access – differentiates us in development of the therapy to include we have built a legacy of combining our the pharma space. new indications in the IL-1 field. We are expertise with that of partners to identify and now established as a credible partner in the develop innovations that address significant immunology field, as evidenced by the partunmet medical needs among people with In medical terms, we are nership with Novimmune for emapalumab rare diseases. living in one of the most as well as the acquisition from AstraZeneca From the first B-domain deleted recomof the US rights to Synagis. binant clotting factor VIII for haemophilia ­exciting times in history, on Our R&D activities span from the discovA in the 1980s, through the life-cycle mana par with the discovery of ery phase, through clinical development, to agement of Kineret, and the development post-approval clinical trials in a real-world of Orfadin and the Fc fusion technology that antibiotics. Science drives setting. We are currently running pre-clinical makes our extended half-life treatments what we are doing, and we research programmes, clinical development Elocta and Alprolix possible for haemophilia programmes and studies in a real-world A and B, our research and development is are driving science. Our setting. built on a record of achievement. strength in rare diseases As well as in-house research, we continue We see innovation as essential to our to work extensively with external stakeholdvision of being a global leader in rare disputs us at the cutting edge. ers, including patient and healthcare organeases. We need to reinvest in research and isations, government-supported initiatives, development in order to continue to provide As an integrated, patient-centric company, researchers from the academic community, innovative treatments. we feed insights from patients, carers and and with other research partners. We see We made significant strides towards this payers back into our research and developbroad collaboration and partnership as strategic objective in 2018, not only through ment organisation, creating a feedback loop. essential to strengthening the knowledge progress in our internal pipeline but also by This allows us to concentrate our research base in rare diseases in order to address bringing in external innovation. efforts on areas in which we can truly make a unmet medical needs. Our R&D is focused on biological treatdifference and have the potential to become In all our research and development work, ments for rare diseases, where we have leaders. These include our ongoing work we constantly strive to maintain the highest extensive competence and experience. Our within haemophilia, and our strong focus in ethical, technical and scientific standards. understanding of all the connections – from the area of immunology. 30 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Inn o vat i o n Emapalumab (in orange) is approved in the US as the world’s first approved treatment for primary HLH, a life-threatening disease of the immune system. An antiIFN antibody, emapalumab binds to IFN (in blue) and thereby prevents activation of IFN receptors (in green) on the monocyte surface. This prevents initiation of the signalling that results in the expression of inflammatory cytokines. We secure intellectual property rights to The approval in April 2018 of Kineret as a management approach to provide more safeguard our investments in research treatment for Still’s disease in Europe was value for more patients and explore the full and development, enabling a financial also a major achievement. It illustrates our potential of our treatments. Physicians share performance that allows us to reinvest in the commitment to continuous development their insights, experience and results with development of new innovative treatments. of our treatments to assist patients through our researchers, helping us to add new indidifferent stages of life, as well as in new indications, new formulations and real-world Highlights during the year cations and new geographical areas. data to approved therapies. The commencement of the SOBI003 firstWe completed recruitment for the anaGO As an example, Kineret was originally in-human trial, with the first patient dosed in phase 2 study with anakinra (Kineret) as approved for rheumatoid arthritis. With input August 2018, was a significant achievement a possible treatment for acute gout, and from the medical community, we continued that confirms the strength of our integrated released the top-level outcome on the to study and develop Kineret in the IL-1 field. approach to drug development. SOBI003, primary endpoint. Although we did not meet It was subsequently approved for CAPS, a built on our own research platform, has now the primary endpoint, we did demonstrate group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory been brought all the way to humans. The that anakinra does provide pain relief in this diseases, and NOMID, the most severe form initial dosing of the first patients has gone disorder. There continues to be an unmet of CAPS – and has led to a transformational well, and ongoing recruitment into the trial is medical need among patients who do not improvement in quality of life for people encouraging. (See more in box, on page 33) tolerate or respond to conventional treatwith these disorders. In 2018, Kineret was With the addition of emapalumab to our ment, and we will continue discussions with approved and subsequently marketed in portfolio, we have created a bridge between the FDA on how we may potentially proceed several European countries as a treatment our early and late-stage pipelines. Following with this indication. of Still’s disease. Similarly, we are deepening emapalumab’s approval in the US as GamiIn the area of haemophilia, results were our understanding of Elocta and investigatfant for treatment of primary HLH, we conpresented in several research programmes ing its potential effects in immune tolerance tinue to study its potential in a phase 2 trial that confirm the safety and efficacy of Elocta induction for people with haemophilia A in secondary HLH plus a number of potential and Alprolix. who are affected by inhibitors. follow-on indications. Acquisition of the The potential of BIVV001, a clinical-stage Continuous development of our mediglobal rights to emapalumab, and resulting molecule that uses the Fc fusion technology cines is done both in-house and in partnerpartnership with Novimmune, makes the from Elocta to further extend the half-life of ship with other pharmaceutical companies most of our strengths, and benefits both factor VIII, continues to be examined1. (Read and with patient organisations and patientcompanies. more, box on Page 33). led consortia. Considering the competition in the market for assets that address unmet medical needs Continuous development for patients, we can be justifiably proud of Even after a therapy is approved and being chosen by Novimmune as partners on launched, we continue with research and this journey. development as part of a complete life-cycle 1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 31 Inn o vat i o n Our innovation pipeline at 31 December 2018 Therapeutic area/Indication Product/Project Pre-clinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Haemophilia A Elocta/PUP1,2 Haemophilia A BIVV0013/EXTEN-A Haemophilia Haemophilia A Elocta/ASURE Haemophilia A Elocta/ReITIrate Haemophilia A Elocta/verITI8 Haemophilia A and B EIocta/Alprolix/PREVENT Haemophilia B Alprolix/PUP1,2 Haemophilia B BIVV0023/EXTEN-B Primary HLH Emapalumab Secondary HLH Emapalumab RSV prevention MEDI88974 Speciality Care Acute gout Anakinra/anaGO Still’s disease Anakinra/anaSTILLs Alkaptonuria Nitisinone/SONIA2 MPSIIIA SOBI003 Anti-C5 SOBI005 Anti-IL-1 SOBI006 1. Extension trial for an already approved indication. 2. PUP – Previously Untreated Patients. 3. A Sanofi (formerly Bioverativ) development programme. Sobi has elected to add the programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted-in. 4. Sobi has the right to participate in 50 per cent of future earnings in the US. 32 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 I n n o vat i o n Brief facts about pipeline innovations: BIVV001 MEDI8897 SOBI003 Our product Elocta is an extended half-life The agreement with AstraZeneca for the US SOBI003 is a clinical-stage molecule being (EHL) version of factor VIII for the treatment rights to Synagis also includes our participatested for the treatment of patients with of haemophilia A, which is approved in tion in 50 per cent of future earnings for the ­mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPS IIIA), Europe and the Middle East. candidate drug MEDI8897 in the US. also called Sanfilippo A syndrome. BIVV001 is a Sanofi development MEDI8897, a follow-on candidate to MPS IIIA is a genetic disease that arises as a programme. Sobi has elected to add the ­Synagis, is a monoclonal antibody (mAb) result of mutations to the gene that encodes programme to the collaboration agreement being investigated for the prevention of an enzyme called sulfamidase. The disease with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. lower respiratory tract infections caused is a rare inherited disorder that is progressive BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) is a novel by RSV in a larger patient population. with significant morbidity and mortality. and investigational recombinant factor VIII MEDI8897 is a single dose extended Patients present with the disease in early therapy that is designed to extend protection half-life anti-RSV F mAb being developed for childhood and, after significant loss of develfrom bleeds with once-weekly prophylaxis the passive immunisation of a broad infant opmental skills, many die of their disease dosing. BIVV001 builds on the Fc fusion population. It has been engineered to have before the age of 20. technology used in Elocta by adding a region a long half-life so that only one dose will be MPS IIIA arises due to a lack of sulfamidase of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polyneeded for the entire RSV season. Primary activity, leading to the inability of the body to peptides to potentially extend the factor VIII analysis from the pivotal, phase 2b study to break down long chains of sugar molecules molecule’s time in circulation. evaluate the safety and efficacy of MEDI8897 and resulting in the accumulation of heparan BIVV001 is the only factor therapy that has showed that the study met its primary sulphate inside lysosomes in cells. This in been shown to break through the von Willeendpoint. The current development plan turn also affects the cells in the central nerbrand factor ceiling, which is understood to includes a proposed phase 3 study in late vous system and causes severe progressive impose a half-life limitation on current factor preterm and healthy full-term infants. Based degeneration. VIII therapies. BIVV001 was granted orphan on the results from the phase 2b study, the SOBI003 is a recombinant version of the drug designation by the Food and Drug FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy wild-type form of sulfamidase which has Administration in August 2017. Designation (BTD) for MEDI8897, which will been designed to cross the blood-brain help bring MEDI8897 as quickly as possible barrier (BBB) and enter the brain. The BBB is to all infants at risk for RSV. the capillary bed of the brain which shows In March 2017, AstraZeneca and Sanofi low permeability for blood-borne proteins. Pasteur announced an agreement to jointly Using our proprietary Modifa™ technology develop and commercialise MEDI8897. to modify the glycan sugar molecules decUnder the agreement, AstraZeneca is orating sulfamidase, the resultant SOBI003 respons­ible for all development activity molecule has been shown to enter the through initial approvals, as well as manubrains of several animal species and to treat facturing of MEDI8897, while Sanofi Pasteur MPS IIIA very effectively in a mouse model of leads commercialisation activities. The two the disease, by reducing the accumulation of companies share all costs and profits equally. heparan sulphate in the brain parenchyma. This is achieved by prolonging the enzyme’s presence in the bloodstream and enhancing the passive adsorption of SOBI003 at the BBB with subsequent increased transcytosis into the brain. SOBI003 has been granted orphan status in both the EU and the US and also has FastTrack Designation in the US. Our ability to take a molecule from idea to approved treatment enables us to provide groundbreaking therapies that transform lives. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 33 Man u fact u re and s u pply o f b i o lo g i c s Manufacture and supply of biologics We continue to advance our expertise and capacity in the development, ­planning, sourcing, manufacture and delivery of innovative biologic therapies. The integrated nature of Sobi allows us to bring treatments to patients faster. And our global n ­ etwork of manufacturing and supply partners ensures the ­reliable provision of medicines to patients around the world. As an integrated company, we can advance active substance for preclinical and early ensure that the right products arrive in medicines seamlessly from development to clinical studies during 2016–2018. the appropriate quantities for distribution, commercial scale, reducing the time it takes ensuring quick and efficient delivery to for innovative therapies to reach patients Due diligence patients. We currently provide access to without compromising safety. The expertise and experience within Technitreatment in more than 70 countries, typiOur Technical Operations organisation, cal Operations was an important component cally in small volumes for a small number of which came into effect in October, brings in the due diligence for the announced patients, providing logistical scale for us and together our Quality Assurance, CMC deals with Novimmune and AstraZeneca. our partners across the EMENAR region and (Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control) The teams collated and assessed data for North America. Development, Biologics Process Develop­ information around the manufacturing proWe work with a global network of contract ment, Procurement, Supply Chain and cesses, analytical methods, manufacturing manufacturing organisations to ensure the Internal and External Manufacturing, as well sites, cost structure, operational risks and reliable supply of medicine for patients. All as Environment & Safety functions under compliance of the products, processes and manufacturers of products for which Sobi is a single umbrella. facilities in the supply chains of Synagis and Market Authorisation Holder are required to The new organisation will allow greater emapalumab. The team has been instrumeet our Code of Conduct and Ethics. For synergies between the various functions, mental in securing the manufacturing supply products sold on a partner basis, we strive allowing cross-functional initiatives to have and quality assurance agreements with the to ensure that all providers comply with the greatest possible effect. The introducnew partners. the code. tion of Technical Operations also creates As a measure to combat counterfeit improved career opportunities and develEnsuring global access to treatment medicines, we use serialisation to ensure opment for colleagues across the various Patient safety is our most important the traceability of all our products. A unique functions, ensuring a smooth transition from responsibility; ensuring that patients never serial number on every product provides process development into manufacturing. risk being without their medication is information on where a product was proWe developed and scaled up the SOBI003 paramount. That is why we have built up duced and packaged. All our products have drug substance manufacturing process robust and reliable supply and distribution been serialised from February 2019 following in-house to support the programme with processes covering all our markets; these a successful implementation project. In May 34 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Man u fact u re and s u pply o f b i o lo g i c s A global supply chain We market and sell a wide range of products to over 70 countries. Our single most important responsibility is to ensure that patients never risk being without their medication. Our robust and efficient supply chain includes 15 contract manufacturing organisations (CMOs) in Europe and the US. Full control over the entire chain is vital, as biologics often require cold-chain supply to ensure product integrity and quality. 2018, we became one of the first companies This resulting increase in capacity allows us to connect to the EU Hub, a central compoto meet the growing demand for Kineret, in nent of the EU serialisation initiative. We are existing and new indications. unaware of any case of Sobi products being In 2018, we continued our involvement subject to falsification. in three projects funded by Vinnova, the Due to the sensitive nature of biologic Swedish Innovation Agency, and are colla­ medicines, they often require cold-chain borating with Lund University in a further supply to safeguard product integrity and Vinnova-funded project. quality. Having full control of the entire As well as strengthening connections supply and distribution chain – from manwith a network of students and graduates, ufacturing to patient – is vital. Our Logistics these initiative explore new technologies Development and Supply unit ensures that are expected to have positive effects on uninterrupted, reliable and sustainable development and manufacturing lead times. transportation of products sourced from our Such projects reflect our investment in the global CMO network. future of Sweden as a leading country in the Our Trade Compliance unit ensures that development and manufacturing of innovatrade laws and regulations are followed. tion biologics. The transfer of the production of the biologic drug substance for Kineret was completed on time and budget during 2018. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 35 W e m a k e i t h appen We make it happen Sobi is a value-driven company with a scientific and patient-centric organisation. As employees, we are the enablers that make it possible to reach our vision of transforming the lives of people with rare diseases and delivering on a strategy for increasing growth. It is our everyday behaviour and achievements that matter the most in shaping the future of our company. Focus on growth and leadership Culture-supported performance Sobi is an evolving company on a strong For those of us working at Sobi, our “WHY” – growth path. This requires that our organisaaddressing patient needs – is what motivates tion remains innovative and high-performing and drives our high-performance culture. in a time of change – as well as fostering a Every day, we work actively to find better culture where continuous learning is key. We ways to understand and meet patient needs. Gender distribution of employees are one of only a few biotech companies Urgency has always been an important to successfully transition into a commercial value to us, and in line with Sobi’s strategy biopharmaceutical company. As a result, we to extend the reach of our offerings to more need to manage products at very different patients, it is becoming even more important stages of the life cycle, simultaneously in in our operations. diverse regions and contrasting competitive Our conviction is that because we care, and payment environments. To be successwe need to act. To ensure that more patients ful in doing so, we need an organisation that benefit from our advanced therapies now is both stable and agile at the same time. and in the future, and to align with the comEverything we do at Sobi supports our pany’s ambitions for growth, we have idenlong-term vision and strategy. As the results tified five values: Care, Ambition, Urgency, 59% women of 2018 have shown, we have been successful Ownership and Partnership. These values 41% men in delivering on our strategy. As we continue help us develop the spirit of leadership and to deliver, we are now promoting and develentrepreneurship that we need to be recoping high-performing teams throughout ognised as a leader in rare diseases. the organisation. This involves developing In 2018, we worked together within the our methods to help managers, leaders and organisation to define and implement these colleagues facilitate continuous growth. We values across the company through a series see strong leadership based on cross-funcof workshops. We subsequently identified tional capabilities as crucial. This focus is part areas and processes that can be improved to of building an organisation that has a clear better correspond to our values. An internal direction but is prepared for the unknown, campaign was launched to support the while embracing change as opportunity. implementation. We have always included the values as important components when assessing employee performance. 36 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 W e m a k e i t h appen Care ers own hip We are who we are because of our dedication, knowledge and passion. Care is the foundation upon which our strategy, our business and our culture are built. Ownership It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intrapreneurship and learn from our experiences. ambition urgency Urgency We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safeguardcare ing our standards, because patients cannot wait. Partnership We embrace partnerships and collaboration, both within Sobi and with external partners and ­stakeholders. Ambition par tn ers hip We set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost to achieve them. Gender equality analysis forward. The combination of rare-disease Every employee is offered equal opportucompetencies and specific therapeutic nities regardless of ethnicity, age, gender, knowledge has guided our professional religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. development and recruitment processes. 19 Our guidelines clearly prohibit any sexual Professional development for all employharassment. The Me Too movement at the ees is essential for both development of our end of 2017 initiated increased internal product portfolio and the organisation as a discussion at management level on potential whole. We strive to promote a performance challenges in the organisation as well as a culture based on individual accountability, raised general awareness of these matters. mandate and ownership. A critical factor is We have offices In Sweden, our annual salary surveys allow to set, and continuously support, individual in 19 countries us to carry out a gender equality analysis, goals linked to strategic business objectives designed to prevent discrimination and as well as in line with the corporate values. promote equal rights and opportunities. We All employees take part in relevant profes935 carefully evaluate the results in partnership sional development that is supported and with trade unions, and take action when documented by a training matrix system. needed. We also map roles and responsibilThis system also meets regulatory requireities proactively to ensure that salaries and ments in the pharmaceutical field and serves development opportunities are provided as a comprehensive platform for ensuring in an equitable manner. individualised and specialised training as well Of the total number of people in 2018 as evidence of learning. people employed worldwide (2017), 41 per cent (41) were men and 59 In 2018, all employees underwent a on 31 December 2018 per cent (59) women. The corresponding regular performance and career developfigures for the Executive Committee and ment review. Training in standard operating Board of Directors (excluding employee procedures (SOPs) and on-the-job training is ­representatives) were 74 per cent (73) were a priority for Sobi, and an essential part of the men and 26 per cent (27) were women. development of every employee. This type of training accounts for the largest Competence leads innovation proportion of Sobi employees’ training. It Along with good values, competence is provides an opportunity for our employees one of the essentials that drive our business to learn new skills and ensure compliance S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 37 W e m a k e i t h appen with established procedures and practice. Leadership development has focused on Our policy and guidelines aim to promote During 2018, our employees also spent eight supporting high-performing teams as well a working culture where every employee hours on e-learning on issues including as fostering mature and enabled leaders. engages in the creation of a safe and healthy compliance and data protection. To support Managers and employees at Sobi need to be workplace through preventive measures and cross-functional approaches and learning, courageous and prepared for change. The regular training. Managers are responsible we implemented a system of job rotation growth strategy deployed offers numerous for working systematically with Environmenin 2018. This has been applied across the opportunities for our employees to develop tal Health and Safety (EHS) in their operaorganisation at both global head office and and grow with the company in new roles and tions. One important area is investigating affiliate level as an opportunity to develop expanding areas of responsibility. and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, people and teams while facilitating parental dangerous situation or near miss as this and vacational leave. A safe and healthy workplace makes it possible to take action to prevent a An agile approach is essential in respond­ We are committed to providing a safe and similar occurrence in the future. All employing successfully to our evolving requirehealthy workplace for our 935 people ees are required to report Environmental ments and to stimulate innovation. Building around the world. Activities to protect labour Health and Safety (EHS)-related incidents to high-performing teams has been identified rights are based on our responsibilities as an their employer. In 2018, 28 accidents were as a key success factor to meet our ambiemployer, and we also encourage suppliers reported, of which one led to sick leave. This tious strategic objectives. Across the comand partners to adopt socially responsible incident was investigated and reported to pany, we are working with a focused labour practices. We respect the internathe Swedish Work Environment Authority. approach to high-performing teams and tional labour standards set forth by the organisational efficiency to strengthen our International Labour Organization (ILO) and ability to adapt and grow. comply with national labour laws. »Job rotation really is a fantastic ­opportunity for those of us who are interested in trying a new role and developing our skills in new areas. It also creates a valuable exchange of skills between departments and an understanding for each other’s work.« Susanne, who is working in Global Distribution for one year, rotated from a role in Accounting. 38 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 W e m a k e i t h appen Compliance Hotline These hires further strengthen a team that is their graduate education or who come from Our Compliance Hotline is a third-party already considered one of the market’s best. outside Sweden. This has the added benefit whistle-blower service available to all Sobi Competitive terms of employment are also of providing us with valuable perspectives on employees, enabling anonymous reports a prerequisite for recruiting and retaining our activities from colleagues who join the of any possible violation of Sobi’s Code of high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer business with new eyes. Conduct & Ethics, any law, or any company competitive salaries and benefits, individually Sobi also participates in several collabopolicy. It is Sobi’s policy to prohibit any determined and adapted to the local labour rative projects within the framework of the retaliatory action against any employee for market. Swedish Government’s life-science venture making a report in good faith of a suspected As we grow, we need to secure comon the development of biological drugs. This violation even if a subsequent investigation petence not only for today, but also for collaboration has given us the opportunity to proves the report to be unfounded. tomorrow. Sobi’s business is dependent contribute to the development of emerging on specialist skills that are sometimes rare, skills within the industry and to broaden Sourcing future talent such as pharmaceutical technicians with our contact network with potential future To further improve the support we provide both development and industrialisation employees. To recruit young talents, we also for patients, treaters and payers in our terriexperience. In collaboration with other participate in business fairs. tories, we continued to expand our organpharmaceutical companies, we support isation throughout 2018. As we become educational programmes for pharmaceutical increasingly recognised as a leading player technicians. in the rare-disease landscape, we have To meet our recruitment needs, we recruit been able to attract key talents to join our and offer vocational in-house training to organisation at both local and global levels. chemists who have recently completed S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 39 O u r re s p o n s i b i l i t y Build long-term trust To achieve our vision of being recognised as a global leader in providing ­access to innovative treatments, we need to build long-term trust and act responsibly across all parts of our business. Collaboration with different stakeholders within the rare-disease community and in a variety of national and legal contexts requires us always to be trustworthy and transparent. We see several areas as forming the ethical greater awareness of liability issues and legal studies, are built on rigorous, scientifically and legal basis on which we run our busirisk. All of our operations, from research based evaluations by clinical experts in ness. These have been identified as a part and production to marketing, are affected cooperation with regulatory authorities, of our materiality analysis (read more on by these expectations. This requires us to independent ethics committees and pages 123–125) and are what we call Our ensure the quality of both our research and stakeholders. We apply the Declaration of Responsibility. production, as well as always observing all Hel­sinki’s principles for medical research. In general terms, we see responsibility as relevant precautionary principles and being For more information about the policies and referring to the need to be in control of our transparent in our marketing and interacdirectives we apply, refer to our risk manageprocesses, setting and meeting high ethical tions with healthcare stakeholders. ment section on pages 58–63. and environmental standards, both for ourOur internal processes and control selves and our partners. Because our busimeasures involve scientific, regulatory and Patient and customer privacy ness is strictly regulated under both national compliance training. In 2018, no incidents It is important that our customers, clinical and international laws, we always need to be of non-compliance concerning marketing trial subjects, employees and others we one step ahead in terms of compliance to be communications were identified or reported. interact with can rely on Sobi managing and seen as a trustworthy partner in the pharmaprocessing personal data in a responsible ceuticals market. Ethical practices and partnerships and secure manner. EU legislation, primarily The safety and integrity of our patients, Partnerships and cooperation with stakethe General Data Protection Regulation customers and employees are of vital holders are essential for us to share knowl(GDPR) which became fully enforceable in importance for the company. The quality of edge and experiences within the rare-dis2018, imposes additional requirements on our products is of the highest priority, and ease community. The stakeholders with how businesses process personal data. To to ensure the delivery of safe and effective whom we work span the entire value chain, comply with these new requirements, we treatments we follow the good practice from research and clinical programmes to have adopted a governance model that sup(GxP) guidelines that guide all pharmaceutipatient access and pricing. All engagements ports full compliance with GDPR and procal companies. are governed by our Code of Conduct and vides relevant training for the organisation. Our responsibility issues are described Ethics, while a majority are also covered by In 2018, four personal data breach incione by one. our more specific Healthcare Compliance dents were reported and managed. For more guidelines. We also enforce ethical standards information about the policies and directives Regulatory and legal environment by supporting a corporate culture that prowe apply based on a legal assessment of our The highly regulated environment in which motes open discussions of ethics both in our framework, refer to our risk management we operate is constantly changing, and operations and among key stakeholders. section on pages 58–63. demands for transparency are increasing. It is of the utmost importance that all There are also general trends towards research involving humans, such as clinical 40 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Anti-corruption and anti-competitive payments. In 2018, 90 per cent of our Environmental considerations are integrated practices employees participated in the training. into all activities, operational controls Transparency and open dialogue about In 2018 we rolled out our adapted and functions across the organisation. ethical issues form the foundation of strong Healthcare Compliance Interaction Policy. It All employees are required to undergo collaborations for qualitative research, contains key principles and global minimum annual environmental training, covering development and manufacturing. requirements, enabling a common global risk assessment, greenhouse gas emissions, We procure materials, goods and standard. The Policy is currently being and chemicals and waste management. We services from more than 1,000 suppliers. implemented in Sobi’s affiliates, where it is strive to comply with all environmental laws Our authorisation and signoff procedures supplemented to meet local requirements. and regulations. We assess and evaluate help ensure that we enter agreements and As a next step, approval and training will be our environmental risks continuously. Read perform procurements in a transparent and initiated, including corporate e-training with more about our risk management, sustainresponsible manner. We require all suppliers a focus on anti-corruption for the affiliates. ability risks and precautionary measures on to meet standards aligned with our Code No cases of corruption and no cases of pages 58–63. of Conduct and Ethics. We also work with non-compliance with laws and regulations due diligence, based on a risk assessment, within the economic and social area were to ensure that service providers comply reported during the year. For more inforwith our anti-corruption standards. The mation about the policies and directives we screening process is currently conducted apply, refer to our risk management section on a manual basis. We are investigating on pages 58–63. automated systems that would allow us to compile data showing the percentage of Responsible tax suppliers who have undergone screening. Sobi acts responsibly with regard to taxes. Procedures are in place to ensure that trade This means paying taxes where profits are compliance checks are performed. We plan earned in accordance with international to create a Supplier Code of Conduct. transfer pricing rules. It also means having a We work actively to prevent any form balanced tax risk profile, not engaging in tax of corruption. The most apparent risk lies evasion and maintaining stable and predictwithin our interactions with healthcare able tax levels, insofar as prevailing business stakeholders. We have an established conditions permit. Healthcare Compliance (HCC) organisation and company-wide programme to minimise Environmental impact the risk of corruption; this function provides Our carbon footprint is limited and mainly policies, training of our own employees in due to the use of chemical substances in business ethics, as well as reporting and R&D and manufacturing, and to business controls. Our zero-tolerance approach to travel emissions. bribery is formulated in our Code of Conduct Business travel is the main source of and Ethics as well as our Policy on Anti-­ greenhouse gas emissions, and is regulated Corruption, which was expanded in 2018 by our travel policy. We continuously evaluto include a global scope and third-party ate and implement measures to reduce the due diligence. energy and water consumption of our proAll employees are required to undergo duction facility, which is closely monitored. annual training in our Code of Conduct We work actively to phase out chemicals and Ethics. Topics covered in the Code of that might have adverse effects on the Conduct include product safety and quality, environment and human health. Chemicals competition law, intellectual property, envilegislation is extensive and continuously ronmental responsibility and employment expanding; all handling of chemicals in our principles, with additional opportunities to R&D and manufacturing processes therefore focus on specific areas. In 2018, data profollows strict instructions. We perform tection training was prioritised. This training annual risk assessments and internal audits. is an eligibility requirement for incentive Sobi's history Long history of innovation 1930s 2004 2009 Kabi founded as a subsidiary of Kärnbolaget Biovitrum starts to manufacture the active A decision is taken to initiate final registration Aktiebolag Biokemisk Industri. Name of ­protein component for Wyeth’s (now Pfiztrials for rFIXFc after safety and efficacy in company changed in 1951 to Kabi. er’s) ReFacto and ReFacto AF/Xynta® drugs previously treated (PTPs) haemophilia B for the treatment of haemophilia A. subjects is established in phase 1/2a clinical 1970s Marketing of specialty pharmaceuticals trials. Kabi and Vitrum merge to become (ReFacto, Mimpara and Kineret) is initiated Investor AB acquires 21 per cent of the KabiVitrum. in the Nordic region. shares in Biovitrum. 1980s 2005 2010 Trials begin 1981 for recombinant human The research and development portfolio is Swedish Orphan International, a pioneer in growth hormone, developed by Sobi-predeexpanded through the acquisition of Arexis, orphan drugs, is acquired and a new comcessor KabiVitrum and partner Genentech, a Swedish biotech company, which includes pany, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.), using new recombinant DNA technology. the Kiobrina project. Sobi, is created. With the acquisition comes Work begins in 1983 on developing recomOrfadin which later becomes an important binant factor under the auspices of Sobi 2006 drug for Sobi, as well as a portfolio of drugs predecessor KabiVitrum. The project aims An agreement is signed with Syntonix (subseunder distribution agreements. to clone the gene for human coagulation quently B ­ ioverativ, now Sanofi) covering the A decision is taken to advance both factor VIII (FVIII). Genentech clones the development and manufacture of an extended ­haemophilia candidates into pivotal phase 3 gene (cDNA) for human FVIII in 1984. The half-life recombinant factor IX Fc-concentrate, trials, A-LONG and B-LONG. expression of human recombinant FVIII in rFIXFc. This substance was later to become the mammal cells is built up on a small scale product Alprolix. Any possible development 2011 1986–87. KabiVitrum is granted a patent for within haemophilia A is also included in the Data from the rFVIIIFc haemophilia phase the B-domain delete forms of FVIII. agreement. 1/2 trial shows an approximately 1.7-fold Biovitrum is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. increase in half-life compared with a 1990 ­conventional factor treatment. Kabi Pharmacia was formed following the 2007 acquisition of a stake in Pharmacia. Collaboration starts with Syntonix/Biogen 2012 Idec on the development of an extended The supply agreement with Pfizer for 2001 ­half-life factor VIII Fc for the treatment of ReFacto AF/Xyntha is extended until 2020 Biovitrum is formed through the merger of ­haemophilia A, later to become Elocta. Sobi and Nordic commercial rights are sold to several units of the Swedish pharmaceutical also manufactures the material for the first Pfizer. company Pharmacia and spun off to a con­in-human phase 1/2a rFIXFc trials for the Global paediatric clinical trials of rFIXFc sortium of investors led by Nordic Capital treatment of haemophilia B. and rFVIIIFc candidates are ­initiated. and MPM Capital Funds. A collaboration is formed with the S ­ wedish 2008 biotech company Affibody AB within the An agreement is signed with Amgen regardinterleukin-1 (IL-1) field. ing the acquisition of the product Kepivance Sobi establishes operations in the Middle and the global license for Kineret. East and the US. 42 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Sobi's history 2013 2016 2018 Sobi acquires full rights for Kineret and Alprolix is approved by the EMA for the treatFDA accepts investigational new drug receives approval for the CAPS indication ment of haemophilia B and is subsequently application and grants Fast Track status for in the EU. launched in Europe. SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA. Data from the rFIXFc haemophilia phase The EMA grants Sobi’s development prodKineret (anakinra) receives a positive 3 trial shows an approximately 4.8-fold uct candidate SOBI003 orphan drug desig­opinion from CHMP for the treatment of increase in half-life compared with a nation for the treatment of the rare disease Still’s disease. ­conventional replacement factor. MPS IIIA or Sanfilippo A syndrome. Kineret (anakinra) approved in the EU Sobi moves to the Large Cap segment A licensing agreement is reached with for the treatment of Still’s disease. on Nasdaq Stockholm, becoming the Affibody AB for the development of novel Sobi launches Ravicti in Europe and first pharmaceutical company to do so treatments for inflammatory diseases where advances the care of patients with urea in ­Sweden in eight years. IL-1 is involved. cycle disorders. The supply agreement with Pfizer for Sobi strengthens immunology franchise 2014 ReFacto AF is extended until 2023. by acquiring global rights to emapalumab Biogen launches Eloctate and Alprolix in the Orfadin is developed to further meet from Novimmune. US market, marking the start of real-world patient needs with 20 mg capsules and an First patient dosed in phase 1/2 trial evaludata collection for extended half-life treatoral suspension. ating SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA. ments for haemophilia A and B. The development pipeline is strengthened Results from the anaGO trial – a phase 2 Open-label trials to determine the safety with two proprietary and in-house develtrial with anakinra (Kineret) in patients with and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix in previoped candidate drugs in early-stage develacute gout. ously untreated males with severe haemoopment, SOBI005 and SOBI006, as well as Sobi acquires Synagis US rights from philia A and B commence (PUPs A-LONG/ new planned clinical programmes. AstraZeneca, creating a platform for global PUPs B-LONG). Elocta is approved in Kuwait. growth (agreement finalised in January Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take 2019). over final development and commercial­ 2017 FDA approves Gamifant (emapalumab), isation of Elocta in Sobi territories. Sobi also Sobi expands its development portfolio by the first and only treatment for primary haeadds a potentially longer-acting haemophilia adding a potentially longer-acting haemomophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). A candidate, rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN to the philia B treatment candidate, rFIXFc-XTEN, Data presented at ASH support emapaagreement with Biogen. to its ­collaboration agreement with Sanofi. lumab as an innovative, targeted therapeutic The Kiobrina project is terminated. The first patients are recruited to the option for primary HLH. anaGO and anaSTILLs clinical trials with At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta 2015 Kineret in acute gout and Still’s disease, and Alprolix demonstrate proven efficacy Elocta is approved by the EMA for the treatand A-SURE and ReITIrate with Elocta in and well-characterised safety over four years. ment of haemophilia A and is subsequently haemophilia A. launched in Europe in January 2016. The US Food and Drug Administration Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take over (FDA) grants SOBI003, which at this stage final development and commercialisation is being prepared for clinical trials, orphan of Alprolix in Sobi territories. designation. Kineret is approved for the treatment of Alprolix is approved in Kuwait and the ­systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Elocta is approved in Australia. in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 43 t h e s h are The share as an investment The share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, under the company name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. Over the past five years, the share price has increased by more than 180 per cent. In 2018 the highest price paid was SEK 299.6 the share, of which the Nasdaq Stockholm Share capital on 3 September, and the lowest was SEK 110.6 accounted for 39.6 per cent. Off-book At year-end, the total number of shares outon 2 January. Sobi’s market capitalisation at ­represented 14.6 per cent and dark pools standing in Sobi was 273,322,117. All issued year-end 2018 was SEK 52.8 billion. Over the 3.2 per cent of total trading in the share. The shares are ordinary shares and carry one past five years, the share price has risen 182 largest number of trades were on Cboe BXE. vote per share. per cent. Average daily total turnover in Sobi At year-end, the share capital was shares was 2,271,960 in official trading, SEK 149,973,582, distributed between Turnover and trading locations with an average 900,760 traded on Nasdaq 273,322,117 shares with a par value of The Sobi share is traded on several exchanges Stockholm. In 2018, a total of 567.9 million approximately SEK 0.55. and trading platforms. In 2018, official tradshares were traded, corresponding to a value ing accounted for 82 per cent of turnover in of approximately SEK 110.9 billion. Largest shareholders at 31 December 20181 Number of Share Share SHAREHOLDERS A shares capital, % votes, % Investor AB 107,594,165 39.37 39.37 BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 14,609,514 5.35 5.35 State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 12,914,653 4.73 4.73 Swedbank Robur fonder 12,826,879 4.69 4.69 AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 7,052,649 2.58 2.58 BNY Mellon SA/NV (former BNY), W8IMY 7,017,360 2.57 2.57 BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 6,248,651 2.29 2.29 Cbny-Norges Bank 5,840,290 2.14 2.14 JPM Chase NA 5,826,092 2.13 2.13 Fjärde AP fonden 5,611,902 2.05 2.05 SEB Investment Management 3,720,912 1.36 1.36 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 3,423,726 1.25 1.25 Morgan Stanley and Co LLC, W9 3,328,172 1.22 1.22 Handelsbanken fonder 3,096,750 1.13 1.13 State Street Bank & Trust Com., Boston 2,560,704 0.94 0.94 Total 15 largest shareholders 201,672,419 73.80 73.80 Other 71,649,698 26.20 26.20 Total 273,322,117 100.00 100.00 1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution. Source: Euroclear 44 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 t h e s h are Incentive programmes Shares held by Swedish Orphan ­Biovitrum Sobi has launched several share-based AB (publ) at year-end totalled 3,423,726 LONG-TERM VALUE incentive programmes for senior executives common shares. CREATION and employees. Currently, there are five During the year, 640,553 shares were used active share programmes, all vesting within for allotment under two performance-based The long-term price trend for Sobi’s three years. The programmes represent a long-term share programmes. share depends on how successful we total maximum of 1,883,574 shares, or 0.7 are in our efforts to create value, by: per cent of the total number of shares in the Dividend • Improving cash flow and profitabilcompany. For more information, see note 11. The Board proposes that no dividend be paid ity in our ­diversified commercial for 2018. For more information about Sobi’s ­port­folio, Shareholders dividend policy, please refer to the Corporate • Launching new and innovative mediAt year-end, the number of shareholders Governance Report. cations for rare disease patients, and was 23,435 (22,938). The largest shareholder, • Focusing on our business model, Investor AB, held 39.4 per cent (39.5) of the with partnership in all areas, from shares. Swedish legal entities, including early-stage biopharma­ceutical institutions and funds, held 61.0 per cent (75.9) research and development to of the shares. the commercialisation of niche ­medicines in Europe. Average value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share Analyst coverage during 2018 The following research analysts followed Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (Sobi) VOLUME ‘000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ­during 2018. For a current list, visit sobi.com A shares 869.0 1,391.5 2,263.6 1,502.3 2,272.0 ABG Sundal Collier Christopher W. Uhde In 2018, the average daily trading volume in number of shares for the Sobi share Carnegie Erik Hultgård on Nasdaq Stockholm was 900,760 shares. Source: Fidessa. Deutsche Bank Richard Parkes DNB Jon Berggren, Patrik Ling Shareholder categories Handelsbanken Peter Sehestedt Jefferies Eun K. Yang 31 DECEMBER 2018 % of capital Nordea Hans Mähler Foreign shareholders 35.2 Pareto Securities Peter Östling Swedish shareholders 64.8 Institutions 96.2 Private persons 3.8 Recommendations from analysts, % 2016 2017 2018 Source: Euroclear. Buy 73 56 50 Key data per share Hold 9 33 25 Sell 18 11 25 SEK 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: Based on analyst reports. Earnings/loss per share –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 Brief facts, the Sobi share Equity per share 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 Market price, LISTING Nasdaq Stockholm Series A-share, Number of shares (A shares) 273,322,117 31 Dec., last paid price 79.4 134.6 106.7 112.3 193.0 Market capitalisation, at year end SEK 52.8 billion P/E ratio –78.6 434.2 35.7 26.3 21.5 Ticker SOBI Number of ISIN SE0000872095 shares at 31 Dec. 270,785,950 271,822,806 272,010,948 272,507,708 273,322,117 CUSIP 870321106 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 45 t h e s h are Trading places 2017 Trading places 2018 Shareholders by country % 100 81.2 80 64.8 60 40 20.9 20 11.4 6.4 5.0 2.7 1.4 1.5 0,6 0.9 0.9 0.7 1.9 Stockholm, 46.9% LSE, 4.0% Stockholm, 39.6% LSE, 4.8% 0 BATS, 25.7% Other, 11.6% Cboe1), 49.4% Other, 6.2% Sweden US UK LuxemSwitzerFinland Other Chi-X, 11.8% bourg land Source: Fidessa. 1. Cboe = previously BATS och Chi-x. 2017 2018 Source: Fidessa. Source: Euroclear. Sobi share price and trading volume 2014–2018 Number of shares SEK in thousands 300 100,000 250 80,000 200 60,000 150 40,000 100 20,000 50 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI Nasdaq Biotech index Number of shares traded in thousands per month Contact details For more information about Sobi’s American Depositary Communication with shareholders Receipt (ADR), contact: For more up-to-date information about the Sobi share, US Depositary please visit www.sobi.com or call +46 (0)8 697 20 00, BNY Mellon Shareowner services to contact Paula Treutiger, Head of Investor Relations P.O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170, US and Communications. Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Toll free in the US: +1 888 269 23 77 International dialling: +1 201 680 6825 46 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i v e y ear s u m m ar y Five-year summary – Group development 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Income statement, SEK M Operating revenue 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 Gross profit 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 EBITDA1 –12 465 1,574 2,086 3,607 EBITA1 –44 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 EBIT (operating profit) –325 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 Profit/loss for the year –270 83 802 1,149 2,418 Capital, SEK M Total assets 6,375 8,315 9,974 10,903 17,183 Capital employed1 5,326 5,508 5,880 6,716 9,048 Equity 4,497 4,678 5,365 6,701 9,040 Cash and cash equivalents 519 904 786 1,478 2,999 Net cash (–)/net debt (+)1 298 –82 –282 –1,472 –2,995 Cash flow, SEK M Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 299 411 642 1,431 2,341 Cash flow from operating activities 234 507 343 1,333 2,090 Cash flow from investing activities –184 –143 –158 –139 –575 Cash flow from financing activities 20 22 –308 –500 –1 Change in cash and cash equivalents 70 386 –123 694 1,514 Key figures, % Gross margin1 59 62 70 72 74 Return on capital employed1 –6.1 2.6 19.3 23.8 34.5 Return on equity1 –5.8 1.8 16.0 19.0 30.7 Equity ratio1 71 56 54 61 53 Debt/equity ratio1 41 77 86 63 90 Share ratio, SEK Earnings/loss per share –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 Equity per share1 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 Dividend — — — — — Cash flow per share1 0.3 1.4 –0.5 2.5 5.5 Cash flow from operating activities per share1 0.9 1.9 1.3 4.9 7.6 1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above and further ­information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 47 48 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Reporting Contents Directors’ Report................................................. 50 Note 9 Other operating expenses.................83 Note 27 Other liabilities, current and non-current...............................102 Note 10 Lease payments for Consolidated financial statements operating leases................................. 84 Note 28 Post-employment benefits.............102 Statement of comprehensive income............. 64 Note 11 Employees, personnel costs and Note 29 Provisions.......................................... 104 Balance sheet........................................................65 remuneration of Board members Statement of changes in equity........................ 66 and senior executives.........................85 Note 30 Accrued expenses and deferred income.............................. 104 Cash flow statement............................................67 Note 12 Remuneration of auditors................ 90 Note 31 Pledged assets and Parent Company financial statements Note 13 Costs according contingent liabilities.........................105 to type of cost..................................... 90 Income statement............................................... 69 Note 32 The share............................................105 Statement of comprehensive income............. 69 Note 14 Financial income................................ 90 Note 33 Related-party transactions.............105 Balance sheet........................................................70 Note 15 Financial expenses............................. 90 Note 34 Proposed appropriation of profit...105 Statement of changes in equity.........................72 Note 16 Income tax...........................................91 Note 35 Events after the Cash flow statement............................................73 Note 17 Intangible assets and balance-sheet date..........................105 impairment testing.............................92 Notes Note 18 Property, plant and equipment........95 Letter from the Chairman.................................107 Note 1 General information.............................74 Note 19 Participations in Corporate Governance Report....................... 108 Note 2 Significant accounting policies and Group companies.............................. 96 basis of preparation for the financial statements of the Parent Company Note 20 Financial assets....................................97 and the Group........................................74 Note 21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities.....97 Note 3 Financial risk management.................79 Note 22 Inventories........................................... 99 Note 4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and Note 23 Trade and other receivables............. 99 assumptions...........................................81 Note 24 Prepaid expenses and Note 5 Distribution of operating revenue......82 accrued income............................... 100 Note 6 Segment reporting................................83 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents............. 100 Note 7 Depreciation and amortisation Note 26 Financial assets and liabilities of assets..................................................83 per category (Group)........................101 Note 8 Other operating income......................83 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 49 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Directors’ Report Highlights 2018 • Results presented from the anaGO study, Sobi’s operations Financial highlights a phase 2 study with anakinra in patients At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of • Total revenues of SEK 9,139 M (6,511), an with acute gout. people affected by rare diseases. Sobi is an increase of 40 per cent. • Sobi strengthens Immunology franchise integrated biopharmaceutical company with • Product sales amounted to SEK 7,362 M by acquiring the global rights for emapain-house capabilities that encompass the ( 4,749), up 55 per cent. lumab from Novimmune. entire value chain, from research, to pre­ • Gross margin was 74 per cent (72). • The Food & Drug Administration (FDA) clinical and clinical development, biologics • EBITA was SEK 3,571 M (2,053). approves Gamifant® (emapalumab) in manufacturing, to distribution and patient • Profit for the year was SEK 2,418 M the US, the first approved treatment access. This integrated approach is a prereq(1,149), representing earnings per share for primary HLH (haemophagocytic uisite for providing proprietary drugs, and an of SEK 8,97 (4,27). ­lymphohistiocytosis). enabler for partnerships, especially at early • Cash flow from operating activities was • Sobi acquires US rights to Synagis from stages of drug development. SEK 2,090 M (1,333). AstraZeneca, creating a platform for global growth. The acquisition was finalised in In 2018, revenues were generated by: Business highlights January 2019. • Global sales of the proprietary products • At year-end, drug reimbursement for • BIVV001 phase 1/2a data presented Kineret, Orfadin® and Kepivance®. Sales Elocta® had been granted in 26 countries at ASH, the 60th annual congress of in Europe and MENAR1 of the proprietary and for Alprolix® in 19 countries. the American Society of Hematology, products Elocta and Alprolix and royalty • Sobi appointed Torbjörn Hallberg as underscore potential for once-weekly revenue from Bioverativ’s sales of ElocGeneral Counsel and Head of Legal dosing with sustained high factor levels tate® and Alprolix. Affairs, Henrik Stenqvist as Chief Financial in haemophilia A. • Sales in Europe and MENAR of products Officer, Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head of • Data presented at ASH support emapafor which Sobi holds distribution and/or Human Resources and Anne Marie de lumab as an innovative, targeted theralicensing agreements. Jonge Schuermans as Head of Technical peutic option for primary HLH. • Sales of the drug substance for ReFacto Operations. • Elocta and Alprolix data presented at AF®/Xyntha® to Pfizer. • Kineret® approved in the European Union ASH demonstrated proven efficacy and for the treatment of Still’s disease. well-characterised safety over four years. • First patient dosed in phase 1/2 trial valuating SOBI003 for treatment of MPS (mucopolysaccharidosis) IIIA. 1. Middle East, North Africa and Russia. Key figures Three-year revenue trend, SEK M Revenue by business area SEK M 2018 2017 3,000 SEK M 2018 2017 Operating revenue 9,139 6,511 2,500 Haemophilia 6,012 3,682 Gross profit 6,723 4,657 2,000 Specialty Care 3,127 2,829 Gross margin, %1 74 72 1,500 Total revenues 9,139 6,511 EBITA1 3,571 2,053 1,000 EBIT (operating profit) 3,122 1,600 Profit for the year 2,418 1,149 500 Earnings per share, SEK 8.97 4.27 0 1. Alternative performance Measures, see Definitions page 135. 16Q1 16Q2 16Q3 16Q4 17Q1 17Q2 17Q3 17Q4 18Q1 18Q2 18Q3 18Q4 Total revenue Product revenue See page 49 for a five-year summary of revenues, Manufacturing revenue expenses and earnings. 50 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Operating revenue There was a strong performance across and personnel increases as well as investIn 2018 revenues amounted to SEK 9,139 M the Specialty Care portfolio. Solid growth ments in the North American region. (6,511), an increase of 40 per cent. for Kineret continued across all regions in Research and development expenses 2018. The commercial launch of Kineret amounted to SEK 1,090 M (908). The Revenues by business area for Still’s disease in the EU is ongoing. increased expenses reflect activities for Haemophilia The Still’s indication has been launched programmes for Kineret, SOBI003, and Total Haemophilia revenues amounted to in nine EU countries, and the pricing and Sobi’s 50 per cent share of (Sanofi’s) ongoing SEK 6,012 M (3,682), an increase of 63 per reimbursement process throughout Europe development costs for haemophilia, as well cent (57 per cent at CER). Full-year revenues is proceeding. For Orfadin, generics have as development costs related to the acquisifor Elocta were positively affected by entered certain markets and a first sign of tion of the global rights to emapalumab. SEK 52 M, in Q3 2018, related to adjusted price erosion has been observed. In 2018, Operating expenses also included costs of pharmaceutical taxes in France from 2017. however, patient support programmes and SEK 113 M (84) for the long-term incentive Product sales amounted to SEK 4,235 M new formulations defended our market programmes. Cash flow will not be affected (1,920) of which Elocta accounted for position, even though we saw some impact by the share based programmes until they SEK 3,261 M (1,557) and Alprolix for affecting mainly price. expire, and then in the form of social security SEK 974 M (363). Kineret revenues were SEK 1,320 M (1,142), contributions. Royalty revenues amounted to an increase of 16 per cent (12 per cent at CER). Other operating expenses amounted SEK 1,341 M (1,203), of which SEK 1,340 M Revenues for Orfadin were SEK 899 M to SEK 0 M (–52). Operating revenue and (1,168) was royalty revenues related to (862), an increase of 4 per cent (1 per cent expenses for 2018 and 2017 pertained to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix. at CER). exchange-rate effects. At year-end, drug reimbursement for Elocta had been granted in 26 European Gross profit Operating profit countries, and in 19 countries for Alprolix. Gross profit was SEK 6,723 M (4,657), Profit before interest, taxes and amortisation ReFacto manufacturing revenues totalled representing a gross margin of 74 per cent (EBITA) amounted to SEK 3,571 M (2,053) SEK 436 M (559), down 22 per cent due to (72). A favourable product mix, a positive corresponding to a margin of 39 (32) per cent. the lower year-on-year order pattern. one-time impact of pharmaceutical taxes in Amortisation and write-downs of intanThe current manufacturing agreement for France and currency effects were the main gible assets amounted to SEK 449 M (453). ReFacto AF / Xyntha is valid until December contributors. Full-year 2017 included a write-down for 31, 2023, with the possibility of further one of the early-stage pipeline programmes extension. Sobi’s royalty agreement for Expenses amounting to SEK 12 M. Operating profit ReFacto ended after January 2018. Operating expenses increased to SEK 3,601 M (EBIT) reached SEK 3,122 M (1 600), an (3,057). increase of SEK 1,522 M. Specialty Care Sales and administrative expenses before Total revenues amounted to SEK 3,127 M amortisation and write-downs of intangible Net financial items (2,829), an increase of 11 per cent (7 per cent assets amounted to SEK 2,062 M (1,644). The Net financial items amounted to SEK –40 M at CER). increase reflects activities in the Haemophilia (–68) distributed on finance income of franchise in EMENAR, including marketing SEK 19 M (1) and finance expenses of Sales and administrative expenses, SEK M Net sales (SEK M) Net cash (+)/net debt (–), SEK M1 and operating margin (%) 2,995 3,000 10,000 9,139 100 3,000 2,511 2,500 2,500 8,000 90 2,096 6,511 2,000 2,000 1,776 6,000 80 1,472 5,204 1,500 1,500 1,345 1,032 4,000 70 1,000 3,228 1,000 2,607 500 282 2,000 60 –298 82 500 0 0 0 50 –500 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, SEK M Operating margin, % 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 51 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt SEK 60 M (69). The difference between Cash flow and investments the years was mainly attributable to lower Cash flow from operations before change Revenue by business area interest expenses for the debt to Sanofi in working capital amounted to SEK 2,341 M and higher exchange-rate gains. Interest (1,431). Working capital had a negative SEK M 2018 2017 expenses comprise of discounted interest impact of SEK –250 M (–98). Elocta 3,261 1,557 on Sanofi liability of SEK –40 M (–50) Cash flow from investing activities was and interest payments on external loans SEK –575 M (–139). The largest investment Alprolix 974 363 SEK –16 M (–14). Finance net also includes during the year was the acquisition of the Manufacturing 436 559 exchange-rate gains losses of SEK 17 M (–3). global rights to emapalumab, of which cash Royalty 1,341 1,203 flow impact amounted to SEK 497 M. Haemophilia 6,012 3,682 Taxes Orfadin 899 862 Total tax recognised for the Group Financial position Kineret 1,320 1,142 amounted to SEK –664 M (–384), wherof At 31 December 2018, cash and cash equivOther 908 825 current tax amounted to SEK –767 M (–209) alents and current investments amounted to Specialty Care 3,127 2,829 and deferred tax to SEK 103 M (–175) correSEK 2,999 M (1,478). sponding to an effective tax rate of 21.5 (25) The long-term funding sources consist Total revenues 9,139 6,511 per cent. On 14 June 2018, the corporate tax of a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M rate in Sweden was reduced to 21.4 per cent with Handelsbanken and Danske Bank, Sales by region effective 1 January 2019, and to 20.6 per which matures on 27 June 2020, and a new (Excluding royalty revenue) cent effective 1 January 2021. The Group’s credit facility of EUR 870 M raised in Novemdeferred tax was revalued in Q2, which ber with BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske SEK M 2018 2017 Change resulted in a lower effective tax rate for Bank A/S, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB Europe 6,026 3,784 59% full-year 2018 compared with full-year 2017. (publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). MENAR1 381 272 40% See also Notes 16 and 21. Both facilities were unutilised at year-end. The new liabilities have been raised to North America 1,309 1,168 12% Other comprehensive income finance the acquisition of Synagis. RoW2 81 84 –4% Other comprehensive income amounted At 31 December 2018, net cash amounted Total 7,798 5,308 47% (net) to SEK –124 M (147) and comprised to SEK 2,995 M (1,472). The debt to 1. Middle East, North Africa and Russia. cash-flow hedges attributable to future Novimmune is considered current and 2. Rest of the world. inflows in USD, current tax on these, exchange non-interest-bearing. The liability to Sanofi differences, and revaluation of pension is also non-interest-bearing, but was raised Source of revenue by business area commitments and deferred tax on these. at discounted value and must therefore be Haemophilia Specialty Care recognised as an interest expense. These liabilities are not included in net debt/net cash. Alprolix Ammonaps® For contractual commitments regarding the Elocta Ferriprox® above mentioned liabilities see Note 17. Royalty Kepivance Manufacturing Kineret Orfadin Ravicti® Five-year summary Ruconest® Valeant portfolio SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Xiapex® Operating revenue 9,139 6,511 5,204 3,228 2,607 Yondelis® Cost of goods sold –2,415 –1,854 –1,554 –1,221 –1,059 Other Research and development costs –1,090 –908 –778 –513 –501 Operating profit (EBIT) 3,122 1,600 1,133 146 –325 Net financial items –40 –68 –85 –61 5 Profit for the year 2,418 1,149 802 83 –270 Earnings per share, SEK 8.97 4.27 2.99 0.31 –1.01 Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 8.93 4.25 2.98 0.31 –1.01 Number of shares, thousands 273,322 272,508 270,390 270,390 270,390 Equity ratio1, % 53 61 54 56 71 1. Alternative performance Measures, see Definitions page 135. 52 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Equity SEK 2,762 M (1,381). At 31 December 2018, tolerance induction with Elocta. Sobi also At 31 December 2018, consolidated equity equity amounted to SEK 7,731 M (5,436). conducts pre-clinical and clinical develamounted to SEK 9,040 M (6,701). In addition The change was attributable to profit for the opment with Sanofi in regard to the XTEN to profit for the year, the change comprises year, costs related to the company’s share technology (BIVV001 and BIVV002), with the costs for share programmes, hedge programmes, and hedge accounting. aim of producing next-generation therapies accounting and translation differences. for haemophilia A and B. The phase 1/2 trial Development involving BIVV001 continued during 2018 Parent Company Sobi’s pipeline projects include development with preliminary data reported. The Parent Company’s business model is to programmes in the areas of haemophilia, Clinical programmes in the area of develop, register, distribute and market drugs immunology, genetic diseases and lysoImmunology are ongoing, with the aim of for rare diseases. In 2018, Parent Company somal disorders. Sobi is also conducting studying new applications for Kineret and revenues amounted to SEK 8,221 M (5,756). a number of projects to gather evidence emapalumab, for which we acquired the Operating profit totalled SEK 3,492 M (1,600). regarding the company’s existing products. global rights from Novimmune during 2018. Profit for the year totalled SEK 2,382 M In Haemophilia, R&D consists of expanded SOBI003 is a product candidate for the (–508), including excess depreciation clinical trial activities to strengthen the treatment of MPS IIIA (mucopolysacchari­ of SEK –460 M and Group contributions already extensive scientific evidence related dosis type IIIA) a lysosomal storage disorder, received of SEK 63 M. At 31 December 2018, to Sobi’s approved haemophilia products. which entered phase 1/2 during 2018. cash and cash equivalents amounted to The ReITIrate 8,000trial is studying immune A joint trial to study the use of nitisinone 7,000 +48% in patients with alkaptonuria (AKU) is under 8,000 6,000 way. Surveillance trials to assess the efficacy 7,000 +48% and safety of long-term treatment with 8,000 5,000 6,000 4,000 Orfadin +1% in patients with HT-1 are ongoing. Revenues by business area, SEK M 7,000 +48% 5,000 Sobi also has early-stage development 6,000 3,000 4,000 +1% programmes for new potential candidates 8,000 2,000 5,000 3,000 for the treatment of inflammatory conditions 7,000 +48% 4,000 1,000 +1% in which interleukin-1 (IL-1) is involved. 2,000 6,000 3,000 0 Haemophilia SOBI006 Specialty is a product candidate in the Care 1,000 5,000 2,000 immunology area. 0 SOBI005 is a product candidate in the 4,000 +1% Haemophilia Sales Sales Specialty GrowthCare adjusted for currency 1,000 2017 2018 programme effects compared with 2017 for complement-related 3,000 0 Haemophilia Sales Sales Specialty Growth adjusted for currencydisorders. Care 2,000 2017 2018 effects compared with 2017 1,000 Sales Sales Growth adjusted for currency Regulatory approvals and decisions 2017 2018 effects compared with 2017 0 Haemophilia Specialty Care • EMA approved Kineret for treatment of Still’s disease. Sales Sales Growth adjusted for currency • Orfadin approved in Canada for 8,000 2017 2018 effects compared with 2017 ­once-daily dosing. 7,000 +51% 8,000 • Orfadin capsules approved in Argentina 6,000 and Jordan 7,000 +51% Revenue by region (excluding8,000 royalty revenue), SEK M 5,000 • Orfadin oral suspension approved 6,000 7,000 +51% 4,000 in Tunisia 5,000 6,000 3,000 • FDA granted Fast Track Designation 4,000 to SOBI003. 8,000 5,000 2,000 +10% 3,000 +34% • FDA approved emapalumab (Gamifant) 7,000 +51% 4,000 1,000 –5% 2,000 +10% for treatment of primary HLH. 6,000 3,000 0 1,000 +34% Europe MENAR1 North Other –5% 5,000 2,000 +10% America FDA accepted investigational new world 0 4,000 1,000 Europe SalesMENAR1 SalesNorth +34% –5% Other adjusted for currency Growth drug application and grants Fast Track 2017 America 2018 world effects compared with 2017 3,000 0 Design­ation for drug candidate SOBI003 Europe SalesMENAR1 North Sales Other adjusted for currency Growth 2,000 +10% 2018 effects for treatment of MPS IIIA 2017 America world compared with 2017 1,000 +34% The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Sales –5% Sales Growth adjusted for currency 2017 2018 effects compared with 2017 approved the investigational new drug (IND) 0 Europe MENAR1 North Other application for the drug candidate SOBI003 America world in the first in-human study. It also granted Sales Sales Growth adjusted for currency SOBI003 Fast Track Designation. 20171. Middle East,2018 North Africa and Russia effects compared with 2017 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 53 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Kineret approved in EU for treatment (newborn and older) and adult patients with Other information of Still’s disease primary haemophagocytic lymphohistio­ Changes in Management The European Commission approved an cytosis (HLH) with refractory, recurrent or On 20 July 2018, Henrik Stenqvist was extension of the indication for Kineret progressive disease or intolerance to conappointed as CFO. The following joined the (ana­kinra) to include treatment of Still’s ventional HLH therapy. Executive Committee during 2018: Torbjörn disease, including systemic juvenile idioHallberg as General Counsel and Head of pathic arthritis (SJIA) and adult-onset Still’s Data supporting emapalumab as an Legal Affairs, Anne Marie De Jong Schuerdisease (AOSD), in all 28 member states of innovative, targeted therapeutic option mans as Head of Technical Operations and the European Union. The approval came for primary HLH presented at ASH Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head of HR. after a positive opinion from the Committee Data from the pivotal phase 2/3 study As of 31 December 2018, the Executive for Medicinal Products for Human Use with emapalumab for the treatment of Committee comprised: (CHMP). primary HLH showed that treatment with emapalumab induced rapid and sustained First patient dosed in phase 1/2 study responses, helping fragile and often very CEO: Guido Oelkers of SOBI003 for treatment of MPS IIIA young patients control HLH activity and CFO: Henrik Stenqvist The first patient was dosed in the phase reach stem cell transplant. General Counsel and Head of Legal 1/2 study SOBI003-001. This is an open, Affairs: Torbjörn Hallberg non-controlled multiple-dose study of nine Data demonstrating the well-established Head of Haemophilia: Philip Wood children aged 1–6 years with MPS IIIA, also safety and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix, called Sanfilippo syndrome A. The aim of the extended half-life therapies for Head of Specialty Care: Norbert Oppitz study is to assess the safety, tolerability and haemophilia A and B, at ASH Head of EMENAR: Hege Hellström efficacy of the drug candidate SOBI003. The ASPIRE and B-YOND extension studies Head of North America: Rami Levin show no inhibitor development and consisHead of Medical and Scientific Affairs: Results published from anaGO – tently low annualised bleeding rates in study Armin Reininger a phase 2 study with anakinra in participants over four years with Elocta and patients with acute gout Alprolix respectively. Head of Research & Development, The primary endpoint, patient-assessed pain Chief Medical Officer: Milan Zdravkovic intensity in the most-affected joint, showed New data from the phase 1/2a study Head of Technical Operations: a clinically meaningful reduction from baseof BIVV001 presented at ASH Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans line both after treatment with anakinra and New data from the EXTEN-A phase 1/2a trial Head of HR: Fredrik Wetterlundh the comparator triamcinolone. There was of BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) showed a meaningful pain reduction with anakinra of that a single 65 IU/kg dose of BIVV001 around 50 per cent, in line with expectations extended the half-life of factor VIII to 44 of IL-1 blockade in this disease. No statistihours with high factor activity levels and was From the previous Executive Committee, cally significant difference between the two generally well tolerated. Seven days post-­ Mats-Olof Wallin, formerly CFO, left the treatments was obtained (primary endpoint). infusion, the factor activity level was 18.5 company during 2018. Hege Hellström left The study confirmed the well-established per cent, which is an unprecedented level Sobi on 1 January 2019. safety profile of anakinra. of protection in factor VIII therapy. FDA approved Gamifant as the first approved treatment for primary haemo­ phagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) The FDA approved Gamifant® (emapalu­­mablzsg), an interferon gamma (IFN ) blocking antibody for the treatment of paediatric 54 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Sustainability Report Share capital and ownership Objective The statutory Sustainability Report can be Sobi’s share capital at 31 December The objective of the guidelines is to ensure found on pages 12–13, 15–17, 30–31, 34–41, amounted to SEK 149,973,582, distributed that the company can attract and retain the 58–63 and 123–133 of this Annual and between 273,322,117 shares, with a par value best people in order to support the vision Sustainability Report, and has been prepared per share of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December and strategy of the company. using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 2018, the total number of shares outstanding Remuneration for the Management is Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. comprised 269,898,391 ordinary shares, designed on a total remuneration approach. each carrying one vote. At 31 December The position of total remuneration should be Corporate Governance Report 2018, Investor AB was Sobi’s largest single competitive without being leading relative Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, shareholder with a total of 107,594,165 to competitors in each local market. Market Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate shares, representing 39.37 per cent of the comparisons should be made against a set Governance Report. In accordance with votes and 39.37 per cent of the capital. of peer group companies with comparable the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter sizes, industries and complexity. The remu6, Section 8, Sobi has decided to prepare Share conversions neration guidelines should enable internaa Corporate Governance Report that is The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 9 May tional hiring and should support diversity separate from the Annual Report. It can be 2018 authorised Sobi’s Board to resolve on within the Management. found on pages 108–113. an issue of C shares and to repurchase all The remuneration may consist of the C shares issued in order to hedge the long­following components: Environmental permits term incentive programme. The AGM also • A, Fixed base pay Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, resolved to approve the Board’s proposed • B, Variable pay – short-term incentives Sweden, holds a permit for environmentally transfer of shares. • C, Long-term incentives hazardous activities allowing the facility to At 31 December 2018, Sobi held 3,423,726 • D, Pensions produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of ordinary shares in treasury. All C shares • E, Other benefits pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chemissued in 2018 have been converted to ical or biological reaction, including interordinary shares during the year. For more To the extent a member of the Board of mediates, per calendar year. Compliance detailed information about the total number Directors carries out work for the company with the permit conditions is disclosed in an of shares in the company, the number of or for another group company, in addition to environmental report to the local regulator. different classes of shares and the votes the board work, consulting fees and/or other In Solna, Sweden, the company conducts carried by the company’s shares, refer to remuneration for such work may be payable. activities that are notifiable under the condi‘Shares’ on page 44. tions for facilities that professionally produce Fixed base pay organic or inorganic compounds via Proposal regarding guidelines for The fixed base pay of the Management chemical or biological reactions in test, pilot remuneration for the Management should be based on competence, responsior laboratory scale, or other non-industrial The Board of Directors proposes that the bility and performance. The company uses scale. The conditions for these are mainly Annual General Meeting 2019 resolves on an international evaluation system in order related to water emissions and include a guidelines for remuneration for the Manageto evaluate the scope and responsibility of requirement to adjust the pH of the process ment as set forth below which shall apply the position. water. In 2018, no breaches of the condiuntil the Annual General Meeting 2020. tions were reported by either of the facilities. The Management is defined as the managing Variable pay The company also has an import permit for director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB The annual short-term incentive plan is animal by-products from the Swedish Board (publ) and the executives who report to the based on the achievement of annual perforof Agriculture, and a permit for handling managing director and are members of the mance objectives (corporate and individual). flammable products. While adaptation to senior management. Payment is based on achievement of the current regulations has not, to date, had any pre-determined objectives. The annual peradverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or formance objectives are defined in advance operations, the company cannot predict the by the Compensation & Benefits Committee impact of future regulations. and approved by the Board of Directors. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 55 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt These objectives are determined for the top talent, to allow participants to take part in exceed an amount equivalent to the fixed promotion of the company’s long-term the company’s long-term success and value base pay for two years. In addition to this development, value creation and financial creation, and to contribute to a competitive restriction, the total severance payment shall growth and shall be designed in a way that total remuneration. be limited to the existing monthly salary for does not encourage excessive risk-taking. For further information on the company’s the remaining months up to the age of 65. The short-term incentives are limited to current incentive programmes, see note 11. Additional compensation may also be paid 100 per cent of the annual gross salary for out in extraordinary circumstances, provided the Managing director and 60 per cent of the Pensions that such arrangement is of a one-time fixed annual salary for the other members of The preferred pension plan design is nature and is agreed on an individual basis the Management. defined-contribution.1 If the operating for management recruitment or retention environment requires the establishment of a purposes or as compensation for extraordiLong-term incentives defined-­benefit pension plan by law or other nary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary The company can introduce long-term regulations, such a plan may be established. assignment. Such compensation shall be incentive programmes for all or some of its The defined-benefit level should in such in line with market practice and may for employees. cases be limited to the mandatory level. example include a one-time cash payment, The objectives of such a programme a support package including relocation should be to align the employees’ interests Other benefits and tax filing support, retention bonus or with those of the shareholders, to create a Fixed salary during notice periods and severance payment in case of a change of long-term commitment to the company, to severance pay, including payments for any control, or similar. The compensation shall be a tool to retain and attract executives and restrictions on competition, shall in total not not exceed the amount of the fixed base pay 1. In a defined-contribution plan, the contribution paid into the pension plan for each employee is determined. Sobi’s values Sobi promotes a good working environment. Sobi’s values are: Care, Ambition, Urgency, Salaries and other remuneration amounted Sobi strives to comply with all health and Ownership and Partnership. Compliance to SEK 1,092 M (927), of which the Parent safety-related laws and regulations and with the company’s values is evaluated every Company accounted for SEK 444 M (427). therefore conducts systematic health and year in Sobi’s performance appraisal process. Of the total number of employees safety efforts integrated with environmental in 2018, 59 per cent were women and and quality awareness. The company has Employees 41 per cent Men. All employees are treated also worked actively for several years to raise At 31 December 2018 the number of equally and offered the same opportunities awareness of the company’s values among employees (full-time equivalents) was regardless of age, gender, religion, sexual all employees throughout the organisation. 902 (800), with 468 (451) based in Sweden. orientation, functional disability or ethnicity. Care Urgency Ambition ers own hip We are who we are because We need to embrace a sense We will set ourselves of our dedication, our of urgency, while safeguardambitious goals and do our knowledge and our passion. ing our standards, because utmost to achieve them. Care is the foundation upon patients cannot wait. which our strategy, our ambition urgency business and our culture are Partnership built. We embrace partnerships care and collaboration, both Ownership within Sobi and with external It is our duty to act. We partners and stakeholders. therefore encourage intrapar preneurship and learn from tn ers hip our experience. 56 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt for three years and shall not be paid more Events after the balance-sheet date, Outlook for 20191 than once a year per individual. up to 27 March 2019 Sobi expects revenue for the full year to be Resolutions on such compensation shall • Sobi completed the acquisition of the in the range of SEK 12,500 – to 13,000 M. be made by the Board of Directors based Synagis US rights from AstraZeneca and Main drivers of revenue growth are: on a proposal from the Compensation & exercised authorisation to issue shares. continued market share growth of our Benefits Committee. The upfront consideration payable at ­haemophilia franchise with Elocta and closing of the acquisition, announced on Alprolix, the acquisition of Synagis and Deviation from the guidelines 24 January 2019, corresponds to approxgrowth of this franchise in the US and the The Board of Directors may resolve to imately USD 1.5 B (SEK 13.8 B) consisting launch of Gamifant in the US. deviate from the guidelines if the Board of cash and 24,193,092 newly issued Sobi EBITA for the full year is expected to be of Directors, in an individual case, is of the common shares. in the range of SEK 5,000 – to SEK 5,300 M. opinion that there are special circumstances • In connection to the acquisition from In 2019, we will increase market investjustifying that. AstraZeneca of the rights to Synagis in ments in the haemophilia franchise and in the US, Sobi announced a new number the commercial launch of Gamifant. FurProposed appropriation of profit of shares and votes due to the issue of thermore, we will expand clinical activities The following funds are at the disposal of the 24,193,092 new common shares. Therefor emapalumab. Annual General Meeting: after, the total number of shares and votes For information about forward-looking amounts to 297,515,209. At 31 January statements, refer to the inside cover. SEK 2019, the company held 3,423,726 comShare premium reserve 4,277,038,162 mon shares in treasury. 1. At current exchange rates as of 20 February 2019 The outlook was published on 20 February 2019. Retained earnings 121,508,296 • The US Food and Drug Administration Profit for the year 2,381,763,358 granted Breakthrough Therapy DesignaTotal 6,780,309,816 tion (BTD) för MEDI8897. • Christian Dreger (Head of Northern The Board of Directors proposes that no Europe, Middle East and Russia), Sofiane dividend be distributed for the 2018 finanFahmy (Head of Southern & Western cial year. Europe and North Africa) and Paula The Board proposes that the share Treutiger (Head of Communications & premium reserve and retained earnings at Investor Relations) were appointed to the their disposal, SEK 6,780,309,816, be carried Executive Committee in January 2019. forward. Hege Hellström (Head of EMENAR) left the Executive Committee and the company in January 2019. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 57 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Risk Management and untapped opportunities around the pharmaceutical products are complex The Sobi Group risk management process company’s strategy can be identified and and may change over time. The specialty is documented in Sobi Group Risk Managemanaged. Sobi’s Risk Manager reports the pharmaceuticals market consists of highly ment Policy as well as in Sobi Group Risk current risk status to the Executive Commitqualified and resource-intensive companies Management Instruction. tee, and a review of this process is presented and is characterised by rapid technological Sobi applies an integrated business to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. development, making competition a key ­risk-management process that contributes As part of the strategic risk management area to monitor. A summary of the main to our ability to achieve set objectives, process, the company’s critical flows are operational risks is presented below. The and to follow the strategy adopted for the identified and business continuity plans for risks are not ranked in any particular order, operations. Each operational unit works these are implemented. but they are categorised and described. actively to identify and address any uncertainties related to our ability to achieve our Key risk areas set objectives. Identified risks are analysed The discovery and development of novel against relevant values for the operations, drugs, and the regulations governing enabling subsequent prioritisation on a research and development, manufacturing, commercial basis, whereby uncertainties testing, and the marketing and sales of Policies guiding Sobi’s sustainability performance Alcohol and Drug Policy Patient Access Bridging Programmes Policy Annual Limits on Compensation for Healthcare professionals Pension Policy Anti-Corruption Policy Policies on Health Care Interactions Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships Policy Processing of Personal Data Policy Chemical Management Procedure for Conducting Market Research Activities Code of Conduct and Ethics Procurement Policy Communications Policy Promotional and Scientific Material Review Policy Compensation for Healthcare Professionals Policy Publications Policy Consultants and Speakers Policy Requirements and Approval Process for Non-Promotional Material Corporate Car Policy Requirements and Approval Process for Promotional Material Discrimination Policy Research Agreements, Grants and Fellowships Policy Educational Grants Policy Risk Management Policy Environmental Control Program Reporting Investigating and Responding to Compliance Issues Policy Environmental Health and Safety Policy Sobi Career with focus on personal and professional development Fair Competition Policy Sobi Quality Management System Information Security Policy Sobi’s Global HR Processes Insider Policy Tax Policy Interactions with Patient Organisations Policy Travel Policy IT Security Policy Treasury Policy Parental Policy 58 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Operational risks Risk Risk description Management and comments Product risks Novel drug development Developing and bringing novel drugs to market is a costly, Sobi currently has a number of clinical and preclinical complex and risky process. The probability of reaching development projects. Sobi’s innovation model is used to the market increases as the project advances through the determine how attractive a project is, and its risk profile. development process. However, the risks remain substantial until phase III studies, while costs increase at a faster rate as the project moves through the final clinical phases. Obtaining and maintaining Failure to demonstrate that drug candidates maintain high In order to make sure that the clinical studies meet the authorisation for new quality, or ascertain their expected safety and efficacy, in needs of regulators and society for evidence, relevant products adequate and well-controlled preclinical and clinical studies, stakeholders are identified and consulted, which can result may result in delays or failure to launch. in faster development and availability, or the discovery of Preclinical and clinical development is a lengthy process that new opportunities. is impacted by a variety of factors, including those beyond the company’s control, such as changing regulatory requirements. Before it can be launched, the drug must meet the rigorous quality, safety and efficacy requirements imposed by regulators in the countries or regions in which Sobi plans to market the drug. Biologics manufacturing Compliance with current GMP regulations for manufacturing. Sobi has been working with the Qase system (Quality Case and quality The manufacture of Sobi’s products requires that all manufacmanagement) since 2017. The system is used to address turing processes, methods and equipment are compliant with Non Conformances (NC) with Corrective and Preventive Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations. Actions (CAPAs). All GMP, GDP (distribution), GVP (pharmacovigilance) and GCP (clinical)-related cases are registered GMP regulations control all aspects of pharmaceutical and handled in the system, which is used for all inspections. production, including quality control and quality assurance, production processes and documentation. Sobi’s production Internal audits in respect of GxP (the relevant form of good facility may be inspected at any time by the regulators or the practice) were carried out as planned for 2018, covering company’s customers. such areas as finished goods supply and production, Quality Assurance, Quality Control and IT systems. All actions resulting from the audit were monitored in the CAPA system. GMP/GDP compliance for Risk that partners are not GMP/GDP-compliant. In drug GMP/GDP regulations apply to Sobi and its distributors, partner facilities manufacturing, Sobi collaborates with other pharmaceutical contract laboratories and suppliers. Sobi conducts audits of companies as a customer and is dependent on the partner its distributors, contract laboratories and suppliers. In Sobi’s facilities being maintained and available. external network, a total of 48 GMP/GDP audits were carried out in 2018. All audited parties were approved as a supplier. Third-party risks Collaborations and The strategy includes entering into collaboration agreements A structured flow of information is essential for a successful partnerships regarding, for example, joint development and/or authorisapartnership. The success of such collaborations will largely tion with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies depend on the work carried out jointly with Sobi’s partners for the development and launch of some of Sobi’s products. or licensees. Sobi forms a Joint Steering Committee in all Risk of low influence for Sobi, since these partners hold partnership agreements to ensure continuous coordination considerable discretion when it comes to defining the project’s and information sharing. processes and resources, depending on the nature of the agreement between the various parties. This could delay the development and launch of new products. Expertise, willingness and Collaborations with patient organisations, academic instituSobi strives to uphold and maintain long-term commitment regulatory guidelines tions, healthcare professionals and other relevant groups are and collaboration. We support and collaborate with a wide dependent on the other party’s knowledge and willingness, range of patient organisations, both national and regional, and the regulatory guidelines governing these collaborations. to attain our joint objective of achieving the best possible Risk of our partners not abiding by Sobi’s internal guidelines outcome for patients with rare diseases. There are Groupand regulatory guidelines, which may have a negative impact wide guidelines to ensure compliance with ethical standards on Sobi’s reputation. and transparency in all of Sobi’s business areas. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 59 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Risk Risk description Management and comments Intellectual property Risk of Sobi not being able to obtain/extend intellectual Sobi has a number of patents and patent applications protection and patents property protection and patents. The ability of the company, which are managed by experienced and established patent or its licensors, to obtain protection in the US, the EU and representatives. Sobi has a number of patents which are very other countries or regions for the intellectual property rights important for the business. The patent licence rights are covering the products that the company develops, manufacmanaged through regular meetings with licence issuers. In tures, markets and sells, is of great importance. Sobi’s success addition to patented products and technologies, Sobi has will largely depend on the protection of intellectual property. its own technology, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. The company strives to protect such information by entering into, for example, confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and partners. Competition and external risks Pricing of drugs for rare The market is increasingly affected by cost-awareness due to Sobi’s way of working with most stakeholders throughout diseases the growing cost of healthcare in many countries. the entire development process is designed to anticipate Market approval of drugs in the product portfolio does not market needs and the demands that will be imposed on the guarantee that these products will be granted reimbursement product by payers in the event of an approval. and pricing approval by the national or regional healthcare systems. A significant decline in revenues from Sobi’s key products could have a material adverse effect on Sobi’s operations, earnings and financial position – regardless of whether this is due to reduced demand, increased competition or other reasons, such as policy changes for a national drug reimbursement scheme. Use and recommendation The use of drugs may be impacted by the treatment guidelines, Sobi’s way of working with regulators throughout the entire of Sobi’s drugs recommendations and studies published by regulators and development process is designed to anticipate market other bodies. The products must achieve market acceptance needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product among physicians, patients and procurement organisations. by regulators and prescribers in the event of an approval, The degree of market acceptance for each of the company’s with the aim of ensuring that patients receive rapid and products is therefore dependent on several factors. Many of sustained access to these new and approved therapies, and these are beyond the company’s control and dependent on that they meet the demands that arise over time. external decision-making procedures and policy-making bodies. Competition The market for specialty pharmaceuticals is characterised by To secure a leading position in terms of technological intense competition and rapid technological development. development, Sobi collaborates with a wide range of Sobi’s competitors include international pharmaceutical, groups, for example, within the framework of the Swedish biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies. Some strategic cooperation programme in life science to support competitors have considerable financial, technical and human the future development and production of biologics. resources, as well as substantial manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing capabilities. Product counterfeiting Risk of Sobi’s drugs being exposed to competition from Sobi’s products have not yet been exposed to pirating. illegally produced pharmaceutical products and the availability Sobi participates in global efforts initiated to improve drug of pirated products in some distribution channels. traceability. To minimise the risk of counterfeiting, all of Sobi’s distribution processes comply with Good Distribution Practice. Sobi has been using the TraceLink system to record the serial numbers of all products that require serialisation since 2017. This system complies with the regulatory requirements of all markets in which we operate. In 2019, all of Sobi’s products that are required to have a unique identifier will have one. 60 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Risk Risk description Management and comments Financial risks Currency risks The company’s operations are exposed to foreign-exchange More information about financial risks risk. Most of the company’s expenses are incurred in SEK, can be found in Note 3. while a considerable amount of revenue is generated in other currencies. Due to the company’s international expansion, lower exchange rates for the EUR in particular, but also for other currencies in which revenue is generated, could have an adverse effect on Sobi’s earnings and financial position. Tax risks Sobi is a multinational group and thus subject to complex Sobi is proactively working on managing tax risks by: and changing international and local tax laws and guidelines. • having processes for tax compliance in place; Sobi is affected by changes in, e.g., corporate tax rates, • ensuring that the group tax function closely collaborates interest deduction possibilities and transfer pricing principles. with both local affiliates, accounting, treasury and legal The current global focus on transfer pricing, along with functions; and international initiatives such as BEPS (base erosion and price • engaging external tax advisors for analysis of complex tax shifting), specifically entail an increased risk of transfer pricing issues. exposures. Environmental risk CO₂ emissions Sobi’s business activities involve business trips that give rise to Our Travel Policy emphasises the importance of considering greenhouse gas emissions. travel carefully, to minimise the need and also improve work-life balance. The policy also emphasises the need to consider virtual meetings and Sobi provides tools to facilitate them. Energy and The consumption of energy, water, products and services have Sobi monitors legislation in the environmental field and water consumption an environmental impact. integrates requirements into controlling procedures for the business activity concerned. A control programme for the manufacturing facility has been coordinated with compliance authorities. We reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by improving the energy efficiency of our facilities and monitor the operational expenses for our facilities. By implementing an energy management plan for the production facility in Stockholm we have reduced energy and water consumption relative to production capacity. Chemical handling The handling of chemicals in the manufacturing facility could The handling of chemicals in our R&D and manufacturing have an environmental impact. processes is covered by annual risk assessments in order to avoid any impact on the future ability to deliver as agreed. Environmental impact Sobi’s products could have an environmental impact in Sobi products are mainly biologics and the environmental of products production, distribution and consumption. impact of these are seen as very low because they are bio­ degradable without permanent environmental impact. According to EU guidelines on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products, some drugs are not expected to have any environmental impact, for example products composed of carbohydrates, amino acids, peptides and proteins. A high percentage of our products are biopharmaceuticals composed of amino acids, proteins and peptides, and are therefore unlikely to pose any significant risk to the environment. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 61 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Risk Risk description Management and comments Social risk Attract new Sobi operates in a competitive market, where our employees Sobi is a learning organisation and involves employees in employees and form the basis of the company’s ability to develop special drugs high-performance teams in order to achieve and deliver develop existing to meet patients’ needs. If we cannot attract employees with in a competitive market. personnel different skills and experience to contribute to this process, we could become less effective and fail to produce the right drugs at the right price. Patient and Risk that personal data processed in the course of Sobi’s The pharmaceutical business is highly regulated, meaning customer privacy business is not protected. that Sobi as a company is very well prepared to adjust to Sobi is committed to protecting the personal rights of any new compliance requirements. individual whose personal data it processes – including its Sobi initiated its GDPR compliance work early in 2016, and employees, customers, suppliers and other contractual after two and a half years, we can see good results. partners, stakeholders, subjects and patients in clinical trials. The policy on processing of personal data has been updated. Relevant data flows have been analysed in order to close potential gaps under the new legislation. An updated data privacy governance structure to facilitate compliance was introduced during 2018. Patient safety Risk of poor patient safety and ethical values in research. Sobi applies the Declaration of Helsinki’s principles for and ethics For all research involving humans, such as clinical trials, it is of medical researchers. All Sobi-sponsored clinical trials are the utmost importance that these are built on rigorous, sciconducted and reported in accordance with applicable law entifically based evaluations by clinical experts in cooperation and the international Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standard. with regulatory authorities, independent ethics committees To a substantial extent we collaborate with contract and stakeholders. research organisations (CROs). These collaborations are governed by mutual high standards and procedures. Sobi follows the European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) policy on the publication of clinical trial data. 62 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 D i rect o r s ’ R ep o rt Risk Risk description Management and comments Governance risk Legal risks Risk of not acting in compliance with changes in regulations. Sobi’s Risk and Regulatory Compliance Committee conSobi operates in a strictly regulated environment and we must tinuously monitors the development and implementation comply with laws and regulations governing not only producof Sobi’s regulatory compliance programme, which aims tion, but also research and marketing. to reduce the company’s risk of non-compliance with Changes in legislation and regulations can have a direct impact laws and regulations. The most important elements of the on Sobi by limiting access to the market, manufacturing compliance programme include identifying risks, promoting opportunities or development strategies. Therefore it is also clear messages, establishing clear guidelines and processes, highly important for Sobi to be aware of and ahead of upcomtraining and continuous monitoring. ing legislation. In cases where legislation concerns requirements for the approval of drugs, we adopt an agile approach to adapt development processes rapidly in order to meet the new requirements and thereby not risk extending the time it takes for the drug to reach the patient. Anti-corruption, anti-­ Collaborations with stakeholders are essential for us to share Sobi has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, supported competitive behaviour, knowledge and experience within the rare disease community. by the Sobi Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Sobi Global ethical approach The risk of corruption is greatest in activities in which Sobi Policy on Anti-Corruption. Both have been translated into and collaboration interacts with the healthcare sector. relevant business processes, such as those governing interactions with healthcare professionals and organisations. To mitigate corruption risks, Sobi has for several years had a Health Care Compliance (“HCC”) program in place. Health Care Compliance within Sobi is defined as the ethical business standard for transparent promotional and non-promotional activities and interactions with healthcare professionals, providers, payers and patient organisations. The program includes processes and controls that aim to mitigate the risks of, for example, corruption. Sobi supports transparency initiatives, including the ­European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), Disclosure Code in Europe and the Physician, Payments Sunshine Act in the US. We have implemented the EFPIA Disclosure Code and made all payments and transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organisations in Europe publicly available on www.sobi.com, including sponsorships to attend meetings, grants and donations, speaker fees, consultancies and advisory board postings. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 63 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 1–4 Operating revenue, SEK M Operating revenue 5–6 9,138,892 6,510,831 10,000 9,139 Cost of goods sold –2,415,426 –1,853,998 Gross profit 6,723,466 4,656,833 8,000 6,511 6,000 5,204 Sales and administrative expenses 12 –2,510,740 –2,096,470 Research and development costs –1,090,416 –907,721 4,000 3,228 Other operating income 8 6,144 471 2,607 2,000 Other operating expenses 9 –6,486 –52,748 7, 10, 11, 13, 0 Operating profit 17, 18, 28 3,121,968 1,600,365 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating revenue Financial income 14 19,426 1,219 Revenues for the full-year amounted to Financial expenses 15 –59,659 –69,161 SEK 9,139 M (6,511), up 40 per cent. Net financial items –40,233 –67,942 Profit before tax 3,081,735 1,532,423 EBITA1, SEK M Tax on profit for the year 16 –663,940 –383,811 4,000 Profit for the year1 2,417,795 1,148,612 3,571 3,500 Other comprehensive income2 3,000 Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 2,500 2,053 Actuarial gains/losses on defined-benefit plan –85 –1,042 2,000 1,543 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss 1,500 1,000 Translation differences 9,463 –1,258 433 500 Cash flow hedges –170,920 191,856 –44 0 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 37,628 –42,208 –500 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Other comprehensive income –123,914 147,348 Comprehensive income for the year2 2,294,051 1,295,960 EBITA EBITA for the year rose 74 per cent to Earnings per share, SEK 32 8.97 4.27 SEK 3,571 M compared with 2017. Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 32 8.93 4.25 Number of shares (ordinary) 273,322,117 272,507,708 Earnings/share1, SEK Average number of shares 269,523,784 269,020,363 10 8.97 Number of ordinary shares held in treasury 3,423,726 3,249,870 8 Number of shares after dilution 270,522,788 269,975,826 Average number of shares after dilution 270,603,665 270,003,546 6 4.27 1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 4 2.99 2. Under the revised version of IAS 1, all changes in equity not arising from transactions with owners are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Translation differences are wholly related to shares in foreign subsidiaries. 2 −1.01 0.31 0 –2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135. 64 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Consolidated balance sheet SEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS 1–4 Equity/ratio1, % Non-current assets 80 Intangible assets 17 10,158,676 6,445,071 71 Property, plant and equipment 18 136,299 134,182 61 60 56 54 53 Financial assets 20 55,440 35,155 Deferred tax assets 21 230,834 131,429 40 Total non-current assets 10,581,249 6,745,837 20 Current assets Inventories 22 1,284,112 1,053,268 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Trade receivables 23, 26 1,665,208 1,129,016 Other receivables 23 92,736 63,964 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 561,110 432,326 Cash and cash equivalents 25, 26 2,998,742 1,478,496 Net cash1 (+) / net debt (–), SEK M Total current assets 6,601,908 4,157,070 2,995 TOTAL ASSETS 17,183,157 10,902,907 3,000 2,500 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,000 1,472 Equity 1,500 Share capital 149,974 149,527 1,000 Other contributed capital 5,069,248 5,023,557 500 282 −298 82 Other reserves –144,299 –20,386 0 Retained earnings 1,547,379 399,214 –500 Profit for the year 2,417,795 1,148,612 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 9,040,097 6,700,524 Net cash During the year, net cash increased from Liabilities SEK 1,472 M to SEK 2,995 M. Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 21 663,821 667,733 Liability to Sanofi 27 427,699 1,066,833 Liabilities to credit institutions 2,991 5,044 Net cash (+)/net debt (–) Provisions 28, 29 97,479 97,955 SEK M 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total non-current liabilities 1,191,990 1,837,565 Cash and cash equivaCurrent liabilities lents 519 904 786 1,478 2,999 Trade payables 26 486,972 358,449 InterestTax liabilities 394,501 225,579 bearing Liability to Sanofi 27 676,778 579,895 liabilities 818 822 504 7 4 Other liabilities 27 3,782,524 82,217 Net cash (+)/net Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 1,610,295 1,118,678 debt (–) –298 82 282 1,472 2,995 Total current liabilities 6,951,070 2,364,818 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,183,157 10,902,907 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135. Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 31. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 65 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other contributed Other Retained Total SEK 000S Share capital capital reserves earnings equity Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 4,983,959 –167,734 399,487 5,364,966 Equity per share1, SEK Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,148,612 1,148,612 35 33.1 Other comprehensive income 30 Cash flow hedges — — 191,856 — 157,417 24.6 25 Tax cash flow hedges — — –42,209 — –7,769 19.8 20 16.6 17.3 Actuarial loss/gain — — –1,042 — –1,042 15 Exchange differences — — –1,258 — –1,258 10 Total comprehensive income — — 147,348 1,148,612 1,295,960 5 Shareholder transactions 0 Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 — 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Share programmes — 39,598 — — 39,598 Total shareholder transactions 273 39,598 — –273 39,598 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 5,023,557 –20,386 1,547,826 6,700,524 Return on equity1, % Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 149,527 5,023,557 –20,386 1,547,826 6,700,524 35 30.7 30 Comprehensive income 25 19.0 Profit for the year — — — 2,417,795 2,417,795 20 16.0 Other comprehensive income 15 10 Cash flow hedges — — –170,920 — –170,920 5 1.8 −5.8 Tax cash flow hedges — — 37,628 — 37,628 0 Actuarial loss/gain — — –85 — –85 –5 Exchange differences — — 9,463 — 9,463 –10 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total comprehensive income — — –123,914 2,417,795 2,293,881 Shareholder transactions Return on equity Issue/repurchase of shares 447 — — –447 — Return on equity increased from 19.0 to Share programmes — 45,691 — — 45,691 30.7 per cent year-on-year. Total shareholder transactions 447 45,691 — –447 45,691 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135. Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 149,974 5,069,248 –144,2991 3,965,174 9,040,097 1 Other reserves Cash flow hedges SEK 000S 2018 2017 SEK 000S 2018 2017 Exchange differences –11,990 –21,453 Opening balance, cash-flow hedges 27,543 –122,105 Pensions in accordance with IAS 19 –26,358 –26,273 Change in value for the year, hedging ­instruments –133,293 149,648 Cash flow hedges –105,750 27,543 Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –105,750 27,543 Other –201 –203 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2018 –144,299 –20,386 Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK 27,850 K (12,662) was ­transferred to profit or loss. The cash flow hedge is included in other income and expenses in profit and loss. The reversal to profit and loss has been made solely because the hedged item has been recognised in profit and loss. The hedging reserve consists solely of ongoing hedges. 66 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Consolidated cash flow statement SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Cash flow per share1, SEK M Profit for the year 2,417,795 1,148,612 Adjustments for non-cash items –77,051 282,377 6 5.5 Cash flow from operating activities before 5 changes in working capital 2,340,744 1,430,989 4 3 2.5 Cash flow from changes in working capital 2 1.4 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –230,844 –183,222 1 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –678,931 –369,889 0.3 –0.5 0 Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 659,307 455,064 –1 Cash flow from operating activities 2,090,276 1,332,942 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets1 17 –537,365 –91,922 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –40,512 –47,523 Cash flow from operations, SEK M Acquisition of financial assets 20 –700 –737 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 3,220 1,204 2,500 Cash flow from investing activities –575,537 –138,978 2,090 2,000 Financing activities 1,500 1,333 Repayment of loans2 –2,053 –500,000 1,000 Cash flow from financing activities –2,053 –500,000 507 500 343 234 Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,512,866 693,964 0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,478,496 785,790 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Exchange differences in cash flow 7,380 –1,258 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,998,742 1,478,496 Cash flow for the year 1. The largest investments during the year affecting cash flow was to the aqusition of Emapalumab, totalling CHF 50 M, Cash flow for the year totalled SEK 1,513 M. and further aqusition costs of CHF 2.6 M, SEK 497 M and investments within IT, see Note 17. 2. Repayment of loans refers to the settlement of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank. 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 67 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Consolidated cash flow statement, cont. Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 Interest paid and received Interest received 2,742 1,219 Interest paid –18,259 –13,886 Income tax paid 506,542 28,421 Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of non-current assets 7, 17, 18 484,575 485,977 Pensions 28 –85 –1,042 Cost of share programmes1 45,691 39,598 Deferred tax 21 –103,317 174,683 Elocta and Alprolix2 –485,261 –437,660 Other items –18,654 20,821 Total –77,051 282,377 1. IFRS 2 expense associated with the share programmes that is recognised in equity. 2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi. 68 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Parent Company income statement SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 1–4 Operating revenue 5–6 8,221,227 5,756,370 Cost of goods sold –2,349,466 –1,861,398 Gross profit 5,871,761 3,894,972 Selling and administrative expenses 12 –1,445,001 –1,400,380 Research and development costs –932,394 –854,862 Other operating income 8 5,181 120 Other operating expenses 9 –7,575 –39,824 Operating profit 7, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18 3,491,972 1,600,026 Profit/loss from participations in Group companies 19 — –1,000,000 Financial income 14 34,812 11,656 Financial expenses 15 –69,478 –76,299 Net financial items –34,666 –1,064,643 Profit after financial items 3,457,306 535,383 Group contributions 62,670 58,956 Excess depreciation –460,000 –970,000 Appropriations –397,730 –911,044 Profit/Loss before tax 3,059,976 –375,661 Tax on profit for the year 16 –678,212 –132,175 Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK 000S 2018 2017 Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss Cash flow hedges –170,920 191,856 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 37,628 –42,208 Other comprehensive income –133,292 149,648 Comprehensive income for the year 2,248,472 –358,188 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 69 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Parent Company balance sheet SEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS 1–4 Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 Patents, licenses, trademarks and similar rights 3,800,629 4,057,718 Property, plant and equipment 18 Plant and machinery 87,099 72,441 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 16,197 20,579 Construction in progress 8,567 21,041 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 19 3,474,608 2,882,333 Other financial assets 20 51,979 32,392 Deferred tax asset 21 10,519 — Total non-current assets 7,449,598 7,086,504 Current assets Inventories 22 Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905 Work in progress 581,185 536,603 Finished goods and goods for resale 472,462 336,166 Current receivables Trade receivables 23 589,596 405,702 Other receivables 23 56,989 53,092 Receivables from Group companies 1,465,003 901,936 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 531,782 418,194 Cash and cash equivalents 25 2,761,759 1,381,369 Total current assets 6,475,941 4,053,967 TOTAL ASSETS 13,925,539 11,140,471 70 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s SEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 149,974 149,527 Statutory reserve 800,257 800,257 Total restricted equity 950,231 949,784 Unrestricted equity Share premium reserve 4,277,038 4,231,347 Retained earnings 121,507 763,083 Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836 Total unrestricted equity 6,780,309 4,486,594 Total equity 7,730,540 5,436,378 Untaxed reserves Excess depreciation 2,584,000 2,124,000 Total untaxed reserves 2,584,000 2,124,000 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 21 — 10,196 Liability to Sanofi 27 427,699 1,066,833 Provisions 29 80,122 82,443 Total non-current liabilities 507,821 1,159,472 Current liabilities Trade payables 376,350 312,771 Liabilities to Group companies 644,458 628,848 Tax liabilities 381,580 189,064 Liability to Sanofi 27 676,778 579,895 Other liabilities 27 54,550 27,213 Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 969,462 682,830 Total current liabilities 3,103,178 2,420,621 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,925,539 11,140,471 Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 31. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 71 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Parent Company statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Share premium and profit/loss Total SEK 000S Share capital Statutory reserve reserve for the year equity Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 800,257 4,191,749 613,708 5,754,968 Cash flow hedges — — — 191,856 191,856 Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — –42,208 –42,208 Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 — Share programmes — — 39,598 — 39,598 Profit/loss for the year — — — –507,836 –507,836 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 800,257 4,231,347 255,2471 5,436,378 Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 149,527 800,257 4,231,347 255,247 5,436,378 Cash flow hedges — — — –170,921 –170,921 Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — 37,628 37,628 Issue/repurchase of shares 447 — — –447 — Share programmes — — 45,691 — 45,691 Profit/loss for the year — — — 2,381,764 2,381,764 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 149,974 800,257 4,277,038 2,503,271 7,730,540 1 Cash flow hedges SEK 000S 2018 2017 Opening balance, cash-flow hedges 27,543 –122,105 Change in value for the year, hedging instruments –133,293 149,648 Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –105,750 27,543 Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK 27,850 K (12,662) was transferred to profit or loss. The cash flow hedge is included in other income and expenses in profit and loss. The reversal to profit and loss has been made solely because the hedged item has been recognised in profit and loss. The hedging reserve ­consists solely of ongoing hedges. At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 149,973,582 distributed between 273,322,117 ordinary shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55 and one voting right. The company held 3,423,726 ordinary shares in treasury at the balance-sheet date. The Equity item corresponds to 1.3 per cent of the total number of shares in the company. 72 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F i nanc i al s tate m ent s Parent Company cash flow statement SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836 Adjustments for non-cash items 301,454 1,897,033 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,683,218 1,389,197 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –177,138 –127,290 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –864,446 –319,144 Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 400,152 406,024 Cash flow from operating activities 2,041,786 1,348,787 Investing activities Investment in subsidiaries –592,274 –195 Acquisition of intangible assets1 17 –42,628 –91,922 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –26,494 –37,411 Cash flow from investing activities –661,396 –129,528 Financing activities Repayment of loan2 — –500,000 Cash flow from financing activities — –500,000 Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,380,390 719,259 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,381,369 662,110 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,761,759 1,381,369 1. The largest investment during the year was primarly investments within IT, see Note 17. 2. Repayment of loans in 2017 refers to the repayment of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank. Supplemental disclosures to cash flow statement – Parent Company SEK 000S Note 2018 2017 Interest paid and received Interest received 21,412 11,656 Interest paid –28,691 –22,831 Income tax paid 433,973 — Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 7, 17, 18 320,816 322,750 Impairment of participations in subsidiaries 19 — 1,000,000 Deferred tax 21 –20,715 –14,616 Cost of share programmes1 45,691 39,598 Excess depreciation 460,000 970,000 Elocta and Alprolix2 –485,261 –437,690 Other items –19,077 16,991 301,454 1,897,033 1. IFRS 2 expense associated with the share programmes that is recognised in equity. 2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 73 NOTES 1 Notes 2 1 General information as contractual assets. Otherwise, Sobi has no commitments that classify as contractual liabilities related to future commitments. Sobi has chosen to apply Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number the retrospective approach for the transition. 556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, Otherwise, the same accounting policies were applied as in the preceding is a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare year. IFRS changes applied as of 2018 have had no material impact on the diseases. Group’s financial statements. For more information about to the Group’s The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in accounting policies for revenue, refer to “Revenues” further down in this Note. ­Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna, Sweden. New standards, interpretations and amendments The company has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange (now not yet adopted by the Group ­Nasdaq Stockholm) since 15 September 2006, and as a Large Cap company The new reporting standard IFRS 16 Leasing comes into effect on 1 January since 2 January 2014. 2019 and supersedes IAS 17 Leases. The standard establishes new accounting requirements for lessees and stipulates that all leases are to be recognised in the lessee’s balance sheet as a right of use asset and the associated liability. Previous lease payments will be replaced with depreciations and interest expense. 2 Significant accounting policies and basis Sobi has chosen to apply the modified retrospective approach, with no effect on equity at 1 January 2019. The modified retrospective approach entails of preparation for the financial statements that right of use assets, mainly comprising leases for premises and vehicles, of the Parent Company and the Group are consistent with the leasing liability on the transition date of 1 January 2019. In connection with the transition, Sobi has chosen to apply the exemption for Summary of significant accounting policies for Groups short-term leases and low-value assets. Short-term leases are defined as leases The most significant accounting policies for the preparation of these with a duration of 12 months or less, and mainly relate to leased vehicles. Lowconsolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have value assets essentially relate to computers, printers and copying machines. been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The As an effect of the transition, the total value of the Group’s assets on the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the transition date rose by SEK 397 M, corresponding to 2 per cent of the balance Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendasheet. The Group’s financial liabilities rose by SEK 397 M, corresponding to 2 tion RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, International Financial per cent of the balance sheet. The effect of the transition on the key figures Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the EU. The presented in the Annual Report that contained these parameters is considered consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the cost method, insignificant. The main effect arises in the alternative performance measure of except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation). Refer also to are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Note 10 for lease payments related to operating leases for the 2018 financial year. For the Parent Company’s accounting principles, where these deviate from Changes in standards and interpretations from IASB and statements from the Group’s, see below. IFRIC that came into effect during the 2018 calendar year have not had any material impact on the Group. New and amended standards applied by the Group The new reporting standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 ReveCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS nues from Contracts with Customers have been applied since 1 January 2018. General information IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and Recognition and Measurement and includes requirements for the classification its subsidiaries. and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial instruments and rules for hedge accounting. One of the changes pertains to Subsidiaries liabilities measured at fair value. The part of the fair value change that is due to The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the acquichanges in own credit risk is to be recognised in other comprehensive income sition method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction rather than profit or loss, unless this causes inconsistencies in the accounts. in which the Group directly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its Sobi has no liabilities measured at fair value and is not therefore affected by the liab­ilities. The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include all change. Another change relates to hedge accounting, which requires more com­panies over which the company directly or indirectly exercise a controlling detailed disclosures on risk management and the effect of hedge accounting. ­influence. A controlling influence exists when the company has control over a Sobi’s hedge accounting will comply with IAS 39 until further notice, with company, is exposed to, or has the right to a variable returns from its involvement disclosures according to IFRS 7. The new hedge accounting requirements will in the company and can influence returns through its controlling influence. have no material impact on current hedging activities. Finally, new policies Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the controlling influ­ have been introduced for the impairment of financial assets, where the model ence is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date on is based on expected losses. Sobi has applied the full retrospective approach which the controlling influence ceases. for the transition, which had no material impact on either earnings or financial All contingent payments are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. position. In accordance with IFRS 9, Sobi has chosen not to restate the comSubsequent changes to the fair value of a contingent consideration classified parative figures. as a provision are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. All IFRS 15 contains a comprehensive revenue model for all contracts with transaction costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed. Identifiable assets customers and supersedes existing standards for revenue recognition, includacquired, as well as liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed through a ing IAS 18. Sobi has made a thorough analysis of the effect of IFRS 15 on the business combination, are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Group’s financial statements and does not believe that this standard will have The difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value of the Group’s any material impact on either earnings or financial position. This conclusion share of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised is based on a review of contracts and transactions, and testing them against as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the acquisition the standard’s five-step model for revenue recognition. Revenue recognition date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connection with is now fully compliant with IFRS 15 and remains unchanged compared with previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the previous the current standard. Receivables relating to royalty income, which are holding of equity interests in the acquired company are included, measured at classified in the balance sheet as accrued income, are the assets Sobi classifies fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the revaluation are recognised 74 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 2, cont. in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines whether non-conThe price of the goods is identified in contract. The benefits are partly variable trolling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, or at the holding’s before deductions are made for discounts under agreements and for pharproportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is not amortised maceutical taxes. Where these cannot be reliably estimated, an assessment is according to plan, but tested annually for impairment. If the net fair value of made and the amounts are reserved in the balance sheet. 2 the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the products the cost, the excess (negative goodwill) is recognised directly in profit or loss. have been delivered to the customer, meaning the customer has taken control Intra-group transactions, balance-sheet items and unrealised gains and over the products. Payment terms are 90 days. losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Any losses Returns from customers do not generally arise within Sobi, since the return are considered an indication that the transferred asset may be impaired. of expired products does not constitute a reason for return. There are product and quality warranties for any defective products, and a transport warranty Segment reporting if the product is damaged during transport, provided that Sobi has been Operating segments are presented from a management perspective, which responsible for the transport. Should the latter arise, a claim is made against the means they are presented on the same basis used for internal reporting. The basis insurance company. for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting, whereby the reporting Royalty revenue is recognised according to agreement. Revenue is recogis received and monitored by the chief operating decision-maker. The Group has nized monthly over time, with quarterly reconciliation and invoicing. ding to identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. In the internal reporting agreement, Sobi is entitled to royalties on sold goods. Accrued royalties, which to the CEO, only one segment is used. For more information, see Note 6. are also classified as contractual assets according to IFRS 15, are recognised in the balance sheet under prepaid expenses and accrued income. Standardised Currency payment terms are 45 days after the end of the quarter. Functional and reporting currency Sobi has no contractual agreements where performance obligations extend Items included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are beyond 12 months after balance-sheet date. measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which Revenues may also include revenue from licensing agreements, including the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements out-licensing revenue and milestone payments. Milestone payments refer to are presented in Swedish crowns (SEK) which is the Parent Company’s funcpartial payments received from partners triggered by the achievement of a tional and reporting currency. ­specific part of a partnering agreement, such as regulatory approval of a jointly developed product. This type of revenue is recognised when the contracted Transactions and balance-sheet items event has taken place and the revenue is certain to materialise.Due to various Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency agreement formulations, the initial license fee can be recognised in two ways. using the applicable exchange rate on the transaction date. Exchange The revenue is either recognised directly when the license fee is received, or differences arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the allocated over its estimated duration. In 2017 and 2018, Sobi did not recognise translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency any licence fees or milestone payments. at the closing day rate, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive Service fees are remuneration for sales and marketing services related to income. Operating items are recognised in operating profit, while other items some Partner Products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised are recognised as financial income or expense. over time. When the Group has undertaken to carry out research and development Translation of foreign subsidiaries assignments and receives payment for services provided by the Group, this is The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are established in the respective recognised over time as the assignments are carried out. Revenue from research functional currency, meaning the primary economic environment in which collaborations is recognised in the period in which the work is performed. the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions and other liabilities are translated into the Group’s presentation currency (SEK) Government grants at the closing day rate and any exchange differences arising are recognised in Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the requirements other comprehensive income. All items in the income statement are translated associated with the grant and when it can be established with certainty that the using the average rate for the year. subsidy will be received. Grants received are recognised in the balance sheet Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign as deferred income and recognised in the period in which the cost associated entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the with the grant is recognised. ­closing day rate. Sobi mainly receives government grants in the form of reduced employer’s contributions for research for commercial purposes, which is fully utilised, and Revenues research grants from the EU. A minor share of Sobi projects is financed with Group revenue consists mainly of own products and products where Sobi government grants. holds the distributions and/or licensing agreements, revenues from manufacturing and from royalty agreements. Other operating income/expenses Revenues include invoiced gross revenue for contracted goods sold Other operating income and expenses are revenues and costs arising from excluding VAT, discounts, pharmaceutical taxes and returns due to product or activities outside the normal operations. These items include exchange-rate quality warranties or transport damage, and after the elimination of intra-Group effects on operating receivables and liabilities. Accumulated gains or losses sales. Revenues are recognised as follows: on cash-flow hedges in equity are reclassified to other operating income/ expenses in the period in which the hedged item impacts earnings. For more Operating revenue information, see Notes 8 and 9. Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its performance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control Classifications over the product. In practice this arises when his normally arises when the Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non-­ products have been delivered from the company’s consignment stock to the current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the balance-­ end customer. The commitments associated with the contracts between sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist of amounts Sobi and the customers consist mainly of distinct goods that are delivered to expected to be settled later than one year from the balance-sheet date. the customer against payment. The products are not customized and are of benefit to the customers in the condition they are delivered. The products Intangible assets are thus considered to be distinct and separately identifiable. Upon delivery, Amortisation of intangible assets the customer ­normally takes over the responsibility for the goods, depending Amortisation of product rights, licenses, patents and acquired R&D is charged on the shipping terms, and then receives an unconditional obligation to pay. to selling and administrative expenses. Amortisation of capitalised costs, etc, is The Group applies standardised payment terms that vary between countries. also charged to selling and administrative expenses. For more information, see Usually, payment conditions of 30 to 90 days are applied. Note 7. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 75 NOTES Note 2, cont. Goodwill Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Goodwill consists of the amount by which the cost exceeds the fair value of the Property, plant and equipment are depreciated according to plan over their Group’s share of the acquired subsidiary/associated company’s net identifiable estimated useful life. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 2 assets on the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is recogn­ asset’s estimated useful life, with consideration for residual value. The following ised as an intangible asset. When associated companies are acquired, goodwill depreciation periods are applied: is included in the value of the holding in the associated company. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and recognised at cost less any accumulated Plant and machinery impairment. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the remaining • Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years carrying amount of goodwill attributable to the discontinued unit. • Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years Product and marketing rights Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings Product and marketing rights are recognised at cost less accumulated amor• Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years tisation. They have a limited useful life and are amortised to spread the cost • Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years over this period (5 to 20 years). Straight-line amortisation is carried out over the useful life, based on the expected earnings of each product and marketing Land and buildings right. Amortisation is classified as selling expenses. For more information, • Buildings  20 years see Note 4. • Land indefinite useful life Licenses och patent The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each balance-­ The cost and amortisation of licenses are treated in the same way as product sheet date and adjusted if necessary. and marketing rights above. Patents are expensed directly. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated recoverable Research and development costs amount. Costs for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if the The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of property, plant and company can demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and equipment is determined by the difference between the selling price and the profitably commercialise the results, and only if the costs for the project can be carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/loss item is recognised as measured reliably. In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised other operating income or other operating expenses. until the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Commission Leased assets are classified in the consolidated financial statements as either have granted approval. Acquired development projects are capitalised on the finance or operating leases. Leased non-current assets where Sobi is responsiacquisition date. Amortisation is carried out to allocate the cost of developble for the same risks and rewards as direct ownership are classified as finance ment projects over their estimated useful lives, and does not commence until leases. The asset is recognised as a non-current asset in the balance sheet. the project begins to generate revenue. Other research and development costs Corresponding obligations for future lease payments are recognised as current that do not meet the relevant recognition criteria of IAS 38 are recognised or non-current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated according to plan, when incurred. while the lease payments are recognised as interest and repayment of debts. Leased assets where the lessor essentially retains ownership of the asset are Capitalised costs classified as operating leases and the lease payment is expensed on a straightSoftware and IT projects in progress line basis over the term of the lease. For more information, see Note 10. Acquired software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are Impairment of tangible and intangible assets amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as yet available for use, are not depreciated but tested annually for impairment an expense when incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software or when there is any indication that the value of an asset has declined. products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by the company Product and marketing rights that are depreciated are also tested annually for and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one impairment since the carrying amount is significant for the Group. Other assets year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include expenses for that are depreciated are tested for impairment whenever events or changes employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. of overhead costs. An asset is impaired if its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life An impairment is thus the difference between the carrying amount and the (development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to recoverable amount where the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the initial cost of the software. an asset’s net realisable value and value in use. When calculating the value in Amortisation according to plan for software recognised as an asset is use, future cash flows that the asset is expected to generated are discounted performed using the straight-line method over its useful life up to a maximum at a rate equivalent to Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). of three years. When assessing goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Sobi has made the Manufacturing relocation costs assessment that the Group’s operations as a whole comprise a cash-generating Costs are capitalised when the manufacturing of Sobi’s products is relocated. unit. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairments of assets other Amortisation commences when the asset is available for use. than goodwill are reversed if there has been any change in the conditions used to determine the recoverable amount. Reversal amounts do not exceed Property, plant and equipment the ­carrying amount that would have been recognised, less depreciation, if Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if no impairment had been performed. Impairment testing of goodwill, product it is probable that future economic rewards will accrue to the company and the and marketing rights, and development projects is described in Note 17. cost of the asset at acquisition can be measured reliably. All property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less depreciation. Financial instruments The cost includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in a Additional costs are added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as company and a financial liability or an equity instrument in another company. a separate asset, depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable Financial instruments include contract-based rights to receive cash, such as that the future economic rewards associated with the asset will accrue to the trade receivables. Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and maintenance are recognised as costs in profit or loss as incurred. 76 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 2, cont. The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: Hedge accounting 1. Assets measured at amortised cost The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative 2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss instruments and loans in this hedging relationships. The method for recognis3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost ing the resulting gains or losses from the revaluation of loans or derivatives in 2 4. Derivatives hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been identified as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, or as a hedge of the fair value. The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were acquired and the type of financial instrument. Management determines how Cash flow hedges the instruments will be classified in connection with initial recognition and The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument reviews this decision on each reporting date. Assets expected to mature or be identified as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. sold within twelve months, and liabilities with no unconditional right to defer The gain or loss pertaining to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance-sheet date, in profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit are classified as current assets or current liabilities. Other assets and liabilities or loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities. instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs in in equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are recognised in profit or the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit loss when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is designated or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective portion of the recognised in profit or loss. revaluation effect pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations is recognised in the Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include such assets as same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan are recognised as a cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and endowment policies. Financial loan not included in a hedge. liabilities mainly include trade payables, liabilities to Sanofi and Novimmune, the latter recognised under other liabilities, and loans. Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are only made with derivative instruments. When hedging fair 1. Assets measured at amortised cost value, derivatives are recognised in profit or loss together with changes in the Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria can be met: fair value of the hedged item pertaining to the portion that is exposed to the 1. The business model objective for the financial asset is to collect its hedged risk and included in the hedging relationship. contractual cash flows 2. The terms of the financial asset give rise to fixed or determinable payInventories ments and these are solely payments of interest and principal amounts Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the expected The Group’s assets in this category consist of trade and other receivables and selling price in operating activities less selling expenses. Obsolescence risk and cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less any established obsolescence have been taken into account in the measurement. impairment. The maturities of trade receivables are mainly short, which is why the value is initially recognised at nominal amounts without discounting. Cash and cash equivalents Any impairment of trade receivables in the Group will use a model based on The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include expected future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses the balances of the consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and and forward-looking estimates. Any impairment of trade receivables based on investments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition date. expected future losses, which are assessed individually like trade receivables, is recognised in operating expenses. Equity Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable 2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax, (excluding derivatives) as a deduction from the proceeds. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are not derivatives or that do not meet the requirements for being Provisions measured at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the Group’s Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or endowment policies. constructive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost obligation. It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. This category includes financial liabilities not available for sale including loans, Provisions are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate trade payables and lease liabilities. Liabilities in this category are measured at of the payment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is amortised cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings are initially expected to take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow measured at fair value, net after transactions costs. Borrowings are subseis discounted and the provision is recognised at its present value. The discount quently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the amount rate corresponds with the market rate before tax, and the risks associated with received and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss over the the liability. Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet under other current term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified and non-current liabilities. as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement Provisions for restructuring which substantially change the way in which of the liability until twelve months after the balance-sheet date. Sobi works are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has been established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations 4. Derivatives are created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often Derivatives are only used as financial security, not for speculative purposes. include benefits at termination, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. Sobi differentiates between derivatives included in a effective hedging relationTermination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases ship and other derivatives held for sale. Derivatives are measured at fair value in in which a requirement for service is linked to the benefit, in which case costs the balance sheet, both initially and in subsequent revaluations, and recognised are distributed over the period in which the services are carried out. Restructuras either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is positive ing provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned future activities. or negative. The most significant estimates relate to those costs required for severance pay Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are recognised or other obligations in connection with termination of employment, as well as in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage risk in the financial operations are costs for the termination of agreements and other costs for withdrawal. Such recognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risk in the estimates are based on the actual situation in negotiations with the affected operational results are recognised in other income/expenses. See below for the parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating to periods following the recognition of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge accounting. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 77 NOTES Note 2, cont. termination of duty to work are expensed when the decision is made and The company’s commitments are measured at the present value of expected communicated. future payments. When discounting commitments in Sweden, a discount rate Sobi recognises endowment policies gross in the balance sheet as a financial equal to the interest on mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the 2 asset and a provision. Refer to the section on direct pensions under Remunerrelevant commitments is applied. The most important actuarial assumptions ation of employees. are described in Note 28. Sobi has a provision for site restoration related to restoration of the leased Actuarial gains and losses may arise in connection with the determination property Paradiset 14 when the lease expires. The company recognises this of the present value of the commitments and the fair value of plan assets. item as a provision in the balance sheet. These arise either because the fair value differs from the previous assumption, Cash-based programmes for employees are treated as a provision until the or the assumptions change. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other programme expires. comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Interest expense, less the estimated return on plan assets, is classified as a Taxes financial expense. Other expense items in the pension costs are charged to Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and operating profit. deferred tax. Current tax is tax that will be paid or received in the current year, The accounting principle for defined benefit pension plans described above and current tax attributable to previous years. Deferred tax is calculated using applies only to the consolidated financial statements. the liability method, based on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred tax Direct pensions is measured using the tax rates and tax rules enacted or substantively enacted For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with on the balance-sheet date. direct pension commitments. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated has taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidthe agreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are iaries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable classified as a financial asset in the balance sheet, since they are a long-term future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided holding, and measured at fair value, while the pension commitment to the between deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets for deductible employee is recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are only recognised to the extent payroll tax is also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into it is probable they will be utilised. Tax is recognised under Tax on profit/loss for the the endowment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the year in the statement of comprehensive income except for those items recognised beneficiary is deductible. under other comprehensive income or equity. See also Notes 16 and 21. Long-term incentive programmes Employee benefits Sobi currently has five active share programmes. The fair value of the allotted Pensions share programmes is estimated on the issue date using a generally accepted Sobi has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans, modelling technique, the Monte Carlo simulation model, whereby market-reand the vast majority of employees are covered by and recognised in the lated conditions are taken into account. The 2018 share programme, which defined-contribution pension plans. At 31 December 2018, five people in the covers the CEO, senior executives and managers, includes a revenue compoNorwegian subsidiary and two people in the Swedish Parent Company were nent whereby the fair value of the allotted shares may fluctuate, depending on covered by defined-benefit plans, while other employees are covered by the assumptions of target achievement. The total amount to be expensed is defined-contribution plans. based on the fair value of the shares allotted. The total amount is recognised as a personnel cost in profit or loss, Recognition of defined-contribution pension plans and management by Alecta distributed over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made The CEO and management are mainly covered by defined-contribution plans. in equity. At the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of how A defined-contribution pension plan provides a contribution to a pension plan, many shares are expected to be vested based on the service requirement. The determined as a percentage of the pensionable salary. The level of pension shares are delivered to the employee when vested under the framework of the benefits at retirement is determined by premiums paid and the return on programmes. investments, less management costs. The Group also has four long-term cash-based incentive programmes Pension costs for the defined-contribution plans are charged to earnings that do not constitute share-based remuneration. Three of these comprise all as they are earned. Pension commitments are calculated without discounting, employees in the US and one of them relates to a number of senior executives since the payments for these plans fall due within 12 months. in Sweden. Since remuneration under these programmes is contingent on Commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-collar continued employment at the company, the costs are recognised continuously employees in Sweden are insured through Alecta. According to the Financial over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balance-sheet date Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 plans financed by based on the market value, renewed assessments of target achievement insurance in Alecta, this is a defined-benefit plan covering multiple employers. and how much has been earned. The net of these effects is recognised as a For the financial years of 2005–2018, the company did not have access to personnel cost in consolidated profit or loss. the information required to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, The social security costs are revalued at the end of every quarter until settle­ which is why the ITP pension plan insured through Alecta is recognised as a ment takes place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost for shares. defined-contribution plan. A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be A special employer’s contribution is calculated on pension premiums. found in Note 11. Recognition of defined-benefit pension plans Compensation for termination In defined benefit plans, the pension is determined as a percentage of the A provision for the termination of employees is only recognised if the company pensionable final salary, based on the employee’s length of service and average is demonstrably obliged to terminate a position before the normal period final salary. The Group is responsible for ensuring that the established benefits of service has ended, or if compensation is offered to encourage voluntary are paid out. resignation, such as a retirement package. In cases where the company The defined-benefit pension commitments are recognised in the balance terminates employment, a detailed plan is prepared that, at a minimum, sheet as the net total of the estimated present value of the commitments contains information about the workplace, positions and approximate number and the fair value of the plan assets, which are recognised as a provision or a of individuals concerned, as well as the compensation for each employee non-current financial receivable. category or position and the schedule for the plan’s implementation. For defined-benefit plans, pension costs and commitments are calculated according to the applicable principles of IAS 19. This calculation is performed annually by independent actuaries. 78 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 2, cont. Contingent liabilities 3 Financial risk management Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment arising from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more Financial risks and risk management uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised 2 Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will impact the company’s earnings and financial position. The risks can be divided 3 be required. into operational risks and financial risks. Financial risks refer to a potentially negative impact on the financial position resulting from changes in the financial Parent Company’s accounting policies risk factors. Below is a description of the financial risk factors deemed most The Annual report for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), the Parent Company, significant for Sobi, and how they are managed. Operational risks are also has been prepared according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish described in a separate section of the Directors’ Report. Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which is and statements from the Financial Reporting Board. The Parent Company applies also responsible for the Group’s financing, ensuring that solutions are in place the same accounting policies as the Group with the following exceptions: for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring financial risk and supporting the business operations in finance-related issues. Employee benefits/defined benefit plans The finance policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division of The Parent Company applies the provisions of the Swedish pension commitresponsibilities and control of financial matters between the Board, CEO, CFO ments Vesting Act when calculating defined-benefit pension plans, which is a and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee tasked prerequisite for tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared with, among other things, monitoring the structure of the finance policy and, if with the requirements under IAS 19 are how the discount rate is established, necessary, suggesting changes to the Board. The main objective of the finance that the calculation of the defined-benefit commitment is based on current policy is to maintain a low level of financial risk and to manage risk safely. salary levels without assumptions on future salary increases, and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income as Financial risk factors they arise. Refer to Note 29 for more information. Currency risk – Commercial transaction risk Commercial transaction risk is the risk that changes in exchange rates will Leased assets have a negative impact on operating profit during the period until a transaction All of the Parent Company’s leases are recognised according to the rules for is settled. Since the subsidiaries largely have commercial flows in their local operating leases. currencies, this risk is limited. This risk is significant for the Parent Company since the Parent Company has considerable commercial flows in foreign Taxes currencies, mainly EUR and USD, which are not naturally matched with Sobi’s Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal functional currency (SEK). The Parent Company mainly purchases in EUR entities. and USD and invoices the internal distribution companies in their domestic currency. The most significant currency surplus is EUR, and arises because Subsidiaries most of Sobi’s subsidiaries have EUR as their functional currency. This risk Participations in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. The is managed by limiting the net exposure, meaning the net of all positive and value of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in value. negative exposures in each currency, and by investing in financial instruments, Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Transaction such as currency futures. costs associated with the acquisition of companies are expensed. Contingent Some of this transaction risk is managed by applying hedge accounting, considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is probable that they will using cash-flow hedges of highly probable inflows in USD, mainly in relation materialise. If, in subsequent periods, the initial assessment needs to be revised, to Elocta and Alprolix. This means that the effect of the remeasurement the acquisition cost must be adjusted. of liabilities related to Elocta and Alprolix to Sanofi are recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated profit or loss from these remeasureGroup contributions ments are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged inflows affect profit or Sobi applies the alternative rule and, consequently, reports all group contribuloss. See Notes 17 and 27 for more information about these liabilities. tions received/provided as appropriations. The currencies with the largest net exposures are shown in the diagram below. The amounts shown in the diagram correspond to the Group’s net Accounting principles of the Parent Company annual volumes. The Parent Company´s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board´s recommendations RFR 2, Reporting Commercial transaction exposure by legal Entities, and the Annual Accounts Act. Kommersiell transaktionsexponering The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which SEK M is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the Group. The 2,969 financial statements are consequently presented in SEK. 3,000 All amounts are stated in thousands of Swedish kronor (SEK thousands) unless 2,500 otherwise stated. Assets and liabilities are measured at historical cost, except for certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value. 2,000 In order to prepare the financial statements in accordance with generally 1,500 accepted accounting principles, the Board of Directors and management make 904 1,000 estimates and assumptions that affect the company’s earnings and financial 643 510 position, as well as other information disclosed. These estimates and assump500 297 224 2018 average tions are based on historical experience and are regularly revised. 0 Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a EUR USD Other 2017 average significant impact on the financial statements and estimates made have not resulted in any material adjustments to the financial statements of subsequent Currency risk – Financial transaction risk years. The accounting policies stated above are applied consistently in the Financial transaction risk refers to the risk of changes in exchange rates having financial statements that are published, and are based on IFRS. a negative impact on net financial items. Financial transaction risk is managed The figures for previous years in the tables and notes have been adjusted at central level by the treasury function of the Parent Company. This is carried due to changes in the current and deferred tax for previous years, but that were out by generally denominating the loans and investments of subsidiaries in identified during the year. their local currencies with the Parent Company, and that external loans and The amounts and figures in parenthesis are comparative figures for 2017. investments are mainly made by the Parent Company. See also Note 4. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 79 NOTES Note 3, cont. This risk is managed by matching all transactions in their respective currencies, Interest rate risk including receivables, liabilities and other items that are restated in net finan­ Interest-rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes cial items, and by limiting any net exposure of a sufficiently large amount, in interest rates, both on profits through changes in general interest rates and compared with a fixed measure according to the finance policy, by investing on instruments with fixed interest rates through changes in market values. in financial instruments, such as currency futures. The currencies with the Changes in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general 3 largest net exposures are shown in the diagram below. The amounts shown principle is to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest-rate in the diagram correspond to the net amounts (including derivatives) that, in risk mainly occurs through external loans and cash. average over the year, were restated in net financial items, and net amounts Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating on the balance-sheet date. Total exposure amounted to SEK 644 M (271). An activities and borrowings. In the case of interest-bearing borrowings, the instantaneous and permanent change of +/– 10 per cent in all rates against the Group is exposed to interest-rate risk. Sobi’s long-term interest-bearing SEK would have an impact of +/– SEK 64 M (27) on financial profit before tax. financing comprises an undrawn revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M with The high exposure towards CHF at year-end 2018 was temporary and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) and Danske Bank A/S, Denmark, Swedish resulted from the acquisition of the rights for emapalumab. The derivatives branch. The original term of this facility was three years, but has now been outstanding on the balance-sheet date are presented in the table below. extended to 27 June 2020. In November 2018, Sobi raised a new credit facility The increase of the derivatives in USD and EUR is attributable to hedging of of EUR 870 M with BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske Bank A/S, Skandinaviska future transactions related to the acquisition of Synagis. Enskilda Banken AB (publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). This facility is divided into three tranches with maturities ranging from three to five years. Financial transaction exposure One of the tranches is a four-year revolving credit facility of EUR 335 M and the Finansiell transaktionsexponering other two tranches are credit facilities of five years and EUR 335 M, and three SEK M years and EUR 200 M, respectively. There were no outstanding interest-rate derivatives on the balance-sheet 200 174 159 date. The liability to Bioverativ is non-interest bearing by agreement, but 106 101 is discounted in the financial statements and therefore recognised as an 100 76 16 interest expense. 0 The sensitivity to interest-rate changes on earnings is measured by assuming –5 a sustained interest-rate change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2018, –100 such a change would have had an annual impact of SEK 0 M (0) on net financial items. At 31 December 2018, Sobi’s interest-bearing liabilities amounted to –200 2018 SEK 4 M (7). –288 –300 2017 CHF EUR USD Other Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty does not meet its obliOutstanding derivatives (nominal amounts in millions, local currency) gations. Credit risk can be divided up into credit risk in trade receivables, and financial credit risk. 2018 2017 Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to trade receivables. On the balance-sheet USD 880 –30 date, these amounted to SEK 1,665 M (1,129), of which SEK 518 M (290) was past due, see Note 23 for information about overdue trade receivables. Sobi’s EUR –417 –29 customers are mainly hospitals and government administrations, which means CHF –29 — that these are largely funded by the government of each respective country. If GBP — –1 Sobi deems that a claim will not be honoured, provisions for expected credit CAD –5 –5 losses must be made in accordance with the principles described in Note 2. At 31 December 2018, these amounted to SEK 70 M (35). Normally there is no collateral for the credit risk associated with trade receivables. Currency risk – translation exposure Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a negative individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known or when impact on equity when the balance sheets and income statements of foreign other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding creditworthiness. Credit subsidiaries are translated into SEK. The currency risk in equity is controlled by reports must be obtained from a market-recognised rating agency. A credit limit ensuring that the subsidiaries’ equity is kept at a reasonable level. The diagram is established for every customer, and continuously monitored and evaluated. of translation risk shows the company’s sensitivity to this risk. The diagram In its finance policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount shows how the translation effect on the Group’s equity would be positive if the of exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial SEK weakened, and vice versa. If the SEK, for example, were to weaken 2 per credit risk, financial transactions are mainly conducted with banks with a high cent against all currencies, the translation effect on consolidated equity would official credit rating. Investment of any surplus liquidity are made in instruments be SEK 18.4 M (3.4). with a low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are only permitted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and banks, Translation risk financial institutions and enterprises with a minimum credit rating of A from Currency change in SEK, % Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating agency. A high level of liquidity means that the investments can be converted into liquid funds 5 at any given time. 4 3 2 Liquidity risk 1 Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi cannot raise financing on acceptable terms, 0 or meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. How –1 the liquidity risk should be managed is described in the finance policy. Both –2 –3 SEK M, short and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly compiled to –4 Effect on ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet the needs –5 equity of the day-to-day operations. According to the policy, there must also be a –45.9–36.7–27.5 –18.4 –9.2 0 9.2 18.4 27.5 36.7 45.9 liquidity reserve the size of which should be based on a proportion of annual sales. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, current investments and the undrawn amount of the granted credit facilities. At 31 December 2018, the company’s undrawn granted credit facilities totalled SEK 10,075 M (1,135). 80 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 3, cont. The long-term financing sources comprise a revolving credit facility of not paid, a provision for expected credit loss will be made in accordance with SEK 1,000 M with Handelsbanken and Danske Bank that expires on 27 June principles described in Note 2. When revenue is recognised, each agreement is 2020, and a new credit facility of EUR 870 M that Sobi raised in November with interpreted separately and the company makes an assessment if any remining BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske Bank A/S, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken commitments exists. AB (publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). See more above, under the Revenue is recognised when control has been transferred to the buyer, section on interest-rate risk.The credit agreements contains customary terms depending on the shipping terms. Revenues are calculated as invoiced gross 3 regarding limitations on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio and interest covrevenue according to agreement less variable remuneration corresponding 4 erage ratio. The credit agreements also contain limitations with regard to any to actual and estimated discounts to public and private customers, pharmasignificant changes in the company’s ownership structure (change of control). ceutical taxes, and adjustments for deliveries where control has not yet been These credit conditions have been met. Sobi also has a SEK 135 M overdraft transferred to the buyer. facility with Handelsbanken, with a term of more than three months. The Since actual and final conditions for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on facilities, as well as the overdraft facility, were undrawn on the balance-sheet sales in the current period are not always known on the balance-sheet date, date. The new liabilities have been raised to finance the acquisition of Synagis. some of the deductions from gross revenue are based on estimates. See also The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from Note 2 on revenue recognition of license fees and milestone revenue. the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining on the balance-sheet date until the contractual maturity date. Inventories Production costs Maturity analysis Costs for production consist of direct production costs, such as raw materials, consumables, media and manpower, as well as indirect costs, such as personLess than Between Between More than AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years nel costs, depreciation and maintenance. Calculation of indirect production costs is based on a method for calculating Derivatives 8,181 — — — standard costs. This method is regularly revised in order to ensure reasonable Trade payables 486,972 — — — calculation of the utilisation rate, lead times and other relevant factors. Changes in the method of calculating indirect production costs, including the Other liabilities1 3,639,695 1,130,357 599 — utilisation rate, lead times etc., may have an impact on gross margins and the Total 4,135,843 1,130,357 599 — overall valuation of inventories. Less than Between Between More than Research and development costs AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years The company conducts research and development as internal projects and Loans payable 2,624 — — — with external partners. In cases where the company carries out projects with an Trade payables 358,449 — — — external partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated when the project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement Other liabilities1 1,624 3,700 1,707,761 — with the external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. Total 362,967 3,700 1,707,761 — In some collaborative agreements, the company agrees to make milestone 1. Other liabilities mainly pertain to the liability to Sanofi. The liability to Sanofi is recorded at the payments. These payments are capitalised as research and development, and nominal amount according to the contract. Repayment of the liability to Sanofi in USD will mainly amortisation does not commence until the project has reached the commertake place via royalty revenue in USD, see Note 17. cialisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Evaluation of a project’s progress and impairment testing are performed regularly, at Capital risk least annually. There has been no write-down of intangible assets in 2018. The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high shareholder returns, Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in under agreement with third parties are expensed continuously if they do not order to keep capital costs at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be meet the requirements of IAS 38. Rules and uncertainty usually mean that the adapted to the needs arising by changing the dividend to shareholders, repaycriteria are not fulfilled. However, in cases where the requirements are met, ing capital to shareholders, issuing new shares or selling assets to reduce debt. intangible assets are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Capitalisation The Group’s equity/assets ratio forms the basis of the Group’s capital commences when the company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible structure assessment. The company’s target is an equity/assets ratio of at least and profitable to commercialise the results. For a sensitivity analysis, see Note 17. 40 per cent. At 31 December 2018, the equity/assets ratio was as follows: ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 2018 2017 Intangible assets Equity 9,040,097 6,700,524 The Group’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, development projects, licence, product and marketing rights. Goodwill arose on Total assets 17,183,157 10,902,907 the acquisition of Swedish Orphan. Annual impairment testing of goodwill, Equity/assets ratio, % 52.6 61.5 development projects, product rights and marketing rights is based on their recoverable amounts, including essential assumptions such as sales growth, margins and discount rates. See below and Note 17. 4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates Goodwill and assumptions The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with the policy described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting unit is determined by calculating the value in use. This calculation requires judgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions certain estimates to be made, see Note 17. At 31 Decmber 2018, Sobi’s goodwill entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts of amounted to SEK 1,554 M (1,554). The testing did not indicate any impairment. assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below. Acquired development projects ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS The Group makes annual impairment assessments of acquired development Revenues projects in accordance with the principle described in Note 2. When testing The Group assesses the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to the for impairment, a number of assumptions are made. These assumptions are Group on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history specified in Note 17. and credit rating. If the Group makes the assessment that a receivable will S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 81 NOTES Note 4, cont. Product and marketing rights GROUP 2018 2017 Product and marketing rights have a limited useful life and amortisation is used to spread the cost over this period. The amortisation period ranges from 5 to 20 Revenues by geographic market1 years, and is adapted to the expected earnings of each product right. Europe 2 6,026,271 3,784,036 As the carrying amounts of these product and marketing rights are highly MENAR3 381,249 271,806 significant for the Group, they are tested annually for impairment. The company has determined that most of the amortisation is attributable to selling North America 1,309,099 1,168,279 4 RoW 81,206 84,050 expenses, as the intangible assets classified as product rights are primarily 5 related to marketing rights. The product and licensing rights are not related to Total 7,797,825 5,308,171 any inventory cycle or production, nor is it necessary to otherwise bring the Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660 product to its current location and condition. The rights enable Sobi to market and sell certain products. Use of rights is not consumed in a manufacturing Total 9,138,892 6,510,831 process but rather over a useful life which corresponds to the related product’s length of relevance on the market. The Group’s and Parent Company’s financial accounts do not include revenues The assumption that has the greatest impact on the future value is projected for 2018 or 2017 relating to performance obligations made in previous years. sales growth. It is based on assumptions about underlying growth and future Furthermore, there are no customer agreements with performance obligations product development, and expansion of the applicable areas for the pharmareported in the balance sheet. ceutical. If the company’s assumptions regarding product development and expansion of the applicable areas for a pharmaceutical prove to be incorrect, In 2018, revenues for the Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB this may indicate that the product right is impaired. The other assumptions (publ), amounted to SEK 8,221 M (5,756) of which SEK 4,554 M (2,732) pertained made when testing product rights for impairment are presented in Note 17. to sales to Group companies. Taxes PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Deferred tax is estimated and measured according to the principles described Operating revenue by major revenue type in Note 2. It is currently possible in Sweden to use any future tax losses for an unlimited period of time. Deferred tax assets on losses in countries other than Product sales 6,444,314 3,991,714 Sweden that arose in 2018 are recognised when it is likely that they can be Manufacturing 435,846 559,295 deducted against future gains. Foreign tax rates were used for measurement. Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660 Service fee — 2,701 Assumptions for the calculation of pension benefits The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs is based Total 8,221,227 5,756,370 on the actuarial assumptions specified in Notes 2 and 29. PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Inventories Obsolescence Revenues by geographic market1 Inventories consist of raw materials for production, manufactured semi-finEurope 2 8,518,162 3,453,619 ished and finished products of Alprolix, Ammonaps, Elocta, Kepivance, Kineret, MENAR3 259,604 157,498 Orfadin and Xiapex, and inventories of finished goods for other products. There North America 1,021,189 857,941 is no obsolescence provision for these inventories. Stock levels for Kepivance are expected to last for several years. The stocked product durability can vary RoW 81,206 84,652 over time. This could lead to an increased risk of obsolescence when a signifiTotal 6,880,160 4,553,710 cant change in demand for a product, or a change in durability, could result in Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660 impairment. Products not approved at quality inspection are directly expensed. Total 8,221,227 5,756,370 Other stock mainly consists of ReFacto. Production of ReFacto has two components: cultivation and purification. If a certain portion of the stock is not 1. The geographic distribution is based on where end-customers are located. 2. Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 199 M (165). approved by Sobi’s and/or Pfizer’s quality department, the material is immedi3. Middle East, North Africa and Russia. ately expensed. The obsolescence assessment is regularly updated based on 4. Royalty revenue includes royalties related to our haemophilia products that are not attributable historical obsolescence or sales forecasts. Sobi is part of the pharmaceutical to a specific region according to the distribution above; royalty on Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and industry, which is regulated and controlled by several authorities in and outside Alprolix amounted to SEK 1,340 M (1,168). Royalty revenue from Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto amounted to SEK 1 M (34). Estimated non-invoiced accrued royalty income is to be classify as contractual Sweden. The company collaborates with external partners, both Swedish and assets in accordance with IFRS 15. The balance as of December 31 2018 is included in the balance foreign, who control and evaluate the business. All finished stock is measured sheet in prepaid expenses and accrued liabilities and specified in note 24. See also note 2 section continuously with respect to the shelf life limits of drugs. revenue. Revenue per business area (Group) SEK 000S 2018 2017 5 Distribution of operating revenue Elocta 3,261,126 1,557,476 GROUP 2018 2017 Alprolix 973,782 362,798 Manufacturing 435,846 559,295 Operating revenue by major revenue type Royalty 1,341,067 1,202,660 Product sales 7,361,979 4,746,175 Haemophilia 6,011,821 3,682,229 Manufacturing 435,846 559,295 Orfadin 899,404 861,866 Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660 Kineret 1,319,735 1,141,938 Service fee — 2,701 Other 907,932 824,798 Total 9,138,892 6,510,831 Specialty Care 3,127,071 2,828,602 Total revenues 9,138,892 6,510,831 82 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 6 Segment reporting Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by The Group reports one operating segment, sales of pharmaceuticals. The type of function basis for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting, whereby the Cost of goods –12,762 –14,355 reporting is received and monitored by the chief operating decision-maker. The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. Sobi Selling and administrative expenses –299,407 –290,553 reports revenue by geographic area. See Note 5 for more information about Development costs –8,647 –5,842 the distribution of revenues per revenue type and geographic area. Total –320,816 –310,750 In 2018 Sobi’s largest customers were Sanofi, with sales of SEK 825 M (691), and Pfizer, with sales of SEK 446 M (594), corresponding to 9 and 5 per cent Impairment by type of asset1 respectively of the company’s total revenue for 2018. Most of the non-current Licenses and patents — –12,000 6 assets are in Sweden. Total — –12,000 7 Impairment by type of function 8 Selling and administrative expenses — –12,000 7 Depreciation and amortisation of assets1 Total — –12,000 9 1. See Note 17 for further information. GROUP 2018 2017 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by type of asset 8 Other operating income Licenses and patents –38,571 –38,766 Product and marketing rights –386,596 –386,594 Capitalised expenditures –23,447 –15,492 GROUP 2018 2017 Plant and machinery –18,878 –15,001 Re-invoiced costs to partners 5,212 — Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –14,759 –15,599 Exchange-rate gains1 — — Other non-current assets –2,351 –2,525 Other 932 471 Total –484,602 –473,977 Total 6,144 471 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by type of function PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Cost of goods –12,819 –14,412 Re-invoiced costs to partners 5,181 — Selling and administrative expenses –462,921 –453,538 Exchange-rate gains1 — — Development costs –8,834 –6,027 Other — 120 Total –484,574 –473,977 Total 5,181 120 Impairment by type of asset1 1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2018 constituted a gain, see Note 9. Licenses and patents — –12,000 Total — –12,000 Impairment by type of function1 9 Other operating expenses Selling and administrative expenses — –12,000 Total — –12,000 GROUP 2018 2017 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Exchange-rate losses on operating receivables/liabilities1 –2,473 –52,541 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by Utrangerar/avyttring av anläggningstillgångar –3,983 — type of asset Other –30 –207 Licenses and patents –6,484 –6,669 Total –6,486 –52,748 Product and marketing rights –262,216 –262,213 Capitalised expenditures –23,447 –15,321 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Plant and machinery –18,509 –14,652 Exchange-rate losses on operating Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –9,636 –11,371 receivables/liabilities1 –4,717 –39,824 Other non-current assets –524 –524 Utrangerar/avyttring av anläggningstillgångar –2,858 — Total –320,816 –310,750 Total –7,575 –39,824 1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2018 they generated a loss as they also did in 2017, hence appearing under note 9. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 83 NOTES 10 Lease payments for operating leases Contracted future rental payments for premises related to non-terminable contracts fall due: Group Parent Company IFRS 2018 2017 2018 2017 Amounts in SEK M 31 Dec 2018 adjustment 1 Jan 2019 Within 1 year 81,160 69,395 60,644 59,144 ASSETS Between 1–5 years 293,046 251,080 222,145 224,121 Non-current assets Later than 5 years 24,493 64,492 14,914 64,492 Intangible assets 10,159 10,159 Total 398,699 384,967 297,703 347,757 Tangible assets 136 412 548 Rental costs for the Financial assets 286 286 year 75,558 72,530 59,441 58,120 Total non-current assets 10,581 412 10,993 Current assets 10 Other contracted future minimum lease payments related to Current assets 6,602 –15 6,587 non-terminable contracts fall due: Total current assets 6,602 –15 6,587 Group Parent Company Total assets 17,183 397 17,580 2018 2017 2018 2017 Within 1 year 12,099 6,082 318 318 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Between 1–5 years 14,974 8,898 159 477 Shareholders’ equity 9,040 9,040 Later than 5 years — — — — Long-term liabilities Total 27,073 14,980 477 795 Long-term liabilities 3 320 323 Lease payments for Long-term liabilities, the year 11,018 11,565 318 323 non-interest bearing 1,189 –2 1,187 Total long-term liabilities 1,192 318 1,510 The decisive factor in the classification of leases is to what extent the economic risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased object are retained Current liabilities by the lessor or transferred to the lessee. For property, assessments of the lease Current liabilities 1 81 82 contract must be made both for the building and the land. Sobi mainly bases Current liabilities, its position on the fact that the present value of the minimum lease payments non-interest bearing 6,950 –2 6,948 does not represent a significant portion of the fair value of the property and that Total current liabilities 6,951 79 7,030 there is no compelling evidence of a financial lease. As set out in Note 2 Accounting policies, the new reporting standard IFRS Total equity and liabilities 17,183 397 17,580 16 Leasing will come into effect on 1 January 2019 and supersede IAS 17 Leases. The standard establishes new accounting requirements for lessees and stipulates that all lease contracts are to be recognised in the lessee’s balance sheet as a lease liability and a corresponding right-of-use asset. Previous lease payments will be replaced with depreciations and interest expense. For more information about the new standard, including the choice of transition method and the effects of the transition on the Group's financial statements and key figures, see Note 2 Accounting policies. The Group’s balance sheet with the closing balances at 31 December 2018, transition effect/IFRS adjustment and opening balances on 1 January 2019 is presented below. 84 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES 11 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives  Number of employees1 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs of whom of whom of whom of whom 2018 2017 women, men, women, men, Salaries and Salaries and GROUP 2018 % % 2017 % % GROUP AND remuneraSocial securemuneraSocial secuPARENT COMPANY tion rity costs tion rity costs Sweden 468 64 36 451 64 36 Denmark 15 60 40 14 59 41 Parent Company 444,204 280,780 427,440 243,525 Finland/Baltics 9 56 44 9 57 43 (of which pension cost) — (89,426) (78,864) Norway 5 80 20 7 71 29 Subsidiaries 647,450 125,341 500,024 91,861 The UK 45 56 44 51 47 53 (of which pension cost) — (30,044) (24,050) France 54 61 39 38 63 37 Group, total 1,091,654 406,121 927,464 335,386 Germany 45 64 36 35 66 34 (of which pension cost) — (119,470) (102,914) Italy 44 55 45 36 47 53 Greece2 4 75 25 2 100 0 Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members, Spain 35 60 40 29 52 48 the CEO and other employees 11 2018 2017 Belgium 22 45 55 16 38 62 Board Other Board Other Russia 5 60 40 6 83 17 and CEO employees and CEO employees Switzerland 13 48 52 9 42 58 Parent Company Austria 6 67 33 4 71 29 Salaries and other Central and ­remuneration 20,489 423,715 16,5731 410,867 ­Eastern Europe 21 52 48 16 50 50 (of which bonus) (6,278) (69,197) (4,065)1 (52,312) The US 80 54 46 48 54 46 Subsidiaries Canada 5 40 60 6 33 67 Salaries and other United Arab ­remuneration — 647,450 14,7321 485,292 ­Emirates 26 15 85 23 17 83 (of which bonus) — (144,734) (1,841)1 (84,261) Total 902 59 41 800 59 41 Group, total 20,489 1,071,165 31,305 896,159 1. At 31 December 2018, the number of full-time employees was 902, while the number of persons (of which bonus) (6,278) (213,931) (5,906) (136,573) employed on the same date was 935. 2. The Greek company was formed on 20 April 2017. 1. 2017 includes both former CEO Geoffrey McDonough and current CEO Guido Oelkers. The former CEO’s salary, bonus and severance pay were mostly paid by the US subsidiary, where the former CEO also has his domicile. Gender composition of the Board and management The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. The information refers to conditions on the balance-sheet date. Guidelines and remuneration 2018 The Annual General Meeting 2018 resolved on guidelines for remuneration GROUP 2018 2017 for the Management as set forth below which shall apply until the annual general meeting 2019. The Management is defined as the managing director Board of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) and the executives who report to the Men 5 4 managing director and are members of the senior management. Women 3 2 Objective Total 8 6 The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the company can attract and CEO and senior executives retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the company. Remuneration for the Management is designed on a total remuneration Men 9 7 approach. The position of total remuneration should be market competitive Women 2 2 without being leading relative to competitors in each local market. The market Total 11 9 comparisons should be made against a set of peer group companies with comparable sizes, industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines should enable international hiring and should support diversity within the GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEES Management. The remuneration may consist of the following components: • A, Fixed Base Pay • B, Variable Pay – so-called Short Term Incentives 59% 41% • C, Long Term Incentives • D, Pensions • E, Other Benefits To the extent a member of the Board of Directors carries out work for the company or for another group company, in addition to the board work, consulting fees and/or other remuneration for such work may be payable. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 85 NOTES Note 11, cont. Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1 2018 Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programmes Total Chairman of the Board Håkan Björklund 1,388 1,388 Other Board members David Allsop2 367 367 Annette Clancy 592 592 Matthew Gantz 610 610 Lennart Johansson 577 577 Helena Saxon 567 567 Hans GCP Schikan 627 627 Elisabeth Svanberg2 377 377 Group Management, 2018 Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,107 6,278 2,516 0 7,8143 25,714 Other senior executives (10 people)3 31,6034 16,519 3,235 1,7014 3,5813 56,639 11 Total 45,815 22,797 5,751 1,701 11,395 87,458 1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, comprising ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2018. The tabel shows the Company’s costs (excluding social security costs). For more information about the Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 2. At the AGM 2018, David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected as new Board members. 3. See also allotment and fulfillment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2015 share programme. 4. Base pay and benefits include an agreed severence pay of SEK 4,463 K. 2017 Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programmes Total Chairman of the Board Håkan Björklund2 1,327 1,327 Other Board members Helena Saxon 513 513 Hans GCP Schikan 553 553 Lennart Johansson 522 522 Matthew Gantz 502 502 Annette Clancy3 510 510 Jeffrey Jonas4 145 145 Theresa Heggie5 110 110 Group Management, 2017 Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer from 22 May 2017 5,126 3,585 1,497 171 2,772 13,151 Other senior executives (8 people)6 7,765 3,953 1,069 901 3,777 17,465 Former Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives Geoffrey McDonough, Chief Executive Officer until 21 May 2017 15,1418 2,321 144 780 5,7857 24,171 Other former senior executives (7 people)6 16,7639 5,046 7,4149 546 3,6327 33,402 Total 48,977 14,905 10,124 2,398 15,966 92,370 1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, comprising eight individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2017. The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security costs). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 2. The fee comprises the Board Chairman fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Chairman’s company was SEK 1,744,000, including compensation for social security costs. 3. The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Board member’s company was SEK 670,000, including compensation for social security costs. 4. Board member Jeffrey Jonas stepped down from the Board in connection with the AGM in May 2017. 5. Board member Theresa Heggie left the Board on 7 April 2017. 6. In 2017, Sobi established a new management structure: an Executive Committee to replace the former Executive Leadership Team in its existing form. The Executive Committee is Sobi’s decision-making body. Remuneration to senior executives in 2017 includes members of the Executive Leadership Team, up to and including the date on which the new management structure was established, and members of the Executive Committee for the period thereafter until the end of the year. 7. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2014 share programme. 8. Base pay includes an agreed severance payment of SEK 11,757 K. 9. Base pay and pension cost include an agreed severance payment of SEK 10,066 K 86 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 11, cont. Fixed base pay Fixed salary The fixed base pay of the Management should be based on competence, Each senior executive’s areas of responsibility, experience and performance responsibility and performance. The company uses an international evaluation have been taken into account in determining the fixed salary. Fixed salary is system in order to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position. . reviewed every year. Variable pay Short-term variable remuneration The annual short-term incentive plan is based on the achievement of annual For the CEO and former CEO, short-term variable remuneration in 2018 was performance objectives (corporate and individual). Payment is based on capped at 75 per cent of the annual gross salary. Variable remuneration is achievement of the pre-determined objectives. The annual performance based on Group targets and individual targets defined by the Board. For other objectives are defined in advance by the Compensation & Benefits Committee senior executives, short-term variable remuneration is capped at 60 per cent and approved by the Board of Directors. of the fixed salary and is based on targets at Group and individual targets. There These objectives are determined for the promotion of the company’s longare regular status reviews of the expected outcome throughout the year and term development, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed reserves are adjusted monthly. An assessment of the variable salary is made on in a way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. The Short-Term each reporting date. Incentives are limited to 75 per cent of the annual gross salary for the managing director and 60 per cent of the fixed annual salary for the other members of the Retirement benefits management. The CEO is entitled to a defined contribution pension amounting to 30 per cent of the basic salary. Sobi has paid out a premium of SEK 2,516 K for 2018. The Long-term incentives retirement age is 65 years. The company can introduce long-term incentive programmes for all or some Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan of its employees. The objectives of such a programme should be to align the with a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary defined 11 employees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term contribution pension commitment of 27 per cent of the pensionable salary, commitment to the company, to be a tool to retain and attract executives and including ITP. top talent, to offer participants to take part in the company’s long-term success In connection with the transition from the defined benefit pension to and value creation, and to contribute to a competitive total remuneration. defined contribution pension, some individual agreements have been made with former senior management members with percentages higher than Pensions 27 per cent. Members of Group Management who are employed in other The preferred pension plan design is defined contribution . If the operating countries receive pension terms according to market practice in the country environment requires the establishment of a defined benefit pension plan by of employment. law or other regulations, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit level should in such cases be limited to the mandatory level. Incentive programmes At the balance-sheet date, Sobi had five active share programmes. To particOther benefits ipate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently employed. Fixed salary during notice periods and severance pay, including payments for All programmes run for three years. The company also has three active any restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent cash-based programmes for employees in the US. The programmes have a to the fixed base pay for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total four-year vesting period. severance payment shall be limited to the existing monthly salary for the remaining months up to the age of 65. Long-term incentive programmes Additional compensation may also be paid out in extraordinary circumThe 2015–2018 Annual General Meetings adopted the Board’s proposals stances, provided that such arrangement is made for management recruitment to establish long-term incentive programmes. The aim has been to create or retention purposes and is agreed on an individual basis. Such extraordinary long-term commitment to Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share arrangements shall be in line with market practice and may for example include in Sobi’s long-term success and value creation, and to enable the company a one-time cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing to attract and retain senior executives and senior managers. The company’s support, retention bonus or severance payment in case of a change of control, long-term share-based remuneration programmes are described below. or similar. The performance share programmes for 2015–2018 are structured according to similar principles. Deviations from the guidelines • The programmes have a three-year vesting period. The Board of Directors may resolve to deviate from the guidelines if the Board • These programmes require a personal investment in Sobi shares, although of Directors, in an individual case, is of the opinion that there are special not in the 2017 and 2018 Management Programmes, which requires no circumstances justifying that. personal investment in Sobi shares. • Employees are entitled to matching shares free of consideration. Some Senior executives’ employment conditions and remuneration employees may also be entitled to performance shares if the performance Sobi aims to offer market terms that enable the company to recruit and retain criteria are met. The number of performance shares that employees are competent personnel (for complete proposal regarding Guidelines for remuentitled to receive differs according to the organisational level. neration for the Management 2019, see the Director’s report). • The employee must be permanently employed during the entire vesting Remuneration to Directors elected by the AGM is paid in accordance with period and not sell the investment shares during this period in order to the decision of the AGM of 2018. No pensions are paid to the Board. receive matching and potential performance shares. The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chairman of the • The performance targets are that the share price will increase by a certain Board together with the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. percentage over a three-year period, and for the 2017 and 2018 manageRemuneration to other members of Group Management is proposed by the ment programme that actual annual revenue during the vesting period will CEO in close cooperation with the Remuneration Committee and approved meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. by the Board. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior executives consists • Employee eligibility differs between the programmes, as does the formulaof fixed salary, variable remuneration in the short and long term, other benefits tion of the performance target. and pensions. Other senior executives refer to those persons who together form the Group Management. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 87 NOTES Note 11, cont. 2015 Share Programme (paid in 2018) 2016 Cash-Based Programme The 2015 share programmes expired in 2018. For 2015, the Board resolved In 2016, the design of the cash-based programme covering all employees that the following performance conditions and other vesting terms were fully in the US and Canada was adjusted. The programme consists of two commet when the 2015 share programme was redeemed on 19 August 2018. In ponents: a time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based the management programme for senior executives and managers, 356,200 component (50 per cent) based on two performance targets. shares with a market value of SEK 94.8 M were allotted. In the employee The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must programme, 48,586 shares with a market value of SEK 13 M were allotted. increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perforThe performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price from mance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out of the programme. 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. 2016 Share Programme The Board also resolved that the following performance conditions and Number of Number of other vesting terms were fully met when the share programme for former performance matching Value CEOs was redeemed on 24 September 2018. 235,767 shares with a market shares shares in SEK value of SEK 61.7 M were allotted to former CEO, based on the length of service during the programme period. The performance target was that the share Other senior executives in the Group (0) 0 0 0 price, adjusted for any dividends, must exceed the threshold of 20 per cent. If the share price increased between 20–100 per cent, a proportional number Total 0 0 0 of performance shares would be allotted. 11 2015 Cash-Based Programme (paid in 2018) 2017 Share Programme The 2017 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, The 2015 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employsenior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. ees in the US. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal investshare price from the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. of the programme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. In addition, sales gramme are allotted performance shares contingent on a certain share price must be 95–105 per cent relative to the average budget over a three-year performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, period. The programme expired in 2018 and the outcome related to the share the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by price performance was 50 per cent, the outcome related to sales was achieved at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased in full. by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 2016 Share Programme 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting The 2016 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering former period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. The performance CEO, senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. target was achieved for 2017 and 2018. The maximum possible allotment of Participation requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred shares is 776,075. Participants in the employee programme are allotted two to as “saving shares” in the programme. matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management proshares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have gramme are allotted one matching share for each saving share, plus additional acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 45,030. performance shares contingent on the achievement of a certain share price performance. For maximum allotment of performance shares, the price of 2017 Cash-Based Programme Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by at least The 2017 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 75 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased by employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 15–75 per cent, programme participants will receive straight-line allotment the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based of performance shares. component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) Participants in the employee programme are allotted two matching shares based on two performance targets. for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, proThe first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must gramme participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired. increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perforThe maximum allotment possible in the management and employee promance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least gramme is 179,853 performance shares and 94,999 matching shares. 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period. When Sobi’s 2016 Share Programme was introduced, a number of employees, including former CEO and other senior executives in the Group, were legally prohibited from participating in the programme as they were in possession of insider information at that time. In view of the legal obstacles and to safeguard Sobi’s ability to attract and retain senior executives, the Board decided to establish a long-term cash-based incentive programme instead, effective from 1 January 2017. For more information, refer to the 2016 Annual Report. 88 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 11, cont. 2018 Share Programme 2017 Share Programme The 2018 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, Number of Number of performance matching Value senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. shares shares in SEK Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. CEO and other senior executives After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management in the Group, (5) 223,357 — 7,364,080 programme are allotted performance shares contingent on a certain share Total 223,357 — 7,364,080 price performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, 2018 Share Programme has increased by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a Number of Number of performance matching Value straight-line allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the shares shares in SEK remaining 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. The CEO and other senior executives performance target for 2018 was achieved. The maximum possible allotment in the Group, (9) 247,030 — 11,820,401 of shares is 746,563. Participants in the employee programme are allotted two Total 247,030 — 11,820,401 matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,054. During the roll-out of the 2018 share programme, a number of employees were insiders and not therefore able to participate in the programme. In light of this, the 11 Board approved the roll-out of LTI 2018B for these employees, and for new employees since the roll-out of LTI 2018A. 2018 Cash-Based Programme The 2018 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period. Expensing of the 2016–2018 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters: Number of Number of perforFair value of Fair value of Fair value of Expected Max. Forfeited matching mance Service, matching performance performance employee allotment shares Start date End date shares shares in months share share1 share2 turnover, % of shares 2018 2016 Share Programme 28 Oct 2016 28 Oct 2019 94,999 179,853 36 94.05 33.34 n/a 5 274,852 29,180 2017:1 Share Programme, All employees 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 45,030 n/a 36 136.85 n/a n/a 5 45,030 1,900 2017:2 Share Programme, Management 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 n/a 776,075 36 n/a 54.95 136.85 6 776,075 136,464 2018:1 Share Programme, All employees 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 41,054 n/a 36 184.32 n/a n/a 7 41,054 272 2018:2 Share Programme, Management 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 n/a 746,563 36 n/a 79.75 184.32 7 746,563 26,686 1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price development, see section 2017 and 2018 Share Programme above. 2. Fair value of performance share associated with income, see section 2017 and 2018 Share Programme above. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share over the last three years. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 89 NOTES 12 Remuneration of auditors 14 Financial income GROUP 2018 2017 GROUP 2018 2017 EY Interest income1 2,742 1,219 Auditing assignments1 –4,972 –4,782 Exchange-rate gains2 16,684 — Audit activities in addition to Total 19,426 1,219 the auditing ­assignment –1,428 –681 Tax consultancy –94 –81 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Other services –625 –332 Interest income, Group companies 20,016 11,258 Total EY –7,119 –5,876 Interest income, other 1,396 398 Exchange-rate gains2 13,400 — PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Total 34,812 11,656 EY 1. According to effective interest method. Auditing assignments1 –2,242 –1,921 2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and comprised a gain in 2018, but a loss in 2017, see Note 15. SEK –48 M (0) is attributable to derivatives valued at fair value through profit and loss. Audit activities in addition to Other items are valued at amortised cost using the effective interest method. the auditing ­assignment –1,332 –593 Tax consultancy –59 –81 12 Other services –625 –332 13 Total EY –4,257 –2,927 15 Financial expenses 1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide 14 audit advice. GROUP 2018 2017 15 Interest expense, borrowings1 –16,086 –13,886 Interest expense1,2 –40,377 –50,085 13 Costs according to type of cost Exchange-rate losses3 — –3,389 Management costs1 –2,173 –1,277 GROUP 2018 2017 Other –1,023 –524 Raw materials and consumables –2,056,110 –1,509,077 Total –59,659 –69,161 Other external costs –1,860,260 –1,499,690 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Costs for remuneration of employees –1,615,638 –1,363,445 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –484,574 –485,977 Interest expense, Group companies –10,557 –8,945 Other operating expenses –199,868 –145,226 Interest expense, borrowings1 –15,960 –13,886 Total –6,216,450 –5,003,415 Interest expense, other 1,2 –40,192 –50,085 Exchange-rate losses3 — –1,588 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Management costs1 –2,173 –1,277 Raw materials and consumables –1,995,014 –1,516,485 Other –596 –518 Other external costs –1,645,936 –1,565,730 Total –69,478 –76,299 Costs for remuneration of employees –765,095 –711,675 1. According to effective interest method. 2. Pertains to interest expense on loans from Sanofi. Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –320,816 –322,750 3. The figures include realised and unrealised currency effects of SEK 0 M (8) from derivatives. For 2018, SEK 0 M (8) attributable to derivatives, is measured at fair value through profit and loss. Other operating expenses –193,577 –133,824 Other items are valued at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Total –4,920,438 –4,250,464 1. 2017 includes an impairment of SEK 12 M related to one of the early-phase clinical ­programmes, no similair impairment occurred during 2018. The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative expenses, research and development costs and other operating expenses in the income statement classified by function of expense. 90 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES 16 Income tax Current tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings Reconciliation of effective tax GROUP 2018 2017 GROUP 2018 2017 Current tax Profit before tax 3,081,735 1,532,423 Tax expense/income for the period1 –765,090 –209,067 Tax at applicable tax rate for Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,465 –61 the Parent Company2 –677,982 –337,133 Total current tax reported for the Group –766,555 –209,128 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden3 41,455 — Effect of changed tax rate in the US — –28,424 Deferred tax Effect of foreign tax rates –11,496 –12,141 Excess depreciation –65,024 –213,400 Trade receivables 4,555 — Change in depreciation method 19,729 19,729 Provision for pensions 4,494 6,608 Inventory 64,961 –4,331 Non-deductible expenses –24,364 –19,318 Acquired product rights 48,976 38,148 Non-taxable income — 2,241 Other intangible assets –7,584 –3,720 Deductible costs, not recognised Trade receivables 12,374 1,671 in profit or loss 433 1,710 Provision for pensions 2,553 8,299 Taxable income, not recognised Tax loss carry-forward 25,650 –15,447 in profit or loss — –19 Pharmaceutical tax 3,139 1,233 Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,465 –61 Other –2,159 –6,865 Other 430 2,726 Total deferred tax reported for the Group 102,615 –174,683 Recognised effective tax for the Group –663,940 –383,811 Total tax reported for the Group –663,940 –383,811 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 16 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Profit before tax 3,059,976 –375,662 Current tax Tax at applicable tax rate for the Parent Company2 –673,195 82,646 Tax expense/income for the period1 –698,446 –146,855 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden3 –843 — Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,402 64 Write-down of shares in subsidiaries — –220,000 Total current tax reported for the Parent Company –699,848 –146,791 Provision for pensions 4,494 6,608 Controlled Foreign Company taxation –1,845 — Deferred tax Non-deductible expenses –5,423 –1,897 Change in depreciation method 19,729 19,729 Non-taxable income — 1 Provision for pensions 2,863 9,094 Deductible costs, not recognised Tax loss carry-forward — –15,447 in profit or loss — 404 Other –957 1,240 Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,402 64 Total deferred tax reported for Recognised effective tax for the Parent Company 21,635 14,616 the Parent Company –678,213 –132,175 Total tax reported for the Parent Company –678,213 –132,175 1. In addition to current tax recognised in earnings, tax on the Parent Company’s cash-flow hedges in other comprehensive income reduced the current tax liability by SEK 39 M (–42). 2. Applicable tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company is 22 per cent (22). 3. In 2018, a decision was made in Sweden to lower the tax rate to 21.4% from 2019, and to 20.6% from 2021. The entire effect of the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities and tax assets was recognised during the year. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 91 NOTES 17 Intangible assets and impairment testing Ongoing Licenses Product and Capitalised capitalised GROUP Goodwill and patents marketing-rights expenditures4 expenditures4 Total 1 January–31 December 2017 Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 573,097 6,738,415 126,426 30,072 9,022,168 Acquisitions1 — — 59,017 12,414 20,491 91,922 Impairments3 — –12,000 — — — –12,000 Exchange differences — 15 — –69 — –54 Closing cost 1,554,158 561,112 6,797,432 138,771 50,563 9,102,036 Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –349,033 –1,785,651 –81,474 — –2,216,158 Amortisation — –38,766 –386,594 –15,492 — –440,852 Exchange differences — –13 — 58 — 45 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –387,812 –2,172,245 –96,908 — –2,656,965 Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 173,300 4,625,187 41,863 50,563 6,445,071 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 561,112 6,797,432 138,771 50,563 9,102,036 Acquisitions2 — — 4,186,179 15,861 26,767 4,228,807 Scrapping3 — –10,988 — — — –10,988 Reclassification — — –75,069 72,130 –1,797 –4,736 Exchange differences — 9 –59,019 59 — –58,951 Closing cost 1,554,158 550,133 10,849,523 226,821 75,533 13,256,168 Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –387,812 –2,172,245 , –96,908 — –2,656,965 Amortisation — –38,571 –386,596 –23,447 — –448,614 17 Scrapping3 — 8,154 — — — 8,154 Exchange differences — –8 — –59 — –67 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — 418,237 –2,558,841 –120,414 — –3,097,492 Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 131,896 8,290,682 106,407 75,533 10,158,676 1. In 2017, acquisitions relate to the right to participate in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme SEK 56 M, LMS (training system) for SEK 7 M and other minor investments totalling SEK 29 M divided between the various intangible items. 2. In 2018, acquisitions relate mainly to the investment of CHF 450 M in Emapalumab, additional acquisition costs of CHF 2.6 M, and investments primarily in IT. Se vidare under Avtal med Novimmune. 3. 2018: Refers to scrapping of completed distribution agreements. 2017: Pertains to impairment of one of the early-phase clinical programmes. 4. Capitalised expenditures comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised expenditures are amortised according to plan. 92 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 17, cont. Product and Ongoing Licenses marketing Capitalised capitalised PARENT COMPANY and patents rights expenditures4 expenditures4 Total 1 January–31 December 2017 Opening accumulated cost 76,785 4,792,343 119,517 29,988 5,018,633 Acquisitions1 — 59,017 12,414 20,491 91,922 Impairments3 –12,000 — — — –12,000 Closing cost 64,785 4,851,360 131,931 50,479 5,098,555 Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –18,448 –660,558 –77,628 — –756,634 Amortisation –6,669 –262,213 –15,321 — –284,203 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –25,117 –922,771 –92,949 — –1,040,837 Closing carrying amount 39,668 3,928,589 38,982 50,479 4,057,718 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 64,785 4,851,360 131,931 50,479 5,098,555 Acquisitions2 — — 15,861 26,767 42,628 Scrapping3 –10,988 — — — –10,988 Reclassification — –75,069 72,130 –1,797 –4,736 Closing cost 53,797 4,776,291 219,922 75,449 5,125,459 Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –25,117 –922,771 –92,949 — –1,040,837 Amortisation –6,484 –262,216 –23,447 — –292,247 Scrapping3 8,154 — — — 8,154 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –23,447 –1,184,987 –116,396 — –1,324,830 Closing carrying amount 30,350 3,591,304 103,526 75,449 3,800,629 1. In 2017, acquisitions relate to the right to participate in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme SEK 56 M, LMS (training system) for SEK 7 M and other minor investments totalling SEK 29 M divided between the various intangible items. 2. In 2018, acquisitions relate to investments, mainly in IT. 17 3. 2018: Refers to scrapping of completed contracts. 2017: Pertains to impairment/scrapping of one of the early-phase clinical programmes. 4. Capitalised expenditures comprises IT projects and expenditures for transfer of technology in manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised expenditures are amortised according to plan. Impairment testing of intangible assets Development projects and product rights Goodwill Development projects and product rights are tested annually for impairment. The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use for Separate impairment testing has been carried out for each product and project. the smallest cash-generating unit, which for Sobi is deemed to be the Group The assessment of the value of development projects and product rights is (excluding ReFacto). based on the value in use for each asset. The value in use is based on cash Cash flows are based on financial plans that have been established by manflows that are expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. agement covering a four-year period. The financial plans have been drawn up When discounting future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described based on past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans in the table. includes assumptions about the current product development and future prodKey parameters for impairment testing of development projects are future uct launches. The financial planning also includes assumptions of price trends, cash flows from the individual asset, the probability of achieving positive outsales performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond a four-year period have comes in clinical trials, and assumptions of the best commercial outcome. been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. On 31 DecemFuture cash flows are estimated with regard to project development in the ber 2018, Sobi’s goodwill amounted toSEK 1,554 M (1,554). There is no indicashort and long-term and adjusted for the likelihood of the project being comtion of goodwill impairment at Group level. mercialised. The earlier in the chain of development the project is, the higher The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before the risk. As it passes through the defined development phases, the likelihood of and after tax: reaching the market increases. The likelihood of a project successfully coming through the relevant development phase is assessed on the basis of the projPARAMETER, % 2018 2017 ect’s scientific potential to have a positive outcome in the individual phase of the development process. A best-case assumption is made on the basis of the Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2 parameters that have the greatest effect on whether the project will develop Discount rate before tax 11.5 11.9 into a drug with the highest commercial potential, and on the basis of what is Discount rate after tax 9.0 9.2 reasonable to assume about the project’s scientific profile using the information currently available. The forecast period is based on the product’s estimated Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC): market life. • Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial In the impairment testing of product and marketing rights, a number of ­investment with the lowest possible risk. assumptions are made. The assumptions are forecasts of future sales revenue, • Market risk premium: 6.4 per cent (6.3). costs attributable to each product, product life and the discount rate. In cases • Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is calculated at 1.31 (1.31). where the contract for product and marketing rights exceed four years, the • Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing costs. term of contract is used as the remaining life. The impairment testing of • Tax rate: according to tax rates in Sweden. ­product and marketing rights did not indicate any impairment. Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following variables in the impairment testing of goodwill: the discount rate, margin, sales volume and eternal growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good ­margins in the calculation. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 93 NOTES Note 17, cont. Impairment in 2018 the base rate and the 2 per cent Sobi had already received on Sanofi’s sales. There has been no write down of intangible assets 2018. This amount was offset against the liability and generated non-recurring In 2017, Sobi’s assessment of the value of one of the early-phase clinical prorevenue which did not affect cash flow. grammes indicated an impairment of SEK 12 M. The impairment had a negative • From Sobi’s first commercial sales, the royalty rates between the companies impact on intangible assets. are adjusted until the liability has been repaid in full (see the table). • If full payment has not been made within six years of Sanofi’s first commerCONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS cial sales for each programme, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the Sobi has undertaken to make additional payments under certain acquisition remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of the date of and licensing agreements (often referred to as milestone payments) linked to Sanofi’s first commercial sales. the achievement of certain defined targets. The most significant agreements are listed below. Elocta The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Elocta is AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI, PREVIOUS BIOVERATIV USD 211 M. On 24 November 2015, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the EuroBioverativ was created as a spin-off from Biogen’s haemophilia business and pean Commission had approved Elocta for the treatment of haemophilia A in separated from Biogen on 1 February 2017. Bioverativ is a Sanofi company all 28 EU member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In conneclocated in Massachusetts, US. Sanofy has during 2018 acquired Bioverativ. tion with the approval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against Sanofi will continue to collaborate with Sobi in our joint development prothe liability. In connection with its first commercial sales in January 2016, Sobi grammes. credited retroactive royalty revenue of SEK 322 M against the liability. At 31 Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi regarding the development December 2018, the remaining liability was SEK 412 M (USD 46 M), corre­ and commercialisation of Elocta and Alprolix, Sanofi took full responsibility for sponding to the discounted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to development and production, plus associated costs, until Sobi exercised its USD 46 M. opt-in right to the programmes. There are similar arrangements with Sanofi in place for the XTEN-programmes5 BIVV001 and BIVV002. Alprolix Under Sobi’s opt-in rights to the development and commercialisation of the The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Alprolix is programmes, Sobi obtained the commercial rights for Europe, North Africa, USD 185 M. On 13 May 2016, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi has Commission had approved Alprolix for the treatment of haemophilia B in all 28 commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American territory) EU member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct territory the approval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against the liabiland Sanofi’s distribution territory). Sobi and Sanofi receive a royalty on each ity. In connection with its first commercial sales in June 2016, Sobi credited retother’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s terriroactive royalty revenue of SEK 386 M against the liability. At 31 December tory according to the royalty rates set out in the table on the next page. 2018, the remaining liability was SEK 692 M (USD 77 M), corresponding to the 17 Sobi opted to assume responsibility for the final regulatory process and discounted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to USD 79 M. other commercialisation activities in Sobi’s territory by paying a deposit of USD 10 M per programme – for Elocta in 2014, and Alprolix in 2015. BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) In September 2014, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development proLiability arising from development programmes gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia A treatment BIVV001 On taking over commercialisation and the regulatory process, Sobi became lia(rFVII-IFc-VWF-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement ble to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent of the development and production between Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to costs arising for each programme from 1 October 2009. Reimbursement of the programme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s development activities that only benefited Sobi’s territory was 100 per cent. territory according to the principles described above. Debt settlement BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN) Sobi’s reimbursement to Sanofi for each development programme takes the In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development profollowing three forms: gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment BIVV002 • When regulatory approval was granted in the EU, a deposit of USD 10 M per (rFIXFc-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between product was transferred to Sanofi and offset against Sobi’s liability. Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the pro• With the first commercial sales of each of its products, Sobi was able to gramme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s credit retroactive royalty revenue corresponding to the difference between ­territory according to the principles described above. Percentage rates for royalties and reimbursement between the companies Percentage rates after the first commercial sales in Sobi’s territory if Sobi exercises its opt-in right3 Adjusted Net royalty royalty rate during payment during Method Base rate, %3 ­repayment period3 ­repayment period4, % From Sobi to Sanofi based on Royalty on sales net sales in Sobi’s territory 12 Base rate plus 5% 17 Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales Royalty on sales in North America 12 Base rate minus 5% 7 Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales Royalty on sales in Sanofi’s territories outside North America 17 Base rate minus 5% 12 Sanofi to Sobi based on net profit1 Royalty on net profit from Sanofi’s distribution territory2 50 Base rate minus 15% 35 1. Net profit relates to Sanofi’s revenue before tax from distributors (third parties), less costs incurred by Sanofi for supporting this sale. 2. Sanofi’s distribution territory pertains to the territory in which sales are conducted through a third party. 3. Base rate impacts earnings. Repayment of the liability comprises the difference between the base rate and the adjusted royalty. 4. Actual payments that impact cash flow. 5. XTEN is Sanofi’s development programme. Sobi has chosen to add this programme to the collaboration agreement, but has not yet exercised its opt-in right. 94 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 17, cont. AGREEMENT WITH NOVIMMUNE Emapalumab Sobi has acquired the global rights to emapalumab from Novimmune. that certain c­ riteria are met. Sobi holds assets of approximately SEK 4,127 M On 20 November 2018, emapalumab was approved by the US Food and and liabilities of SEK 3,649 M in ­relation to emapalumab. Drug Administration (FDA). The agreement stipulates an initial cash payUpon the completion of all payments, Sobi will acquire the intellectual ment CHF 50 M (SEK 450 M) (paid in Q3 2018), with additional payments of property rights for emapalumab, including patents, data and know-how. Either CHF 400 M (SEK 3,600 M) up to an eight-year period. The agreement includes party has the option of bringing forward the date of the additional payments to milestone payments for approval in the US and the EMA, respectively, of any time after 1 July 2019. A non-binding letter of intent regarding a possible USD 1 M per milestone. In addition, minor amounts will be payable provided subsequent acquisition of emapalumab has also been signed. 18 Property, plant and equipment Equipment, Other Plant and tools, fixtures non-current Construction GROUP machinery and fittings assets in progress Total 1 January–31 December 2017 Opening accumulated cost 435,449 225,281 15,361 14,770 690,861 Acquisitions 28,636 9,854 2,762 6,271 47,523 Reclassification — 542 — — 542 Write-offs –922 –1,752 –2,886 — –5,560 Exchange differences 36 9 — — 45 Closing cost 463,199 233,934 15,237 21,041 733,411 Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –377,473 –187,929 –4,436 — –569,838 Amortisation –15,001 –15,599 –2,525 — –33,125 Reclassification — –542 — — –542 17 Write-offs 922 1,713 1,721 — 4,356 18 Exchange differences –13 –67 — — –80 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –391,565 –202,424 –5,240 — –599,229 Closing carrying amount 71,634 31,510 9,997 21,041 134,182 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 463,199 233,934 15,237 21,041 733,411 Acquisitions 2,476 9,629 1,913 26,494 40,512 Reclassification 33,191 6,343 — –38,968 566 Write-offs –33,312 –6,439 –5,520 — –45,271 Exchange differences 73 1,372 –13 — 1,432 Closing cost 465,627 244,839 11,617 8,567 730,650 Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –391,565 –202,424 –5,240 — –599,229 Amortisation –18,878 –14,759 –2,351 — –35,988 Reclassification — –565 — — –565 Write-offs 33,288 6,069 2,694 — 42,051 Exchange differences –39 –658 77 — –620 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –377,194 –212,337 –4,820 — –594,351 Closing carrying amount 88,433 32,502 6,797 8,567 136,299 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 95 NOTES Note 18, cont. Equipment, Other Plant and tools, fixtures non-current Construction PARENT COMPANY machinery and fittings assets in progress Total 1 January–31 December 2017 Opening accumulated cost 430,119 199,766 5,210 14,770 649,865 Acquisitions 28,557 2,583 — 6,271 37,411 Disposals –922 — — — –922 Closing cost 457,754 202,349 5,210 21,041 686,354 Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –371,582 –173,525 –1,560 — –546,667 Amortisation –14,653 –11,371 –524 — –26,548 Disposals 922 — — — 922 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –385,313 –184,896 –2,084 — –572,293 Closing carrying amount 72,441 17,453 3,126 21,041 114,061 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 457,754 202,349 5,210 21,041 686,354 Acquisitions — — — 26,494 26,494 Reclassification 33,191 5,778 — –38,968 1 Disposals –33,312 –5,668 — — –39,580 Closing cost 457,633 202,459 5,210 8,567 674,169 Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –385,313 –184,896 –2,084 — —572,293 Amortisation –18,509 9,636 –524 — –28,669 Disposals 33,288 5,668 — — 38,956 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –370,534 –188,864 –2,608 — –562,006 18 Closing carrying amount 87,099 13,595 2,602 8,567 111,863 19 19 Participations in Group companies PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Accumulated cost At beginning of year 4,059,768 4,059,573 Investment1 592,273 195 Total 4,652,041 4,059,768 Accumulated impairment At beginning of year –1,177,435 –177,435 Impairment for the year — –1,000,000 Total –1,177,435 –1,177,435 Carrying amount at end of period 3,474,606 2,882,333 1. Investment for the year relates to the acquisition of the perpetual rights to emapalumab from Novimmune SA, which was conducted by the subsidiary in Switzerland. 96 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 19, cont. Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies Number of SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICE participations Participations, %1 Carrying amount Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329–5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 2,655,588 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l, 5288990962, Parma, Italy OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132 Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137 Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, USA 1,000 100 7 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8 BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 165 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284,917,678, Lucerne, Switzerland 100 100 592,996 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65 Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195 Total 3,474,606 1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes. 2. The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB. 19 20 Financial assets 21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 20 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities GROUP 2018 2017 21 Deferred tax Deferred tax Accumulated cost GROUP 2018 assets liabilities Net At beginning of year 35,155 1,956 Excess depreciation — –532,304 –532,304 Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391 Inventory 180,890 — 180,890 Financial receivables 2,036 1,356 Acquired product rights — –202,930 –202,930 Returned deposit –1,339 –619 Other intangible assets 61,029 — 61,029 Derivatives 5,268 — Trade receivables 14,045 — 14,045 Other — 71 Provision for pensions 13,969 –135 13,834 Accumulated cost 55,440 35,155 Pharmaceutical tax 5,929 — 5,929 Carrying amount at end of period 55,440 35,155 Tax loss carry-forward1 26,379 — 26,379 Other 3,248 –3,107 141 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Total 305,489 –738,476 –432,987 Accumulated cost Offsetting –74,655 74,655 — At beginning of year 32,392 1 Tax assets/liabilities, net 230,834 –663,821 –432,987 Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391 1. Deferred tax on loss carry-forward for the year relates to losses accumulated during the year that Derivatives 5,268 — are expected to be utilized before they expire, see also Note 4. Accumulated cost 51,979 32,392 Carrying amount at end of period 51,979 32,392 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 97 NOTES Note 21, cont. Deferred tax Deferred tax GROUP 2017 assets liabilities Net Excess depreciation — –467,280 –467,280 Change in depreciation method — –19,729 –19,729 Inventory 115,929 — 115,929 Acquired product rights — –251,906 –251,906 Other intangible assets 68,613 — 68,613 Trade receivables 1,671 — 1,671 Provision for pensions 11,390 — 11,390 Pharmaceutical tax 2,669 — 2,669 Other 3,573 –1,233 2,340 Total 203,845 –740,149 –536,303 Offsetting –72,416 72,416 — Tax assets/liabilities, net 131,429 –667,733 –536,303 The Parent Company’s total deferred tax assets/liabilities amounted to SEK 11 M (–10), comprising a deferred tax liability of SEK 12 M (9) related to pension ­provisions, a deferred tax asset of SEK 2 M (2) related to trade receivables, a deferred tax liability of SEK –3 M (–1) related to derivatives and a deferred tax liability of SEK –1 M (–1) related to restoration reserve. Deferred tax was cal­ culated using the new tax rates introduced in Sweden during the year, see Notes 2 and 16. Change in deferred tax on temporary differences and loss carry-forward Recognised in other Amount at Recognised comprehensive Amount at GROUP 2018 beginning of year in profit or loss income end of year Excess depreciation –467,280 –65,024 — –532,304 Change in depreciation method –19,729 19,729 — — Inventory 115,929 64,961 — 180,890 Acquired product rights –251,906 48,976 — –202,930 21 Other intangible assets 68,613 –7,584 — 61,029 Trade receivables 1,671 12,374 — 14,045 Provision for pensions 11,390 2,553 –109 13,834 Tax loss carry-forward1 — 25,650 729 26,379 Pharmaceutical tax 2,669 3,139 121 5,929 Other 2,340 –2,159 –40 141 Total 536,303 102,615 701 –432,987 1. Deferred tax on loss carry-forward for the year relates to losses accumulated during the year that are expected to be utilized before they expire, see also Note 4. Recognised in other Amount at Recognised comprehensive Amount at GROUP 2017 beginning of year in profit or loss income end of year Excess depreciation –253,880 –213,400 — –467,280 Change in depreciation method –39,458 19,729 — –19,729 Inventory 120,260 –4,331 — 115,929 Acquired product rights –290,054 38,148 — –251,906 Other intangible assets 72,333 –3,720 — 68,613 Trade receivables — 1,671 — 1,671 Provision for pensions 2,805 8,299 286 11,390 Tax loss carry-forward 15,368 –15,447 79 — Pharmaceutical tax 1,358 1,233 78 2,669 Other 9,607 –6,864 –404 2,340 Total –361,661 –174,683 39 –536,303 98 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES 22 Inventories 23 Trade and other receivables  GROUP 2018 2017 GROUP 2018 2017 Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905 Trade receivables 1,734,990 1,164,054 Work in progress 581,185 536,603 Minus: Finished goods and goods for resale 685,762 495,760 Provision for expected credit losses –69,782 –35,038 Total 1,284,112 1,053,268 Trade receivables, net 1,665,208 1,129,016 Tax assets 14,817 25,232 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods sold and amounted to SEK 2,056,110 K (1,516,822). 2017 included a one-off Other receivables 77,919 38,732 adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the Total other receivables 92,736 63,964 pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016. Total trade and other receivables 1,757,944 1,192,980 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Trade receivables 597,693 413,296 Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905 Minus: Work in progress 581,185 536,603 Provision for expected credit losses –8,097 –7,594 Finished goods and goods for resale 472,462 336,166 Trade receivables, net 589,596 405,702 Total 1,070,812 893,674 Tax assets 670 22,261 Other receivables 56,319 30,831 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods Total other receivables 56,989 53,092 sold and amounted to SEK 1,995,014 K (1,516,485). 2017 included a one-off Total trade and other receivables 646,585 458,794 adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016. Sobi’s clients are primarily hospitals and government authorities. The large ­client base has a wide geographic spread, with no specific concentration of receivables. The Group’s exposure to future credit losses is continuously monitored by country and by type of counterparty. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision for an expected credit loss shall be made in accord­ ance with the principles described in Note 2. This note also includes information on client’s payment conditions. At 31 December 2018, overdue customer receivables for the Group amounted to SEK 518 M (291), on which SEK 70 M (35) are included in the provision for future credit losses. The year’s profit has been affected by confirmed credit losses of SEK 2.525 M, of which SEK 1.015 M are attributed to the parent company. The new accounting standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments came into effect 22 on 1 January 2018. New accounting principles for expected credit losses are applied to trade receivables and contract assets when IFRS 15 is applied. 23 Sobi has analysed the effects of the introduction of IFRS 9 on the Group’s financial statements, and this did not result in any material impact on the opening balances in 2018. Changes in the provision for expected credit losses are as follows: Provision for expected credit losses GROUP 2018 2017 At beginning of year –35,038 –49,279 Provision for expected credit losses –40,805 –10,566 Reversed provisions 6,061 24,807 At end of year –69,782 –35,038 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 At beginning of year –7,594 –12,799 Provision for expected credit losses –2,258 –2,296 Reversed provisions 1,755 7,501 At end of year –8,097 –7,594 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 99 NOTES Note 23, cont. Past due trade receivables 24  Prepaid expenses and accrued income GROUP 2018 2017 Not past due 1,147,113 838,737 GROUP 2018 2017 Past due 1–30 days 371,251 183,050 Accrued royalty revenue1 364,250 327,390 Past due 31–90 days 80,146 68,366 Prepaid lease payments 172 176 Past due 91–120 days 10,283 11,954 Prepaid rents 21,743 16,174 Past due > 121 days 56,415 27,273 Prepaid insurance expenses 854 14,469 Total 1,665,208 1,129,016 Accrued interest income 42,969 2,884 Prepaid IT licenses 18,394 11,229 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities 18,987 16,975 Not past due 439,469 335,870 Other accrued income1 — 179 Past due 1–30 days 142,159 62,111 Other prepaid expenses 93,741 42,850 Past due 31–90 days 5,630 5,754 Total 561,110 432,326 Past due 91–120 days 1,718 — Past due > 121 days 620 1,967 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Total 589,596 405,702 Accrued royalty revenue1 364,250 327,390 Prepaid rents 15,693 15,012 Recognised amount per currency for trade and other receivables Prepaid insurance expenses — 13,343 GROUP 2018 2017 Accrued interest income 42,969 2,884 Prepaid IT licenses 18,394 11,229 AUD 3,461 10,459 Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities 18,987 16,975 CHF 44,405 20,333 Other prepaid expenses 71,489 31,361 CZK 1,639 2,088 Total 531,782 418,194 DKK 34,338 24,786 1. These are classified as contract assets according to IFRS 15. EUR 1,134,478 661,603 GBP 122,402 101,106 NOK 37,947 35,945 PLN 3,957 5,129 25 Cash and cash equivalents RON 9,677 10,248 SEK 191,285 167,292 2018 2017 USD 161,938 150,155 Carrying Carrying Other currencies 12,417 3,834 GROUP Fair value amount Fair value amount Total 1,757,944 1,192,980 Cash and cash 23 equivalents 2,998,742 2,998,742 1,478,496 1,478,496 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Total 2,998,742 2,998,742 1,478,496 1,478,496 24 AUD 3,461 10,459 25 2018 2017 CHF 38,400 20,333 Carrying Carrying CZK 1,283 1,799 PARENT COMPANY Fair value amount Fair value amount DKK 33,763 24,619 Cash and cash EUR 294,391 172,013 equivalents 2,761,759 2,761,759 1,381,369 1,381,369 GBP — — Total 2,761,759 2,761,759 1,381,369 1,381,369 NOK 37,835 35,404 PLN 3,957 5,129 Cash and cash equivalents relate to the holding of funds in bank accounts. RON 9,677 10,248 SEK 191,751 167,292 USD 25,838 9,631 Other currencies 6,229 1,865 Total 646,585 458,794 100 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES 26 Financial assets and liabilities per category (Group) 1 Assets measured at 3 Assets measured at fair value through amortised cost profit or loss Derivatives Total 4 31 December 2018 Assets in the balance sheet 5 Trade receivables 1,665,208 — — 1,665,208 6 Endowment insurance — 46,711 — 46,711 Derivatives1 — — 14,924 14,924 7 Fair value hedges — 5,268 — 5,267 8 Cash and cash equivalents 2,998,742 — — 2,998,742 Total 4,663,950 51,978 14,924 4,730,852 9 10 31 December 2017 Assets in the balance sheet 11 Trade receivables 1,129,016 — — 1,129,016 11 Endowment insurance — 32,391 — 32,391 Derivatives — — 5,095 5,095 13 Cash and cash equivalents 1,478,496 — — 1,478,496 14 Total 2,607,512 32,391 5,095 2,644,998 15 Liabilities measured Other financial at amortised cost liabilities Derivatives Total 16 31 December 2018 16 Liabilities in the balance sheet 16 Finance leases 3,986 — — 3,986 Derivatives2 — — 8,181 8,181 16 Trade payables 486,972 — — 486,972 16 Other liabilities 4,887,001 — — 4,887,001 Total 5,377,959 — 8,181 5,386,140 16 16 31 December 2017 Liabilities in the balance sheet 16 Finance leases — 6,668 — 6,668 16 Derivatives — — 2,624 2,624 Trade payables — 358,449 — 358,449 25 Other liabilities — 1,646,728 — 1,646,728 26 Total — 2,011,845 2,624 2,014,469 26 See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. 1. Of the 2018 derivatives, SEK 8 M (5) is measured at fair value through profit and loss, SEK 7 M (0) is included in cash flow hedges. 28 2. Derivatives on the liability side consist of SEK 5 M (0) hedged at fair value and SEK 3 M (0) included in cash flow hedges. 29 Financial instruments measured at fair value The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based on their classification in the fair value hierarchy. 30 The different levels are defined as follows: 31 • Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices included in Level 1. 32 • Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 33 AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 34 Financial assets measured at fair 35 value through profit or loss Derivatives held for sale 2,445 2,445 36 Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes 4,298 4,298 Total assets 6,743 6,743 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 101 NOTES Note 26, cont. AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 28 Post-employment benefits Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined-­ Derivatives held for trading — 2,471 — 2,471 contribution or defined-benefit plans. In Sweden, post-employment benefits are mainly funded by defined-contribution plans. At 31 December 2018, five Total assets — 2,471 — 2,471 people in the Norwegian subsidiary and two people in the Swedish Parent All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance Company were covered by defined-benefit plans, while other employees were with IFRS. At 31 December 2018, the carrying amount of derivatives in the bal­covered by defined-contribution plans. ance sheet was SEK 7 M (2), see also Note 26. Defined-contribution plan by Alecta and pension benefits For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pension commitments for retirement and family pensions are insured through 27 Other liabilities, current and non-current Alecta. According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2018 financial year, the company GROUP 2018 2017 did not have access to sufficient information to report its proportionate share Current of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and expenses, which meant that it has not Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 676,778 579,895 been possible to report the plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore reported as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the Liability to Novimmune 3,639,695 — defined-benefit retirement and family pension is calculated individually, and is Non-invoiced goods received 28,826 14,678 based on factors that include salary, previously earned pension and expected Other 114,003 67,539 remaining period of service. In the next reporting period, expected contribuTotal 4,459,302 662,112 tions for ITP 2 plans insured through Alecta amount to SEK 25 M (25). The Group’s share of the total plan contributions and the Group’s share of the total Non-current number of active members in the plan are insignificant. Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 427,699 1,066,833 The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuTotal 427,699 1,066,833 arial methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The collective funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per Current cent, measures should be taken to create the right conditions for the ratio to return to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an appropriate measure could Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 676,778 579,895 be to raise the agreed price for new policies and extensions of existing beneNon-invoiced goods received 28,826 14,678 fits. If the ratio is high, premium reductions could be introduced. At the end Other 25,724 12,535 of 2018, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 142 per Total 731,328 607,108 cent (154). Some current and former executives are not covered by the premium, so Non-current a direct pension is used for that part of the premium which is not deductible. Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 427,699 1,066,833 A direct pension is secured by the company undertaking an endowment insurance policy which is credited to the executive. Total 427,699 1,066,833 Defined-benefit pension plan Following EU approval of Elocta and Alprolix, Sobi acquired the rights to market The defined-benefit pension commitments are calculated annually on the the products in certain markets. The cost of marketing rights corresponds to 50 ­balance-sheet date, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has a defined-benefit per cent of Sanofi Genzyme’s development costs for each product. After revipension plan for the subsidiary in Norway and for two individuals in the Parent sion, the original nominal amounts were USD 211 M for Elocta and USD 185 M Company in Sweden. for Alprolix. As these liabilities will be repaid over a number of years, it is the disThe present value of the obligation includes special payroll tax, in accord­ counted values after the repayments that are reflected in the balance sheet 26 (USD 46 M for Elocta and USD 77 M for Alprolix). The right to market the prodance with IAS 19, for the Swedish and Norwegian pension plans. Pension costs are recognised under the items of selling expenses, adminisucts in certain markets, recorded as intangible assets, is initially recognised at 27 the same value as the liabilities. The costs correspond to the discounted liabiltrative expenses and research and development costs. ity, and the difference compared with nominal amounts gives rise to deferred 28 Risks connected to defined-benefit pension plans tax in the financial statements. The risk associated with currency effects on Through its defined-benefit pension plans for post-employment benefits, the these liabilities is reduced by applying hedge accounting. This is done by hedgGroup is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are: ing highly probable future inflows in USD using cash flow hedges, and the Life expectancy assumptions:Most of the pension commitments entail that effect of the remeasurements of the liabilities is reflected in other comprehenthe employees covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, accordsive income. If full payment has not been made within six years of the first comingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will result in higher pension liabilmercial sale of each product, Sanofi Genzyme is entitled to request that Sobi ities. This is most significant in the Swedish plan, in which inflation increases pay the remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of Sanofi result in higher sensitivity to changes in the life expectancy assumptions. Genzyme’s first commercial sale. Liability of CHF 450 M to Novimmune perInflation risk:Some of the plan’s pension commitments are linked to inflation. tains to the acquisition of the license agreement for Emapalumab. The liability Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, a ceiling has is classified as current, since additional payments may be accelerated by either been set for the level of inflation to protect the plan against exceptional party at any time after 1 July 2019. The liability is non-interest-bearing. increases in inflation). Most of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixedrate bonds), or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. 102 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES Note 28, cont. Discount rate:A decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will increase Actuarial assumptions on the balance-sheet date the liabilities of the plan, although this will partially be offset by an increase in the value of the bond holdings. SWEDISH PENSION PLAN 2018 2017 The Norwegian pension plan is covered by the Norwegian Corporate PenDiscount rate, % 2.3 2.5 sion Act (Foretagspenjonsloven) and the Swedish plan is covered by the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the consortium agreement. Under the conExpected annual inflation, % 2.0 2.0 sortium agreement, Sobi is required to allocate the funds required to ensure Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, that the pension assets correspond to Sobi’s share of the pension liability. male, years 20.8 20.8 Both the Swedish and Norwegian plans are based on final salary. Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, female, years 23.4 23.4 Changes in the defined-benefit pension commitments during the year are as follows: NORWEGIAN PENSION PLAN 2018 2017 1 JANUARY– Present value of Fair value of 31 DECEMBER 2018 commitments plan assets Total Discount rate, % 2.6 2.3 Expected annual inflation, % 1.5 1.5 At beginning of year –41,414 32,775 –8,639 Remaining life expectancy Current service cost –2,267 — –2,267 after retirement age, male, years 21.3 21.3 Interest expense –990 — –990 Remaining life expectancy Revaluations: after retirement age, female, years 24.4 24.4 Return on plan assets, excl. amounts included in interest Demographic assumptions expense — 801 801 Mortality assumptions for the Swedish plans correspond to the Swedish FinanChanged financial cial Supervisory Authority’s recommendations, which came into force on 31 assumptions –449 –62 –511 December 2007 for the Swedish pension plan, while assumptions for the NorExperience-based wegian plan are based on the K2013 BE mortality table. On the balance-sheet assumptions 5,363 –1,613 3,750 date, Norway had five active employees and Sweden had no active employees Contributions: and two retired employees. The retirement age is set at 65 years. Employer 908 470 1,378 Distribution by asset class Settlements — –170 –170 Exchange differences –422 238 –185 2018 Quoted, % 2017 Quoted, % At end of year –39,271 32,439 –6,832 Equity funds1 12,050 100 10,878 100 Interest-bearing securities 16,652 100 18,070 100 1 JANUARY– Present value of Fair value of 31 DECEMBER 2017 commitments plan assets Total Properties 813 — 1,016 — Other funds 2,844 — 2,669 — At beginning of year –40,639 29,679 –10,960 Other 80 — 142 — Current service cost –1,859 — –1,859 Total 32,439 32,775 Interest expense –983 — –983 1. The pension and its assets are managed by Procordias Pensionsstiftelse. Some of their selected Revaluations: equity funds, such as AMF Aktiefond Sverige, have shareholdings in Sobi. Return on plan assets, excl. amounts included in interest Sensitivity analysis expense — 732 732 Changed financial 2018 2017 assumptions –1,251 20 –1,231 Pension commitment under current assumptions 39,271 41,413 Experience-based assumptions 1,447 1,362 2,808 Discount rate –0.5% 43,025 45,870 Contributions: Discount rate +0.5% 35,546 37,482 Employer 1,020 1,658 2,678 Inflation +0.5% 43,204 45,699 Inflation –0.5% 38,644 39,489 28 Settlements — –219 –219 Exchange differences 852 –456 395 Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 36,415 38,867 At end of year –41,414 32,775 –8,639 Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 40,835 43,335 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with Net obligation per country all other assumptions remaining constant. 2018 2017 In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes in the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the Sweden 614 –744 defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, the same Norway –7,446 –7,895 method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the projected Total –6,832 –8,639 unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised in the balance sheet. Other information For the 2019 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment benefits are expected to be SEK 1,439 K (1,362). The weighted average maturity of the commitment is an estimated 30.2 years. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 103 NOTES Note 28, cont. 29 Provisions 30 Accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 GROUP 2018 2017 Provision at beginning of year 97,955 44,389 82,443 33,060 Provision for vacation pay and bonuses, incl. social security contributions 322,041 239,469 Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391 14,320 32,391 Accrued social security contributions 139,336 119,066 Cash-based incentive programme2 –16,817 16,817 –16,817 16,817 Accrued royalty expense 183,961 112,849 Commitments, leases –455 2,725 — — Accrued manufacturing costs 107,473 46,014 Restoration reserve3 176 171 176 175 Accrued R&D costs 128,548 64,960 Changes in pension Accrued interest expense 3,996 175 commitments –1,806 –2,321 — — Accrued consulting and travel costs 59,126 23,351 Other 4,106 3,783 — — Accrued discounts 260,190 176,099 Provisions at 31 December 97,479 97,955 80,122 82,443 Pharmaceutical tax 139,777 111,261 1. On the balance-sheet date, endowment insurance amounted to SEK 47 M. Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report 3,187 4,700 2. Cash-based incentive programme 2017 related to programme that will be vested during 2019 and hence has been reclassified during 2018. See Note 11. Accrued costs of items sold 23,377 10,426 3. Sobi will restore the rented property Paradiset 14 to an acceptable condition with consideration for Co-Promotion 76,677 — the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). At 31 December 2018, the company recognised a provision of SEK 33 M in the balance sheet. Other accrued expenses 162,606 210,308 Total 1,610,295 1,118,678 Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 Non-current portion 95,643 94,172 80,122 82,443 Provision for vacation pay and bonuses, Current portion 1,836 3,783 — — incl. social security contributions 181,706 146,223 Total provisions 97,479 97,955 80,122 82,443 Accrued social security contributions 83,360 51,856 Accrued royalty expense 183,961 112,849 Accrued manufacturing costs 107,473 46,014 Accrued R&D costs 99,012 64,960 Accrued interest expense 3,996 175 Accrued consulting and travel costs 29,328 7,295 Accrued discounts 65,656 30,633 Pharmaceutical tax 52,714 14,517 Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report 1,164 2,756 Accrued costs of items sold 4,106 — Co-Promotion 76,369 — Other accrued expenses 80,616 205,552 Total 969,462 682,830 28 29 30 104 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES 31 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 33 Related-party transactions Apart from what is stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives GROUP 2018 2017 and intra-group transactions, there have been no related party transactions. See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries. Pledged assets Endowment insurance 46,711 32,391 Other pledged assets 739 686 Total 47,450 33,077 34 Proposed appropriation of profit PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: SEK Pledged assets Endowment insurance 46,711 32,391 Share premium reserve 4,277,038,162 Other pledged assets 43 43 Retained earnings 121,508,296 Total 46,754 32,434 Profit for the year 2,381,763,358 Total 6,780,309,816 PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017 The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend be distributed for the 2018 Contingent liabilities financial year. Guarantee commitment 96,127 36,835 The Board proposes that the share premium reserve and retained earnings Total 96,127 36,835 at their disposal, of SEK 6,780,309,816 be carried forward. Guarantees for 2018 for the subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a specified amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, credit cards, etc., that the subsidiary in question may hold. 35 Events after the balance-sheet date up to 27 March 2019 TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES Legal disputes • Sobi completed the acquisition of the Synagis US rights from AstraZeneca Sobi is involved in a number of disputes, a not-uncommon situation for pharand exercised authorisation to issue shares. The upfront consideration maceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material. ­payable at closing of the acquisition, announced on 24 January 2019, ­corresponds to approximately US 1.5 B (SEK 13.8 B) consisting of cash and 24,193,092 newly issued Sobi common shares. • In connection to the acquisition from AstraZeneca of the rights to Synagis in 32 The share the US, Sobi announced a new number of shares and votes due to the issue of 24,193,092 new common shares. Thereafter, the total number of shares At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 149,947 M distributed and votes amounts to 297,515,209. At 31 January 2019, the company held between 273,322,117 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. All shares issued 3,423,726 common shares in treasury. on the balance-sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one • The US Food and Drug Administration granted Breakthrough Therapy Desigvote per share. At the balance-sheet date, the company held 3,423,726 ordinary nation (BTD) for MEDI8897. shares in treasury. The Equity item corresponds to 1.3 per cent of the total • Christian Dreger (Head of Northern Europe, Middle East and Russia), Sofiane number of shares in the company. Fahmy (Head of Southern & Western Europe and North Africa) and Paula Treutiger (Head of Communications & Investor Relations) were appointed to Earnings per share the Executive Committee in January 2019. Hege Hellström (Head of Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing earnings attributable EMENAR) left the Executive Committee and the company in January 2019. to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in treasury. For more information, refer to the Directors’ Report. To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares. 2018 2017 Earnings attributable to Parent Company ­shareholders 2,417,795 1,148,612 Weighted average number of ordinary 31 shares outstanding (000s) 269,524 269,020 Undiluted earnings per share 32 (SEK per share) 8.97 4.27 Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 8.93 4.25 33 34 35 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 105 NOTES The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have The Directors’ Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a fair been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s operations, (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results and describes the material risks and uncertainties financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accorfaced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group. dance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the Annual fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. General Meeting on 9 May 2019 for adoption. Stockholm, 27 March 2019 Håkan Björklund David Allsop Annette Clancy Chairman Board member Board member Matthew Gantz Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon Board member Board member Board member Hans GCP Schikan Elisabeth Svanberg Board member Board member Pia Axelson Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand Employee representative Employee representative Guido Oelkers Chief Executive Officer Our auditor’s report was submitted on 12 April 2019 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant 106 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Letter from the Chairman Letter from the Chairman 2018 was an extremely eventful year for Sobi. Compliance remains a major issue for all the organisation. Throughout its history, It was also an extremely successful year in companies today. As far as Sobi is concerned, Sobi has been very good at working with two key ways. there can be only one standard: to be coma variety of partners, to achieve good Looking at Sobi’s success in both sales and pletely compliant with all rules and regularesults for everyone. in business development during 2018, it is tions in every jurisdiction where the company Partnership is also one of Sobi’s values, clear that the company has delivered on its operates. Nothing else is acceptable. together with Urgency, Ownership, Ambition strategy. The progress so far bodes well for There is also the question of how people and, of course, Care. These are values continued growth in the years ahead. behave towards each other. One example is that I see truly as underpinning the way Product sales have matched or exceeded sexual harassment, which is unacceptable in everyone at Sobi thinks and works. Values are expectations across the board, with outall its forms. To assist in ensuring compliance, significant only if they are an integral part of standing growth in Haemophilia, increased Sobi provides a a third-party whistle-blower a company’s culture, and not just words in sales for Kineret and a stable performance service available to all employees, enabling a presentation or on a piece of paper. Many for Orfadin. anonymous reports of any possible violation companies have failed because they have Just as importantly, Sobi has completed of the Code of Conduct & Ethics, any law, or not preserved and nurtured their culture two business development deals. These are any company policy. throughout periods of great change. I have in line with the strategy adopted in SeptemThese are all issues in which the Board confidence in Sobi’s culture. It will provide ber 2017. The acquisitions represent both the will continue to work with Sobi’s senior guidance and support for everyone across first stage in the realisation of Sobi’s growth management. the company during the challenges and strategy and an important diversification for opportunities ahead. the company. Looking forward We have seen a number of additional hires I see the acquisitions of 2018 as the first Board supporting growth journey in the management team, making it more stage in the diversification of Sobi’s business As well as providing oversight and goverinternational and diversified. Diversity, in base. Sobi has been incredibly successful in nance, the Board is also here to support senior management, across the company Haemophilia and we expect this to continue, management in developing the company. and within the Board itself, is something we with strong growth for current products To enhance our abilities in these areas, we see as adding value to Sobi, and is something and promising follow-up compounds. The brought in two new Board members in 2018. we will continue to work with over the business development activities last year will David Allsop brings additional commercial coming years. ensure a more diverse portfolio. competence, and Elisabeth Svanberg I expect diversification efforts to continue, strengthens our medical expertise. Their Contributing to society to create a broader yet still focused product talents help ensure we have a well-rounded, Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability portfolio. I also expect Sobi to add to the diverse and expert Board. perspective is tied to the vision of contribR&D pipeline, bringing in not only products To wrap up, 2018 was a fantastic year for uting to the societies in which it operates that can be launched immediately but also Sobi. On behalf of the Board, I’d like to thank by improving access to treatment of rare late-stage products that can be brought to everyone across Sobi for their commitment diseases. This requires a commitment to patients within a couple of years. We have and hard work. But this is not the end. It is responsibility for patients and employees, not seen the end of business development not even the end of the beginning. We will reduced environmental impact from operactivities. all need to work hard in 2019 and beyond ations and treatment, as well as long-term Research and development remain very for Sobi to develop as we know it can. This sustainable profitability. important, and Sobi will continue to develop requires all of us to do our best, no matter The Board monitors and supports Sobi’s its own products. But it is also obvious that where in the organisation we are. ongoing efforts to reduce the company’s you cannot do everything on your own. To be impact on the environment. Sobi’s oper­ able to bring in successful projects or prodations are not seen as having a significant ucts from outside, you need to have strong environmental impact, but the company in-house R&D. Otherwise you cannot evalustill looks continuously at how energy and ate these projects adequately, nor contribute water consumption can be reduced further. to the further development of them going To reduce the impact of business travel, forward. You cannot have your own R&D in which accounts for our largest contribution one silo and in-licensing in another. These Håkan Björklund to greenhouse gas emissions, the option competences go together. Chairman of the Board of virtual meetings is both promoted Partnership is a skill, a very important and facilitated. skill that you need to develop throughout S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 107 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt Corporate ­ Governance report Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) “Sobi” the extent they are known to the company, Shareholders, share capital, the share is a Swedish public limited liability company shareholder agreements. and voting rights with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. The Articles of Association state that the At year-end, Sobi had a total of 23,435 Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addiAGM is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. (22,938) shareholders. Investor AB was the tion to the rules under laws or other reguSobi has not found that the composition of largest shareholder, with 39.4 per cent (39.5) lations, Sobi applies the Swedish Corporate shareholders justifies any special measures of the share capital and 39.4 per cent (39.5) Governance Code (www.bolagsstyrning.se) for shareholders being able to take part in of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders without any deviations. This report for the the AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM is accounted for 73.8 per cent (72.7) of the 2018 financial year is part of Sobi’s Directors’ published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and share capital and 73.8 per cent (72.7) of the Report and has been audited. on the company’s website. When this has votes. No shareholder other than Investor been done, an announcement to this effect is AB has a direct or indirect shareholding that 1. General meeting published in Svenska Dagbladet. represents one-tenth or more of the votes Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the for all shares in the company. Sobi’s Articles General Meeting through which shareholders 2018 AGM of Association do not contain any restrictions have the right to make decisions on the comThe AGM was held on 9 May 2018 in Stockon how many votes each shareholder may pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meeting holm. The Meeting was attended by 264 cast at a general meeting. (AGM) must be held within six months of the shareholders (169), in person or by proxy. Nor do they contain any specific provisions end of the financial year, and Extraordinary This represented 69.6 per cent (65.2) of the on the appointment and dismissal of Board General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the total number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg was members or on amendments to the Articles Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at elected to chair the Meeting. of Association. the request of Sobi’s auditors or shareholders The full minutes and information from holding at least 10 per cent of all shares in the 2018 AGM are available at Conversion of shares and authorisation the company. The AGM adopts the income www.sobi.com. to the Board of Directors statement and balance sheet, resolves on In order to secure commitments under longthe appropriation of profits and elects Board 2019 AGM term incentive programmes, the AGM on 9 members, the Chairman and auditors. The Annual General Meeting will be held May 2018 adopted (i) a private placement The company does not apply any special on Thursday, 9 May 2019 at Grand Hôtel, of redeemable and convertible C shares, arrangements with regard to the function of Stockholm. More information about the AGM (ii) authorisation of Sobi’s Board to make the general meeting, either on the basis of can be found on page 134. decisions regarding the repurchase of issued provisions in the Articles of Association or, to C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s own shares to participants in the programme. 2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 1 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 8 AUDITORS 6 3 4 CHAIRMAN SCIENTIFIC OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AND THE BOARD 7 5 COMPENSATION PRESIDENT AND CEO & BENEFITS COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 108 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt The AGM also resolved to transfer a maxImportant external regulations 3. Board/Chairman of the Board imum of 144,808 of Sobi’s own shares in • Swedish Companies Act Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with order to cover some expenses, mainly social • Swedish and international accounting law a focus on marketing, developing and security contributions, that may arise due to • Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulations producing pharmaceutical products to the 2015 Share Programme. The AGM also • Swedish Corporate Governance Code treat rare diseases. The product portfolio resolved to authorise the Board of Directors contains both marketed products and to make decisions regarding the issue of 2. Nomination Committee products in various phases of clinical and shares and/or convertibles and/or warrants. The Nomination Committee represents preclinical development. It is therefore At 31 December 2018, Sobi held 3,423,726 Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with precrucial that Board members have extensive, ordinary shares in treasury. In 2018, all paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and in-depth experience of marketing and previously issued C shares were converted remuneration matters. research in the pharmaceutical industry, as into ordinary shares. For more detailed According to the instructions and statutes well as solid financial expertise. The Board information about the total number of shares adopted by the AGM on 26 April 2013, the is responsible for the Group’s organisation in the company, the number of different Nomination Committee shall consist of and management. The Board also decides classes of shares and the votes carried by the four members: the Chairman of the Board, on overall objectives, strategies, the financial company’s shares, refer to the section on and one representative from each of the structure, policies, appointment of the CEO, shares on page 50. company’s three largest shareholders on remuneration of management, acquisitions, the last banking day of August, based on the divestments and major investments. The Dividend policy shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Board approves Annual and Interim Reports One of Sobi’s most important business Sweden AB. The composition of the Nominaand proposes dividends to the AGM. objectives is to create long-term shareholder tion Committee is to be announced at least The Board’s work is based on its charter, value. This can take the form of increased six months before the AGM. The Nomination the CEO instructions and the principles share value and dividends. Sobi’s Board bases Committee observes the rules on the indefor the division of work between the CEO, its evaluation of future dividends on several pendence of Board members according to Chairman of the Board, Board members and factors, including: the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. committees established by the Board. The • the company’s sustainable earnings trend; In the period up to the 2019 AGM, the Board Charter and the CEO instructions are • the company’s expansion potential and Nomination Committee has had the followrevised and updated once a year. access to capital; ing composition: Petra Hedengran, Investor • the company’s operational risk; AB, Nomination Committee Chairperson, Composition of the Board • the dividend’s impact on liquidity; and Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder The company’s Board shall comprise a • the company’s equity ratio target. AB, Javiera Ragnartz, AMF & AMF Funds and minimum of three and a maximum of twelve Håkan Björklund, Chairman of the Board of members. The Nomination Committee repThe Board proposes that no dividend be paid Sobi. Prior to the 2019 AGM, the Nomination resents the shareholders and is responsible for 2018. In the short term, the company Committee held two minuted meetings with for preparing the AGM’s decisions on matters intends to use accrued profits to finance the telephone contact between these meetings. related to election and remuneration and, continued development and expansion of its As a basis for its work, the Nomination when applicable, procedural matters for the operations. Committee has taken note of the Chairman’s next Nomination Committee. The Nominaaccount of the Board’s work. The Committee tion Committee has applied rule 4.1 of the Important internal regulations has also prepared recommendations to the Corporate Governance Code as a diversity • Articles of Association AGM regarding Board members, the remupolicy. The objective of the policy is that the • Charter of the Board neration of Board and Committee members, Board shall have an appropriate composition • CEO Instructions the appointment of auditors and their fees, with regard to the company’s business, stage • Policy documents, including the Sobi the Chairman of the AGM and changes to the of development and situation in general, Code of Conduct and Ethics Instructions and Statutes for the Nomination characterised by versatility and breadth in • Charters of the Board’s committees Committee. respect of the competence, experience and Nomination Committee prior to the 2019 AGM Votes Votes Name/Representing 31 Dec 2018, % 31 Aug 2018, % Petra Hedengran (Chairperson of the Nomination Committee) Investor AB 39.4 39.4 Lennart Francke Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 4.7 4.6 Javiera Ragnartz AMF & AMF Funds 2.6 2.0 Håkan Björklund Chairman of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0 Total 46.7 46.0 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 109 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt background of members elected by the AGM, Resolutions 2018 AGM Independent and that efforts shall be made to achieve The following resolutions were adopted by The company fulfils the Swedish Corporate an even gender distribution. As mentioned the 2018 AGM: Governance Code’s independence requirein the Nomination Committee’s motivated • Re-election of six Board members ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected opinion to the 2018 AGM, the Nomination • New election of two Board members Board members are independent of the Committee has in its work considered the • Re-election of the Chairman company and its management, and at least importance of an effective composition of • Re-election of EY as auditor two of them are independent of major the Board with regard to diversity, in respect • Adoption of remuneration of the Board shareholders. The table on page 111 shows of aspects such as gender, nationality and and auditors the independence of the Board members on professional experiences, and considered • Adoption of proposed guidelines for the publication date of this report. that it is important to achieve and maintain ­remuneration of senior executives an even gender distribution. The current • Board and CEO discharged from liability Number of meetings composition of the Board of Directors is the for the 2017 financial year The Board shall meet at least four to six result of the Nomination Committee’s work times a year, usually in connection with prior to the 2018 AGM. Chairman of the Board the publication of interim, year-end and The 2018 AGM resolved in accordance In addition to leading the Board’s work, annual financial statements and the AGM. with the Nomination Committee’s revised the Chairman of the Board’s duties include Additional meetings or teleconferences are proposal, to the effect that from the 2018 monitoring the company’s performance and convened as necessary. The Board conducts AGM the Board has consisted of eight ensuring that important matters that arise an in-depth strategic review of operations members elected by the AGM (six re-elected are dealt with in addition to those already on during at least one of the Board meetings and two newly elected at the 2018 AGM) and the agenda. The Chairman shall consult with each year. In 2019, the Board has scheduled two employee representatives appointed the CEO on strategic matters, participate a total of 10 meetings. by the trade union organisations (plus two in important external relationships and deputies for the employee representatives). represent the company in ownership issues. The Board’s work in 2018 Three of eight members elected by the AGM The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring In 2018, the Board held a total of 19 meetings, are women. that the Board’s work is regularly evaluated of which ten were scheduled and nine extra For more information about the Board, and that new Board members receive ademeetings. Sobi’s CEO and President attends refer to pages 116–117. quate training. Board meetings, as does Sobi’s ­General Counsel, who has served as ­secretary at Important events in Board work in 2018 BOARD MEETING •B  usiness development discussions BOARD MEETING • Adoption of the 2019 budget 2 BOARD MEETINGS • Approval of the agreement to acquire the rights to AUDIT COMMITTEE 2 BOARD MEETINGS AUDIT COMMITTEE ­Synagis in the US from • 2017 year-end report • Business development discussions • Final audit report AstraZeneca and take a • Audit report • Adoption of Q4 interim report for third quarter, 2018 ­certain percentage of • Financial report and 2017 year-end report • Review of internal control potential future returns • Annual Report planning • Adoption of 2018 STI programme and and impairment testing on the drug candidate remuneration guidelines for Sobi’s senior MEDI8897 executives BOARD MEETING AUDIT COMMITTEE • Adoption of Q3 interim 3 BOARD MEETINGS • Review of Sobi’s financial report for 2018 • Business development policies, and statutes and discussions instructions for the Audit • Adoption of Committee 2017 Annual Report • 2017 Annual Report AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD MEETING • Financial report • Tax matters • Business develop• Review of Q3 interim ment discussions report for 2018 2 BOARD MEETING AUDIT COMMITTEE • Financial report • Business development • Review of Q1 interim report • Preliminary audit report discussions for 2018 for the third quarter • Adoption of Q1 interim report • Financial report for 2018 • 2018 audit plan 3 BOARD MEETINGS 2 BOARD MEETINGS • Adoption of Q2 interim report for • Business development 2018 discussions • Approval of issue and • Annual General Meeting repurchase of own shares for the LTI programme • Approval of the agreement BOARD MEETING related to global rights • Business development to emapalumab discussions AUDIT COMMITTEE • Tax matters • Review of Q2 interim report for 2018 110 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt the meetings. Other Sobi employees have focuses on access to, and the need for, 5. Compensation & Benefits attended in a reporting capacity. The number specific skills on the Board. The evaluation ­Committee of extra Board meetings was motivated by is used as a tool for developing the Board’s The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s discussions concerning strategic projects. work, and serves as input for the Nomination task is to recommend guidelines and prinThe agenda items are shown in the illustraCommittee’s work. Every year, the Chairman ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. tion on page 110. initiates and leads the evaluation of the This includes review and proposals on remuBoard’s work. The evaluation includes neration of senior executives and recomBoard fees questionnaires and discussions. In 2018, the mendations concerning long-term incentive At the AGM on 9 May 2018, the Board Board members answered written questionprogrammes, pension plans and other issues resolved that for the period until the next naires. As part of the evaluation process, the related to remuneration of the company’s AGM, a fee of SEK 465 K would be paid to Chairman also held individual discussions employees. Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits each of the AGM-elected Board members with individual Board members. The evaluCommittee consists of four members who except for the Chairman, who would be paid ations were discussed at a Board meeting. are all independent of management: a fee of SEK 1,325 K. Fees for Audit CommitThe Chairman presented the results of the • Håkan Björklund (Chairman) tee work were adopted as follows: SEK 125 K evaluations for the Nomination Committee. • Helena Saxon to the Chairman and SEK 75 K to each of the • David Allsop other members. Fees for the Compensation 4. Audit Committee • Matthew Gantz & Benefits Committee’s work were adopted The Committee’s main task is to deal with as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman and issues related to the company’s accounting, David Allsop and Matthew Gantz were SEK 40 K to each of the other members. Fees auditing and financial reporting, and matters elected to the Compensation & Benefits for Scientific Committee work were adopted related to internal governance and control. Committee on 9 May 2018. as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman and Sobi’s Audit Committee consists of three Sobi’s Head of HR serves as secretary to SEK 40 K to each of the other members. In members, all of whom are independent of the Committee, but is not a member. The 2018, Board fees of SEK 5,105 K were paid, management: Compensation & Benefits Committee met including remuneration for committee work. • Lennart Johansson (Chairman) five times during the year. At these meetings, It was further resolved that for each physical • Hans GCP Schikan the Committee discussed and followed up Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be • Helena Saxon annual salary revisions and bonus outcome paid to Board members residing in Europe for the CEO and senior executives, and but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K Sobi’s CFO serves as secretary to the proposed guidelines and allocations for the to Board members residing outside Europe. Committee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO long-term incentive programme. The ComFor more information about the remunerattended the meetings but is not a formal mittee reports regularly to the Board about its ation of Board members, refer to Note 11 and member. The Committee held six meetings work. The proposed remuneration guidelines the table below. during the year. Sobi’s elected auditors for the CEO and senior executives will be attended five of the meetings. The agenda presented at the AGM in May 2019 for adopEvaluation of the Board’s work items are shown in the illustration on page tion by shareholders. The Board members’ The Board conducts an annual evaluation 110. The Committee reports regularly to the attendance and remuneration for Committee of its work. The evaluation covers working Board about its work. The Board members’ meetings is presented in the table below. methods and climate, and the main focus attendance and remuneration for Committee of the Board’s work. This evaluation also meetings is presented in the table below. Remuneration, (SEK 000s) Attendance1 Compen­ Compen­ sation & sation & IndeAudit Benefits Scientific Audit Benefits Scientific pendent Fees Committee Committee Committee Other6 Total Board Committee Committee Committee David Allsop4 x 310 — 27 — 30 367 8/10 — 2/5 — Håkan Björklund x 1,308 — 80 — — 1,388 19/19 — 4/5 — Annette Clancy x 452 — — 80 60 592 19/19 — — 3/3 Matthew Gantz x 452 — 27 — 132 610 18/19 — 2/5 — Lennart Johansson 2 452 125 — — — 577 16/195 6/6 — — Helena Saxon 2 452 75 40 — — 567 16/195 6/6 5/5 — Hans GCP Schikan x 452 75 — 40 60 627 19/19 6/6 — 3/3 Elisabeth Svanberg4 x 310 — — 27 40 377 10/10 — — 2/3 Pia Axelson 3 — — — — — — 18/19 — — — Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand 3 — — — — — — 19/19 — — — 1. T  he figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2018, the Board held a total of 19 meetings, of which ten were scheduled and nine were extra meetings. In 2018, the Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held five meetings and the Scientific Committee held three meetings. 2. Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders. 3. Employee representative. 4. David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected as new, ordinary Board members at the AGM on 9 May 2018. 5. The members have full attendance, but were not permitted to attend three meetings because they are not independent members. 6. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and of USD 3 K to each member who lives outside Europe. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 111 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt For information about salaries and remuner7. CEO/Executive Committee 8. Auditors ation of the CEO and senior executives, see Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst & Note 11. CEO and managers of the most important Young (EY), with Authorised Public Accounfunctions and regions. The Executive tant Björn Ohlsson as chief auditor. EY was 6. Scientific Committee Committee has a broad composition of elected as Sobi’s auditor until the end of the The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide members with extensive experience in R&D, 2019 AGM and has been Sobi’s auditor since advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the markets in which Sobi operates and the the 2014 AGM. The external auditors discuss the company’s research strategies and production and sale of drugs. In addition, the external audit plan and risk management to follow up and report to the Board on members of the Executive Committee hold with the Audit Committee. The auditor conscientific trends and new fields of research. the required competence in accounting, ducts a review of the Q3 interim report and The Scientific Committee consists of three finance, law and HR. In 2018, the Executive an audit of the annual accounts and consolmembers who are all independent in relation Committee held one meeting every month idated financial statements. The auditor also to management: For more detailed information about the expresses an opinion on whether this Corpo• Annette Clancy (Chairman) Executive Committee, refer to pages rate Governance Report has been prepared, • Hans GCP Schikan 118–119. and whether certain disclosures herein are • Elisabeth Svanberg Each year, the Board defines the division consistent with the annual accounts and of work between the Board, the Chairman consolidated financial statements. The Elisabeth Svanberg was elected to the and the CEO. Operational management is auditor reports the results of their audit of the Scientific Committee on 9 May 2018. based on the decision-making procedure annual accounts and consolidated financial Sobi’s CEO and the Head of Research and adopted by the Board, which is reflected statements and their review of the Corporate Development/Chief Medical Officer took part in the organisational form and governance Governance Report in the auditor’s report, in the meetings, but are not formal members. model according to which Sobi works and with a separate opinion on the Corporate The Head of RD/CMO serves as Secretary to is managed. Governance Report, which they present to the Committee but is not a member. the AGM. In addition, the auditor presents In 2018, the Committee held three meetRemuneration of senior executives detailed findings from their reviews to the ings. The following issues were discussed at To attract and retain talented and motivated Audit Committee three times a year, and to these meetings: employees, Sobi has established long-term the full Board once a year. • Development of the company’s R&D incentive programmes. All employees receive For information about remuneration of pipeline fixed and variable pay. The variable compothe company’s auditors, see Note 12. • R&D organisation nent, derived from a system adopted by the • Review of individual projects Board, is based on both company goals and Internal control and risk management in • Review and follow-up of the organisation’s individual goals. The maximum outcome of relation to financial reporting objectives the variable salary component for the CEO The Board is responsible for internal control • Budget is 75 per cent of the annual salary, and 60 in accordance with the Swedish Companies • Business development opportunities per cent for the other senior executives. For Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance more information, see Note 11. Code. The Board presents the most importThe Committee reports regularly to the ant elements of Sobi’s internal control and Board about its work. The Board members’ risk management systems in relation to the attendance and remuneration for Committee financial reporting process below. meetings is presented on page 111. Sobi has had one employee with responsibility for strengthening the Group’s internal control since 2017. The function reports to the CFO and prepares an annual internal control plan, which is approved and monitored by the CFO. Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant 112 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt COSO framework The basis for internal control over financial 2. Risk assessment Sobi’s internal control environment follows reporting consists of a clear organisational Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s the established COSO1 framework, comprisstructure, decision-making channels, powers business opportunities and profits with ing the following five components: and responsibilities that are documented and shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ 1. Control environment communicated in governing documents. demands for stable, long-term value growth 2. Risk assessment The guidelines for Sobi’s business activities and control. Sobi’s risk management process 3. Control activities have been compiled on the company’s aims to help the company’s operations 4. Information and communication intranet and include the following: create profitable business opportunities 5. Supervision including monitoring and • The Group’s mission, vision, strategies, combined with good evaluation of risk, and evaluation objectives and values. to ensure and strengthen stakeholders’ faith • Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. in Sobi, in order to support the operations in The description below shows how the five • Organisational structure and descriptions executing the defined business strategy. The components of the COSO model work of positions. risk management process contributes with together to improve the operations’ ability to • Administrative processes, guidelines and structures and systems to proactively identify achieve set targets. instructions such as authorities, authoriand manage risks which could have a negasation instructions, risk management tive effect on the business’s ability to achieve 1. Control environment policy, purchasing and investment policy, its set targets. Material risks identified by Sobi The control environment constitutes the workplace health and safety policy, and are described on pages 58–63 basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control accounting and reporting instructions. Risk assessment, as part of risk manageenvironment mainly comprises the culture • Information about the company’s ethics ment, is carried out to identify and analyse on which the Board and management base and core values, expertise matters and risks so that decisions can be taken on their work and communication. It is the the regulatory environment in which the actions to ensure good control of identified foundation for all other internal governance company operates. risks and, if required, actions to reduce and control components, bringing order and risk. In terms of this report, the operational structure in the form of manuals, processes units carry out risk assessments together and policies. with the responsible controllers, to identify, analyse and ensure a correct evaluation of risks within the accounting and reporting processes. Sobi’s COSO framework Corporate culture Governing documents Tone at the top is important, Overall framework and policies i.e. management’s behaviour are in place and implemented 1 Control environment Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up 1. Identify and analyse risks that 1. Implement a process for ongoing follow-up 2. E valuation and reporting of identified deviations 5 2 may impede target achievement 2. Identify the risks with a material effect on operations 3. D ecide on measures and the Monitoring Adopted objectives Risk assessment people responsible Internal 4 3 Implement control activities that Clearly functioning two-way communication Information and reduce, eliminate or monitor significant Control activities between management and operations communication identified risks. External Correct information to external stakeholders within the prescribed time 1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 113 C o rp o rate G o v ernance R ep o rt 3. Control activities Procedures for external information discloActivities in 2018 to strengthen The aim of the control activities is to sure aim to provide the market with relevant, internal control prevent and detect errors and deviations, reliable and correct information about Sobi’s • Developed and launched a digital and to propose corrective measures for performance and financial position. Sobi accounting manual for the Group identified deficiencies. Activities include has a communication policy that meets the (Finansportalen). analytical monitoring and comparison of requirements for a listed company. • Local visits by the internal control function financial results, reconciliation of accounts, Financial information is presented regularly to different chosen subsidiaries. monitoring, reconciliation of Board deciin the form of: • Implementation of a new budget system. sions, approval and reporting of business • Year-end and interim reports. • Creation of Group-wide policies. transactions and partnership agreements, • Annual report. • Identification of key processes for the mandate and authorisation instructions, and • Press releases about important news and finance function. accounting and valuation principles. events that could significantly affect the • Preparation of a new risk-management The controls are carried out manually or valuation of the company and the share process for the Group. are incorporated into the systems used (IFS, price. Cognos, Business Intelligence etc.). • Presentations and telephone conferences Activities in focus for 2019 to further Controllers are responsible for maintaining for financial analysts, investors and media strengthen internal control internal control in each area and ensuring representatives on the publication date • Implementation of the new risk-managethat this is developed as necessary. They for year-end and interim reports and in ment process for the Group. follow up activities through a variety of connection with the release of other • Monitor and support the Group’s accountcontrol measures, including the monitoring important information. ing functions. of forecasts and budgets, earnings and • Meetings with investors and financial • Continued work to conduct process balance-sheet analyses, reconciliations, as analysts. analyses within the financial function. well as trend analysis and market intelligence. • Implement control activities that reduce, The results of this work are reported to the All reports, presentations and press releases eliminate or monitor identified material management of each business area, and to are simultaneously published on the Group’s risks. management and the Board. website www.sobi.com when communicated to the market. Internal Audit 4. Information and communication Sobi does not have a separate internal Sobi has internal information and communi5. Supervision including monitoring audit function, but has chosen to conduct cation channels aimed at ensuring effective and evaluation monitoring and the annual evaluation of and accurate information disclosure with Forms of supervision of internal control are compliance with the internal control and risk respect to financial reporting. Effective comdetermined by the Board and the Audit Commanagement related to financial reporting munication is important for all the company’s mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring through the existing organisation. The Board employees. Guidelines for financial reporting internal control is conducted in accordance and the Audit Committee regularly examine are set out in the communication policy, with the Board’s decisions. Group-wide the issue of whether an internal audit funcwhich are communicated to employees and monitoring takes place at various levels. tion should be established. are available on the company’s intranet. The Board deals with all interim reports Meetings are held within the company at and annual report prior to publication, and Breaches management level, then at the level that each monitors the review of internal control Sobi did not breach any rules of the stock department head considers appropriate. through the Audit Committee. The inforexchange on which its shares are traded, or There are also a number of large meetings mation provided is evaluated regularly. The generally accepted practices on the share which all employees attend. company’s external auditor reports their market. The Board receives regular financial observations and their assessment of internal updates on the Group’s financial position and control to the Audit Committee. performance. 114 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 A u d i t o r ’ s rep o rt o n t h e C o rp o rate G o v ernance s ­ tate m ent Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance ­statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2018 on pages 108-114 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, April 12, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 115 The board Lennart Johansson Born 1955. Board member since 2010. MBA from Stockholm School of ­Economics. Other appointments: Member of the management team and Senior Advisor at Patricia Industries (division of Investor AB). Chairman of the board of Fastighets AB Tingshuset 13, board member of Vectura Fastigheter AB, HI3G, Chalmers Ventures, Atlas ­Antibodies AB, ­Bonesupport AB, and deputy board member of ­Mölnlycke Health Care. Previous appointments: Chairman of the Board of Vectura Fastigheter AB, CEO in b-business partners and ­Emerging Technologies AB. Board member of SAAB AB, IBX Group AB and Gambro Holding AB. Shares: 20,000 Helena Saxon Born 1970. Board member since 2011. MSc from Stockholm School of ­Economics. Other appointments: CFO at Investor AB. Board member of SEB. Previous appointments: CFO of ­Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Vice President at Investor AB and financial analyst at Goldman Sachs. Board member of Aleris and Mölnlycke Health Care. Shares: 15,500 Pia Axelson Hans GCP Schikan Bo-Gunnar ­Rosenbrand Annette Clancy Born 1962. Born 1958. Born 1963. Born 1954. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2011. Board member since 2006. Board member since 2014. ­Deputy board member since 2009. Pharm D, Utrecht University. ­Deputy board member 2001–2005. BSc Hons Pharmacology from Bath Representative of the council for Other appointments: Chairman of the ­Representative of the council for University UK. negotiation and cooperation. Board of Directors of Interna, The negotiation and cooperation. Other appointments: Non executive Employee Representative. Netherlands and Complix, Belgium. Employee Representative. Chairman of the Board, Enyo SA and Laboratory engineer. Member of the Board of Directors of Laboratory engineer. Lysogene SA. Member of the Board of Shares: 6,935 Vicore Pharma, Sweden, Therachon, Shares: 9,759 (including share­ Directors, Obseva SA. Switzerland as well as of the Dutch holdings of related physicals) Previous appointments: Senior Top Sector Life Sciences & Health, ­Advisor, Biopharmaceutical Team The Netherlands. Advisor to various of Frazier Healthcare. Chair of organisations in Life Sciences & the Board of Directors, Genable Health. ­Therapeutics. Non-Executive Board Previous appointments: CEO of ProDirector, Silence Therapeutics plc. sensa, Director of the Supervisory and Clavis Pharma. Head of Trans­ Board of Prosensa, Member of the action and Alliance Management Board of Directors of Hansa Medical, at ­GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). Wilson Therapeutics and Asceneuron. Shares: 3,414 Various senior management positions within former Organon and Genzyme. Shares: 4,000 Håkan Björklund Matthew Gantz Elisabeth Svanberg David Allsop Born 1956. Born 1965. Born 1961 Born 1963 Chairman. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2012. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2018. Ph.D., Associate Professor from BA Princeton University and MBA from MD and PhD from the University BSc Hons Chemistry from Coventry ­Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. Harvard Business School. of Gothenburg, Sweden, Associate University, UK. Other appointments: Industry Other appointments: CEO of O ­ xThera ­Professor of surgery. Other appointments: Director and ­Executive at Avista Capital Partners. AB. Member of the board for PennsylOther appointments: Chief Developsole employee in U-R-NOT Ltd., Previous appointments: CEO of vania Life Sciences Association and ment Officer at Ixaltis SA in France through which Mr Allsop offers adviNycomed. Member of the Board of Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation. since 2016. Member of the Board of sory services to the pharma industry. Directors of several international life Previous appointments: Executive Directors of PledPharma AB. Previous appointments: More than 30 science companies including Alere, Vice President of BTG Plc, Founder Previous appointments: Board memyears’ of experience from research as Coloplast, Danisco, and Lundbeck. and previously CEO of Acureon ber of Follicum AB and of the Swedish well as marketing within the pharmaBetween 2001 and 2007, Håkan ­Pharmaceuticals, President and American Chamber of Commerce ceuticals and health care industries. Björklund also served as member of CEO of Hydrabiosciences Inc., VP New York. Head of the Established International experience from the the Board of Directors for Biovitrum. Europe for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical Products Group at Janssen Pharmapharmaceutical and biotechnology Shares: 15,800 Division and General Manager for ceuticals 2014–2016. Head of Medical industry and a commercial and gene­PathoGenesis Europe. Prior to C­ hiron/ Affairs for the Intercontinental region ral management background. Until PathoGenesis a variety of US sales and at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in the January 2018, Head of International in marketing roles at Abbott Laboratories US 2007–20014. Leading roles in R&D Amicus Therapeutics Ltd. A number of Diagnostic Division. for metabolic diseases at Serono senior positions in Biogen 1998–2015. Shares: 0 International, Switzerland, 2000–2007. Shares: 0 Shares: 260 E x ec u t i v e c o m m i ttee Executive committee TORBJÖRN HALLBERG ANNE MARIE DE JONGE SCHUERMANS GUIDO OELKERS HEGE HELLSTRÖM RAMI LEVIN Guido Oelkers Torbjörn ­Hallberg Anne Marie de Jonge Schuermans Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Head of Technical Operations Born 1965 Head of Legal Affairs Born 1972 Employed since 2017 Born 1969 Employed since 2018 PhD in Strategic Management, ­University of South Employed since 2018 PhD from Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Australia, Master of Economics, South Bank UniverMaster of Laws from ­University of Lund, Sweden. Zurich (ETHZ); M.Sc. degrees in Agriculture & Natural sity, London, Complementary ­studies in Economics, Previous positions: VP, General Counsel, Emerging Environment from Wageningen Agricultural UniverLondon School of Economics and Political Science. Markets, Takeda Pharmaceuticals. Senior Director sity in the Netherlands and in Environmental ManaOther appointments: Chairman of the Advisory and Senior Corporate C ­ ounsel, Takeda Pharma­ gement & Technology from the Ecole Polytechnique Committee of Zentiva Group, Industrial Advisor EQT ceuticals. Corporate Counsel, Nycomed Pharma. Féderale Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland. Previous positions: CEO BSN Medical, President & Corporate Counsel, Ferring Pharmaceuticals. Previous positions: Biogen, VP for Global Supply CEO Gambro, EVP Commercial Operations NycoSenior Associate/Lawyer, Advokatfirman Lindahl. Chain Operations & Strategic Partnerships, and med, CEO Invida, Global Head of Healthcare DKSH, Shares: 3,500 ­Executive Board Member of Biogen International previous managerial roles at Aventis and preceding GmbH; more than 15 years of experience in the entities, member of the Board of Directors at Meda health­care industry from Biogen, Stryker and Novartis. Hege Hellström1 and Sartorius AG. Shares: 0 Shares: 49,000 Head of EMENAR Born 1965 Rami Levin Employed since 2013 Head of North America BSc in Bioengineering, Oslo, Norway. Born 1969 Previous positions: Global Head Cardiovascular, Sanofi, VP Renal Europe and Head of Regional Employed since 2014 ­Liaisons, Sanofi. VP Renal and Endocrine Europe, MBA from Rekanati Business School, Tel-Aviv Genzyme. General Manager Benelux, Genzyme. ­Uni­versity, Israel. BSc in Biology, T ­ el-Aviv University, 13 years at Baxter in different leadership roles. Israel. Shares: 60,767 Other assignments: Board of advisors of “Life Science Cares”, Corporate alliance member for Global Genes, Corporate council member for the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD), Regional chamber representative for the Swedish American Chamber of Commerce. Previous positions: Various senior roles within Merck 1. Christian Dreger (head of Northern Europe, Middle East & Russia), Sofiane Fahmy (Head of Southern and Western since 1998, most recently as VP of Marketing (US). Europe & North Africa) and Paula Treutiger (Head of Communications & Investor Relations) was appointed to be part Managing Director Scandinavia, Global Marketing of Sobi’s Executive Committee in January 2019. Hege Hellström (Head of EMENAR) resigned from the Executive Head, Business Unit Manager. Product Manager, Committee in January 2019. Schering AG. Shares: 0 118 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 E x ec u t i v e c o m m i ttee NORBERT OPPITZ HENRIK STENQVIST PHILIP WOOD ARMIN REININGER FREDRIK WETTERLUNDH MILAN ZDRAVKOVIC Norbert Oppitz Henrik Stenqvist Philip Wood Head of Specialty Care Chief Financial Officer Head of Haemophilia Born 1967 Born 1967 Born 1968 Employed since 2017 Employed since 2018 Employed since 2012 Business Administration, FH Rhenania Palatina/Mainz, Degree in Finance and Business Administration from BSc Joint Honours degree in G ­ eology and Physical ­Germany. the University of Linköping, Sweden. ­Geo­graphy, Chartered Institute of Marketing Previous positions: Executive Committee member Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB ­certification, UK. in charge of Latin America, BSN Medical. Executive and MedCap AB. Previous positions: Head of European Strategic Asset Committee member Emerging Markets, Endo Previous positions: CFO Recipharm, CFO Meda, CFO team, Haemophilia, and Business Unit Head ­Pharmaceuticals. Head of Latin America, Takeda/ Pharmalink, Regional Finance Director AstraZeneca, ­Haemophilia, UK, Pfizer. Nycomed. Country management roles at Roche Finance Director Astra Export &Trading, Financial Shares: 29,014 Pharmaceuticals and Aventis Pharma. Manager, Astra Hungary. Shares: 10,000 Shares: 13,000 Milan Zdravkovic Head of Research & Development, Armin Reininger Fredrik Wetterlundh Chief Medical Officer Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs Head of Human Resources Born 1970 Born 1957 Born 1966 Employed since 2016 Employed since 2017 Employed since 2018 MD, PhD University of Aarhus, Denmark, MSc MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, Degree in HR Management from the University ­Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Surrey, UK. Germany; certified specialist in Trans­fusion M ­ edicine. of Lund, Sweden. Other assignments: Board member of Selma Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA Previous positions: Global Human Resources Lead ­Diagnostics Aps. Hemophilia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs at Pfizer. Senior HR roles in AstraZeneca, Kraft Foods Previous positions: Corporate Vice President, Hematology, Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA as well as Codan Group. Novo Nordisk. 18 years in R&D organisation, Novo Hematology, Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician UniverShares: 7,000 Nordisk, responsible for diabetes, devices, growth sity Clinic Munich. Harvard Medical School & Mass. hormone deficiency, obesity and immunology. General Hospital, ­Boston, MA. The Scripps Research Shares: 8,820 Institute, La Jolla, CA. Professor of ­Anatomy at the Ludwig Maximilians-University Munich, Germany. Shares: 0 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 119 a u d i t o r ' s rep o rt Auditor’s report TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2018. The annual accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in pages 50–106 in this document. accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material Basis for Opinions respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 decemWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards ber 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics the group as of 31 december 2018 and their financial performance and for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders company or its controlled companies within the EU. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient company and the group. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on matter is provided in that context. the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of product and market rights and goodwill Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Per 31 December 2018 the majority of (57 per cent or SEK 9,485 M) the Group’s Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included (below referred to as the Company) total assets consist of productand marketbut was not limited to the following audit procedures: ing rights as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company • obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying performs an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis or when events or ­indicators of impairment changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may fall • evaluation of methods used by management when performing the below the recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve a ­impairment test including the sensitivity analysis and number of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing the • review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the value in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected ­impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average ­impairment ­testing is most sensitive to. cost of capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s • we have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report. process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of management’s and the board of director’s business plans and forecasts. For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in note 2, significant assessments and assumptions in note 4 as well as information about the product and marketing rights and goodwill in note 17. We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and the impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we ­considered this a key audit matter in our audit. 120 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 a u d i t o r ' s rep o rt Revenue – Claw back tax and discount adjustments Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of countries We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to where sales to customers take place under various commercial and governmenidentify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated tal contracts and regulations where claw back taxes and discounts exist as condithe Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s tions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions from claw back calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reasontaxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unsettled revenue adjustments ableness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. for claw back taxes and discounts needs to be made at year end. In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2018 are based our audit. on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settlement We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report. of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often requires access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be limited at the time of assessment. Refer to note 2, 4 and 30 in the annual report for a detailed description of the revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported. Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in relation to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the complex assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit. Other Information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the This document also contains other information than the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages [A-B]. The material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a other information. high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards does not cover this other information and we do not express any form in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoliif, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent annual accounts and consolidated accounts. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be We also: materially misstated. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informadesign and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide this regard. a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accorin the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcand consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated the company’s financial reporting process. accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 121 a u d i t o r ' s rep o rt conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, as a going concern. the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and deficiencies in internal control that we identified. whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indepresentation. pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, financial information of the entities or business activities within the and where applicable, related safeguards. group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of give rise to liability to the company, or Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminthe company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to istration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarBasis for opinions antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditauditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with with the Companies Act. professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulAs part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriawith starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considfor the operations and where deviations and violations would have ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge in general. from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Björn Ohlsson as financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 9th of May company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of May 2014. manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill Stockholm, April 12, 2019 the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the Ernst & Young AB management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Björn Ohlsson Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby Authorized Public Accountant our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: 122 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Sustainability ­ management Our sustainability work and programme are based on a number of material ­sustainability issues. These are divided into two focus areas: Value creation and Our responsibility. These were defined in a materiality analysis we performed in 2016 and updated in 2017 and 2018. Stakeholders and materiality analysis Important external stakeholders that we are listening to: In 2016 we performed a comprehensive materiality analysis • Patient organisations including web surveys and targeted interviews with internal and • Families and carers external stakeholders to identify and prioritise our most important • Pharmaceutical companies sustainability issues. Based on input from external stakeholders and • Governments and government a ­ gencies an internal analysis of the revised corporate strategy, the materiality • Regulatory authorities analysis was updated in both 2017 and 2018. For 2019 our ambition • Healthcare systems is to do a more comprehensive update of our materiality analysis, • Budget holders and insurers including external stakeholders. • Academic researchers • Centres of expertise • Specialist physicians and nurses • Investors and analysts • Shareholders Stakeholders engaging with Sobi discuss the following sustainability areas: Internal stakeholders External stakeholders • Access to healthcare and medicine • Access to healthcare and medicine • Product safety and quality • Sustainable supply chain • Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials • Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials • Engagement with patient organisations • Regulatory and legal environment • Anti-corruption • Responsible marketing and sales activities • Responsible marketing and sales activities • Product safety and quality • Research and development • Pharmaceuticals in the environment • Sustainable supply chain • Engagement with patient organisations • Diversity and equal opportunity • Anti-corruption • Employee recruitment, development, retention • Research and development S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 123 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Sustainability programme Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability perspective is tied to the In 2017 we started to develop a sustainability programme based on overall mission: to contribute to the societies in which Sobi operates Sobi’s material sustainability issues. Our ambition is to further develop by improving access to treatment for rare diseases. True availability the programme, include activities and follow-up on our key perforand access to treatment for patients is what brings long-term value to mance indicators in 2019. The sustainability programme will make it the patients we serve, our employees, partners and shareholders. possible for Sobi to follow progress towards the overall sustainability objectives and vision. Value creation Read more on our strategic sustainability issues on page 15–17, 30–31 and 34–35. Material issue Description Sustainability objectives Key performance indicator Improving global access to Our aim is to make our treatments accessible Ensure that Sobi’s products Products receiving r­ egulatory treatments for rare diseases to an increasing number of people around the are made available to patients approval, pricing and reimburseworld, as well as shorten the time it takes for through local healthcare ment in new markets. products to reach patients. This requires a ­budgets. strong focus on patient and medical needs, responsible pricing, adaptive regulatory pathways, partners for manufacturing, and an extensive and efficient distribution network. Strategic research and Research and development are of high stra­ Invest in R&D to build pipeline. Amount of investment in R&D in ­development tegic importance in order to improve our relation to revenue. ­treatments. We strive to maintain the highest Development of pipeline e.g. ethical, technical and scientific standards. Our number of projects moving into approach is holistic and we work closely with clinical phase during 2019. patients throughout their lives, and collaborate with academia, partners and governments to find new solutions and technologies. We secure intellectual property rights and reinvest in the development of new innovative treatments. Quality and supply chain The quality and supply of our products are Our products are to improve Number of suppliers subject ­management essential to enable global access to treatments. the lives of rare disease patients of audits applying under the Since Sobi market and sell products in more and their families. GMP/GDP guidelines. than 70 countries, typically in small volumes Percentage of significant product aimed for a small number of patients, patient and service categories for which safety as in both quality and access is fundadrug safety impacts are assessed mental. We have built a robust supply and for improvement. ­distribution processes covering all our markets to ensure that patients never risk being without their medication, which in some cases can be life-threating. We make it happen Sobi’s employees are the enablers that allow us Engaged and skilled people Employee turnover in percentage. to achieve our mission of transforming the lives who are offered a safe and Average hours of training per of people with rare diseases and delivering on a developing workplace free year per employee. strategy for increasing growth. It is our everyfrom discrimination. day behaviour and achievements that matter the most in shaping the future of our company. In the organi­sation we focus on developing strong leadership, culture-supported performance, equal opportunities and pro­fessional development for everyone, and a safe and healthy workplace. 124 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Our responsibility Read more on our responsibility issues on pages 40–41. Material issue Sustainability objectives Key performance indicator Regulatory and legal environment Always be compliant with laws and regulation. Ethical practices and collaborations Always be compliant with Code of Conduct and Ethics. Percentage of employees who have completed education in Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. Patient and customer privacy Always secure patient privacy. Anti-corruption and fair competition Always be compliant with laws, regulations Code of Conduct and Ethics. Responsible tax Paying taxes where profits are earned. Margin where profit is earned. Environmental impact Reduce Sobi’s environmental impact. Reduced water and power consumption in ­relation to production. Sustainability governance and organisation Compliance risks and management Sobi’s Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for Sobi’s Compliance risks and the assessment of their impact are an integral sustainability performance, which is reported each year in the Annual element of Sobi’s risk management process. In the compliance risk and Sustainability Report. The CEO and the Executive Committee table, material risks are identified in relation to our responsibility approves Sobi’s sustainability programme, ensures compliance, and issues in the sustainability strategy. For a description of our general decides on overall objectives and implementation of the sustainability Sustainability risks and the areas of our compliance risks that coincide programme. with operational risks, see pages 58–63. All sustainability activities are guided by the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the other sustainability related policies. The Head of Communications and Investor Relations is responsible for communication and operationalisation of the programme in close collaboration with the business units. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 125 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Sustainability performance 2018 Sobi is committed to report on progress regarding material issues related to economic, social and environmental performance. The ­sustainability notes found below complement the performance reporting found in the Sustainability section of this report. Reported data covers all Sobi’s business operations unless otherwise stated. Sustainability notes Economic Performance Environmental Performance Direct Economic Value Generated Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) SEK 000s 2018 Revenues 9,138,892 METRIC TONNES 2018 2017 2016 Operating costs 3,601,156 Indirect emissions from energy 213 221 222 Employee wages & benefits 1,091,654 Emissions from travel 1,110 983 1,112 Payments to providers of capital 14,577 Reported emissions reflects only operations in Sweden, comprising just over Payments to government1 20,185 half of Sobi employees. Travelling emissions include emissions from business Community investments2 3,732 travel and company cars. Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive Waste income 2018. 1 Costs to governmental health care agencies whereof the largest i FDA and EMA. METRIC TONNES 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2. Community investments is based on costs to ­support to Patients O ­ rganisations during 2018, the three largest ones consists of European Haemophilia Consortium (EHC), Irish Haemophilia society Recycled waste 24 50 46 68 52 and EURORDIS, Rare Disease Europe. Hazardous waste 18 22 16 13 13 Indirect economic impact Landfill 0.1 0.1 0.0 1.6 0.1 Total waste 42 72 62 82 65 NUMBER 2018 2017 2016 Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s facilities in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. Total MIUs delivered 362 262 146 Waste data does not include waste from marketing and sales offices. Total patients treated 16,885 15,072 12,311 Acute bleeds treated 37,896 40,557 33,876 Surgeries 461 709 719 Paediatric patients, % 39 39 28 Sobi and Sanofi have pledged to donate up to 1 billion IUs of coagulation factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. 500 million IUs have been allocated in support of the World Federation of Hemophilia’s (WFH) humanitarian aid work. Sobi’s indirect economic impact is reported in accordance with the WFH:s progress report for this programme. The impacts are the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the programme. In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in collaboration with regulators and international patient organisations to meet humanitarian needs. Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases where humanitarian aid has been considered necessary. 126 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Social performance Employees per region 2018 REGION New employee hires Female Male Employees 2018 Sweden 77 324 172 496 EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 93 196 158 354 North America (USA & Canada) 44 45 40 85 Total 214 565 370 9351 1. Per year-end 2018, the number of full-time equivalent employees was 902, while the number of persons employed at the same date was 935. New hires Female Male Under 30 30–49 50 years Female Under 30 30–49 50 years Male REGION years old years old and older Total years old years old and older Total Total Sweden 7 33 11 51 3 14 9 26 77 EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 7 38 10 55 3 29 6 38 93 North America (USA & Canada) 1 16 6 23 1 16 4 21 44 Total 15 87 27 129 7 59 19 85 214 Turnover 2018 EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 Number of employees1 935 812 Departures 109 90 Turnover 11.6% 11.1% 1. Mean number of employees during the year, including only permanent contracts. Employees and contract type 2018 EMPLOYEES Male Female Total Permanent contract 363 549 912 Temporary contract 7 16 23 EMPLOYEES Sweden Other region Total Permanent contract 482 430 912 Temporary contract 14 9 23 Employee numbers are expressed as head count. Sobi has no employees working part-time. Some employees have been granted a part-time equivalent employment type due to issues such as child care. All employees in the Swedish operations (representing approximately 57 per cent of all employees) are covered by collective bargaining agreements. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 127 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products The regulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary Kineret® depending on geographical region. As well as regulatory approval, EU and Australia – indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs local agreement must be reached on pricing and reimbursement. and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older for the treatment of Alprolix® CAPS and in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months EU – indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in and older for the treatment of Still’s disease. patients with haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency). USA – indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs and ­Alprolix can be used for all age groups. symptoms of RA, and the treatment of neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID). Elocta® Canada – indicated for the treatment of Neonatal-Onset MultisysEU – indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in tem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) in adults, adolescents, children patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). and infants aged eight months and older and for active RA in patients Elocta can be used for all age groups. 18 years of age or older. Gamifant® Orfadin® US – (emapalumab-lzsg) is an interferon gamma (IFN )–blocking EU and Canada – indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric antibody indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric (newborn (in any age range) patients with confirmed diagnosis of hereditary and older) patients with primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis tyrosinemia type 1 (HT 1) in combination with dietary restriction of (HLH) with refractory, recurrent, or progressive disease or intolerance tyrosine and phenylalanine. with conventional HLH therapy. US and Australia – indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine. Approval (A), Pricing (P) and Reimbursement (R) Orfadin Region Alprolix Elocta Kineret Gamifant Orfadin capsules oral suspension MAA submitted to EU and EFTA states A A A EMA August 2018 A A Austria APR APR APR APR APR Belgium APR APR APR APR APR Bulgaria APR APR APR APR APR Croatia A APR APR APR APR Cyprus A A AR A A Czech Republic A APR APR APR AP Denmark APR APR APR APR APR Estonia A A AR AR AR Finland A APR APR APR APR France APR APR APR APR APR Germany APR APR APR APR APR Greece APR APR APR APR APR Hungary APR APR APR AR AR Iceland A A APR APR APR Ireland APR APR APR APR APR Italy APR APR APR APR APR Latvia A A AR A A Liechtenstein APR APR APR APR APR 128 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S u s ta i na b i l i t y ­m ana g e m ent Approval (A), Pricing (P) and Reimbursement (R) Orfadin Region Alprolix Elocta Kineret Gamifant Orfadin capsules oral suspension Lithuania A A APR APR A Luxembourg APR APR APR APR APR Malta A A A A A Netherlands APR APR APR APR APR Norway APR APR APR APR APR Poland A APR APR APR AP Portugal A APR APR APR APR Romania AP AP A APR A Slovakia APR APR APR APR APR Slovenia APR APR APR APR AP Spain A APR APR APR APR Sweden APR APR APR APR APR UK APR APR APR APR APR Europe – other Russia APR APR Switzerland APR APR APR APR APR Turkey Ukraine APR APR North America Canada APR APR Mexico APR APR US APR APR APR Asia Kuwait APR APR Israel APR APR APR Japan APR APR Saudi Arabia APR APR APR APR United Arab Emirates APR APR Africa Algeria APR Jordan APR Tunisia APR APR South America Argentina APR Chile APR Australia APR APR S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 129 G R I i nde x Global Reporting Initiative Index Sobi’s Sustainability Report 2018 is defined in the GRI Index below. Its This ­sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with main components are found in the following sections of the Annual the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements and Sustainability Report 2018: on ­sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act. The 2018 • Business Model is found in the section Sobi’s Value Creation, ­sustainability report was published in April 2019. pages 12–13. Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, • Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance as part of the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators 2018 are found on pages 15–17, 30–31 and 34–41. below have been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, • Information on objectives and targets on Sustainability issues which is f­ urther described on pages 123–125. All page references is reported in the Sustainability management section and non-­ below refer to pages in Sobi’s 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report financial notes, on pages 123–129. or at www.sobi.com. Our sustainability report serves as our UN • Information on the structure of the Sustainability Report is found Global Compact Communication on Progress report. For questions in the section Sustainability Management, on pages 123–129. regarding the Sustainability Report, please contact info@sobi.com. Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment ­Compact STANDARD DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 74 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2–5, 10–14, 52 102-3 Location of headquarters 74 102-4 Location of operations 15–17, 34–35, 82, 97 102-5 Ownership and legal form 74 102-6 Markets served 128–129 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2–5, 82 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 85 Principle 6 102-9 Supply chain 34–35 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 6–7 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 40–41, 58–63 102-12 External initiatives 40–41, 58–63 102-13 Membership of associations See www.sobi.com for current list of memberships. Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-makers 6–7, 49 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 36–37, 56 Principle 10 Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 108–113, 125 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 123 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 127 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 123–125 Principle 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 123–125 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 123–125 130 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 G R I i nde x Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment ­Compact Reporting Practice GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 97 102-46 Defining report content and topic ­boundaries 123–125, 130 102-47 List of material topics 123–125 102-48 Restatements of information 97 102-49 Changes in reporting 123–125 102-50 Reporting period 123–125 102-51 Date of most recent report 123–125 102-52 Reporting cycle 123–125 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 123–125 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 130 102-55 GRI content index 130 102-56 External assurance Sobi’s Sustainability Report has not been subject to external assurance. MATERIAL TOPICS Economic Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated Performance 2016 and distributed 126 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125 GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Impacts 2016 126 Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 63, 123–125 Principle 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to ­corruption 41, 63 Principle 10 205-2 Communication and training about ­anti-­corruption policies and procedures 41 Principle 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 41 Principle 10 Anti-competitive Behaviour GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 123–125 GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive ­Behaviour 2016 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 41 Environmental Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 61, 123–125 Principle 7, 8, 9 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 126 Principle 7, 8 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 61, 123–125 Principle 8 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 126 Principle 8 Waste 2016 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 131 G R I i nde x Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment ­Compact Social Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 62, 123–125 Principle 6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 127 Principle 6 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 1, 6 GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, and Safety 2016 ­occupational diseases, lost days, and absen­teeism, and number of work-related fatalities 36–39 Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 6 GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year Education 2016 per employee 36–39 Principle 6 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 36–39 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 36–39 Principle 6 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 2016 corrective actions taken 36–39 Principle 6 Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125 Principle 1 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community ­engagement, impact assessments, and ­development programmes 16–17 Principle 1 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 123–125 Principle 2 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened ­Assessment 2016 using social criteria 41 Principle 2 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 34–35, 58–63, 123–125 Principle 7 GRI 416: C  ustomer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts and Safety 2016 of product and service categories 34–35, 58–63 Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 34–35, 40, 60, 123–125 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Labeling 2016 product and ­service information and labeling 34–35, 60 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing ­communications 40 Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 40, 62, 123–125 GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Privacy 2016 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 40, 62 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 40–41, 63, 123–125 GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in ­Compliance 2016 the social and economic area 40–41, 63 132 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 A u d i t o r ’ s rep o rt Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321 Engagement and responsibility The Board of Directors are responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2018 on pages 12–13, 15–17, 30–31, 34–41, 58–63 and 123–133 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Stockholm, April 12, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorized Public Accountant S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 133 A nn u al General Meet i n g 2019 Annual General Meeting 2019 Annual General Meeting Proxy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General Shareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a Meeting on Thursday, 9 May 2019, in Grand Hôtel, S. Blasieholms­ written and dated power of attorney for the proxy. If the power of hamnen 8, Stockholm, Sweden. attorney is issued by a legal entity, a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent for the legal entity must be attached. The To participate power of attorney is valid for one year from the date of issuance, or Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be until the date of expiry shown on the power of attorney, but not later recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB than five years. The registration certificate shall state the circumon Friday 3 May 2019. Shareholders must notify the company of their stances prevailing at the date of the meeting and should not be older intention to participate no later than Friday, 3 May 2019 in one of the than one year on the date of the meeting. The original power of ­following ways: attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the com• On Sobi’s website: www.sobi.com pany by mail at the address indicated below well in advance of the • By phone: +46 (0)8-697 31 91, Monday to Friday 9:00–16:00 meeting. A proxy form is available on the company’s website, • By mail: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), www.sobi.com, and can also be sent to shareholders upon request. Annual General Meeting, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Financial calendar 2019 The notification should include the shareholder’s: January–March Interim Report 25 April • Name Annual General Meeting 9 May • Personal/corporate identity Capital markets day 14 May • Address and telephone number (daytime) January–June Interim Report 17 July • Number of shares held January–September Interim Report 31 October • Where applicable, information about any representatives/advisors The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports Nominee shares and press releases. Shareholders who have registered their shares with a bank or another nominee must, to be entitled to participate in the Annual General Contact details Meeting, register their shares in their own name, so that the person Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) concerned is recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Sweden AB on Friday, 3 May 2019. Shareholders wishing to register Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna their shares in their own name should inform the nominee in good Phone: +46 (0)8 697 20 00 time before this date. Such registration may be temporary. Email: info@sobi.com Website: www.sobi.com 134 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Definitions Definitions CER Debt-to equity ratio Constant exchange rate. Relative proportion of shareholders equity and debt used to finance the company’s assets. Earnings per share Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares. EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation. EBIT Earnings before interest and tax (operating income). EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Full-time equivalent (FTE) A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on Equity per share a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various Equity divided by the number of shares. contexts. Equity ratio Gross profit Equity divided by total assets. Operating revenues less cost of goods and services sold. Gross margin IFRIC Gross profit as a percentage of sales. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee. Net cash (–)/debt (+) Interest-bearing non-current and short-term liabilities minus cash and bank b ­ alances. Alternative performance measures Financial measures not defined according to IFRS Return on capital employed Sobi uses certain financial measures in the interim report that are Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/­Capital Employed. not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors Return on equity and company management, as they enable an assessment and Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of ­average equity. benchmarking of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always Return on total capital comparable to measures used by other companies. These financial Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage measures should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for of average total assets. measures defined according to IFRS. The following key ratios are not defined according to IFRS. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Risk-free interest rate (0.66%) plus Beta (1.31) multiplied with a risk Capital employed premium (6.36). The risk-free rate is an average of 10-year ­Treasury Total assets less non-interest-bearing ­liabilities. bill over the last five years. Beta is the correlation between Sobis share and stock exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average Cash flow from operating activities per share over five years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average rate tax of 22% has been used. number of outstanding shares. Cash flow per share Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted average number of outstanding shares. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 135 Glo s s ar y Glossary Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy approved in the EU, A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy approved in the EU, Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland, Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United for the treatment of haemophilia A, which can be used by people of States and other countries, for the treatment of haemophilia B, which all ages. It is also approved in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New can be used by people of all ages. Zealand, the United States and other countries, where it is known as ELOCTATE®. Acute gout An autoinflammatory disease and intensely painful and disabling EMA inflammatory arthritis involving one or several joints. Gout is also European Medicines Agency. a disease associated with multiple comorbidities, which may limit the use of some conventional treatment regimens. EMENAR Abbreviation for business region including Europe, Middle East, North AnaGO Africa and Russia. A randomised double-blind, multicentre phase 2 study conduc­ted in North America which studied two dose levels of anakinra in compariFDA son to intramuscular triamcinolone for the treatment of acute gout. The US Food and Drug Administration. AnaSTILLS Gamifant (emapalumab) A randomised, double-blind, multicentre study being conducted in An anti-interferon-gamma (IFN)monoclonal antibody (mAb), North America studying two subcutaneous dose levels of anakinra, in approved by the FDA and currently under EMA review for the comparison to placebo for the treatment of Still’s disease. treatment of primary haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a life-threatening syndrome of immune activation. An application to BIVV001 the EMA was submitted in August 2018. A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro­ tection from bleeds with prophylaxis dosing of once weekly or longer Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) for people with haemophilia A. Builds on the Fc fusion technology by A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides to The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants potentially extend its time in circulation. and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the disease is acquired from or associated with infection, autoimmune diseases CAPS or malignancy. Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to Haemophilia be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to clot ­overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 male births conjunctivitis and many other symptoms. annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People with haemophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause pain, limited mobility, CHMP irreversible joint damage and life-threatening haemorrhages. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use at the ­European Medicines Agency. Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called EC tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, European Commission. which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications. EHL IL-1 Extended half-life, which means that the circulation in the body is Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflammation and driver of prolonged. Sobi’s haemophilia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are autoinflammatory diseases. EHL products. ITI – Immune tolerance induction A therapy used when haemophilia patients develop inhibitors to treatment. Factor concentrate is given regularly and at high doses over a period of time until the body is trained to recognise the treatment product without reacting to it. 136 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Kineret (anakinra) Real world evidence A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of Real world evidence is gained by examining how approved medicines interleukin-1 a and b (IL-1 and IL -1 ) by binding to IL-1 type 1 recepand treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-world tors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby evidence studies use observational data such as electronic medical blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. Real-­ and a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual patient outcomes. LRTI Lower respiratory tract infections. ReITIrate An open-label, multicentre study designed to investigate the ITI MAH – Marketing authorisation holder potential of Elocta in patients with haemophilia A who have develThe company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been oped inhibitors which have failed to be resolved with other therapies. granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product. RSV MEDI8897 Respiratory syncytial virus. A common virus and the most common A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F monoclonal antibody being cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) in young children. developed for the prevention of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) caused by RSV in all infants entering their first RSV season1 SOBI003 and children with chronic lung disease or congenital heart disease A product candidate and a chemically modified variant of a recombientering their first and second RSV season. Engineered to have a nant human sulfamidase, using Sobi’s proprietary glycan modification long half-life so that only one dose will be needed for the entire RSV technology Modifa™, intended as an enzyme-replacement therapy season, MEDI8897 is being developed for passive immunisation of a in the lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA, aimed at reducing heparan broad infant population. sulfate storage materials in affected cells. Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA (Sanfilippo A syndrome) Still’s disease A progressive, life-threatening and rare inherited metabolic disorder An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, affecting children from a young age. Belongs to a group of diseases characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes called lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). NOMID Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe Synagis (palivizumab) form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, Indicated for the prevention of serious LRTI caused by RSV in infants craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality. and young children at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most prevalent cause of LRTI among infants and young children. Synagis is Orfadin (nitisinone) a RSV F protein inhibitor monoclonal antibody that acts as a prophyA drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks laxis against serious RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic the prevention of serious RSV disease. tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not UCD ­adequately broken down. Urea cycle disorders are a group of serious conditions in which patients suffer from deficiencies in the enzymes required to remove Orphan drugs ammonia from the blood stream. Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or dis­ orders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan XTEN drugs” because, under normal market conditions, there is little XTEN is a technique used to extend the half-life of ­proteins. incentive for the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for such a small patient population. Revenues would not be expected to WFH meet the extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to market. World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit Governments often provide economic incentives to encourage organisation. companies to develop and market medicines for rare diseases. 1. The RSV season usually occurs from early fall until late spring and peaks during the winter. Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are ­trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All third party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2019 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved. Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet. Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Thomas Nielsen, Jonathan Trace, Lacy Davillier, Sobi. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00 www.sobi.com Email: info@sobi.com
