COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 20/04/2018 To: 29/04/2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) EXAMPLE 01/03/2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Ametel UK reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Miguel Nunez Managing Director Ametel UK 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights • Protect workers from harassment in the workplace, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Through a protocol developed for the prevention and treatment of harassment in the workplace and the creation of the commission before which potential cases of harassment are reported, in order to analyze the complaint in an urgent and confidential manner. • Ensure a relationship of trust with our suppliers, which must guarantee that they comply with Human Rights. Our supplier evaluation procedure includes criteria related to the CSR as a minimum requirement for the approval of the same. • An ethical code has been defined, which includes aspects such as respect for human rights, equal opportunities, worker protection ... • Ensure through a responsible management policy, that workers are provided with safe, adequate and hygienic work facilities. It includes the commitment to carry out the work under controlled conditions. • Labour • Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor practices. • Comply with minimum wage standards • Employee support to exercise their right to collective bargaining, through a committee, constituted by elected representatives • Provide training plans that help improve working conditions according to the position. • Environment • Avoid damage to the environment by establishing good waste management practices. • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and deal with accidents that affect the environment and human health. • Responsible management policy, includes the commitment to prevent pollution and have a correct use of natural resources. • Maintaining an Environmental Management System, under the normal ISO 14001. • Annual accomplishment of study of Carbon Footprint and consumption of natural resources. • Anti-Corruption • An Anticorruption Protocol has been prepared that includes the policies in this regard, as well as the existing communication channels for this type of situation. • Mention the words anti-corruption and / or ethical behavior in contracts with business partners • The code of ethics expresses the disapproval of corruption conducts. • 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Management of incidents • Percentage of employees over the total who have received training • Indicators of occupational accident • Training hours per employee • Number of complaints received and resolved. • Average annual training hours per employee, disaggregated by sex and employment category. • Number of files opened and resolved by accusations of harassment, abuse or intimidation in the workplace. • Direct energy consumption of the entity • Total water consumption • Paper consumption in the year • Level of greenhouse gas emissions NOx, SOx and other emissions
