2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT contents Introduction Statement of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 What We Do Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences . . . . . . 4 Cartus Culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Our People We Respect Those We Work With and For . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Recognizing People Who Do Great Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Ethics and Compliance We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Caring for Our Communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Environmental Stewardship Our Employees Are a Lean, Mean, Green Machine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Sustainable Procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 introduction Statement of Support Dear Cartus stakeholders: For over 60 years, Cartus has helped families as they settle into new homes and new communities, adjust to new situations, and enjoy new experiences. Our commitment to helping people is not reserved to our clients and their relocating employees, but extends to the communities in which we live and work, and our neighbors we work with, around the world. Cartus has a large global footprint, and we have operated in more than 185 countries. With our global reach comes the tremendous responsibility to understand and support the myriad cultures and environments in which we work. Our employees and partners are actively involved with local charities and organizations, and have a long history of responding to the needs of people affected by disasters or tragedies. Cartus actively supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact by continuing efforts in the key areas of concern: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Over the past year, Cartus has made exciting strides in these areas with new initiatives and practices, outlined in our 2019 Global Citizenship Report. Highlights of the company’s progress include: • Remaining focused on worldwide corporate social responsibility in every aspect of our business as demonstrated by Cartus’ EcoVadis Silver designation, which places the company among the top 30 percent of performers evaluated by the leading supplier sustainability platform in the field. • Working to protect our clients by maintaining stringent controls to ensure data integrity and protection, including SOC 2 Type 2, SSAE 16, and ISAE 3402 compliance; Cyber Essentials accreditation; TRUSTe Privacy Certification; EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework registration; and a comprehensive plan for European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliance. • Continuing our commitment to charitable endeavors with Cartus employees around the world raising more than US$400,000 through various events, as well as volunteering thousands of hours of time to their chosen causes and communities. • And, as always, being guided by the concept of what’s right: a focus on ethical behavior that unifies our practices and interactions. For the seventh straight year, our parent company, Realogy—and by extension, Cartus—was named one of the World’s Most Ethical companies by Ethisphere Institute®. We work diligently to earn this designation every day. Cartus’ commitment to global citizenship is not just a box to check or a number to achieve, but is something that is a pleasure to incorporate into our work experiences year after year. It is wonderful to see everything that we accomplish as a group displayed in our Global Citizenship report, and I hope that it offers encouragement to replicate the spirit of giving embodied by Cartus employees around the globe. Best regards. Katrina Helmkamp President and CEO, Cartus CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 3 what we do Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences Our expertise began more than 60 years ago, when Cartus first • Eaton Supplier Premier Award: This award honors just 10 We have more offered U.S. domestic home-finding assistance. Since then, recipients out of Eaton’s 50,000 global suppliers who exhibit we have grown to become the market leaders in the global integrity, teamwork, accountability, positivity, and superior than 60 years relocation industry, moving employees and their families into performance. This year’s award recognizes a business of thought and out of 185-plus countries. relationship between our two companies that has been in place since 1986. leadership Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to organizations worldwide. With nearly 2,600 Cartus employees—almost 800 • Achievers 50 Most Engaged WorkplacesTM 2017: For the and expertise. second consecutive year, Cartus was recognized as one of the based in EMEA and APAC—and 17 offices worldwide, last year we assisted more than 171,000 families. Achievers 50 Most Engaged Workplaces™ in North America. This annual award recognizes top employers that display Our services cover every aspect of the relocation process— leadership and innovation in engaging their workplaces. from selling a home and shipping household goods to settling • No. 1 Ranking for Overall Satisfaction among large relocation into new communities around the world. We provide logistical management companies in the 2017 International Managers support and innovative technology solutions as well as in-house Survey conducted by Trippel Survey & Research: Cartus international assignment compensation services, intercultural also earned the number one position in the categories of and language training, consulting services, and real estate Responsiveness, Supplier Management, Value for Price Paid, assistance programs. Cost Management, and Country Coverage. Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp. (NYSE: RLGY), the • 2017 EMMA Award Winner: Cartus won first place for market leader in residential real estate whose businesses include “Outstanding Corporate and Social Responsibility Initiatives” franchising, brokerage, relocation, and title and settlement. at the annual Forum for Expatriate Management Americas Summit & Expatriate Management and Mobility Awards Awards (EMMAs). • 2018 World’s Most Ethical Companies: Ethisphere Institute, • 2017 Gold Stevie Winner—American Business Awards: the global leader in defining and advancing the standards Cartus was recognized with the top award in the “Customer of ethical business practices, recognizes parent company Service Department of the Year—Business Services” category. Realogy for the seventh year in a row with this distinguished • Boeing Silver Performance Excellence Award 2017: Cartus award. We are one of only 135 companies that met earned the Boeing Performance Excellence Award for the Ethisphere’s high standards. fourth consecutive year in recognition of the outstanding customer service we provide in support of The Boeing Company’s relocation program. 4 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both collectively Guiding Principles as an organization and individually as members of the Cartus We exist to Service: We are defined by our service. family. As part of that culture, our focus on global citizenship provide trusted reflects our commitment to the 10 principles of the UN Global Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources as if they were Compact. Specifically, this commitment is revealed not only our own. guidance to help in how we provide service to our clients and their relocating employees, but also in what our company and employees give Respect: We respect others and treat people well. our clients and back to our communities and our planet. their relocating Collaboration: We are better when we work together. Mission employees Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. We come to work every day to help our customers and clients succeed. As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Cartus succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust of those has made a commitment to integrate the 10 principles into our whose lives we touch. strategic planning and day-to-day operations. The following Vision Communication on Progress (COP) details our efforts to fulfill this mission. We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging our vast body of knowledge and experience to create superior solutions, build relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will work together each day to achieve excellence in all we do, fostering trust and confirming our leadership position in the markets we serve. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 5 cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (cont’d.) CARTUS POLICY UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS THE CARTUS HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both collectively as an POLICY organization and individually as members of the Cartus family. As part Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of that culture, we understand the important role we have in of internationally proclaimed human rights, and implementing a policy of support for the human rights of our Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human employees, suppliers, and communities globally. To make sure that rights abuses. Cartus continues to live according to these principles daily, we conduct annual reviews of our business with a focus on human rights. We are committed to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking do not exist Click above to read our in any part of our business or supply chain. Human Rights Policy. Labor Being ethical and compliant is embedded in everything Cartus does, including seeking to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. To that Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of end, we have formed a program of leaders across the organization— association and the effective recognition of the right to including Legal, HR, Ethics & Compliance, and Supply Chain—to collective bargaining; integrate human rights decision-making into all of our business Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and operations. Effective Date: February 2017 compulsory labor; Cartus’ human rights provision includes focus on the following areas: Distribution: All Realogy Employees Policy Owner: Ethics & Compliance Department Version: 1 SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT INTRODUCTION Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and • Equal employment opportunity • Fair wages and compensation Realogy Holdings Corp. believes in the obligation to protect human rights all around the world. We take very seriously our responsibility to remain alert to any risks to human rights and to ensure that our Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of business practices, as well as those of our supply chains, do not foster or support slavery or human • Child labor and minimum • Harassment trafficking in any way. STRUCTURE OF OUR COMPANY AND ITS BUSINESS Realogy comprises four operating business units: (1) NRT LLC (real estate brokerage operations in the United States); (2) Realogy Franchise Group LLC/Realogy Group LLC (franchisor for six real estate brands employment and occupation. age workers • Guidance and reporting licensed in 105 countries); (3) Cartus Corporation (relocation service organizations operating in 150 countries); and (4) Title Resource Group (a title and settlement services company operating in the United States). Realogy’s business focuses on real estate services offered through company-owned and franchised brokerages operating under one of Realogy’s owned or licensed brands: CENTURY 21®, • Forced/bonded/ for employees Coldwell Banker®, Coldwell Banker Commercial®, ERA Real Estate®, Sotheby’s International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate. Realogy is headquartered in Madison, NJ. Its annual revenues exceed £36 million per year. Realogy maintains a corporate office for Cartus Corporation in Swindon, UK. SUPPLY CHAIN compulsory labor Realogy’s supply chains vary based on the business unit. For our business units that operate outside the United States, our supply chain is principally made up of vendors of Cartus Corporation, our relocation services division, that assists its clients and their employees in developing their global workforce and • Valuing diversity managing their mobility process from packing and moving of furnishings, real estate purchase or rental • Freedom of association/ • Accessibility for persons assistance, and settling into new communities around the world. Realogy Franchise Group offers direct franchises and master franchise rights outside the United States collective bargaining through its affiliate Realogy Group LLC. Realogy Group LLC licenses our brand trademarks and systems to independent third parties to allow them to directly provide real estate services or operate a franchise system in a designated region under one of our six brands. With very limited exceptions, neither Realogy Franchise Group nor Realogy Group LLC provide or approve a supply chain or individual suppliers for franchisees or master franchise owners outside the United States. with disabilities • Working conditions Page 1 of 3 • Maternity protection and working hours Click above to read our Slavery and Anti• Health and safety Human Trafficking Statement. 6 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (cont’d.) UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS Our service is Environment As a corporate citizen of Planet Earth, Cartus is committed to reducing only as good as the environmental impact of our company. We continually look at ways Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary to reduce our carbon footprint and educate our employees on our people. approach to environmental challenges; conservation activities. This includes maintaining an ad hoc, employeePrinciple 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater initiated and -sponsored Conservation Committee—formed in 2002— environmental responsibility; and that works closely with our various teams. It has conducted several Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of major initiatives, including roadway pollution reduction, recycling and environmentally friendly technologies. waste reduction, and energy conservation. It also sponsors events such CARTUS POLICY as our annual Earth Day Fair, which provides employees with THE CARTUS environmental and conservation products and services for both ENVIRONMENTAL home and office. POLICY In addition, we have a formal Environmental Policy to emphasize our philosophy and approach to environmentally responsible business practices. Anti-Corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and treat others affects how our stakeholders ultimately view our company. In support of this goal, we Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Click above to read our maintain a Compliance and Ethics program that features specific forms, including extortion and bribery. Environmental Policy. anti-corruption policies and procedures; key components include our Code of Ethics and Key Employment policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate culture. The result: our parent company has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for seven straight years. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 7 our people We Respect Those We Work With and For At Cartus, we respect others and treat people well. We show Our On the Move fitness center in Danbury—visited by 64 We foster respect to everyone we interact with, internally and externally, employees a day, on average—also supports employee health earning both their confidence and their trust in return. Being and safety through regular classes and fitness challenges, and sustain an both global and diverse, we are attuned to the nuances of lunch-and-learn presentations, and a library of resources that environment culture and diversity. We foster and sustain an environment that addresses issues related to well-being (e.g., sleep health, mental is inclusive and supportive; we consider this essential to both the health, stress management, etc.). Other global health and safety that is inclusive excellence of our work and to the company we strive to be. We highlights from this past year include: and supportive. create opportunities for our employees to get involved, build satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow personally Awards and professionally. • Platinum Award Winner—Healthy Workplace Employer Recognition Program. Awarded by the Business Council of A Comprehensive Focus on Health and Safety Fairfield County, CT, Cartus was recognized for the second Our global offices pursue various initiatives to encourage and consecutive year for our best practices in promoting a support the overall health and safety of Cartus employees. For healthy workplace. example, our global headquarters in Danbury, CT, features a • 2017 Corporate Merit Award at the Singapore Health fully equipped Wellness Center staffed by a physician assistant Awards. Organized by the Singapore Health Promotion and nurse practitioner. The Wellness Center features two exam Board, the program aims to recognize outstanding corporate rooms and a specimen-drawing room, and serves employees’ workplace health practices in Singapore. healthcare needs through the on-site diagnosis and treatment of occupational and non-occupational illnesses and injuries, Activities urgent and emergent care, triage services, basic lab services, • As part of our Workplace Health Programme in Singapore, consultation, coordination of wellness programs, preventive employees were given complimentary health check-ups. health screenings, and vaccinations. There were also comprehensive health packages that staff could sign up for at a discounted rate. In the past year, the Wellness Center supported 2,837 visits. • The EMEA Wellbeing Committee also offered employees Since it opened 15 years ago, Cartus employees have made free on-site health check-ups. The services included nearly 58,000 visits to the center. By doing so, they have measuring height, weight, BMI, resting heart rate, body fat saved hundreds of thousands of dollars in co-pays and health percentage, hip-to-waist ratio, and blood pressure. insurance fees. Each visit is also estimated to save employees approximately three hours away from work. • Likewise, our Irving, TX, office’s annual Health Fair featured BMI and blood pressure screenings, a flu shot clinic, and dental and insurance information. 8 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people We Respect Those We Work With and For (cont’d.) • As part of the “Eat with Your Family Day” initiative, APAC • In 2017 the Cartus Crisis Team received a firsthand look employees were encouraged to head home early and enjoy at crisis response in action when members of the Special We encourage dinner with their families. This initiative was founded by Communications Team for Connecticut—a group, funded and support the Singapore-based Centre for Fathering that believes an by U.S. Homeland Security that has representatives in police active and involved father is essential for a child’s successful departments throughout the state—visited Danbury to the overall development. demonstrate the capabilities of their mobile emergency health and • For a convenient way to add fresh foods to our diets, Cartus response unit: a fully equipped van that enables the team to Danbury partners with a local produce delivery service respond to any large-scale emergencies that involve multiple safety of Cartus to deliver five to eight different fruits and vegetables to agencies/departments in this region. employees. participants every Friday. Similarly, the EMEA Wellbeing • Our Shanghai and Singapore offices also hosted a LunchCommittee has established a biweekly or monthly fruit and-Learn that taught employees how to apply first aid in delivery in different offices to keep colleagues fit and healthy. various situations that require emergency assistance. • As an initiative to keep Cartus staff movin’ and groovin’, one ambitious team of Singapore employees formed a Zumba dance group that holds weekly dance sessions after work hours. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 9 our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (cont’d.) As a provider of global mobility services with a core practice Through the Diversity Council and its associated resource 55 Languages in intercultural and language training, understanding and accepting cultural diversity remains key to our guiding principle of Respect. We embrace diversity because it resonates with our culture of valuing and welcoming differences. Our sensitivity to groups, we create an inclusive environment in our offices and learn more about each other. Please see below for some of our diversity-related initiatives. each other and our customers’ unique and individual needs not • The Diversity and Inclusion Council encouraged teams to collectively only makes us a better service provider, but also a richer, more actively participate throughout the week to learn more about vibrant company. diversity and inclusion and why it is so important to our spoken by Cartus company. They planned activities so that employees could employees In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus continues to both participate as a group (with their teams) and individually. disregard race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, age, Group Activities: worldwide. sex, gender, sexual orientation, sexual preference, veteran status, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic 1. International Food Day Departments were asked to pick protected under applicable laws and regulations. We make a theme that represents and celebrates a culture, cultural reasonable accommodations for qualified disabled employees diversity, diverse experiences, etc. Choose a day and have a and applicants. team potluck around the chosen theme. 2. Team D&I Vision Statement teams were provided details We are particularly proud of our on how to write a vision statement and were asked to write gender equality. New CEO Katrina their own Diversity and Inclusion Vision Statement that Helmkamp joined Cartus in the represented their team and aligned with the organization’s Summer of 2018. Ms. Helmkamp leads overall Diversity and Inclusion vision. the company comprised of 61% women and a senior management-vice Individual Activities: president team and above split 50/50 1. Cartus’ On the Ground Series Hosted by local between male and female. Destination Service Providers (DSPs), Cartus’ YouTube page has videos that highlight different locations within the Spearheading many of the inclusion activities across our Americas, EMEA, and APAC. company is the Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Council. 2. Diverse Dallas The Diversity and Inclusion Council shared a link to the Diverse Dallas website so that employees could explore for themselves the convergence of uniqueness and differences reflected throughout the sights and sounds of the city. 10 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (cont’d.) 3. Read and Learn Key diversity and inclusion articles from • In observance of National POW/MIA Recognition Day— reputable news publications such as Forbes and Harvard Business Review were shared with employees. Topics included understanding the importance of diversity and inclusion, and why diversity and inclusion is important to which honors those who were prisoners of war (POW) as well as those who are still missing in action (MIA)—Cartus set aside a special table, a single chair, a place setting, and various other items in our cafeteria as a silent symbol of hope 125 Countries in workplace success. for those affected. which Cartus • October is National Disability Employment Awareness • The Cartus Diversity Council in Irving, TX, hosted an event Month. Cartus employees were honored to listen to the story for employees focused on Texas history and offered foods employees of Sabrina Cohen, from Coldwell Banker Residential Real that have origins in Texas. Proceeds went to the Council’s have living Estate in Miami Beach. She endured a spinal cord injury at Community Matters Program Projects. the age of 14 from a car accident and turned tragedy into • Cartus Singapore was awarded the prestigious NS Mark and working triumph by starting a foundation that has made it possible (Gold) by pledging commitment to and signing the experience. for people with disabilities to enjoy the beach. Declaration of Support for Singapore’s National Service and • Cartus staff in Danbury celebrated Diwali—the Hindu Total Defense. Currently, Cartus Singapore has 25 employees festival of lights signifying the victory of light over darkness, actively serving as National Servicemen. good over evil, knowledge over ignorance, and hope over despair. Cartus staff enjoyed building-wide decorations, food tastings, and dance performances, well as henna tattoos, sari dressing, and a Lunch and Learn to explain the holiday and traditions. Cartus employees also created a beautiful Rangoli in celebration of Diwali in the Danbury lobby. • Our EMEA offices celebrated the European Day of Languages (EDOL) with a number of culturally themed events. The EDOL is an annual event jointly organized by the Council of Europe and European Union in an effort to promote the study of foreign languages. Given that Cartus employees speak 55 different languages, this is clearly a topic near and dear to our hearts! CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 11 our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (cont’d.) • The Danbury Diversity and Inclusion Council and the Cartus • Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month takes The Cartus Veterans Committee commemorates Armed Forces Day place in May. It celebrates the culture, traditions, and history and Memorial Day by selling red remembrance poppies to of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United Diversity and benefit veterans charities. Wreaths in the colors of the five States. The Diversity and Inclusion Council highlighted a few Inclusion Council service branches were also displayed in the main hallway, influential individuals and shared their stories on Yammer and while outside of the building, a banner was displayed though other internal communication avenues. celebrates along with U.S. flags planted by both employee entrances. • The Diversity and Inclusion Council provided information on diversity yearIn November, we also honored service members related to history, events, and parades related to gay and lesbian pride. Cartus employees around the globe through our annual Wall The Diversity and Inclusion Council also shared an article round. of Honor display. explaining why those in the Dallas/Ft. Worth areas celebrate • The Richmond office celebrated St. Patrick’s Day in March, Pride month in September as opposed to June each year. including shamrock-decorated cupcakes. Finally, Cartus Irving employees were invited to virtually • The Diversity and Inclusion Council in Danbury held a attend Realogy’s ERG, Real Pride, committee meeting to workshop called “One of Us” facilitated by Rachel Horan of learn more of what’s happening with all Realogy brands as it Mind Gym. The event included pair and group discussions. relates to Pride. During the session participants learned to: • In Danbury in March, the Diversity and Inclusion Council –– Uncover what diversity and inclusion really means, and and The Women’s Advisory Council teamed up for a meet why it’s important for business and greet over tea, coffee, treats and some fun trivia about –– Learn why being inclusive is inherently challenging to influential and inspiring women in history and today. all of us • In celebration of Native American Heritage Month, –– Discover ways to overcome our natural blocks to the Diversity and Inclusion Council put together some embracing diversity background information in addition to an online exhibition –– Set challenges for yourself that will help you be more link for the National Museum of the American Indian at the inclusive right away Smithsonian Institution. They also hosted a special viewing of the 1 hour PBS documentary, “Standing Bear’s Footsteps.” The documentary tells the story of Chief Standing Bear who was a Ponca Native American Chief. He successfully argued in U.S. District Court in 1879 in Omaha that Native Americans are “persons within the meaning of the law” and have the right of habeas corpus. 12 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (cont’d.) • To celebrate Cartus’ International Diversity and Inclusion Another aspect of our guiding principle of Respect is creating week, the Intercultural and Language Solutions team in opportunities for our employees to get involved, build satisfying More than 60% EMEA organized a scavenger hunt with clues based on the careers, balance life and work, and grow personally and countries our team members are from, or in which they have professionally. We extend this internal culture of respect to lived. There was also a diversity lunch, where savory and everyone we touch every day—because respect is essential to sweet food from various countries was enjoyed by all. Around every healthy relationship. the table there was a range of nationalities and heritages: of Cartus Brazilian, German, Mexican, Spanish, English, Scottish, Evidence of the value we place on our employees includes the employees Northern Irish, and Indian. exceptional benefits Cartus provides, including: • Volunteer time-off policy have flexible • In February to honor Black History Month, the Diversity and Inclusion Council in Danbury highlighted influential • Paid parental leave—both maternal and paternal schedules. and inspiring individuals. Carter Woodson created Black • Adoption assistance history week in 1926 near the birthdays of Abraham Lincoln, Booker T. Washington, and Frederick Douglass. It was • Domestic partner benefits later expanded to Black History Month to remember the • Flexible work options such as telecommuting and flex time achievements of all people of black descent in America. More than 60 percent of Cartus employees take advantage • The Diversity and Inclusion Council partnered with Genesis of flexible work scheduling—whether in the form of shifted Women’s Shelter whose mission is to provide safety, shelter, business hours, work-from-home opportunities, or a reduced or and support for women who have experienced domestic compressed work week. violence, and to raise awareness regarding its cause, prevalence, and impact. The Genesis Women’s Shelter Additionally, we are proud of the career opportunities we and the Diversity and Inclusion Council have facilitated the provide. Over the last two years, Cartus has promoted or offered adoption of 10 families to provide gifts to victims of domestic new positions to 591 employees. abuse and their families during the holiday season. • On Oct 11th, the Diversity and Inclusion Council sent out an email communication in celebration of the 30th anniversary of National Coming Out Day by sharing origins of this celebration. Additionally, they linked the story of Realogy’s VP of Legal, Sherin Sakr, via Yammer for employees to read her powerful and inspiring story of coming out to her family. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 13 our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (cont’d.) BRAVO! Awards Individual BRAVO! Awards BRAVO! awards • Gold: Lisa Reid, Client Services Director, EMEA In May 2018, our offices and employees around the world celebrate participated in BRAVO! Day—a global celebration and • Silver: Julie Horak, Director Affinity Services/Account opportunity to say “thank you” to everyone for their contribution Management and Sales spectacular to great service, collaboration, respect, financial responsibility, • Bronze: Swetha Kantamaneni, Team Lead, International achievement and ethical behavior. Special celebrations were held in all offices Assignment Services by our various departments to recognize our most important in advancing asset: our people. These winners truly exemplify the Cartus culture. our Guiding Cartus is also proud to recognize the winners of last year’s Principles. BRAVO! President’s Awards, which recognize exceptional achievement and consistent demonstration of one or more of Cartus’ guiding principles. Team BRAVO! Award President’s Award Team Winner • USAA Agent Selection Tool Project Team Team members: Scott Becker, Steve Slabaugh, Kim Welton, Gail Ward, Lewis Horowitz, Marcia Ford, Cindy King, Jane Bajuk, Elyse Cruciani, Marianne Questel, Jeff Buckley, Gerard Terry, Melissa Garza, Kelley Pruitt, Jordan Walters, Amelia Abram, Clifford Cope, Ashley Donnell, John English, LaDayna Johnson, Cory Morrison, Cheryl Price, Cynthia Price, Patricia Sanders, Nick George, Rhonda Trulu, Terry Jones, Amanda Davis, Regina Norris, Ann Manley, Pam Uhl CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 14 ethics and compliance We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing (cont’d.) Being ethical and compliant in everything we do—“doing • Translating the Realogy Code of Ethics into 11 different the right thing”—is a core guiding principle. This principle mandates ethical behavior in all our business dealings. We conduct ourselves and our business with the utmost integrity. We comply with our internal and external commitments, and languages representing the countries where our employees work every day. Translations can be viewed by both employees and the public any time at http://thecode.realogy.com. 100% of Cartus we make the ethical choice whenever challenges present themselves. Our culture of integrity as a company is absolute employees and non-negotiable. complete Code As part of the Realogy family, we are proud to be named to of Ethics training Ethisphere® Institute’s “World’s Most Ethical (WME) Companies” list for the seventh consecutive year. The WME designation every year. recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business ethically and translate those words into action. Our company’s and people’s efforts to continue doing the right thing include: • 100 percent compliance with our annual Compliance and Click the image above to watch a short video about our Code of Ethics training for all Cartus employees, including: Ethics that includes colleagues from around the globe. –– Code of Ethics and Key Policies –– Information Management and Security • Maintaining a 24/7 Ethics Hotline, where employees can raise –– Anti-corruption and Bribery Efforts concerns or ask questions about ethical issues. The Code of • Realogy online training course on Workplace Violence Ethics Line is accessible in 200 languages, either by phone or Awareness. by Web. • IT staff greeting Cartus employees in Swindon, UK, in • Maintaining a collection of Manager Toolkits with the Ethical celebration and recognition of Cyber Security Awareness Leadership courses provided for all employees with one or Month. Armed with leaflets and keyboard brushes, they more direct reports. shared the message, “Have a safe and secure personal and professional digital life.” 15 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work Last year, Cartus employees around the world raised more than Kendall Nelson had family that lived in the affected area. Five Our employees US$400,000 through charitable events in support of the United of her family members lost their homes in the fire and one Way, Community Health Charities, American Cancer Society, additional member’s home was spared, but they are currently “give back” in Junior Achievement, March of Dimes, Red Cross, British Heart displaced. Our office was eager to help her, and others, so countless ways. Foundation, Singapore Cancer Society, Children’s Aid Society we sprang into donation mode. Kendall ran a spontaneous of Singapore, and many other charities supported by our donation event the week immediately following the fire. employees. Our people also gave thousands of hours of time Office members reached beyond their own homes and into to their chosen causes and donated food, clothing, and other their communities for donations. We had an outstanding goods to where they were needed most. turnout! Kendall and her husband drove all the donated items in a 16ft trailer to the Butte County Humane Society’s Other community initiatives over the last year include: Pantry. The pantry is open to all residents and organizations in the area who are caring for animals affected by the fire. It • On Sat, Oct 27th, the “Cartus Irving Diversity Council & is a large space where all the food, bedding, leashes, and Friends” team participated in the 36th annual Susan G. miscellaneous supplies are available for free. Additionally, Komen Race for the Cure—Dallas. The team raised 86% donated items such as baby and personal items, clothes, of our team goal to be donated to the Susan G. Komen suitcases, towels and bedding, as well as $1,550 in gift cards Foundation. Our fundraising efforts will go towards the goal went to the Elks Lodge. The Elks Lodge in Chico is working of reducing the number of breast cancer deaths by 50% in with the Paradise Elks Lodge to support the community the U.S. in the next 10 years. because the Paradise Elks Lodge was lost in the fire. • The Danbury office collected two giant bins of toys to Containers full of donated items are stationed in Paradise, benefit the Toys For Tots program that gives out gifts to and managed by Elks lodge staff. They will act as the underprivileged children. distribution center providing goods back into the Paradise • Cartus Swindon supported the UK charity Children in Need community. This has given the residents a local spot to grab by running multiple fundraising events. The P&G EMEA team needed items without having to drive back down into Chico. auctioned off a Pudsey hamper, sold cupcakes, and bid on It was truly an amazing effort, and we felt blessed to help a the Client Services Managers and Directors to complete a community in need. variety of tasks all to raise money for Pudsey! • The Folsom office was quick to jump into action to assist families affected by The Camp Fire that has devastated the Paradise/Chico community in Northern California. Employees in our office had family members, friends, or acquaintances affected by the fire. One of our consultants, 16 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • In support of Peace Connect Singapore—a charity • 15 Cartus Singapore employees spent a morning doing their organization which looks after the social needs of the part for the environment. Armed with shovels and hoes, Last year, Cartus senior citizens—Cartus Singapore donated 432 gifts and they planted a total of five medium-sized trees along a park employees hundreds of dollars for their annual Christmas Party. Earlier connector in the western part of Singapore. in the year, a group of 23 volunteers participated in a Food • The Lisle Office worked with the Handy Dandy Handyman around the world Bundle Activity organized in partnership with Food Bank of (HDHM) Ministry to give Larry, a Vietnam Veteran a complete Singapore to benefit the organization. raised more than home makeover the likes of which you see on TV. They raised • A group of volunteers from Cartus Singapore spent a funds through Dollarama; a Dessert Cart; Loose Change US$400,000 fulfilling day baking with members of AWWA, a local nonCollection; and individual donations. through profit organization that provides community-based programs $613 Total from Lisle Office and services to people with special needs. charitable $613 Anonymous Match • The Cartus Hong Kong team collected 34 boxes of goodies $1,226 GRAND TOTAL events. for underprivileged children during their annual charity event, The Box of Hope. • The Danbury office held the Great Cartus Bake Off with all proceeds going towards Ann’s Place, a local cancer support services organization. • The Connecticut Red Cross continually seeks all types of blood donors especially A, B, O. Cartus hosted a particular blood drive for people who have never donated or who have not donated in a long time. If you typically donated here at our regular blood drives employees would not be able to donate at this event. The pint you give can save three lives. • The Lisle Cartus office collected food for kids this summer and those donations were delivered to the Lisle Food Pantry. • Every year, Cartus UK participates in the World’s Biggest Coffee Morning: Macmillan’s biggest fundraising event for people facing cancer. As well as helping with the medical needs of people affected by cancer, Macmillan also looks at the social, emotional, and practical impact cancer can have, and advocates for better cancer care. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 17 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • Our first ever enterprise-wide giving event, The Cartus Great Lisle teams held a Dollarama; a collection of loose change in The Cartus Great Big Give Day, took place in September. Cartus employees a jar; Dessert Cart (sale of cookies and ice cream); and cash around the globe dedicated their time and energy and donations for The Handy Dandy Handyman (HDHM) Ministry Big Give Day raised over $30,000 for a variety of charities. There was a long (The Larry Project). They additionally held an office Kiss of raised more than list of activities Cartus employees created and implemented Hope Golf Open on Sept. 13 consisting of a lunch hour with and a wide variety of organizations to whom we contributed. hot dog lunch, golf games, head and cooley game, and pre$30,000 around selling helicopter golf ball drop. Danbury had a street fair with approximately 16 teams the world. competing with booths like: send a carnation to a co-worker, Redmond team members had a bake sale with proceeds raffles for -silent auction baskets, wine and cheese baskets, going to the Equine Aid Horse & Donkey Rescue and Halloween baskets, a tiki bar, tacos to-go, an ice cream sundae Childhaven bar and more. Additionally, there were games including giant pong, dice game, spirits ring toss, and pick a duck, with all Richmond, UK and central London ran a donation station proceeds going to charities such as Ability Beyond Disability, on the 13th September so that people could give food and Hillside Food Outreach, Handy Dandy Handyman (HDHM) supplies to the Spear Foundation. They also held a quiz night Ministry, Cancer Kiss My Cooley Support/St. Jude Research, on the 13th with proceeds to Spear. We Share Foundation to name a few. Volunteers from the Richmond office joined an organized Bengaluru, India, team organized a lunch for 42 night’s sleep-out on the streets of London in order to raise underprivileged children of Ashraya on the 14th of funds for CentrePoint. September. The rest of the donation will be split between buying stationary and groceries for Ashraya. Singapore Cartus volunteers spent an afternoon with the children at Child at Street 11 to celebrate the birthdays of the Irving teams hosted a food drive and bake sale to fill children born in the month of September. Cartus sponsored the pantry at both Metrocrest Services and North Texas the birthday cake as well as birthday gifts for the children. Food Bank. Shanghai & Beijing offices donated money and items to the Hong Kong employees organized a collection drive for Shanghai Children’s Welfare Institution and delivered the Crossroads Foundation. Staff have the option to choose one items to the institution. of the following Disaster Response Kits to be donated to Crossroads; Hygiene Kits, Kitchen Kits or First Aid Kits Swindon employees hosted their own Great British Bake or items. Off where employees competed to bake cakes based on six categories for our national and local charities. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 18 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • The Richmond office organized an Easter egg collection and • Cartus Singapore Raises Valuable Funds in Milk Donation donated them to their local food bank. Drive: The Cartus Singapore team are extremely thankful for Cartus Sinagpore • Five employees from Cartus Swindon volunteered to help the generous amount of donations that came streaming in raised more the Brighter Futures charity with an Easter Fun Day at for the recent milk donation drive for the needy. The twoSwindon Rugby Club. The volunteers helped to organize an week milk donation drive ended on Friday with a total cash than S$1,700 Easter Egg hunt, run a tombola stall and sell raffle tickets. donation of S$1,448 from Cartus employees. Together with the S$300 that CartusCares is contributing, Cartus will be to donate to Brighter Futures is a local charity that supports Great Western Hospital in Swindon and community sites in and able to purchase S$1,748 worth of milk products to donate to The Food Bank around Wiltshire. They improve the hospital environment, the needy via The Food Bank Singapore. Singapore. fund groundbreaking research, support the development • Cartus Danbury held its annual Jr. Achievement Job Shadow and training of hospital staff, and provide state-of-the-art Day for local high schools. Fifty students and teachers equipment. were assigned mentors to learn what it’s like to work in the • The EMEA Volunteering Committee supported Prospect corporate world. Students are treated to lunch and then a Hospice’s annual 10k run. Prospect Hospice provides endseries of round table discussions with various departments at of-life care for the community in and around Swindon, UK, Cartus to learn what we do. caring for and supporting patients, caregivers, and families. • The EMEA Supply Chain Management team based in • Our Geneva office donated food and daily essentials to the our Swindon office organized a Christmas raffle to raise Partage Foundation, which supports more than 50 charities funds for their charities of the year, the Alzheimer’s Society and social services across the canton of Geneva International and Brighter Futures • The EMEA Supply Chain Management team and Social • Cartus’ DSABC (Danbury Schools and Business Collaborative) Committee, based in our Swindon office, organized a mentors welcomed their mentees to Cartus for the annual Christmas raffle and annual VIP Parking Auction to raise field trip. Students spent time with their mentors, learned funds for their charities of the year: Swindon MIND and about Cartus, and even had a little fun in the process. Cancer Research UK. • The EMEA Social Committee held its annual VIP Parking Auction to raise money for their 2018 Charities of the Year: Swindon MIND and Cancer Research UK. • The Richmond office organized an Easter Egg collection and donated them to their local food bank 19 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship Our Employees Are Lean, Mean, Green Machines At Cartus, we are committed to staying abreast of the everInnovative Technologies to Reduce our 20-25% growing environmental needs of our industry and our clients while pursuing and maintaining high corporate environmental Carbon Footprint • Printer upgrades and recycling programs: In 2017, Cartus Improvement standards. Therefore, we are constantly developing and implementing new policies and procedures as we see the need, replaced all company printers with EPEATand Energy in data center which we detail in our formal environmental policy. Star-certified printers that draw only 0.05W of power. We also have two printer and toner recycle programs: one efficiency In fact, Cartus took home top honors from the 2017 Forum for for multifunction printers that are being recycled by the through Expatriate Management with an EMMA Award for Corporate manufacturer and another that donates any small desktop Social Responsibility (CSR)! printer cartridges to a school recycling program. technology • Electric vehicle charging stations: In 2016, Cartus installed The judges’ comments on Cartus’ entry: upgrades. charging stations for three plug-in electric vehicles (PEV) to contribute to the nation’s PEV charging infrastructure, making “Impressive scope, Cartus has a well-rounded CSR us just the seventh organization in Connecticut to register for program that stretches amongst their employee and the Department of Energy’s Workplace Charging Challenge. their supply chain.” • New HVAC equipment: We have replaced 25-year-old HVAC equipment in our Danbury, CT, headquarters with new Our Conservation Committee has been in place for 16 years, energy-efficient units, including boilers and rooftop units. looking for ways to decrease our company’s environmental This has reduced the number of boilers from eight to three, impact and educate our employees on conservation activities. with efficiency improvements of approximately 15 percent. We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and continually • New lightbulbs: Our Danbury, CT, headquarters upgraded look to reduce our footprint in all areas. We are also working its exterior and interior lighting systems with energy-efficient to establish additional baseline measures (e.g., travel LED bulbs, replacing nearly 4,000 lights in the process with miles, domestic and international air travel) to set more estimated kilowatt-hour savings ranging from 10-25 percent. meaningful goals. Prior to installing LED bulbs, Cartus purchased more than Cartus has sponsored a number of initiatives and adopted 1,000 replacement lightbulbs each year. Since completing various technologies to reduce our energy consumption, the transition in late 2016, Cartus has purchased a grand total including: of zero additional bulbs! 20 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship Our Employees Are Lean, Mean, Green Machines (cont’d.) • Data center upgrades: Through virtualization technology, we • Danbury Adopt-A-Street Program: From May through 26.5 reduced the number of physical servers in our data center October, employees remove trash once a month from our from 500 to 100 over the last several years. We also upgraded “adopted” streets. our cooling units. We estimate that these improvements have • Recycling programs at all sites: Cartus has implemented increased efficiency by 20-25 percent. We dispose of all IT “single-source” recycling programs at all U.S. sites. Tons of server and networking equipment through an EPA-compliant Recyclables include white paper, cardboard, cans, and service provider. recyclables bottles (which represent approximately 25-30 percent of Other Employee Awareness Initiatives our waste stream). Bins are located in every workspace, collected in conference room, and cafeteria. We have also placed paper • Annual Earth Day Fair: The Cartus Conservation Committee Cartus offices recycling bins next to all multifunction printers. sponsors the annual Danbury Earth Day Fair, which provides Last year, Cartus recycled 26.5 tons of materials through our last year that our employees with environmental and conservation on-site recycling programs. products and services for both home and office. This year’s didn’t make their fair had 600-plus attendees. • Shred-it® bins in offices: Centrally located bins in our U.S. and UK headquarters resulted in more than 1,300 trees saved way to a landfill. • Promoting carpooling: In 2018, more than 200 Cartus last year. employees were involved in carpooling and public transit, saving a quarter of a million miles traveled and 8,115 gallons • Elimination of Styrofoam cups: Cartus has eliminated all of gasoline, and reducing emissions by more 75 tons. We Styrofoam cups in our global headquarters’ cafeteria and promote our ridesharing-friendly ways through various offers discounts for employees who bring their own cup or initiatives each year, including our International Transit mug. As a result, the Danbury office has reduced the use of Day celebration each October and inviting ride-sharing Styrofoam by 2,400 cups per week. representatives to various offices multiple times per year to explain the value of their service to our employees. • Singapore beach clean-up: Cartus Singapore volunteers completed their first beach clean-up activity at East Coast Park armed with tongs, biodegradable trash bags, and big smiles. After two hours of hard work, the volunteers collected close to 50 kg of trash consisting of items such as cigarette butts, straws, plastic bags, Styrofoam pieces, bottle caps, and batteries. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 21 sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value Our commitment to global sustainability extends to managing Supplier Network Sustainability Awards and the suppliers we use to serve our clients and their employees. 18,000 Charitable Contributions Cartus is ISO 9001:2015 certified and has maintained an ISO 9001 certification for more than a decade, and we manage a Global Network Supplier network of suppliers around the globe who provide support to Cartus’ 18th annual Global Network Conference allowed us clients and relocating employees in over 185 countries in every to recognize the extraordinary achievements of our network representatives key phase of the relocation experience, including destination members in serving our clients and their relocating employees have completed support, home finding, temporary housing, and household worldwide. Conference attendees included nearly 370 members goods shipment. Our networks are experienced and monitored of the Cartus Global Network, representing 170 companies from our online by more than over 75 regionally based Cartus Supply Chain staff, 39 countries. facilitating accurate, proximate monitoring and support. compliance Global Citizenship Awards: Awarded annually, the Global • Cartus holds every member of our supply chain to the training course Citizenship Award identifies five individuals or companies same standards we apply to ourselves. Each network for outstanding contributions that made an impact on the over the last supplier signs a contract agreeing to full compliance health, welfare, and safety of others, and/or improvements with all laws and regulations and with global human two years. in a community’s quality of life on a national or international rights mandates. level. In 2018, five companies were recognized as 2018 Global • All Cartus suppliers are required to adhere to our parent Citizenship winners: John Merriweather (GO Destination company, Realogy’s, Vendor Code of Conduct. In addition, Services) of Carmel, Indiana; Kenneth Arbour (Tokyo in order to be a Cartus network provider, all suppliers must Orientations) of Tokyo, Japan; Charlene Giddings (Elite Moving take an annual online training course that includes modules Systems) of London, United Kingdom; Atlas World Group on Health, Safety, and the Environment. We have designed of Evansville, Indiana; and Arpin Group (for Arpin Strong) of our training module in a way that allows our suppliers to train Rhode Island, USA. We were thrilled to make donations to the their suppliers using the tool as well. charitable funds of each of these companies. • Cartus utilizes a risk management system called Compliance Move for Hunger Award: In 2017, we created a new award to 360, which allows us to easily document, monitor, and report recognize the domestic van lines in our network for their efforts on inherent risk factors associated with managing third-party to eliminate food waste on behalf of the 795 million people who vendors. The system tracks hundreds of data points that go to bed on an empty stomach each night. The 2018 awards provide a view into the global compliance of each and every were presented by the founder of the nonprofit, Move for network member, including OFAC/international watch lists Hunger, recognizing the Cartus domestic mover and temporary and a country risk ranking. Profile assessments include annual housing provider who rescued and delivered the most food compliance certification, background checks, and personal through Q3, 2018. data/system compliance. 22 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value (cont’d.) Relocation Agent Network Supplier Sustainability Initiatives 6,500 Cartus’ 25th Relocation Agent Network National Conference We strongly encourage our supplier partners to develop and and Awards celebrated achievements by the UK’s very best implement robust corporate social responsibility programs as Estate Agents over the last 12 months. The charity fundraiser well as innovative solutions to sustainability challenges in the held during the awards dinner raised more than £1,500 for the food items services they provide our clients. Over the past year, some of Network’s chosen charity, Agents Giving. During June Cartus’ Relocation Agent Network mounted a campaign to collect 1,000 these initiatives included: collected for items of food and other supplies for local food banks in their • One supplier shifted its operational paradigm from a Agents Giving bid to help tackle food poverty in the UK. In fact we collected traditional office structure to a paperless, virtual, and cloudover 6,500 items for this worthwhile cause. At the conference charity. based business environment. This new virtual environment we also asked our agents to bring and donate unwanted coats utilized a dedicated work-share facility for hosting bi-monthly which Agents Giving distributed to charities for the homeless. staff meetings and client engagements and allowed the At the Agents Giving Charity Ball in December Relocation company to: Agent Network were immensely proud to be awarded the 2018 –– significantly reduce their employees commuting impact Fundraising Champion Award. on the environment Broker Network –– limit consumption of ink and paper –– reduce energy use for utilities at the office reducing their Our Broker Network Conference is an annual event that brings carbon footprint by 92% together network members, clients, and industry experts to take part in workshops, roundtable discussions, and executive • Many of our suppliers have moved away from sending presentations. The Cartus Broker Network also supports printed material regarding the area a transferee is moving to various charities. in favor of digital products. Not only does it allow transferees to easier accessibility to the information but it also reduces paper and ink utilization as well as transportation impact on the environment. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 23 sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value (cont’d.) Promoting Supplier Diversity Last year: US$208 Cartus is dedicated to promoting supplier diversity and building it into our corporate culture. Since establishing a formal • Cartus disbursed US$52.7 million to minorityand womenowned businesses. Over the past five years, we have million department in 1983, Cartus has become a recognized leader in this area and the recipient of numerous awards. Our supplier disbursed more than US$212 million. • Tom Davis—Cartus’ Vice President of External Supplier disbursed to diversity team conducts outreach, monitoring, and measurement Diversity—continued as chairperson of the Greater on behalf of numerous clients. minorityand New England Minority Supplier Development Council’s To achieve these goals, the department focuses on developing (GNEMSDC) as treasurer of the board of directors. women-owned and maintaining bidder lists of small, minority-, and womenbusinesses by owned business enterprises (S/M/WBEs) from all possible sources, while also ensuring the inclusion of S/M/WBEs in all Cartus over the solicitations for products or services which they are capable of past five years. providing. To ensure an equitable distribution of business, we periodically rotate potential subcontractors on bidder lists and require the bid proposal review board to document its reasons for not selecting low bids submitted by S/M/WBEs. 24 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS 2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your relocation program is moving. To learn more, please email cartussolutions@cartus.com or visit our citizenship page on www.cartus.com. www.cartus.com © 2019 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation. connect with us
