Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) 2018 Editor: Christina Schönenberger Version: 1.00 Date: 03/08/2019 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders: Within more than 90 years SFS has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. However the strong roots are still in the St. Gall Rhine valley and the SFS values are transferred to all sites within the group by an appropriate management model. Sustainability in its actions has been the core driver of SFS since its foundation. For SFS sustainability means partnership with  customer  employees  community  supplier Therefore the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact have been implicitly part of the SFS business model since its first days and have a tradition of decades. I am pleased to confirm that SFS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions and achievements to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since the SFS Group Sustainability Report as a part of the Annual Report 2018 (available on the SFS Group website annualreport.sfs.biz) is structured based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, it is directly used for this annual Communication on Progress as well. Thereby a consistent information towards our shareholders and stakeholders shall be achieved. Sincerely yours, Jens Breu CEO SFS Group AG Version 1.00 dated 08.03.2019 2 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2018 Sustainability Improvements achieved Sustainability is a key aspect of SFS’ daily business activities. Continuous dialogue with our partners is the basis of our mutual progress and success. SFS Group intensified its dialogue with its stakeholders during the year under review. Progress was made in the six key themes that were identiMateriality matrix of the SFS Group fied within the scope of the materiality assessment. These topics are most crucial to SFS’ sustainable development 3 1 and are listed below: 2 Customer satisfaction Assessment of importance by stakeholders 1 4 2 Economic value creation and distribution to stakeholders 3 Occupational health and safety 5 4 Regular performance and career development reviews 6 5 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning 7 6 Training and education 8 Focus on implementation SFS elaborated the materiality matrix (right) in 2016 in 9 accordance with the widely recognized GRI Standards. During 13 the year under review, efforts were focused primarily on 12 11 the improvement of the sustainable performance of the six priority topics and on establishing and further strengthening the pertinent management structures. 10 14 Our dialogue with all stakeholders will be expanded in 2019 and will ensure that SFS Group’s materiality matrix is continuously updated and improved. Assessment of importance by management Most important topics for a sustainable development of SFS 1 Customer satisfaction 2 Economic value creation and distribution to stakeholders 3 Occupational health and safety 4 Regular performance and career development reviews 5 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning 6 Training and education Further relevant topics 7 Ensuring non-discrimination 8 Anti-corruption measures 9 Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 10 Effluents 11 Emissions 12 Overall environmental protection expenditure and investment 13 Energy consumption by company, suppliers and customers 14 Complaints and litigations about environmental impact SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 34 1 Customer satisfaction to measure that will be implemented in the next reporting period. In view of the different target customer groups, the Our primary objective is to collaborate closely with custodivisional concepts vary. Measurement methods range from mers to achieve mutual success – true to our claim “Invena scorecard, used in the Automotive division, to online surting success together” – and to create sustainable value veys, used by the Electronics division. for our customers. Close partnerships presume a spirit of mutual trust. Customer trust is earned by maintaining high Customer relationships built on trust levels of customer satisfaction with our products and enThe awards that SFS won during the year under review gaging in a continuous dialogue. are also an expression of customer satisfaction. For example, SFS was pleased to receive the Robert Bosch GmbH “Crazy We measure the satisfaction of our key accounts periodically for SuCCess” award at the end of 2018. This was the second and identify potential for improvement. In view of the heterotime that SFS has received this prestigious award in the short geneous target industries, there are considerable differences history of the prize. With it, Bosch honors the six most in the defining characteristics of each division’s business activaluable and reliable suppliers, from a total of more than vities and customers. The objective in the year under review 1,000 suppliers to the Chassis Systems Control Division. was to consolidate the various divisional methods for measuNew project acquisitions are another proof of the close, ring customer satisfaction and to harmonize them wherever partnership-oriented relationships that SFS maintains with possible. To this end – and in order to draw even greater its customers, since a high level of trust is a prerequisite attention to this issue – a group guideline for measuring for early integration into its customers’ new product developcustomer satisfaction was formulated and was approved by ment projects. It takes a high level of service excellence, the Group Executive Board in 2018. The process owner is the reliability and quality to build that kind of trust. CEO of SFS Group. Priorities set for 2019 Concept to measure customer satisfaction formulated The focus for 2019 is on implementation of the divisional Every division has reviewed its existing methods of measconcepts with the objective of evaluating customer satisuring customer satisfaction with reference to the newly faction and formulating the right corrective measures based implemented group guideline and has elaborated a concept on the findings. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 35 2 Economic value creation and great importance to maintaining a fair and balanced distribution of value among the various stakeholder groups. During distribution to stakeholders the period 2014–2018, SFS increased its value added (gross) by 27.7% in total. The value created for the various stakeThis criterion essentially mirrors the fair partnerships beholder groups increased by the significant amount of 33.4% tween SFS and its various stakeholder groups. Stakeholder during the same period. The percentage shares of each value is created in various ways, in the form of the salaries stakeholder group remained relatively stable. After the initial the company pays to its employees, for example, or through public offering of SFS Group in the spring of 2014 and in the dividends that shareholders receive or the taxes that response to market expectations, the dividend payout was the company pays into the public purse. SFS refrains from increased. This payout to shareholders has shown a stable aggressive tax practices and structures, and pays taxes development since then. where the economic value is generated. Since 2017, SFS Group has reported the required tax payment per country Priorities set for 2019 to the federal tax administration as part of country-by-counIn conjunction with the preparation of the medium-term try reporting. business plan, we will set target ranges for the future distribution of economic value added in 2019. Profitable growth Overall economic value creation increased should allow SFS Group to continue to increase the distribuSFS strives to maintain fair partnerships – with its customers, tion of value among its stakeholders. suppliers, employees and shareholders. Therefore, it attaches Development and distribution of value added in CHF million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Value added gross 853.0 814.4 721.2 641.8 668.0 As a % of net sales 49.1% 49.8% 50.2% 46.8% 48.3% Depreciation/amortization –89.7 –125.8 –146.4 –142.3 –134.9 As a % of net sales –10.5% –15.4% –20.3% –22.2% –20.2% Value added net 763.3 688.6 574.8 499.5 533.1 As a % of net sales 43.9% 42.1% 40.0% 36.4% 38.6% Distribution of value added net Employees 68.0% 69.8% 71.6% 75.6% 72.8% Personal expenses 519.3 480.6 411.8 377.5 387.9 Government 6.0 % 6.4% 6.1% 5.8% 5.0% Income taxes, fees 45.8 44.0 35.2 29.0 26.7 Capital provider 10.4% 11.0% 12.0% 11.9% 12.8% Dividends to shareholders 75.0 71.3 65.6 56.3 56.3 Interest expenses 4.3 4.9 3.0 3.2 12.2 Company 15.6% 12.8% 10.3% 6.7% 9.4% Retained earnings 118.9 87.8 59.2 33.5 50.0 SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 36 3 Occupational health and safety Occupational safety is also an important issue in Asia. Unisteel in Malaysia took part in a one-year program designed to In an industrial company such as SFS where performance improve workplace health organized by the Malaysian govand success depend essentially on a highly motivated workernment. The aim was to support participating companies in force, occupational health and safety are high-priority issues. complying with applicable workplace health regulations, parSFS promotes employee health by encouraging a healthy ticularly in chemicals management, ergonomics and hearing work-life balance and taking steps to prevent work-related protection. Unisteel implemented the measures on a contininjuries. uous basis to improve occupational safety in areas such as noise, chemicals and ergonomics. Unisteel was audited sevIntroduction of ISO 45001 eral times in 2018, culminating in a “Chemical Best Practice” It was decided in 2018 to launch preparations for ISO 45001 award in July 2018. certification, the management system for occupational health and safety. The plan is to develop the SFS processes at Absence management tool implemented the Heerbrugg (Switzerland) headquarters, followed by a sucA software-based absence management process was introcessive global roll-out and certification at production sites. duced in Switzerland at the start of 2018. The system helps management to detect employee health issues based on Strengthening the ranks of the GQES team absenteeism patterns, to engage in a proactive dialogue with An EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) manager is to employees, and to jointly develop timely corrective actions. strengthen the ranks of GQES team (Global Quality, EnvironThe objective is clear: healthy and productive employees. ment, Safety) in 2019. This was decided during the reporting Management feedback on the tool has been positive, but the year in recognition of the fact that prevention of work-related structured approach adds to management workload. injuries, development and improvement of the SFS system, mitigation of emissions and reduction of waste continue EcoPoints successfully launched to present challenging goals. The new organization, includAs part of the “mobility@SFS” concept, SFS supports ing the group-level EHS manager, will be developed further employee efforts to green their commute. With the new in 2019 and the first measures to achieve these goals impleEcoPoints bonus and incentive system, anyone who cycles, mented. walks, or uses public transport or car sharing to get to work collects points that they can cash in for attractive bonuses or Work safety improvements implemented donate to a good cause. Since the launch in early SeptemThe regular employee survey helps to monitor how employber 2018, 950 SFS employees – about 40% of the Swiss ees rate occupational safety and health on an individual level. workforce – have commuted a distance of more than This in turn provides a basis for identifying and implementing 116,000 km on a bicycle, 10,200 km on foot, 61,000 km improvements in the workplace. by public transport and 29,000 in car pools. This adds up to a carbon reduction of almost 40,000 kg and a saving of An anonymous survey conducted at all German sites of the approximately CHF 100,000 from non-use of the car. Riveting division with external support investigated the risk impact of mental stress at work. Workshops based on the Priorities set for 2019 results were held and improvements were developed that SFS has set its sights on a further 10% reduction in work-reare now entering the implementation stage. lated injuries in 2019. Moreover, an SFS Group Occupational Health & Safety roadmap and SFS Group Safety Rules are We have various initiatives in place in Switzerland to promote in preparation for approval by the Group Executive Board. occupational health and safety. SFS also collaborates closely in this area with external partners, such as health and accident insurance providers and the social counselling services provided free of charge for our employees. The program includes measures in the areas of prevention, maintenance of health and performance, and assistance and support if problems arise. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 37 4 Regular performance and career ers identify the areas where successors will need to be found in the next few years. Suitable candidates who have development reviews both the will and the potential are identified, then specific measures are defined and integrated in the individual perforSFS’ continued positive development depends mainly on mance review process. its employees. Consequently, regular employee performance review and employee development tools are another high In the reporting year, this method enabled replacements to priority. be nominated for 66% of vacancies in key positions (head of division as well as site managers). Performance goals updated regularly One example is performance assessment, with reviews Endorsement in Swiss Employer Award taking place at least once a year for every employee. Clear Of respondents in the Swiss Employer Award survey, 70% development and performance targets for the coming year answered the career development question in the affirmashould be defined in these meetings and two questions in tive (I have good opportunities for career development in the Swiss Employer Award (see box p. 40) show that this is my division). This represents 0% difference in comparison the case, with 88% of employees answering in the affirmawith the last survey and is 5% higher than the average industive (My goals for the current year were discussed with me try score for 2018. / My performance was assessed on the basis of the agreed goals at my last performance review). The ratings indicate Priorities set for 2019 0% difference in comparison with the last survey and are Efforts in the current year will focus on maintaining the plea9% higher than the average industry score for 2018. sing high standard. A number of approaches are planned in order to achieve this goal: first, the employee survey will Management positions filled in-house be extended to include the Automotive, Riveting and ConWe aim to fill approximately 70% of management and key struction divisions. Second, departmental career developpersonnel vacancies with in-house candidates. We achieve ment projects (technical specialists and executive managethis ambitious goal with the aid of a Structured Employee ment career paths) and group guidelines for high employee Development Program (SEDP). The objective is to identify retention will be established. The current average employee employees with the potential for additional tasks and responretention period on an international scale is about 12 years. sibilities and prepare them for their new roles with medium and long-term training and further education. Divisional leadAn important aspect of the training in the International Leadership Development Program (ILDP) is the promotion of intercultural collaboration. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 38 Qualification and skills matrix piloted 5 Skills management and A pilot project is in progress at the Heerbrugg, Switzerland continuous learning processes site with the aim of enabling structured and effective monitoring of existing and newly acquired employee qualificaThe value proposition “Inventing success together” applies tions via a skills matrix. The main focus is on the production both internally and externally. It is a commitment to a conemployees. This skills matrix will support effective use and tinuous quest for improvement. In addition to an individual planning of human resources. onboarding plan for new employees, every employee has access to a comprehensive further training program. That’s Priorities set for 2019 because we want to ensure that our employees have the Various improvement projects are planned for 2019. The capability to meet their tasks as best as they can and are onboarding process is to be restructured and re-established. able to fulfil their potential. This process creates the coherence necessary to ensure that newcomers globally all receive the same information releEnabling cross-divisional exchange vant to the corporate Group. Continuous expansion of the Internal PeerGroups (PeG) are an important platform for e-learning program is one measure being implemented to exchanging knowledge on a continuous basis. A total of facilitate access to the course content. 13 internal PeGs have been set up consisting of representatives from the divisions to which their respective topics are relevant. They meet at regular intervals either in person or virtually to discuss new developments, crucial informa6 Training and education tion and the latest news pertaining to specific topics (such SFS is already actively involved in professional development as finance and control or digitization). These groups are very and educational activities. The importance attached to this useful and efficient in terms of sharing knowledge within the topic by the stakeholder groups supports our resolve to SFS Group and selectively leveraging that knowledge in the continue on our path. various divisions to bring about improvements. Four new PeGs were created during the year under review. There are In Switzerland, every employee attends four days of trainvery limited plans to expand the number of PeGs in 2019. ing every year. Outside Switzerland, the average employee Rather, the focus will be more on exploring topics in greater attends about two days of training every year. depth in the existing PeGs. The success of the PeGs is evident in the fact that several intradivisional exchange groups Further training program expanded have been set up under that umbrella, facilitating dialogue The training and further education program is improved and and improvements on current topics. This shows that the updated on a continuous basis to meet the needs of the diviPeG concept is workable as an integral part of the daily sions. Thus, content and conceptual changes will be implebusiness. mented in 2019. The aim is to achieve more consistency in the international implementation of further training opportunities. The number of e-learning modules on offer, which can be completed at any time and anywhere by employees, will also be increased to support smaller sites in their further training activities. In Switzerland, an online tool enabling qualitative feedback and evaluation based on various criteria for selected employee training and development courses was launched during the year under review. Initial experience is being gathered. An extended usage of the tool is scheduled in 2019. An example of further training for sales staff in the Automotive and Industrial divisions is the “Aiming for Sales Excellence” program. The first modules have been rolled out to consistently positive feedback. Periodic employee satisfaction surveys elicit feedback on training and further education opportunities in order to facilitate their systematic improvement. This is demonstrated by an affirmative reply of 77% rate to the relevant question in the Swiss Employer Award poll (I can attend the internal and external training and further education courses I need SFS is heavily involved in the training of young talents and has the goal that 5-7% of all employees worldfor my work). This corresponds to the value in the 2016 surwide are apprentices. vey and is 6% better than the industry average in 2018. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 39 Talent promotion The “International Leadership Development Program” (ILDP) Dialogue with employees for leaders and specialists continued in the year under review. continued Fostering intercultural collaboration within SFS Group is an important aspect of the ILDP. SFS invests heavily in dual Intensive dialogue with employees is important to SFS. education of younger talents and has set a global target for Employee feedback serves as a basis for analysis of the apprentices to have 5%–7% of all employees (in 2018 the status quo and definition and implementation of appropriate share was at 5.8%). We will strengthen our commitment corrective action. In addition to individual employee perforto the promoting of dual education schemes on a global mance review meetings, employee surveys are conducted scale and advance these efforts by means of an internaregularly throughout SFS Group and discussed with the tional PeG. workforce. Exchange program a proven success In 2018, the Distribution & Logistics segment, the Industrial A trainee exchange program between the site of Medina, US division and the Services units (more than 1,200 SFS workand Heerbrugg, Switzerland has been flourishing for years. ers in total) participated in the Swiss Employer Award. The The program gives two to four apprentices the opportunity 46,130 employees from 140 enterprises in Switzerland and to experience work in a foreign country. Apprentices receive Liechtenstein who took part in the survey rated their emextensive mentoring during the exchange in addition to ployer on key workplace issues, job satisfaction and comthorough preparation beforehand including language trainmitment. SFS Group took third place in the large company ing and general cultural exploration. To be able to improve category (1,000 or more employees), retaining its top three and increase the benefit of the program on a continuous position since the company’s last participation in 2016. basis, we stay in touch with the apprentices after the program and elicit specific qualitative feedback. The participants In 2019, using the methods underlying the Swiss Employer also act as “ambassadors” for the next group. Award, we plan to conduct an employee survey for another 2,600 SFS workers at the largest plants in the Automotive Priorities set for 2019 and Riveting divisions and the Construction division in SwitIn 2019, the aim will continue to ensure that apprentices zerland. comprise 5%–7% of all employees, or increase that proportion depending on the needs of an individual site. KPIs will be established and used to measure the successful development of the apprentices. The scholarship program, which enables young members of the workforce to gain work experience abroad for a period of six months within the first few years after completing their apprenticeship, has also been expanded. Three young people at the start of their professional careers will have the opportunity to take part in this program in 2019. In addition to further improvements of the educational program, international cooperation will be intensified via PeG, creating additional opportunities for exchange. Clear roles and responsibilities Sustainable development of SFS is very important to us. The CEO and the entire Group Executive Board devote their attention to the issue of sustainable development on a regular basis, set priorities and review the progress made. On behalf of the Group Executive Board, an interdisciplinary team of environment and safety, compliance, HR and communications representatives coordinates and consolidates the various sustainability activities. To address the diverse factors involved and maximize effectiveness, the job of implementing the activities falls to the respective divisional management teams. Wherever possible, sustainability is integrated into the regular management processes and reports using standardized performance indicators (for example, work safety). SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 40 UN Global Compact Priorities set for 2019 In 2019, an online course on the topic of “personal integrity Communication on Progress violations will be launched for all employees. Respectful interaction at every level of the organization is demanded SFS continues to remain engaged in other areas as well. and promoted throughout SFS Group and this message will For instance, it is a signatory to the UN Global Compact be emphasized in this online course. and has upheld the ten principles embodied in this corporate sustainability initiative since 2010. Progress on this front is described below. Anti-corruption efforts The anti-corruption policy taught to employees with the greatHuman rights est potential exposure in a mandatory e-learning module was delivered as usual to all new employees in our sales, Previous initiatives continued procurement and finance units in the reporting year. The Corporate Principles (see S dna) and the Code of Conduct (see S compliance) are two key documents on the subWe are glad to report that no corruption cases occurred in ject of sustainability at SFS and in terms of business practices SFS Group in the year under review. The fact that more and that uphold human rights. The Corporate Principles set out more people are requesting advice when doubtful situations our common values, while the Code of Conduct defines the arise indicates an increasing awareness of corruption as basic rules by which we conduct our business activities. an issue. Another sign is that the internal Code of Conduct Both documents continue to apply. Robust and effective is increasingly cited and referred to: for example, refusal of compliance processes are in place to ensure enforcement invitations from business partners to certain events. SFS also of the Code of Conduct. The information contained in our expects unconditional rejection of corruption in any form Corporate Principles and Code of Conduct is imparted to from third parties, in particular on the part of SFS (external) all new employees and apprentices as soon as they join sales consultants. A standard clause to this effect is included the company through formal instruction or e-learning. Awarein cooperation agreements with these consultants. ness of these themes is part of the basic skill-set that every SFS employee must have, and this awareness should guide Priorities set for 2019 them shape their development from the start. A new edition of the e-learning module for anti-corruption training is planned for 2019 to keep pace with the latest SFS strives to introduce the Code of Conduct as quickly as developments in this area. This e-learning is mandatory for possible to any new enterprise integrated into SFS Group. management as well as all employees in the sales, procureDuring the year under review, for example, it was done at ment and finance units. all the Medical division’s operating sites, the most recent addition to the Group. Even the Group’s suppliers must respect basic human rights unconditionally. Respect for human rights is a mandatory criterion when screening potential business partners, since it is an integral part of SFS’ general procurement terms and conditions. World trade relationships during the year under review were marked in particular by trade sanctions, embargoes and massively increased customs tariffs. SFS plays its part in international legal order by fully complying with such sanctions and informing its employees about their scope and repercussions. Establishing compliance at leadership levels The conviction that a compliance system can be effective only if management lives the values and complies with them unconditionally prompted SFS to highlight this issue in targeted management team workshops in 2018. A survey conducted in the same year showed that employees expect their managers to be role models on compliance issues, in particular observation of human rights, and that their expectations are being met. To ensure that future managers receive proper training in this area, a workshop on integrity and compliance is now an integral part of the ILDP. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 41 Labor standards Environmental protection Highlighting the value of diversity ISO14001 certification for more sites SFS strongly condemns forced labor and child labor of any All the audits conducted during the reporting year at the kind whatsoever and upholds the right to freedom of associ16 certified sites were completed without any meaningful ation and collective bargaining throughout the organization. discrepancies identified by the certification organizations. As these principles are an integral part of SFS’ general conAlthough the company has already achieved full environditions of purchase, SFS suppliers are similarly required to mental compliance with all applicable laws and guidelines, uphold these values. all sites are still encouraged and committed to engaging in continuous improvement of their environmental performance. SFS Group’s international presence and size make diversity A dedicated program for each site with individual targets a natural feature of the workforce and it is viewed as positive will be drawn up for this purpose. It is hoped this will meet and enriching. The regular internships that SFS apprentices the increasing expectations of customers of every division complete at different sites and the international training for compliance with ever tougher environmental requireprograms for management to promote intercultural collaboments (e.g. life-cycle environmental impact, conflict minerration are examples of how SFS champions diversity. All als, REACH). forms of discrimination during the recruitment process or in employment are expressly prohibited. Targeted measures to reduce environmental impact introduced Priorities set for 2019 Effective measures to boost environmental protection were Although the topic of diversity was not given the highest priimplemented in 2018 at various sites. Here are two selected ority in the materiality analysis in 2016, SFS views diversity examples: in the workforce as a key factor in its success. For this reason, diversity and the advantages it brings were selectively Heerbrugg, Switzerland addressed in internal communication during the year under Two mobility initiatives with the dual goals of reducing envireview. They will be pursued in more detail through speronmental impact and promoting health were implemented cific initiatives in 2019. The aim will be to counter and preat the Swiss sites in 2017 and 2018. More than 1,000 e-bikes vent all forms of discrimination and highlight the tangible were sold at half price to employees. In addition, employvalue of diversity. ees who greened their commute were able to collect bonus points, which they could then convert into vouchers or donate to a good cause. A groundwater cooling system was launched at the Heerbrugg site, which has boosted energy efficiency significantly. The groundwater cooling system is now being used Selected employee key figures (international) of SFS Group Given the international presence and size of SFS, a distinctive diversity is a natural outcome that is embraced as positive and enriching. The dual education and therefore share of apprentices among the SFS family are of particular interest to SFS. With a share of 5.8% of the total workforce being apprentices in 2018, we are within the targeted range of 5%–7%. In an industrial company such as SFS where performance and success depend essentially on a highly motivated workforce, occupational health and safety are high-priority issues. We have set the target to reduce the number of work accidents in 2019 by 10% compared to the 2018 numbers. Unit 31.12.2018 Employees Number 9,550 Of which female employees* Share in % 26.5* Of which apprentices* Share in % 5.8* Workplace injuries* Number 140* Rate of injuries* Number of days 1,942* Absence rate* Number of days 0.3* * Data covers approximately 75% of emplyees SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 42 instead of an environmentally harmful coolant to cool Following modernization of the primary power supply system machinery in three production facilities, thus reducing the (process water from manufacturing operations) and heat use of electricity. These measures led to a 30% increase recovery, Korneuburg now uses fresh air to cool the process in overall energy efficiency. water (air blast cooler) and as a result has cut its electricity usage. Moreover, the heat generated in production proOther energy conservation gains have been achieved from cesses is now used to heat the building, which has lowered the conversion of outdoor lighting to LED technology with the site’s gas consumption and carbon emissions. corresponding control systems. The new systems require less maintenance. Improved waste separation, specifically The entire lighting system in the production areas has been the recovery of useful metals, is another example of our switched to LED technology, which not only saves electricity ongoing environmental protection efforts. but also reduces the generation of hazardous waste (neon tubes). Moreover, SFS invested in the improvement of internal communication. By using more often state of the art (lifesize) Priorities set for 2019 video conferencing, a reduction in travel costs and environIn the Riveting division, the Walldorf, Olpe and Thal plants mental impacts have been achieved. in Germany, Keighley in the UK and Nansha in China are set to receive ISO14001 certification in 2019. The groundwork Korneuburg, Austria began in 2018. A switch to a greener dry ice blasting system to clean tools not only reduced the use of chemical cleaning agents, secondary waste and rejection rates, but also proved to be gentler on the tools. The new method is also more economical: it reduces production downtimes and enables on-site cleaning without the requirement to dismantle the machine tools. SFS Group AG | Annual report 2018 | Sustainability 43
