UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Date: 30 January 2019 Submitted by Sun limited Page 1 of 12 CEO Statement Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA January 30, 2019 Statement of continued support United Nations Global Compact Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Sun Limited is pleased to express its continuing support of the Global Compact’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have gained a lot of inspiration from the initiative. Most of the core principles have now been merged with our own policies and procedures in our continuing effort to operate a responsible and sustainable hotel business. Sun Limited is committed to making those principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. We are also committed to engaging more widely through our work in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. We are delighted and proud to submit the attached communication on progress for the period January 2018 to January 2019 and to renew our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Foundation. Yours sincerely, David Anderson Chief Executive Officer Sun Limited Enclosed: Sun Limited’s communication on progress, January 2019. Page 2 of 12 Page 3 of 12 Page 4 of 12 Page 5 of 12 Progress against UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2. Businesses should ensure that their own operations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Sun Limited remains committed to observing the highest standards of human rights and aims to uphold its principles in the workplace and, more importantly, amongst relationships with various stakeholders. This is underscored best in our company values of Excellence, Integrity, Trust, Passion and Teamwork. Sun Resorts’ sense of hospitality comes from a caring company and we aim to deliver Timeless memories that come straight from our hearts. This genuine sense of service governs the way we run our business and it is strongly rooted in upholding human rights. In living out our values of Integrity, Sun Resorts aims to keep a fair workplace that is governed by our Code of Conduct. This framework guides our various relationships, including issues regarding human rights, diversity, equality and equal opportunities. It is our policy to abide by the Labour Codes and national laws in all countries in which we have operations (Mauritius and Maldives ) and to comply in general with the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Any Sun Associate that commences work, whether at the corporate or hotel level, is oriented on the articles of the Code of Conduct. It is imperative that every employee has a perfect understanding of our expectations of behaviour, not just of policies and manuals. In order to ensure the best understanding, training programmes have been put in place and are made compulsory for all our permanent employees to complete upon employment and with regular Page 6 of 12 refresher training through our Sun Training Institute. Sun Resorts ensures that its properties extend the value of human rights and respect the rights of the communities that surround us. Through its SUNCARE programmes within our social responsibility campaign, our hotels seek to respond to some of the most urgent human rights challenges in a consultative manner that is appropriate and respectful of local traditions and regulations. Our business partners in particular share the journey by demonstrating compliance with our Sun Supplier Code of Conduct. This requires suppliers to provide safe and healthy working conditions, to use fair hiring practices, to treat their workers with dignity and respect, and to adhere to environmentally responsible practices in manufacturing. To that end, the code includes standards in the areas of Labour and Human Rights, Health and Safety, Environmental Impact, Ethics and Management Commitment Sun regularly updates a fully comprehensive staff handbook, with specific policies on:  Code of Conduct and Business Ethics through our Induction Programme and each employee receives an ‘Employee Handbook’.  We have put in place this year a number of policy documents, procedures and statements applicable, which confirm Sun Resorts’ commitment to protecting basic human rights. These include, among others, the applicable grievance procedures, the whistle-blower procedure and Data Protection. All employees have been made aware of corporate policies at induction.  We have made a provision in our ‘Whistle-blowing Policy’ to raise concerns internally as well as externally to a ‘whistle-blowing hotline”. All concerns will be treated in confidence and every effort will be made not to reveal the person’s identity.  We ensure our workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities.  Our safety procedures related to occupational health have been reviewed to account for potential human rights risks and impacts. Page 7 of 12  Sun Resorts undertaken the Employee Engagement Survey last year. The 2018 surveys garnered a participation rate of over 90% and the survey serves as an honest barometer of the drivers for satisfaction for our biggest asset – our People. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Sum Resorts is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All of our employees are made familiar with the group’s commitment to non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, religion or disability. Employees also understand that equal employment opportunities are made available to all colleagues irrespective of their gender, marital status, pregnancy or disability. No colleague is to be treated less favourably than any other in comparable circumstances and all are entitled to enjoy good working relationships with one another in an environment free from harassment. We respect and support the protection of human rights of our colleagues, and our employment policies are designed to comply with all local labour laws. This includes our firm stance against human trafficking, sexual harassment and the exploitation of children. In cases where young adults are in hotel traineeship or internship programmes, we ensure that they are protected by contracts signed either by the institutions they represent or by their parents / guardians. As mentioned earlier in this report, suppliers and business partners are encouraged to operate sustainably and are audited based on the Sun Resorts Supplier Code of Conduct. The document Page 8 of 12 enforces strict regulations and zero tolerance on indentured labour, trafficking, slavery or child labour. Our companies Code of Conduct and Business Ethics respects employees’ rights to join or not to join a legally recognised trade union, or any other body representing their collective interests, and establish constructive dialogue and bargain in good faith with trade unions or representative bodies on employment conditions, labour management relations and matters of mutual concern, to the extent practicable taking national and international laws into consideration. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sun Resorts mitigates impacts on the environment by ensuring that our day-to-day operations promote and implement responsible environmental practices and continual improvement. Sun Resorts continues to work with EarthCheck, an internationally recognised environmental benchmarking and sustainability programme designed to address the challenges of climate change and improve the environmental performance of the travel and tourism sector. Using a science-based approach, EarthCheck is used by the world’s leading companies to address risk, deliver bottom line efficiencies, maximise the guest experience and minimise environmental footprints. For more information about the EarthCheck programme, please visit www.EarthCheck.org. Additionally, Sun Resorts also work with Travelife which is an international sustainability certification scheme. It helps its 1,300 hotel members around the world improve their environmental, social and economic impacts cost-effectively. Hotels that meet the Travelife standard are formally recognised with a Travelife award to promote their achievements. Page 9 of 12 Travelife has been designed by the travel industry as an affordable and fair system that helps hotels and accommodations to improve their sustainability. Three of our hotel are Travellife gold member, Long Beach, Sugar Beach and Ambre hotel. In line with our core values, SUN aims to instil a sustainability culture across its associates through initiatives designed at reducing our carbon footprint with renewable energies and waste management as well as sustainable procurement practices. Our commitment towards sustainability is further demonstrated by our entry on the Stock Exchange of Mauritius Sustainability Index (“SEMSI”) on 5 July 2018. We launch our first phase of the SUNCARE programme which setsout our road map to achieve our aim of a sustainable environment for all our stakeholders. It focuses on the triple-bottom line approach of environment, social and financial responsibilities. Our SUNCARE Program has been awarded. Page 10 of 12 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Sun Resorts maintains a steadfast commitment to ethical and governance standards. While the Code of Conduct governs the behaviour of all our colleagues, the Sun Supplier Code of Conduct echoes the same principles and ensures responsible practices, including a policy of zero tolerance of practices such as bribery or corruption. Sun Resorts has adopted a Gift Acceptance Policy to provide guidance to Sun’s Board of Directors, management, and employees with respect to their responsibilities concerning gifts to Sun Resorts and to themselves as well as guidance to prospective donors when making gifts to Sun Resorts. Measurement of Outcomes  There have been no reports of human rights abuses or infringements during the past year.  There have been no instances of occupational diseases, accidents or injuries at the place of work or while travelling.  During the year, no incidents of discrimination, forced labour or compulsory labour were found to exist in the Group.  Sun Resorts has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Page 11 of 12 Sun Limited once again commit to meet the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Page 12 of 12
