Integrated Report 2018 AVA ILA B LE R EP ORTS The Clariant Integrated Report 2018 provides an in-depth overview of the company’s holistic approach to multidimensional value creation, covering both tangible and intangible, and financial and non-financial aspects of the business. Comprehensive information on financial results can be found in the online Financial Report. Details on governance and com­ pensation are available in the online Corporate Governance Report and the Compen­sation Report. Additional information on the company's engagement regarding sustainable value creation can be found in the online GRI Report. THE FOLLOWING REPORTS ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE AND AS A PDF FOR DOWNLOAD: Integrated Corporate Governance Compensation Financial GRI Report Report Report Report Report reports.clariant.com reports.clariant.com/ reports.clariant.com/­ reports.clariant.com/­ reports.clariant.com/­ 2 ­ 018/corporategovernance 2018/­compensation 2018/­financialreport 2018/gri INTE GRAT ED R EP ORTI NG The core ideas of Clariant’s integrated reporting are based on the framework developed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), which fosters sustainable change by promoting a holistic approach to corporate reporting that focuses on financial and non-financial value creation. Integrated Reporting extends traditional formats of corporate disclosure in order to communicate the full range of factors that significantly affect a company’s ability to create value through its business model. In this third annual report published in the form of an Integrated Report, Clariant provides a comprehensive overview of its value creation process. The resources Clariant uses and affects are categorized into the following six »capitals«: financial, intellectual, manufactured, human, relationship, and natural. Financial Capital Intellectual Capital Manufactured Capital Human Capital Relationship Capital Natural Capital The pool of funds availKnowledge-based inManufactured physical The company’s staff Key relationships, inRenewable and nonreable to the company tangibles used and objects, such as buildand its composition, cluding those with newable environmental for use in the production created by the company, ings, equipment, and competencies, capabilsignificant groups of resources and processof goods or the provioften in collaboration products. These can inities, experience, and stakeholders and es that support the sion of services. This can with partners. This can clude objects that are motivation to innovate. other networks. This past, current, or future include funds obtained include intellectual available to the com­ This can include emcan include shared prosperity of the through financing, such property, such as pa­ pany for use in the proployees’ alignment with values, the trust and company or are affectas debt, equity, or tents, trademarks, copyduction of goods or the corporate values and willingness to engage, ed by it. Examples can grants, and funds genrights, software, rights, provision of services, their ability to underand related intan­ include resources relaterated by the company, and licenses, and or that the company stand and implement gibles associated ed to air, water, and for example, through »organizational capital«, produces for sale to the company’s strategy. with the company’s land that are utilized or sales or investments. such as tacit knowledge, customers or for its brand and reputation. impacted by emissions. systems, procedures, own use. and protocols. SU MM ARY O N P ER FOR M ANCE , PE O PLE , PLA N E T Performance  FINANCIAL CAPITAL in CHF m INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales 6 623 6 377 Patents (year end) 6 700 6 600 EBITDA before exceptional items 1 018 974 Active innovation projects > 375 > 370 EBITDA margin before exceptional items (%) 15.4 15.3 Of which Class 1 Projects with double-digit million sales potential or of strategic relevance > 70 > 65 EBIT before exceptional items 693 673 Scientific collaborations > 125 > 125 Net income 356 302 Basic earnings per share (in CHF) 1.02 0.84 Adjusted earnings per share (in CHF) 1.50 1.47 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Operating cash flow 530 428 2018 2017 Investment in property, plant, and equipment 237 248 Research & Development Centers 8 8 Research & Development expenditures 209 211 Technical Centers > 50 > 50 Growth through innovation (%) 1 > 3.0 2.5 Production sites 125 125 Personnel expenditures 2 1 518 1 516 Countries with production facilities 39 39 Raw material procurement 2 948 2 674 Raw materials procured (in m t) 3.57 3.14 Total assets 7 981 8 299 Production (in m t) 4.34 1 4.60 Equity 2 970 2 939 1  or 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, which F Equity ratio (%) 37.2 35.7 ­includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. Net debt 1 374 1 539 Gearing ratio (%) 46 52 1  ontains the contribution to growth from both Top Line Innovation as well as Life C Cycle Innovation. Potential cannibalization of existing sales caused by Life Cycle Innovation in certain cases has not been excluded from the calculation. 2 Including own employees and external staff People  HUMAN CAPITAL in FTE (Full Time Equivalents) RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total staff 17 901 18 135 Employee participation in engagement survey 2 466 n.a. 1 Employees 10 405 10 482 Raw material suppliers 7 000 7 000 Of which male 7 115 (68 %) 7 264 (69 %) Raw material supply base by spend covered by sustainability evaluations (%) 74 65 Of which female 3 290 (32 %) 3 218 (31 %) Survey responses obtained from customer contacts 2 791 n.a. 1 Workers 7 496 7 653 Customers who want to continue doing business Of which male 6 890 (92 %) 7 066 (92 %) with Clariant (%) 90 n.a. 1 Of which female 606 (8 %) 587 (8 %) 1 Surveys are conducted every two years. Total training hours 234 240 192 000 Training hours (Ø per participant) 15 20 Staff in Research & Development > 1 100 > 1 100 Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR: accidents with at least 1 day lost/200 000 work hours) 0.15 0.20 Planet  NATURAL CAPITAL 2018 1 2017 Total energy consumption (in m kWh) 3 209 3 245 Energy consumption (in kWh/t production) 739 706 Total water consumption (in m m3) 49 49 Total wastewater generation (in m m3) 13 13 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & 2 CO2 equivalents) (in m t) 0.93 0.97 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 CO₂ equivalents) (in m t) 5.69 5.21 Greenhouse gas emissions 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. (Scope 1 & 2 CO2 equivalents) (in kg/t production) 215 211 The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of Total quantity of waste (in thousand t) 232 198 production. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 1 Table of Contents 002 Letter to Shareholders 004 Introduction – Two Perspectives Interviews 006 008 Operating an Integrated Business Model 012 Thriving in the External Environment The Foundation 014 Building on Vision, Mission, and Values of Success 016 Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 018 Materiality Assessment 020 Updated Strategy to Strengthen Clariant 022 Interview with CEO Ernesto Occhiello 026 Two Perspectives: What Will Help Us Succeed in China? 032 Overview on Corporate Governance 036 Empowerment through Leadership 038 Two Perspectives: What Helps People Reach Their Full Potential? 044 Overview on Compensation Policy 046 Core Processes for Value Creation 054 056 How Care Chemicals Creates Value 062 Two Perspectives: Where Can We Help Value Creation Accelerate Innovation? in the Four 068 How Catalysis Creates Value Business Areas 074 Two Perspectives: When Can We Advance the Shift to Renewable Energy? 080 How Natural Resources Creates Value 086 Two Perspectives: Where Can We Improve Safety Even Further? 092 How Plastics & Coatings Creates Value 098 Two Perspectives: Why Does It Pay to Focus on Sustainability? 104 106 Performance 128 Two Perspectives: Who Shapes New Multicapital Digital Business Models? Review 134 People 152 Two Perspectives: What Will Our Customers Expect from Us Tomorrow? 158 Planet 166 Two Perspectives: Where Can Chemistry Help Close the Plastics Loop? 172 Independent Assurance Report (PwC) 2 L ETTER TO S H AR E H O LD E R S Consistent Execution of the Group Strategy Clariant continued its success story in the 2018 financial year. This such as Pigments and Standard Masterbatches. In this way, Clariant’s means that we were able to seamlessly build on the previous years, portfolio will have a much more pronounced profile for high-quality in which we significantly increased the attractiveness and earnings specialty chemical products, which in turn will visibly improve the power of Clariant through the consistent implementation of our value of the company as a whole. At the same time, we will continue long-term strategy, in particular through the continuous development to develop our Care Chemicals, Catalysis, and Natural Resources of the portfolio. Over the last few years, our shareholders have thus Business Areas. Our focus remains on innovation, sustainability, highly received a significantly higher total shareholder return than the qualified employees and the fast and reliable fulfillment of our peer-group average. customers’ needs as the basis for future success. This will be reflected in a significant increase in the profitability of these businesses. The 2018 results speak for themselves: We increased our sales in local currencies by 5 % to around 6.6 billion Swiss francs. The EBITDA Keyword sustainability: It has long been an integral part of our business before exceptional items also improved by 5 % to over 1 billion Swiss strategy. For us, this means constantly orienting our activities and francs, which is the highest level since 2004. This operational pershaping our product portfolio in such a way that they make a positive formance improvement prompts us to propose a dividend increase of contribution to sustainability, based on a holistic approach whether 10 % to 0.55 Swiss francs for you at the next Annual General Meeting. in environmental protection, in the supply chain, in the minimization of risks, or in employee engagement. That is why we also support We have always stressed that we need to continuously and consistently all sustainability targets of the United Nations and, especially in our develop the Clariant portfolio towards specialty chemicals to furindustry, the Responsible Care™ Charter. In addition, we are proud ther enhance the value of the company for you as shareholders. The to report that we have achieved top rankings in the Dow Jones Sustainsize of the company is one aspect of this development. However, ability Index in recent years. we cannot rely on organic growth alone. For this reason, one of our strategic priorities since the acquisition of Süd-Chemie in 2011 has Our agenda for 2019 and 2020 is clear: The management, headed by been portfolio management, which has been further intensified over the new CEO Ernesto Occhiello, is currently working hard to develop the past three years. The planned merger with the US company the new High Performance Materials Business Area, which will Huntsman was part of it − it would have led to an increase in value be one of the core activities of the new Clariant from 2020 onward. of over 3 billion Swiss francs. This merger was, however, thwarted This means that Clariant, in contrast to today, will be significantly by an activist investor. larger, considerably more profitable and − thanks to an increased cash flow − will also have potential for further growth. In principle, our Since our management feels obligated to actually realize the potential medium-term objective must be to focus Clariant’s portfolio even more increase in value held out to the shareholders, we will now do so on high-value, future-oriented and high-yield specialty chemical in cooperation with SABIC. We intend to form the new High Perforbusinesses. mance Materials Business Area from SABIC’s specialty chemicals business and Clariant’s Additives and high-value Masterbatches businesses. At the same time, we will sell more mature businesses C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 3 HARIOLF KOTTMANN Chairman of the Board of Directors This is all the more important because the performance of the macroI would like to thank everyone who supported us in 2018 and the years economic environment is already weakening today. According to before. I thank our employees for their loyalty and the high level the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the risk of a greater decline of commitment we see within the company. Thank you, dear sharein global economic growth has increased. Global gross domestic holders, for your continued confidence in Clariant. We will do our product is expected to increase by only 3.5 % in 2019, compared to best to uphold this trust in the coming years. 3.7 % in 2018. The geopolitical risks such as the trade conflict between the USA and China or the impending Brexit continue to be Sincerely, significant. Nevertheless, we at Clariant are positive and confident about the future. The Board of Directors and Group management will continue to ­follow the current course in order to realize the potential increase in Hariolf Kottmann value held out to our shareholders and the desired attractiveness Chairman of the Board of Directors for customers and employees. 4 I NTR OD U C TI ON — T WO PE R S PE C T I V E S I N T E RV I E WS CHRISTIAN KOHLPAINTNER KLEMENTINA PEJIC LUCIUS KEMP Member of the Executive Committee, Head of Group Human Resources, Head of High Throughput Clariant Clariant Experimentation, Clariant PAGE 28 PAGE 40 PAGE 64 CAMILLA LANG PAUL LIECK LYNETTE CHUNG Site Manager Business Unit Functional Corporate Safety Director Head of Sustainability Strategy & Minerals & Country ESHA Nordics, North America, Clariant Advocacy, Clariant Clariant PAGE 76 PAGE 88 PAGE 100 SIBYLLE MUTSCHLER JUDITH VAN VLIET RICHARD HALDIMANN Head of Digital4Clariant, Designer ColorWorks®, Head of New Business Development, Clariant Clariant Clariant PAGE 130 PAGE 154 PAGE 168 Driving Questions Asking Questions Is What Makes Us Better Curiosity sparks progress. We ask how things work and how we can improve them. At Clariant, we don’t have all the answers. But we ask the right questions and take different perspectives. That’s why, for this Integrated Report, we spoke to our own experts and to our stakeholders about the most material topics of the Materiality Matrix. PAGE 19 Growth and Profitability 026 What Will Help Us Succeed in China? Talent Attraction and Development 038 What Helps People Reach Their Full Potential? Innovation and Technological Advances 062 Where Can We Help Accelerate Innovation? Environmental Protection and Resources 074 When Can We Advance the Shift to Renewable Energy? Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being 086 Where Can We Improve Safety Even Further? Product Stewardship/Sustainable Chemistry 098 Why Does It Pay to Focus on Sustainability? Digitalization 128 Who Shapes New Digital Business Models? Customer Relationships 152 What Will Our Customers Expect from Us Tomorrow? Circular Economy 166 Where Can Chemistry Help Close the Plastics Loop? C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 5 EDWARD TSE ANKE WOLF TIAGO MERCKEL HAUGG CEO & Founder, Freelance Consultant Marketing Manager, Gao Feng Advisory Company Human Resources Cooperativa Piá PAGE 30 PAGE 42 PAGE 66 DANIEL TEICHMANN MARTIN CLAUSEN ISOLDE BACHERT CEO, Senior Risk Engineer, Director Research & Development, Hydrogenious Technologies Zurich Insurance Follmann PAGE 78 PAGE 90 PAGE 102 JIAN MIN SIM JANIS AMBROSE SHARD ALEXANDER SCHAU CEO & Co-founder, Senior Manager Product Planning & Packaging Developer, SourceSage Strategy, Toyota North America Werner & Mertz PAGE 132 PAGE 156 PAGE 170 6 FOU NDATI ON The Foundation of Success The »Foundation of Success« provides an in-depth view of Clariant’s holistic approach to creating added value. It presents an overview of Clariant’s integrated business model and details how each layer of the model, from the external business environment to the discussion of three corporate-wide value creation phases, supports the Business Areas in achieving valuable outcomes for the company and its stakeholders. 008 Operating an Integrated Business Model 012 Thriving in the External Environment 014 Building on Vision, Mission, and Values 016 Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 018 Materiality Assessment 020 Updated Strategy to Strengthen Clariant 022 Interview with CEO Ernesto Occhiello 026 Two Perspectives: What Will Help Us Succeed in China? 032 Overview on Corporate Governance 036 Empowerment through Leadership 038 Two Perspectives: What Helps People Reach Their Full Potential? 044 Overview on Compensation Policy 046 Core Processes for Value Creation C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 7 Value creation from the short to the long term depends on a combination of financial and non-financial, tangible and intangible assets. The value a company creates for its customers, shareholders, and other stakeholders has to be attuned to their needs and provide valuable differentiation compared to the competition. Clariant’s success is measured by its ability to provide By considering trends and market drivers in the business innovative and sustainable solutions that support its environment and engaging in ongoing dialog with its customers’ goals, and to operate with efficiency and stakeholders, Clariant stays attuned to the needs of its integrity. The discussion of Clariant’s business model customers, employees, shareholders, and society, and illustrates how Clariant transforms financial and non-­ embraces their feedback to improve its business. financial inputs into valuable outputs by applying three main value creation phases throughout its corporate activities and in its four Business Areas. Clariant’s ambition to create sustainable value is guided by its vision, mission, and corporate values, which are underpinned by its corporate objectives, targets, and strategy. Its corporate governance principles, strong leadership culture, and compensation principles also support sustainable value creation. 8 FOU NDATI ON — BUS I N E SS M O D E L Operating an Integrated Business Model Clariant’s business model illustrates how the company transforms — Financial Capital refers to the pool of funds available various resources into innovative, sustainable solutions. As expressed to the company for use in the production of goods by Clariant’s brand values – Performance, People, and Planet – the or the provision of services. This can include funds achieved outcomes benefit all stakeholders, and their feedback helps obtained through financing, such as debt, equity, Clariant continuously improve value creation. or grants, and funds generated by the company, for example through sales or investments. In Clariant’s 1. Building on a strong foundation business model, presented overleaf, these are, for Clariant’s business model is based on a focused vision example, R&D spend as an input and sales as an output. and mission, and strong corporate values, all of which — Intellectual Capital is the knowledge-based intangibles are operationalized through its five-pillar strategy and used and created by the company, often in collaboraoverall corporate objectives and financial targets. tion with partners. This can include intellectual property, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, softClariant recognizes global challenges as business opporware, rights, and licenses, and »organizational capital« tunities and relies on an entrepreneurial leadership such as tacit knowledge, systems, procedures, and culture and dedicated employees who contribute their protocols. For Clariant, examples include scientific knowledge and skills to make Clariant a high-performcollaborations as an input and patents at year end ing organization. as an output. — Manufactured Capital includes manufactured physical 2. Transforming capitals to create value for all objects such as buildings, equipment, and products. stakeholders These can include objects that are available to the comClariant draws on six kinds of capital to fuel the value pany for use in the production of goods or the provicreation process: financial, intellectual, manufactured, human, relationship, and natural. Clariant converts these capitals into valuable outputs, such as products and services, which benefit customers, employees, shareholders, and the environment. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 9 sion of services, or that the company produces for Clariant categorizes these six capitals under its brand sale to customers or for its own use. In Clariant’s values Performance (encompassing financial, intellecbusiness model, examples are raw material procured tual and manufactured capital), People (encompassing as an input and production volume as an output. human and relationship capital), and Planet (encom— Human Capital is the company’s staff and its compopassing natural capital). sition, competencies, capabilities, experience, and motivation to innovate. This can include employees’ 3. Fueling growth and profitability with three alignment with corporate values and their ability to value creation phases understand and implement the company’s strategy. In Clariant’s Business Areas are guided by three value the case of Clariant, inputs include training hours and creation phases that ensure excellence in execution outputs are, for example, employee health and safety. throughout the company’s activities: — Relationship Capital refers to key relationships, — Idea to Market including those with significant groups of stakeholders — Market to Customer and and other networks. This can include shared values, — Customer to Cash. the trust and willingness to engage, and related intangibles associated with its brand and reputation. For Idea to Market encompasses all processes that contribute Clariant, examples are client interviews as an input to a well-filled and high-performing innovation pipeand customer satisfaction as an output. line. Market to Customer includes all steps of a truly cus— Natural Capital includes the renewable and nonretomer-experience-centered marketing and sales pronewable environmental resources and processes that cess. Customer to Cash covers Clariant’s efforts to ensure support the past, current, or future prosperity of safe, efficient production and reliable delivery. the company or are affected by it. Examples can include resources related to air, water, and land that are utilized or impacted by emissions. In the Clariant business model, energy consumption is one input and greenhouse gas emissions are an output. 10 FOU NDATI ON — BUS I N E SS M O D E L 001 BUSINESS MODEL External Environment Societal Trends and Market Drivers Input Resources and relationships that Clariant draws upon for its business activities. CLARIANT PERFORMANCE Vision, Mission, Corporate Values 209 2 948 illar Strateg R&D spend in CHF m Raw material procurement Five P y in CHF m Leadership > 375 > 125 M arket Active innovation projects Scientific collaborations to a I de Catalysis 125 3.57 et to Cu Mark Care Natural sto Production facilities Raw material procured Chemicals Resources in m t Plastics & Cu Coatings m stom er PEOPLE er to C ash 2 142 234 240 Ov New employees hired Training hours er e ts all rg Ob Ta jecti ves and Finan ci al 538 74 % Client interviews Raw material supply base by spend covered by FEEDBACK sustainability evaluation OUTCOME PLANET 3 209 3 49 3 Stakeholders Clariant constantly engages with its stakeholders to stay ACHIEVED FOR Energy consumption Water consumption in attuned to their needs and gain feedback on how to best in m kWh m m3 create value for them. Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital Contains the contribution to growth from both Top Line Innovation as well as Life 1 ­Cycle Innovation. Potential cannibalization of existing sales caused by Life Cycle Innovation in certain cases has not been excluded from calculation. Human capital Relationship capital Natural capital 2 For 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 11 The Integrated Report 2018 can be explored not only through the subsequent layers of Clariant’s business model, but also along three thematic »focus routes«. They shed light on value creation from the perspective of the Group as well as the Business Areas along the Output main threads of innovation, customer experience, and Results from Clariant’s business activities. operational excellence, providing shortcuts between the respective parts of the report. For simple orientation and guidance, the content of each focus route is highlighted with a colored icon and vertical line. PERFORMANCE IDEA TO MARKET 6 623 15.4 % Sales in CHF m EBITDA margin before The Idea to Market focus route covers the innovation-­ exceptional items related parts of the Integrated Report. After the overview in the »Idea to Market« chapter, this focus route >3% 6 700 1 elaborates on the Business Areas’ innovation endeavors Growth through Patents at year end and discusses the results achieved with respect to the innovation innovation-related material topics. PAGE 46 4.34 24 2 MARKET TO CUSTOMER Production volume in m t Products awarded the EcoTain® label The Market to Customer focus route includes report sections that illustrate Clariant’s approach to customer-­ PEOPLE centricity. Starting with the »Market to Customer« chapter, this focus route sheds light on the Business 17 901 0.15 Areas’ efforts to develop their marketing and sales processes toward true customer-centricity, and reveals Staff in FTE at year end Lost time accident rate (LTAR) the results regarding the customer-related material topics. PAGE 49 PLANET CUSTOMER TO CASH 0.93 13 3 3 The Customer to Cash focus route encompasses the Greenhouse gas emissions Wastewater in m m 3 parts of the Integrated Report that center around (scope 1 & 2) in m t Clariant’s efforts to ensure safe, reliable, and efficient operations. Beginning with the »Customer to Cash« chapter, this focus route illustrates the Business Areas’ actions to optimize procurement, planning, production, and delivery, and presents the results achieved for the operations-related material topics. PAGE 51 3 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the l­arger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 12 FOU NDATI ON — E X T E R N A L E N V I R O N M E N T Thriving in the External Environment How specialty chemicals companies and their customers innovate, — Growth in local currency rather than product volume collaborate, and operate does not change overnight. To develop the in Latin America due to depreciating currencies. The required know-how, relationships, and infrastructure in a timely current outlook indicates increased volume growth at manner, Clariant carefully tracks relevant external drivers, from current potentially more stable currencies, with more optieconomic developments to megatrends with long-term impact. mism in Brazil than there has been in the last several years. The business environment is improving. 1. Current regional trends shape the opportunity space 2. Innovative, sustainable solutions and trusted Regional developments relevant for the specialty chemrelationships are needed icals sector, and for Clariant in particular, include: Beyond these regional developments, a number of over— Renewed investment interest in the European chemiarching trends are currently emerging. For example, cal industry for the first time in over a decade. As an demand for oil-based fuels is forecast to decrease globally importer of most base chemical products, Europe has in the longer term. This is motivating oil and refining an opportunity to increasingly meet demand with companies to increasingly enter the chemicals business, local production, and reduce reliance on imports to where growth is still healthy. Regarding trends in only key inputs, such as feedstock from the United ­market needs, customers are seeking innovative specialty States. In addition, by maintaining the competitiveness products for differentiated, high-performance applicaof the base chemical industry, the raw materials tions to avoid commoditization. In addition, customers required for specialty chemical production will conare expecting shorter lead times from suppliers such tinue to be available locally. as Clariant as they strive to become more agile, making — An overall shift in China from export-related growth digitalization an essential topic. Lastly, large customers to growth based on local consumption. This would are setting goals for supply chain sustainability that lead to slower, more sustainable growth but could also Clariant must meet as a supplier. reduce the import demand for certain chemicals. Chinese companies aim to move into higher-specifiConcerning revenue developments, global Clariant sales cation products. were supported in 2018 by strong end-market growth — Conflicting trends in the investment climate for the during most of the year. Revenue growth in the oil, basic chemical industry in North America. High availability chemical, and refinery areas led to a continued recovery of feedstock in the US makes chemical investments in the Catalysis and Natural Resources Business Areas potentially attractive, while changes to trade policy following a dip in 2016. Growing revenues in the specialty entail higher risks for future investments as North chemical, healthcare, and agrochemical markets and America is an exporter of many base chemicals and steady growth in surfactants supported Care Chemicals’ polymers. growth. Slower, but still positive, growth was experienced in the Plastics & Coatings end markets. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 13 With regard to cost, after rising approximately 7 % in With regard to the Future of Plastic, current demand for 2018 partly due to increasing commodity and oil prices, plastic products is expected to grow, especially in develoverall raw materials costs are expected to rise in the oping economies. In the longer term, however, growth range of 2.5 to 4 % in 2019. Mitigating this will require may be slower than previously predicted due to plascollaborations with partners based on mutual appreciatic-saving product redesign and increased recycling. Both tion, understanding, and cooperation. Clariant recognizes of these trends could create innovation opportunities that trusted relationships with suppliers increase access for Clariant, as could the emerging need for substitutions to competitively priced raw materials, while proximity between plastic types in order to reduce environmental to customers supports value-based pricing by quantifying impact. product and service benefits that allow customers to enhance their own offerings. Concerning the Future of Transportation, major shifts in automotive markets are expected over the next 15 years 3. Long-term megatrends impact innovation regarding powertrains, vehicle use, and design. Although and market perspectives Clariant currently has limited exposure to the automotive Megatrends, whose impacts will be felt beyond Clariant’s market, announced changes in the Clariant portfolio strategic planning horizon, are relevant for the company’s make Clariant well placed to benefit from the trends in innovation programs and future-oriented marketing and this transition. PAGE 20 business development. Considered megatrends are: — Future of Oil Finally, with regard to the Circular Economy, 130 trends — Future of Plastics that could impact parts of Clariant’s portfolio were — Future of Transportation assessed. While there is a business risk of decreasing — Circular Economy demand growth from factors such as design for longer product life for consumer durables, this also presents Concerning the Future of Oil, peak oil – the maximum opportunities to sell value-added products. The oppor­ petroleum extraction rate that will be achieved before tunities identified largely compensate for areas of potendecline begins – is forecast to occur in the 2030s. Over tial risk to Clariant’s business. Furthermore, the risk the next three years, forecasts project the oil price can be further mitigated by innovating and investing in around USD 70 – 80/barrel (bbl), which is likely to motithe most promising opportunities. PAGE 168 vate continued investment in shale oil in the US and in deep-water projects in Brazil – markets where Clariant has a strong presence – to meet demand growth while other sources mature. 14 FOU NDATI ON — V I S I O N , M I SS I O N , A N D VA LUE S Building on Vision, Mission, and Values Clariant relies on its guiding vision, a well-defined mission, and a 2. Appreciation, culture, and reputation as ­culture that encourages every employee to explore new ways to create drivers for success value for all stakeholders. Clariant believes strongly that its brand essence »appreciation« is a key driver for successful value creation. 1. Vision and mission focused on value creation FIGURE 001 For Clariant, appreciation means putting Clariant aspires to be the globally leading company for values at the center of everything the company does specialty chemicals, and to stand out through above-­ in each area where it is active or has an influence: peraverage value creation for all stakeholders. To bring this formance, people, and the planet. vision to fruition in the context of the drivers of Clariant’s external environment, the company builds and 001 B RAND VALUES WITH A FOCUS ON PERFORMANCE, PEOPLE, AND PLANET maintains leading positions in its businesses and strives for functional excellence in innovation, commercialization, and operations as part of its corporate culture. customized s ti ve & ol u Clariant’s vision is underpinned by its mission to create no va tio ns In value by appreciating the needs of: formance — customers – by providing competitive and Pe r innovative solutions — employees – by adhering to corporate values ge tec ology hn — shareholders – by achieving above-average returns Pe r s o n a l Appre­ciation — the environment – by acting sustainably Pe o et an p -ed res pl Pl e ec ing t& ad le de di & ca le t io n ab n tai Sus C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 15 — Performance: Clariant appreciates its customers by 002 CORPORATE VALUES FOR SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION striving for exceptional performance and offering innovative, customized, high-quality solutions. — People: Clariant expresses appreciation toward its Sustainable Value Creation Dr stakeholders and employees with its unflagging Ex ive f ce lle or nc commitment to transparency and integrity, and by e fostering a culture of dialog and mutual respect. Corp Resp orate — Planet: Clariant embodies appreciation of the planet lined by protecting the environment and safeguarding onsib Discip ance ility rm Perfo ement natural resources. By using sustainable, cutting-edge g Mana Values technologies, Clariant meets the most stringent standards and sets new benchmarks in the industry. Ap d o De ve ti Li cia Pr live Cultivating a corporate culture that balances business pr e om r t is o e performance, social commitments, and environmental n Courageous and Decisive targets, while also upholding the goals of all stakeholders, Leadership is essential for generating value and sustainable growth. Therefore, appreciation is embedded throughout the company’s culture and its six corporate values, 4. Courageous and Decisive Leadership: Clariant FIGURE 002 which define expectations of employee supports risk taking and acceptance of failure while behaviors and build the company’s reputation and brand: learning from results and chooses the best people 1. Drive for Excellence: Clariant goes for the highest for the right places. standards to profitably meet customer needs and 5. Lived Appreciation: People at Clariant acknowledge challenges its achievement for more. strength and advise on areas for improvement. They 2. Disciplined Performance Management: People at acknowledge outstanding contributions and celebrate Clariant set – and ask for – clear direction and success. challenging but achievable targets. They give – and 6. Corporate Responsibility: People at Clariant care for ask for – open feedback on measured progress. the welfare of all stakeholders, protect the environ3. Deliver to Promise: Clariant counts on self-driven ment and respect communities. They never shortcut a employees, who fully leverage their true capabilities safety procedure and live Clariant’s Code of Conduct. and do not over-promise or under-deliver. 16 FOU NDATI ON — STA K E H O LD E R E N G AG E M E N T Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement Clariant constantly engages with its stakeholders to stay attuned to Clariant pays close attention to engaging with its employtheir needs and gain feedback on how to best create value for them. ees on all levels, focusing on its core value of appreciation. Clariant’s key stakeholders are its customers, employees, and shareAppreciation means providing the support and resources holders, as well as the environment. that employees need to achieve their goals, and giving credit for extra effort. Development goals and performance 1. Appreciation lies at the core of Clariant’s are discussed during annual Performance ­Dialogs as ­stakeholder engagement well as 360-Degree Feedbacks. In 2018, Clariant conducted Clariant expresses appreciation to its stakeholders a company-wide survey to assess employee engagement through a variety of channels: in its unflagging commitand gain valuable insights for future organizational ment to transparency and integrity; in fostering a culdevelopment. PAGE 139 In order to foster an ongoing ture of dialog and mutual respect; and by committing to dialog within the company, Clariant uses several sustainable, innovative technologies. A continuous ­channels to communicate with its employees, e.g., ­dialog allows Clariant to understand all stakeholders’ intranet, newsletters, townhalls. needs and develop corresponding solutions that meet the most stringent standards and set new industry For Clariant, ensuring transparency to all of its investors benchmarks. is a matter of course. The Integrated Report, the annual general meeting, investor updates, and an investor rela2. Ongoing engagement with stakeholders tions iPad application, as well as presentations at anacreates valuable insights lyst conferences and roadshows, underpin this engageClariant uses various channels to engage with its stakement. PAGE 106 In 2018, Clariant’s shareholder holders. In addition to feedback received from daily structure changed: The Saudi Basic Industries Corporainteractions with customers, Clariant runs a biennial surtion (SABIC) acquired a stake of almost 25 %. SABIC, vey to monitor customer satisfaction, which is critical one of the world’s largest petrochemical manufacturers, to learn about customers’ perception of Clariant as a supaims to act as strategic shareholder. The resulting plier and business partner. PAGE 143 In addition, ­stability will allow Clariant to develop as a strong speClariant regularly conducts customer interviews in the cialty chemicals company. context of the Marketing Excellence Initiative and Innovation Excellence Initiative. In 2018, these engageTo minimize the company’s impacts on the environment ments included 538 customer interviews and 150 and safeguard natural resources, Clariant uses compre­industry expert interviews. PAGE 49 hensive management tools and programs that combine technology, data, and behavioral guidelines, and fosters a corporate culture that prioritizes environmental stewardship. PAGE 158 Clariant consistently steers its p ­ roduct portfolio toward safer and more sustainable solutions in order to protect customers, consumers, and the environment. PAGE 122 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 17 3. A shared language communicates sustainability Examples of Clariant’s contributions to the SDGs are the Clariant has welcomed the adoption of the 2030 Agenda 2025 environmental targets PAGE 158 , the extensive for Sustainable Development by the United Nations work done through the Portfolio Value Program (PVP) member states in September 2015. The Agenda, including to screen the product portfolio for sustainability and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), marks bring forward more sustainable products and Eco-Tain® a milestone on the global path to a more sustainable products PAGE 122 , and the company’s efforts to future. promote health and safety in the workplace. PAGE 140 Clariant recognizes the opportunity offered by the SDGs Clariant’s various initiatives have wide sustainability to share a common framework of action and language impacts on value chains, communities, and society, when communicating with stakeholders and reporting and thus contribute to several of the SDGs, including on sustainability objectives, impact, and performance. SDG 12 »Responsible Consumption and Production«, Clariant thus plans to further increase transparency on SDG 8 »Decent Work and Economic Growth«, and SDG 6 the alignment of its strategy with the SDGs and to­ »Clean Water and Sanitation«. ­regularly report on the progress made toward achieving them. 4. Stakeholder perspectives inform Clariant’s materiality assessment These universally accepted goals are highly relevant for In-depth engagement with internal and external stakethe chemical industry and Clariant is committed to holders lies at the heart of Clariant’s process of deter­contributing to their realization. The SDGs are in many mining the economic, social, and environmental topics ways congruent with Clariant’s own sustainability that offer the highest potential for value creation for objectives, strategy, and values. Sustainability for Clariant stakeholders and for the company. This prioritization of is a journey – a continuous effort to steer the company’s topics related to performance, people, and planet helps activities and product portfolio to contribute positively Clariant further develop its integrated management to global sustainable development. approach. PAGE 18 001 CLARIANT SUPPORTS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Source: United Nations Department of Public Information 18 FOU NDATI ON — M AT E R I A LI T Y Materiality Assessment To determine which levers offer the highest potential for value creation sidering the risks and opportunities linked to Clariant’s in the long run, Clariant conducts comprehensive materiality assessexternal impacts, the process indirectly took Clariant’s ments at regular intervals. The prioritization of material topics related potential effect on various aspects of sustainable develto performance, people, and planet is well aligned with Clariant’s opment into account. strategic pillars. 2. Broad stakeholder inclusion 1. Based on recognized standards and procedures Both external and internal stakeholders were invited to The latest materiality assessment, performed in 2017, express which topics they deemed most relevant for identified and prioritized the issues that matter most to future value creation, with carefully defined selection Clariant and its stakeholders. It was based on two criteria ensuring a balanced representation of interests ­internationally recognized frameworks: the Integrated among invited participants. Management and stakeInternational Reporting <IR> framework issued by the International holder surveys were conducted worldwide, with the latIntegrated Reporting ter offered in English, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the sustainCouncil (IIRC) ability reporting standards of the Global Reporting and Mandarin. integratedreporting.org Initiative (GRI). As a first step, Clariant compiled economic, environmental, and social topics that are Overall, 131 external stakeholders, 69 employees, and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) included in frameworks such as GRI, <IR>, SASB, UN 36 managers gave feedback. Seventy-four customers Global Compact, and UN Sustainable Development included in the external stakeholder group responded globalreporting.org Goals, as well as Clariant’s previously determined mateto the survey, in addition to non-governmental organirial topics and topics defined by peers. The resulting­ zation representatives, sustainability experts, scientists, ­initial list of more than 400 topics was then consolidated and suppliers. The outcome was evaluated and valito a list of less than 50 topics. dated by senior management in a workshop that was part of the 2017 assessment. Then, Materiality was evaluated in two dimensions: stakeholders provided feedback on the relevance of each In 2018, the materiality assessment was reviewed to look topic for Clariant from their perspective, and senior for topics that had become more or less relevant during managers across the company assessed the importance the year. In particular, recent stakeholder interactions and of each topic for value creation by Clariant. The latter management discussions indicated that two topics – assessment included the potential influence of each circular economy and digitalization – had become more issue on strategy development and achievement, market relevant both to stakeholders and to value creation. The positioning and growth opportunities, risk management, materiality matrix was refreshed accordingly. compliance, and reputation management. Through conC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 19 3. Materiality Matrix The topics are categorized in three areas: Cultivate, Advance, The results of the comprehensive materiality assessand Focus. Focus topics are at the core of Clariant’s ability ment are summarized in the Clariant Materiality Matrix to create long-term value; further improvements regarding FIGURE 001 , which shows topics considered moderAdvance topics allow Clariant to better meet company ately to highly relevant. The matrix depicts the relevance and stakeholder expectations; Cultivate topics support of the topics from the stakeholder point of view on the successful value creation in the future. vertical axis and relevance for value creation by Clariant on the horizontal axis. 001 CLARIANT MATERIALITY MATRIX VERY HIGH Product Stewardship / Innovation and Sustainable Chemistry Technological Advances Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being Customer Relationships HIGH Ethics and Environmental Protection Compliance and Resources Human Rights Climate Change Circular Growth and Profitability Economy Corporate Talent Attraction Governance Value Chain Collaboration and Development for Sustainability Employee Sustainability Performance Engagement in the Supply chain RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDER Policy and Transparency Stakeholder Relations Diversity MODERATE Digitalization Community Bio-based Engagement Economy CULTIVATE ADVANCE FOCUS MODERATE HIGH VERY HIGH RELEVANCE FOR COMPANY VALUE CREATION For Focus topics as well as for Advance topics, Clariant has established management approaches. REPORTS.CLARIANT.COM/2018/GRI Current developments, activities, and achievements for each topic can be found throughout the Integrated Report, especially in the Multicapital Review. PAGE 104 Focus topics are further illustrated by dedicated interviews with internal and external experts: Growth and Profitability PAGE 26 , Talent Attraction and Development PAGE 38 , Innovation and Technological Advances PAGE 62 , Environmental Protection and Resources PAGE 74 , Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being PAGE 86 , Product Stewardship/Sustainable Chemistry PAGE 98 , Digitalization PAGE 128 , Customer Relationships PAGE 152 , Circular Economy PAGE 166 20 FOU NDATI ON — ST R AT E GY Updated Strategy to Strengthen Clariant Clariant’s holistic approach to creating value for all stakeholders is intensifying growth; and increasing profitability. In 2018, underpinned by its overall objectives, financial targets, and five-pillar a strategy update featured a major portfolio upgrade strategy. In 2018, Clariant announced a portfolio upgrade that ­designed to capture a significant collaboration opportuenables the Group to realize a significant step change into higher nity with SABIC in the area of high-performance value specialties. ­materials. FIGURE 001 1. Overall objectives underpin Clariant’s vision The strategic pillars are well aligned with the material and mission topics deemed most relevant for Clariant and its To advance into the top tier in specialty chemicals, ­stakeholders. PAGE 18 From the topics determined to Clariant focuses on overall objectives related to its difbe most material in the comprehensive materiality ferent stakeholder groups. The company strives: assessment conducted in 2017, Innovation and Technological — to be a publicly listed company with a broad shareAdvances lies at the heart of the first strategic pillar; holder base, reliable long-term anchor shareholders, Product Stewardship and Sustainable Chemistry, as well and a high reputation for above industry-average as Environmental Protection and Resources, are essenprofitability, growth, and Total Return to Shareholders tial aspects of the second strategic pillar, as is Occupa(TRS); tional Health, Safety, and Well-being as part of the — to be known as a powerhouse for R&D and Innovation ­mitigation of risk; and Customer Relationships are an and to increase value by applying a forward-looking important foundation of the fourth and fifth strategic sustainability lens to operations and market offerings; pillars, which together correspond to the most material — to serve markets with future perspectives and strong topic of Growth and Profitability. All five strategic growth rates and focus on businesses with competitive ­pillars are underpinned by Clariant’s People Excellence position, and initiative, for which the most material topic of Talent — to be a preferred employer. Attraction and Development is an important aspect. In addition, Clariant has increased its financial targets In 2018, the materiality matrix was reviewed and slightly based on the expected implementation of an updated refreshed with two new topics elevated into the group strategy and significant portfolio upgrade, as summaof most material topics: Digitalization and Circular rized in FIGURE 004. Economy. Digitalization is now represented in the first ­strategic pillar by highlighting digital business model 2. A five-pillar strategy provides guidance opportunities and in the fifth pillar by including digitally Against the background of its qualitative objectives and enabled operating models. Circular Economy is financial targets, Clariant articulates its approach to addressed in the second pillar, emphasizing the focus on long-term value creation for its stakeholders through its products and partnerships. Group strategy, which has been further developed along five pillars: focusing on innovation and R&D; adding value with sustainability; repositioning the portfolio; C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 21 001 UPDATED GROUP STRATEGY WITH ENHANCED PRODUCT AND SOLUTION OFFERING 1 2 3 4 5 Focus on Add value with Reposition Intensify Increase innovation sustainability the portfolio growth profitability and R&D — Continued — Commercial— Advanced —D  riven by —D  igitally enproduct ization of product and new products abled differdifferentiation sustainability solutions through innoentiated operand customer (green, replac­ing prevations and ating models specification renewable, vious offering customer specaccording to — Capturing and ecological ifications their degree of digital business products) —A  bove indusspecialization — Increased Continuous model oppor— Capture try segments' —P  roduct and scale developments tunities recycling growth solution offeropportunities — Upgraded ing upgrade — Thought — Strengthen higher margin with higher leadership — Mitigation position in specialties profitability in disruptive of risk core growth portfolio technology markets — Enhanced fields through — Additional (China, North processes to R&D R&D and America) increase cost commercial efficiency opportunities Portfolio upgrade People Excellence 3. Expected portfolio upgrade will strengthen plans to combine its Additives and high-value Mastergrowth and value creation batches activities (color, high-temperature resins, and Clariant seeks opportunities to adapt its portfolio in healthcare) with complementary parts of SABIC’s Speareas that align well with its corporate strategy: increascialties business to create the new Business Area High ing growth and profitability, differentiating through Performance Materials. Clariant would hold the majorinnovation and sustainability, serving industry-leading ity stake of the new merged Business Area, which is businesses driven by megatrends, enhancing customer expected to be completed by the end of 2019 and launched experience, and fast reliable customer fulfilment. This by January 1, 2020. will be supported by creating operational and business synergies that significantly contribute to value creation, 002 CLARIANT MAKES STEP CHANGE INTO HIGHER VALUE SPECIALTIES and strengthening the company in terms of the capabiliHigh Performance Care Natural Plastics & ties and talent of the people acquired with the business. Materials Chemicals Catalysis Resources Coatings Sales growth expectations p.a. 6–9% 5–7% 6–9% 6–7% GDP Based on these criteria, the 2018 corporate strategy update steered for was grounded in a detailed assessment of Clariant’s absolute EBITDA and competitive environment and key developments in the EBITDA margin cash flow ambition 2021E 24 – 25 % 19 – 21 % 26 – 30 % 16 – 17 % generation specialty chemicals industry. It was determined that enhancing Clariant’s engagement in the highly specialized field of high-performance materials would create Major areas of application of High Performance Materials strategic advantage in the current business environare expected to include smart electronics, aerospace, ment, where leading businesses, such as SABIC’s Speautomotive, and robotics, as well as healthcare, additive cialties business with its promising positioning with manufacturing, renewable energy, and e-mobility. These respect to trends in transportation and consumer elecapplications demand differentiated fulfillment of custronics, offer excellent innovation and investment tomer specifications that require exclusive technology opportunities. In line with this strategic priority, Clariant and formulation know-how. In addition, Clariant expects to divest Pigments, standard Masterbatches, and Healthcare Packaging by 2020. 22 I NTERV I EW W I TH C E O E R N E STO O CC H I E LLO Focusing on Best-In-Class Customer Experience and Excellence in Execution Ernesto, you’ve been the CEO of Clariant for a few months What will change with Clariant’s trans­formation? now. What are some of your first impressions? Everybody likes to see a new CEO put a different spin on how things Clariant is an excellent company with great people. The company are done. But Clariant is in good shape. That’s why we will continue is run well and has some exceptional technologies. It has a lot of to execute our proven five-pillar strategy and to focus on innovation potential in creating value for our customers. And I think we’re on and R&D, which is key for our continued product differentiation the right path to become one of the fastest and most reliable suppliers and customer specification. We will also keep creating value by comin our field and a true world leader in high-value specialty chemicals. mercializing the sustainability needs of our customers, for example, by delivering more renewable and eco-friendly products. However, 2018 was another intense year for Clariant with the entry of we’ll remain open to bolt-on acquisitions in order to reposition our a new shareholder and the announcement of a strategy portfolio and open to taking additional transformative steps whenupdate. What is your view on this? ever appropriate. Part of our transformation is to further strengthen First of all, we delivered on our promise. Business was good with sales our profitability and improve our cash generation. Good cash manincreasing 5 % and an improved absolute EBITDA before excepagement is a prerequisite for us to invest in growth. Another thing tional items of more than one billion Swiss francs. Considering the we’ll continue is our Clariant Excellence initiative with an even state of the global economy, which softened towards the end of stronger focus on operational efficiency and excellence in execution. the year, that alone is a positive sign. Some of our businesses that are closer to the consumer have shown significant increases of sales You seem to focus very much on customer needs... and profitability, which is a remarkably good outcome. But the clearest Yes, we need to better align our application development and our evidence of what a good job the people at Clariant are doing is the products with the needs of our customers. Our customers should operating cash flow. Its increase of 24 % is a real step change from rely on us to get the fastest and most reliable customer fullfilment in previous years. However, we mustn’t rest on our laurels. We aim the industry. In other words: we want to create the best possible high: We want to position ourselves in the top quartile of the highcustomer experience and we want to maximize their success. This value specialty chemical industry. And we want to be the best in will help in both retaining existing customers and attracting new ones. what we do. To that end, with SABIC’s entry as a new anchor shareholder and our announcement of the creation of a new Business Where do you see potential for further growth? Area High Performance Materials, 2018 saw two strategic milestones The most successful companies rely on their core strengths. We have on this journey. to make sure that our portfolio addresses the upcoming challenges, technology opportunities, and consumer demands – including their What are the next steps in terms of divestments? appetite for more convenience, safety, health, and resource effiWe have already started to carve out Pigments, Standard Masterciency. Our new Business Area High Performance Materials can deliver batches, and Healthcare Packaging from the former Plastics & Coatings solutions for the increasing digitalization in many industries, like Business Area. I am very confident about their sale, which we hope the fast-growing market for smart electronics and appliances. And to complete by 2020. our other businesses, like Care Chemicals, Catalysis, and Natural Re­sources, serve rising customer needs in safety and health – with anything from halogen-free flame retardants to natural, ethical, and sustainable ingredients for personal care products. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 23 ERNESTO OCCHIELLO Chief Executive Officer Clariant is known as a leader in sustainability. What are your personal expectations for Clariant and How ­important is it to you? the way forward? Sustainability is the core of our strategy. We need to ensure that we Everybody knows that I don’t talk too much. I prefer to let results address environmental, economic, and societal needs in order to speak for themselves. We have an experienced and dedicated leadercompete. If you can run your business using fewer resources than ship team, a lot of great talent and hardworking people in the comothers or if you find ways to reduce your environmental impact, pany. I am convinced that with the support of our Board and Chairman, you’re very likely to be rewarded – by your customers, your shareHariolf Kottmann, we will continue on our successful path. We holders, and society in general. Our catalysts are a great example. have certain goals: By 2021, we want to achieve sales of around 9 bilAs the International Council of Chemical Associations put it, catalysts lion Swiss francs, an EBITDA margin after exceptional items in are the best way to significantly improve the energy efficiency of the order of 20 %, an operational cash flow of more than 1.2 billion chemical processes. Swiss francs, and an ROIC after exceptional items of more than 10 %. If we stay focused on our customers, on operational efficiency, and on excellence in execution, I’m sure we can realize the full potential of this great company – to the benefit of everyone: to our customers, who value fast and reliable service, to our employees, who appreciate a safe and motivating working environment, to our shareholders, who delight in increased dividends and shareholder value, and to society as a whole, which pushes for sustainable development. 24 FOU NDATI ON — ST R AT E GY Combined with attractive prospects in Care Chemicals, R&D, and sustainability were conducted to identify priority Catalysis, and Natural Resources, this portfolio upgrade areas. Each Business Unit selected specific topics for will allow Clariant to focus even more on customer-­ deep dives, and then substantiated these as core elements specific, technologically advanced applications with in their Business Plan, including must-win battles. high growth and high value-creation potential. Depending on the Business Unit in question, must-win 4. Strategic Management Process ensures battles can include specific regional growth targets, supCorporate and Business Unit involvement ply chain or marketing opportunities, or innovation Clariant’s Strategic Management Process (SMP) ensures areas that are especially relevant in further differentiatthat the overall strategy development is conducted as ing the Business Units’ product portfolio. an iterative process at the Group level as well as for each of the individual Business Units. This process ensures that Business Unit strategies are developed with corporate guidance on aspects such as In the SMP process conducted during the course of external trends or priorities of the five-pillar Group 2018, each Business Unit in close cooperation with Corstrategy, while also focusing on the specific opportunities porate Planning & Strategy reviewed Cross-Business and risks in the particular businesses. On the basis of Unit topics both in regard to external trends (Future of these deliberations, the scope of the SMP discussions Oil, Future of Transportation, Future of Plastics, Circuwith each Business Unit included: lar Economy) as well as regarding the five pillars of the — marketing, innovation, sustainability, and operations Group strategy. For example, cross-Business Unit strategy/roadmap, and growth and profitability targets ­workshops regarding digital impact, innovation through at the segment level, and — innovation focus fields, innovation growth targets, 003 CONTENT DEEP DIVES TO THE BUSINESS UNIT STRATEGIES and core growth and profitability targets for the whole Business Unit. Overarching Specific SMP 2018 – 21 topics deep dives Business Plan The corresponding implementation plans feed into Cross-Business Must-win financial plans for each Business Unit that are developed Unit Mega­ trends Deep dive 1 battle 1 and refined alongside the Group financial objectives. In Must-win the context of the enhanced growth profile of the Group Digital EndDeep dive 2 battle 2 Market-Back related to the portfolio upgrade, Clariant expects to implications Deep dive 3 Must-win be able to reach sales growth of 5 – 6 % annually and to battle 3 Innovation … Other segments Sustainability 194 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 25 In 2018, Clariant’s Excellence Initiatives achieved a net benefit of CHF 194 m. 004 O BJECTIVES FOR FUTURE FINANCIAL GROWTH 5. Clariant Excellence supports value creation Clariant Excellence (CLNX), the company’s Business Sales ~9 Excellence program, supports the Business Units in in CHF bn 6.4 their strategy execution. Along with People Excellence, the program comprises Innovation Excellence (CIX), 2017 2021E Commercial Excellence (CCE), and Operational ExcelEBITDA margin ~ 20 lence (COX). These linked initiatives for excellence after exceptional items 12.7 (%) in execution drive value from EBIT improvements and cash flow from additional growth. 2017 2021E In total, CLNX improvement projects delivered estiOperating cash flow > 1 200 in CHF bn mated net benefits of CHF 194 m in 2018, of which 428 CHF 112 m were cost savings. CLNX supports systematic value creation along the entire value chain: from ide2017 2021E ation for new products, services, or business models to ROIC > 10 Above defining commercial strategy to ultimately ensuring after exceptional items (%) peer group effective and efficient production and delivery of finished average goods to Clariant’s customers. PAGE 46 2017 2021E Note: combines business foreign exchange rate assumption 005 N ET BENEFIT BY CLARIANT EXCELLENCE in CHF m of 1.0 USD = 1.0 CHF; 2021E at stable 2018 FX rates 194 162 141 increase EBITDA margin after exceptional items to 127 131 approximately 20 % by 2021. The combination of Clariant’s and SABIC’s offerings within Clariant is expected to result in significant synergies, with an anticipated annual run rate of CHF 100 million realized over three years from closing. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The mid-term financial objectives are discussed in the context of the »multicapital review«. PAGE 114 26 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — G R OWT H A N D PR O FI TA BILIT Y Growth and Profitability What Will Help Us Succeed in China? Like so many others, Clariant has identified China as the driver for global business growth and innovation. But unlike many other Western companies Clariant has put China at the heart of its global strategy to explore new opportunities and fully adapt to the country’s unique business environment. Christian Kohlpaintner As a Member of Clariant’s Executive Committee, Christian spent more than two years in Shanghai, implementing the company’s unique China strategy. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 27 Edward Tse As one of China’s China's leading Global Strategy Consul­tants, Edward and his unique perspective on the country’s development were instrumental in developing Clariant’s China strategy. 28 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — G R OWT H A N D PR O FI TA BILIT Y Christian, you’ve recently spent the better part of two years in Shanghai. What were you there for? I had been responsible for Asia, and thus for China at the Executive Committee for some time, but we weren’t seeing the kind of progress we were hoping for. So my move there in 2016 was to show our commitment to putting China from »Fringe to Core« of our global What’s the goal for Clariant in China? ­strategy. And it’s been instrumental in building a China-­ In 2016 we set out to double our revenue by 2021. focused governance structure that now reports straight And we’re on track to doing so. In the last twelve to the top. We’re the first multinational to have based an months we have been growing faster than any other Executive Committee member in Shanghai, mainland competitor, be it multinational or domestic. China. You mentioned sustainability as a trend. What makes China so essential to Clariant? What role does that play in China? It’s the largest single chemicals market in the world – Sustainability is a top priority in China’s current Fivetwice the size of the US or Europe. China is also by Year Plan. And rightfully so! People long to see blue far the fastest growing market. That makes for boundless skies again. They view pollution as a risk to their newly opportunities and I’m more than ever convinced the found prosperity. The Chinese government is fully future of Clariant will be decided in China. aware of this and takes measures unlike anything you see elsewhere. Imagine your local supplier being shut How has the experience affected you personally? down literally overnight for not complying with new I like to joke that China made me ten years younger. The regulations. Some of these regulations, by the way, speed and agility of doing business there, the pace at are even much stricter than in Europe. which you move and the way you use technology – it all »modernizes« you in a way that I really hadn’t expected. Tell us a bit about Clariant’s new governance model in China. Is it important for an executive to gain that It’s essentially about giving China a voice at the table kind of insight? whenever and wherever global business decisions are Let’s put it this way. I don’t need anybody to tell me anymade. Each of our seven Business Units is run by a thing about megatrends anymore. Clariant wants to global management team and the five most relevant ones tap into trends like urbanization, shifting demographics, in China have a member solely responsible for the mobility, and sustainability. But there’s only so much China business. That way, China is always on the global you can learn about these things from a cozy office in agenda. And we’ve gone one step further by establishing Switzerland. Living in Shanghai, I’ve experienced life in China as a sort of eighth Business Unit. Its head, our an exploding megacity of 24 million people first-hand – new regional president, Fu Cai Wang, reports directly to population density, traffic gridlock, the constant constructhe Executive Committee, just like the heads of all our tion work and pollution. But I’ve also witnessed the global Business Units, with whom he is on peer level. unique Chinese entrepreneurial spirit. Why did Clariant fill these new positions almost What’s different about Chinese entrepreneurs? exclusively with native Chinese? They’re eager and open to innovate in a way that you rarely It reduces cultural and language barriers, which is see in Western Europe. They’re optimistic. They’re crucial in China – no matter if you’re dealing with small ambitious, but also forgiving. Trying new things, failing, local heroes or multi-billion dollar companies. and then trying again tomorrow – that’s deeply embedded in their business culture. It’s also why I believe Was it hard finding the necessary talent? China should be our first market whenever we try to We looked for seasoned business experts who not only commercialize anything new. know the Chinese market very well but also have ample experience with multinationals. The fact that we won over almost everyone we reached out to tells us that our China story is very compelling and thus has attracted top talents to Clariant. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 29 How can we harness China’s potential? CHRISTIAN KOHLPAINTNER Member of the Executive Committee, Clariant 30 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — G R OWT H A N D PR O FI TA BILIT Y What drives business and innovation in China? EDWARD TSE CEO & Founder, Gao Feng Advisory Company C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 31 What chapters would you like to add to this book today? What’s special today is the fact that entrepreneurship is not just for the privileged. It has become the fabric of Chinese culture today. State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) still play an important role, but many young people have realized that starting a business or working for a start-up rather than an SOE is a path for them to get where they want to be. If I were to write a new book about Chinese innovation today, it would be about the new era we’re entering with technologies like artificial intelligence, the internet of things, blockchain technology, and 5G. Those will have a profound impact on China’s innovation and Edward, what’s the biggest misconception business. The Chinese entrepreneurs will be at the foreWestern companies have about China? front of that. It’s the presumption that China’s development will follow the path of the West, and that they can simply copy Are Western executives in China less open and paste their strategy and business model to China. to innovation? The typical Western stance is, »If this cookie-cutter Western executives are very keen – I would even say inapproach results in success, that’s great and we know what doctrinated – to base their strategy on the doctrine of we are doing! However, if it doesn’t, then the problem core competencies: »Focus on what you are good at and has got to be with China, and not our strategy«. don’t divert your attention to anything else«. What makes China so different? Why is that bad for innovation? It’s an ancient civilization going back 5 000 years, but its Because it limits what the company is willing to consider. modern business development is exceptionally young. Chinese entrepreneurs don’t necessarily have that Only since the reforms and opening of the late 1970s has ideological baggage. Many of them are happy to develop China started to reconnect with the rest of the world. multiple business ecosystems even if they don’t have That development is far from perfect, but it has lifted all the capabilities in place themselves. When they feel a 700 million people out of poverty. The China that you’re new opportunity is worth pursuing, often they would seeing now comes from a rather unique background and rather jump before anybody else does and then fill the makes for a very different context compared to that of capability gaps along the way. the West. Are the gold rush days over for Western Is the role of the government as big as we think? companies in China? Going from a Soviet-style planned economy to a market China continues to evolve and to open up. China today economy takes time, and China is not entirely there yet. is very different from China ten years ago, and it will But today, relative to the state sector, China’s private again look very different ten years from now. There is sector is by far the bigger job creator and contributor to major potential for more growth. But if you want to the country’s GDP. It’s also the primary source of busimake the most out of that, you need to put China at the ness innovation. The reemergence of the Chinese entrecore of your global strategy and organization, which preneurial spirit is probably the most profound develmeans making China a part of your corporate brain. opment in China’s recent history. Including the ability to evaluate opportunities and to ­design, innovate, and execute new ideas. It’s impossible It led you to write a book in 2015 about »China’s for a corporate headquarter that is thousands of miles Disruptors«. What contributed to their success? away to fully appreciate what’s going on on the ground What certainly helped was the size and growth of the in China. China market, which allowed for rapid scaling of their business models. The prevalence of digital technology, specifically the wireless internet through smart devices, was the critical enabler. 32 FOU NDATI ON — CO R PO R AT E G OV E R N A N C E Overview on Corporate Governance Clariant is committed to international compliance standards, ensuring 2. Organizational overview checks and balances between the Board and Management, as well as a Clariant is headquartered in Muttenz, Switzerland. sustainable approach to value creation. While Clariant reports in the four Business Areas Care Chemicals (Business Unit Industrial & Consumer 1. Principles of Corporate Governance Specialties), Catalysis (Business Unit Catalysts), Natural The Group commits to Swiss and international standards Resources (Business Unit Oil & Mining Services, Busiof corporate governance by following the respective ness Unit Functional Minerals), and Plastics & Coatings statutory provisions and the rules issued by the SIX Swiss (Business Unit Additives, Business Unit Masterbatches, Exchange, and by implementing the principles of the Business Unit Pigments), the seven Business Units are Swiss Code of Best Practices for Corporate Governance. the highest-level operating units within the Group. 001 CLARIANT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 Board of Directors Corporate Center Executive Committee Group Global Business Business Units Business Services Technology & Regions Services Innovation Group Finance Group IT Additives Masterbatches Europe North America Services Services Group Group HR Middle East & Catalysts Pigments Procurement Latin America Services Africa Services Group Group Sustain. & Functional Oil & Mining Communica­tion Reg. Affairs India Japan Minerals Services Services Services Industrial & Senior Mgmt. Group Legal Consumer Development South East Asia Greater China Services Specialties Services Group Excellence Services C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 33 Corporate Governance Report This short overview summarizes some aspects of corporate governance that are particularly relevant for integrated value creation at Clariant. For more detailed information, see the separate Corporate Governance Report on reports.clariant.com/2018/ corporategovernance 12 The Board of Directors is comprised of 12 members, of which three are women. The organizational structure  FIGURE 001 is further and economics, or law; three in chemistry; three in comprised of nine Business Services, Group Technology industrial engineering, production engineering, engineer& Innovation (GTI), Global Business Services, Regional ing management, mining and engineering, or engineerService Centers, and the Corporate Center, which ing and economic systems; and two in business adminiscentralizes key corporate functions. The Executive Comtration. With regard to age, one member of the Board mittee is responsible for the management of the Group. is 50 years or younger, two are 51 – 55 years, four are 56 – 60 years, two are 61 – 65 years, and three are 65 – 70 3. The Board of Directors years of age. Concerning the first year of election to The Board of Directors stands for election or re-election the Board, two Board members were first elected in 2008, for one-year terms. The Chairman of the Board of two in 2011, one in 2015, three in 2016, and four in 2018. Directors of Clariant Ltd, as well as the members of the Compensation Committee, are elected individually for 4. The Board of Directors’ responsibilities and a term of one year by the Annual General Meeting. committees The Board of Directors is the ultimate decision-making At the end of 2018, the Board of Directors of Clariant authority for Clariant Ltd in all matters except those Ltd was comprised of 12 members: Hariolf Kottmann decisions reserved by law or the Articles of Association (Chairman), Dr. Khaled Homza A. Nahas (Vice-Chairman), for the shareholders. The Board provides the strategic Abdullah Mohammed Alissa, Günter von Au, Calum direction for the Group and reviews and further develMacLean, Geoffery Merszei, Eveline Saupper, Carlo G. ops the company’s strategy annually during a two-day Soave, Peter Steiner, Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff, Board of Directors’ meeting. Susanne Wamsler, and Konstantin Winterstein. All members of the Board of Directors (except for Hariolf Further duties of the Board include establishing a man­Kottmann, who held the position of CEO until 15 October agement and corporate culture that is appropriate for 2018) are considered to be independent in accordance the company’s objectives and ensuring an internal control with international best-practice standards. system and adequate risk and compliance management, particularly regarding financial, corporate governance Of the nine male and three female members of the and citizenship, personnel, and environmental protecBoard of Directors, five have German citizenship, two tion matters. Saudi Arabian, two British, one Swiss, one Canadian, and one US citizenship. Concerning education, Board members hold PhDs or other degrees in the following fields: four in economics, political economy, languages 34 FOU NDATI ON — CO R PO R AT E G OV E R N A N C E ERNESTO OCCHIELLO HANS BOHNEN PATRICK JANY CHRISTIAN KOHLPAINTNER Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Member of the Executive Committee Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Member of the Executive Committee The members of the Board of Directors constitute the Committee, which was discontinued as of 1 January following committees: the Nomination Committee, 2019. Instead, reports on innovation performance will whose duties include drawing up principles for the selecbe directly presented to the Board of Directors on a tion of candidates for election and re-election to the regular basis. Board of Directors and the office of CEO, and preparing the corresponding recommendations; the Compensa5. Management of the Group tion Committee reviews and proposes to the Board of The Board of Directors has delegated the executive Directors Compensation and Benefits Policies and management of the Clariant Group to the CEO and the Programs, reviews performance criteria relevant to comother members of the Executive Committee. The mempensation and determines individual executive compenbers of the Executive Committee are appointed by the sation, and benefits and the compensation paid to the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Members of the Board of Directors, including the comNomination Committee. pensation of the Chairman and the CEO; the Audit Committee, whose duties include reviewing the activities At the end of 2018, the Executive Committee consisted of the external auditors, their collaboration with the of CEO Ernesto Occhiello, CFO Patrick Jany, Hans Bohnen, ­internal auditors, and their organizational adequacy; and, and Christian Kohlpaintner. until 31 December 2018, the Technology and Innovation C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 35 »The Board of Directors has reviewed the 2018 ­Integrated Report and proposes its a ­ pproval to the Annual General Meeting.« HARIOLF KOTTMANN Chairman of the Board of Directors Of the four male members of the Executive Committee, A consolidated risk assessment is submitted annually to three have German citizenship and one is an Italian the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, and Board ­citizen. Concerning education, Executive Committee of Directors for review. In the case of new or changed members hold PhDs or other degrees in the following risks, reporting is accelerated. To support functional fields: two in Chemistry, one in Business Administration, responsibility, certain functions have access to risk assessand one in Chemistry and Business Administration. ments to assist them in their roles. Examples of such With regard to age, one member of the Executive Comfunctions are Environmental Safety & Health Affairs mittee is 50 years or younger, two are 51 – 55 years, and (ESHA), to identify key sites for their property risk one is 56 – 60 years. The first year of membership in the survey program, Corporate Auditing, and Group ProExecutive Committee was 2006 for one member, 2009 curement. for another, and 2018 for two members. 7. Significant shareholdings and shareholders’ The Executive Committee is primarily responsible for participation rights implementing and monitoring the Group strategy, the At 31 December 2018, the following shareholders held financial and operational management of the Group, 3 % or more of voting rights in Clariant Ltd: SABIC and the efficiency of the Group’s structure and organiInternational Holdings B.V., 25.67 %, Blue Beteiligungszation. gesellschaft mbH, 3.49 %, APG Asset Management N.V., 5.01 %. 6. Enterprise risk management Under the Enterprise Risk Management Policy, based Subject to certain limitations on voting by nominees, on the standard of »The Institute of Risk Management«, each registered share entitles the holder to one vote at each year a tool is used to prepare risk assessments by the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders have the Business Units, Service Units, and Regions to assess threats right to receive dividends and such other rights as are that could impact the achievement of Clariant’s objecgranted by the Swiss Code of Obligations. However, tives. These objectives stem from the overall strategy of only shareholders entered in the Clariant share register the Group as set by the Board of Directors and implemay exercise their voting rights. mented by the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee is responsible for monitoring the risk assessShareholders representing shares with a total par value ments for relevance and consistency. of CHF 1 million have the right to submit written requests that an item be included on the agenda, at least 45 days prior to the 25th Annual General Meeting on 30 March 2020. 36 FOU NDATI ON — LE A D E R S H I P Empowerment through Leadership Strong leadership is at the core of Clariant’s high-performance culture. 2. People Excellence provides the basis for Through fair and authentic behavior, Clariant’s leaders underscore high-performance the value of trust and collaboration, creating a work environment that Clariant fosters a culture of learning and development motivates employees to continuously learn and achieve ambitious throughout the organization to ensure outstanding perpersonal and organizational goals. formance in times of fundamental change. In 2017, it developed the People Excellence Strategy Initiative, which 1. Evolving requirements for leadership was rolled out systematically in 2018 in all Business Fast-evolving markets, digitalization, and Clariant’s Units and will be cascaded down to the regional level in strategic redirection are among the biggest challenges 2019. Updated people strategies were defined in a for people working at Clariant. The effects of these ­process that involved the leadership teams in the global developments are manifold: skill requirements are rapidly units. First, the business landscape was analyzed and changing; agile project management is increasing major success factors for successful strategy execution uncertainty in daily working life; people are more geowere defined. Subsequently, key opportunities and graphically scattered and change jobs more frequently; ­challenges, as well as their root causes, were identified, and employees are increasingly seeking jobs with a allowing Clariant to derive improvement measures and purpose. define requirements for peoples’ capabilities, mindsets, and behaviors. Major strategic themes were thus transThese developments impact the ways people work together lated into organizational change and customized support and require adjusted forms of leadership. For example, measures, from recruiting to skills development. as employee location loses importance, remote leadership skills become more crucial; as digitalization The People Excellence Strategy Initiative has three main increases the availability of information, organizations components: it provides clarity on the major requiremust promote collaboration and skill-building. Above ments and development needs for Clariant’s leaders, all, change management skills and end-to-end thinking including communication skills and strategic thinking; are becoming a prerequisite for motivating and inspirit identifies solutions such as training programs and ing people in these transformative times. moderated workshops that address those systemic challenges and development needs; and lastly, it translates these solutions into concrete human resource measures, such as training in communication or recruitment ­strategy to target missing competencies. At Clariant, C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 37 strong leadership and sophisticated human resources 4. Strengthening Clariant’s position as a processes go hand in hand. Different human resource preferred employer functions thus play a key role in implementing the idenGiven the global hunt for talent and the rapidly evolving tified measures, which could be a new talent manageskill requirements driven primarily by globalization and ment initiative, an innovative recruitment campaign, or digitalization, retaining people is a business imperative. improvements to the performance management system. Employees are at the core of Clariant’s sustainable value creation and constitute the company’s most valuable 3. Promoting continuous development and asset. By providing challenging positions across functions, managing talent promoting the individual development of every Clariant pays close attention to continuous learning and employee, and showing appreciation for efforts made, development. This is not only crucial to stay competitive Clariant strengthens its position as a preferred in rapidly evolving markets, but also central to motivate employer. PAGE 139 and advance employees on their career path. Clariant focuses on developing the interpersonal and technical For Clariant, being a preferred employer means offering skills of all employees, regardless of their employment a healthy working environment that is fair and consist­ Pioneer Program level and experience. To ensure continuity and enhance ent, encourages learning and evolution, and promotes The Pioneer Program organizational knowledge, developing internal talent team collaboration. As a preferred employer, Clariant enhances organizational understanding as well and shaping new leaders is critical. In this regard, the encourages and values diversity of thinking and acting. as leadership and comglobal talent management program is a success story. By hiring and promoting people with different genders, munication skills of asThe program includes structured talent identification ages, cultural backgrounds, and career paths into key piring leaders by exposing them to short-term and review processes, diverse talent development positions, Clariant lays the foundation for addressing the assignments outside of measures, such as internal mentoring or the Pioneer key challenges created by globalization and digitalization. their area of responsiProgram, and career management. In 2018, Clariant bility. was able to fill 84 % of open management positions with internal candidates. PAGE 135 »We empower our employees by supporting their development and by encouraging them to take risks.« KLEMENTINA PEJIC Head of Group Human Resources 38 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — TA LE N T AT T R AC T I O N A N D DEVELO P MEN T Talent Attraction and Development What Helps People Reach Their Full Potential? In the digital age, work is evolving and so are the expectations of professionals. New tools and work environments, unconventional career paths, and different forms of leadership are taking hold. How Clariant adapts to these changes will shape its future and that of its employees. Klementina Pejic As Head of Group Human Resources at Clariant, Klementina wants to foster an inspiring work environment that lets people thrive and develop their individual talents. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 39 Anke Wolf As a Freelance Consultant for human resources, Anke helps companies adapt their culture to new ways of collaboration and leadership. 40 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — TA LE N T AT T R AC T I O N A N D DEVELO P MEN T Are you talking from personal experience? Absolutely! I was quite young when I joined Clariant in a global position. It was only my second job. But I walked into management committee meetings and spoke up about things I wanted to change, about new ideas I wanted to introduce. And of course I got a lot of pushback. For me, that wasn’t the end of the world though. What mattered was that the people in charge never stopped ­listening. So I would typically offer to do a pilot. If the results showed I was right, we could go for it! Klementina, you’ve been with Clariant for 15 years That surely took guts. now and recently took over as Head of Human Yes, you need courage to speak up, to challenge established Resources. What is your overall goal in this role? patterns, and to drive change. The overarching goal I’ve always worked for in any of my roles at Clariant is to contribute to a healthy organiHas that gotten easier over the past 15 years? zation, one that’s motivating and inspiring to people. I’m sure it has. All of us at Clariant have gone through many changes over those years, and we’ve come to learn What is a healthy environment to you? that change isn’t a bad thing. To me, it’s a work environment where people trust one another, where they can be authentic and open. And How does Clariant help people make their next that has a lot to do with principled leadership. career move? We closely follow people’s progress and assess their capaHow do you achieve that? bilities. And then we try and match those to what we Through many things. First and foremost, probably look for in a certain role. In 2018, we filled more than 84 % through consistency in terms of decisions and actions. of open management positions with internal talent. Also by involving people in the decision-making process in order to foster a sense of participation and Why is that important to you? fairness. It shows that we’re rewarding people based on merit rather than hiring leadership from outside. And we’re What makes that motivating and inspiring? developing the skills and people we need. People need to know that their leaders act with consis­ tency and congruency. Only a merit-based system Who benefits from such development tools? ensures fairness and a certain predictability. Employees We offer programs on every level – from blue-collar want to know what you expect from them and what workers to global managers and everyone in between. One they can expect in return. They must be able to particithing I strongly believe though is that you need to put pate and be part of the game. I believe we all want people in the driver’s seat. They have to be motivated to do something meaningful that makes a difference. and somewhat self-reliant when it comes to developing And we want to learn and grow. and building their career. How does Clariant empower people to grow? You don’t believe in nudging people? For one thing, by allowing them to not be perfect and to Not too much. People are motivated to different degrees. make mistakes. And by helping them learn from those They have different preferences and ambitions. I mistakes. Reliability and accountability are very impor­ encourage everyone to talk openly about career goals. tant to us as a company. That might make us more riskThose don’t have to be about climbing a corporate averse than others. But if you want people to come up ­ladder. Development can also mean taking on new and with new ideas and to collaborate, you need to encourinteresting project work or new functional experiences. age some form of risk-taking. And you need employees who are both willing to take those risks and able to endure some pushback. Not everything you come up with is going to be brilliant right away. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 41 How do we inspire people to reach their goals? KLEMENTINA PEJIC Head of Group Human Resources, Clariant 42 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — TA LE N T AT T R AC T I O N A N D DEVELO P MEN T How are careers and leadership evolving? ANKE WOLF Freelance Consultant Human Resources C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 43 Anke, you advise big companies in matters of ­talent management, leadership, and digital transformation. How do these things go together? Digital transformation stands for a lot more than just clever ways of using and connecting data. It changes the way people work and how they collaborate. So immediately, we’re talking about new skill sets, new forms of leadership, and a different type of organization altogether. What’s so different about this new work environment? It gives us more flexibility, more transparency, and new ways of collaborating. But it also brings with it a certain degree of complexity and uncertainty. Take agile project management. It used to be that you’d run a development project for, say, three years and knew more or less especially want to work in an environment that embraces exactly what your team had to deliver. Today’s approach the digital technologies they’ve grown up with. Underis radically different. It has to be, because innovation standably so! Everything from Google to Amazon to cycles are so much shorter. Projects are typically meas­ Snapchat has taught them that information is always ured in months not years with decision points every available and mostly free, that feedback is immediate other week. We focus on a specific problem our customand personal. It’s hard to allow it to be any different in ers may have, narrow it down step by step, and then, the workplace. very gradually, circle in on a possible solution. Upfront, neither the customer nor we will know what that soluHow is leadership changing? tion might look like. That’s a lot harder to manage. You There may have been a time when you could expect your need people who can handle this uncertainty and a boss to know everything there was to know about your ­culture that lets them thrive. business. Those times are long gone. Today, leadership is about connecting the right experts. It’s about asking Where do you find these people? the right questions and letting people come up with First and foremost, companies will have to find them in creative answers. their current workforce. You don’t necessarily need new talent. What will careers look like in the future? Job tenure is shorter today and employees are more flexHow are employees’ expectations changing? ible. That doesn’t mean that professionals don’t want Probably the biggest change is that their expectations to see a clear career path or opportunities to grow. Howare more specific these days. That still catches some ever, they might not be swayed as much by job titles or recruiters off-guard. Especially since the discussions power. Fulfilling careers may involve ever more interestgo well beyond salary. Applicants today are more ing or ambitious projects, more responsibility, more enticed by a package that may involve things like flexible ­creative freedom. So we should reconsider how we working hours, training, and so on to fit their per­ approach talent management. sonal needs and ambitions. And then there are many other things applicants want to talk to you about. How so? They look for a sense of purpose and they’re interested Rather than nominating a pool of outperforming in what your company contributes to society, its ecoemployees that we then groom to take on leadership logical impact, and how it treats people. Millennials positions, we may want to develop individual talents and skills within all of our employees. Especially if leadership becomes less of a measure of career advancement. And if collaboration is key, you have to take a hard look at the incentives you’re giving. For instance, do individual objectives and bonuses really compel people to collaborate and share knowledge freely? 44 FOU NDATI ON — CO M PE N SAT I O N PO LI CY Overview on the Compensation Policy Clariant’s compensation philosophy supports its ambition to be marking studies to ensure compensation levels are an employer of choice. It is designed to attract, motivate, adequate and in line with market practices. With a focus and retain committed employees. on compliance, Clariant’s compensation practices always follow local regulations, such as laws and collec1. Board oversight on compensation tive union agreements. Compensation guidelines and The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors work instructions are in place to ensure consistently fair Remuneration establishes principles for the compensation of members of treatment of employees working for Clariant. In regard Components the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, and to performance-based pay, Clariant’s remuneration eleClariant considers submits these to the Board of Directors for approval. The ments incentivize business and individual performance. six remuneration Committee also takes note of employment contracts for ­Furthermore, remuneration elements must be clear and components: —B  usiness strategy the Heads of Global Functions, Global Business Units, and transparent in order to be understood and appreciated. — Competitiveness Region Heads, including their respective compensation. — Compliance The structure of total remuneration is highly performance— Internal fairness — Performance-based 2. Compensation concept and success-oriented to ensure that shareholder and pay To attract, motivate, and retain qualified and committed management interests are aligned. — Transparency employees throughout the world, Clariant’s compensation policy is based on the following main principles: While long-term and short-term incentives are based on Group Performance only, individual performance – Remuneration components are aligned with the ­measured through a consistent, Global Performance ManClariant Business Strategy and designed to support it. agement system – is a determining factor in career To be competitive, Clariant conducts regular bench­development and annual salary reviews. Within the Global Performance Management System, each manager’s or 001 CLARIANT INCENTIVE SCHEME LANDSCAPE employee’s performance is assessed and discussed on a yearly basis. This process includes regular 360-degree Short-Term Incentives Long-Term Incentives feedback for all management levels. Group Management Bonus Plan Performance Share EC Unit (PSU) Plan 108 Positions ¹ GSM-LTIP ML ² 1 – 3 144 Positions ¹ ML ² 4 652 Positions ¹ ML ² 5 Global Sales Incentive Plan Group Employee Bonus Plan Local Managers, Professionals, Employees 16 997 Positions ¹ 1 Number of positions as at 31 December 2018 2 ML: Management Level C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 45 3. Linking compensation to sustainable Global Sales Incentive Plan incentivizes premier sales value creation performance and growth by focusing on the individual Short-term incentive plans (cash bonus) include the sales performance in the areas of sales, margin, and Group Management Bonus Plan, the Group Employee trade receivables. Bonus Plan, and the Global Sales Incentive Plan. LongTerm Incentive Plans offer equity-based compensation Participation in the Performance Share Unit (PSU) Plan for approximately 250 senior managers worldwide is limited to the Executive Committee and selected (Executive Committee and Management Level 1 – 4). senior managers of Management Level 1 – 4, i.e., approxi­ FIGURE 001 mately 1.4 % of the workforce. The vesting is conditional on the achievement of the performance target (after three The Group Management Bonus Plan is anchored in the years). The relevant underlying key performance indioverall Performance Cycle at Clariant, which ensures a cator is EBITDA (before exceptional items) in percentage challenging business-specific target agreement for each of sales and the performance target to be at or above Business Unit and Service Unit (BU/SU). The individual the median of a defined peer group. amount of each bonus payment generated in a year is determined by the achieved result of the Clariant Group The Compensation Committee has decided to amend measured against clear objectives. The achievement is the PSU Plan for senior management starting in 2019 to calculated based on three elements: more closely align key performance indicators relevant 1. financial result of the Group; for PSU vesting with the market perspective, and to pre­ 2. financial results of Business and Service Units; and sent an attractive and competitive incentive for senior 3. defined top priorities (Group Performance Indicators management. In addition, the committee has decided to and strategic projects). discontinue another element of long-term incentives, Compensation Report the Matching Share Plan, and integrate its volume into This short overview In addition to financial indicators, the Group Performance the new PSU Plan. summarizes some aspects of compensation Indicators include, for example, inventory excellence, that are particularly Clariant Excellence (CLNX) benefits, innovation sales, 4. Compensation of members of the relevant for integrated and Occupational Health and Safety (Lost Time Accident Executive Committee value creation at Clariant. For more detailed Rate). The Executive Committee participates in the same ­information, see the sepacompensation elements as Clariant’s senior managers, rate Compensation The Group Employee Bonus Plan is an aligned and stan­ receiving a fixed annual base salary, an annual cash ­Report on reports.clariant.com/ dardized bonus plan for non-management levels for all bonus, and long-term incentives. The annual bonus is 2018/compensation legal entities around the world that apply (where legally based on achieved results for the particular financial compliant and possible) the global Group Achievement year, according to the criteria mentioned above with or a combination of Group results and local Top Priorities respect to the Group Management Bonus Plan. as the basis for bonus payouts. For the sales force, the REMUNERATION STRUCTURE OF THE CLARIANT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 in CHF CEO Compensation EC Compensation 2018 2 2017 2018 2017 Total target 3 900 000 4 560 000 2 250 000 2 400 000 Performance Share Unit 3 500 000 500 000 350 000 350 000 Matching Shares 4 – 460 000 – 200 000 Target Cash Bonus, thereof Investment Share 5 2 200 000 2 300 000 1 000 000 1 000 000 (20 % Invest) (–) (460 000) (–) (200 000) Base salary 1 200 000 1 300 000 900 000 850 000 1 Without other benefits 2 New 2018 annual CEO remuneration structure for Ernesto Occhiello; annual total target remuneration for Hariolf Kottmann would have been 4 175 000 CHF 3 3 years vesting period with defined performance hurdle (Value at Grant) 4 2017: 1:1 Match of Investment Shares after 3 years vesting period (Value at Grant); 2018: no grant due to planned change in Long-Term Incentive Plan 5 2017: Investment of 20 % from Actual Cash Bonus into 3 years blocked shares (Value at Grant); 2018: no deduction for Investment Shares due to planned change in Long-Term Incentive Plan 46 FOU NDATI ON — VA LUE C R E AT I O N Core Processes for Value Creation The three value creation phases »Idea to Market«, »Market to Customer«, IDEA TO MARKET and »Customer to Cash« represent key processes at the core of Clariant’s business model. Underpinned by Clariant’s Innovation Excel1. Idea to Market lence, Commercial Excellence, and Operational Excellence initiatives, Translating unmet customer needs into market-ready the company’s business activities are aligned with these three phases solutions requires a strong focus on innovation and to turn customer needs into innovative and sustainable solutions that technology. With its extensive Research & Development create value for all stakeholders. resources and its commitment to breaking new ground beyond its core business, Clariant is wellThe Idea to Market phase encompasses scouting global equipped to tackle emerging trends and stay ahead of trends and ideas, scoping business opportunities and competition. exploring unmet customer needs, executing product development, and commercializing and monitoring 1.1. Addressing global trends and harnessing product performance. This phase is aimed at developing the potential of digitalization a product and service pipeline that is well-filled and Societal needs and the regulatory environment are delivers marketable innovations. evolving quickly, creating new challenges and opportunities for the chemical industry. Sustainability The Market to Customer phase includes identifying ­dominated the innovation agenda in 2018, fueled not market attractiveness, developing and articulating clear only by stricter regulatory requirements but also value propositions, and capturing the value created ­consumers’ increasing ecological sensitivity, which has through relationship-building and sales process. To reach a particularly strong effect on Clariant’s consumer a seamless customer experience, these steps are goods business. PAGE 122 well-connected and centered around customer needs. The current trend toward a circular economy requires The Customer to Cash phase encompasses balancing chemical companies to create products that are demand and supply, optimizing sourcing for spend ­recyclable or support recycling objectives. Clariant has effectiveness, monitoring production for high efficiency, responded by helping brand owners increase recyand delivering finished goods on time and in full to clability of their products, especially relating to plastic customers in order to achieve safe, reliable, and efficient waste. In addition, Clariant is evaluating how differoperations that support profitable growth. ent raw material qualities impact the characteristics of products, and how production processes can be adapted to fluctuations in energy availability. PAGE 116 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 47 »The Innovation Committee will create strong and colla­borative ownership to deliver innovation across the organization. This will enable Clariant to leverage its technical and commercial capabilities to their full extent and create room for strategic innovation, resulting in breakthrough solutions and cross-business innovations.« MARTIN VOLLMER Chief Technology Officer and Head of Group Technology & Innovation Generating, analyzing, and utilizing data, and then 1.3. Building on a strong innovation network combining it with chemical know-how to generate Clariant’s elaborate Research & Development added value, is critical in the digital age. Approaches ­network comprises eight Research & Development such as High Throughput Experimentation (HTE) Centers, more than 50 technical centers, and over accelerate innovation, enabling Clariant to synthesize 1 100 employees. Research & Development activities a vast variety of new molecules and test large numare bundled in the department Group Technology bers of formulations in parallel, thus discovering and and Innovation (GTI) and structured along four techdelivering value-adding solutions to its customers nology platforms: Chemistry & Materials, Biotech­ at an unprecedented speed. By developing new data-­ nology, Catalysis, and Process Technology. GTI coldriven business models, some of Clariant’s Business laborates closely with the Business Units to ensure Units look into becoming fully integrated solution prothat technology push and market pull go hand in hand. viders. PAGE 120 FIGURE 001 1.2. Providing a comprehensive toolbox to drive This setup is complemented by New Business Develinnovation opment PAGE 56 , which explores business opportuClariant Innovation Excellence (CIX) supports the nities beyond the current scope of Clariant’s Business company’s profitable growth strategy by ensuring that Units with sustainability aspects being an essential innovation portfolios are stringently steered and driver, Group Engineering, which is responsible for projects are managed according to the Clariant Idea-tomanagement and execution of capital investment projMarket process. This iterative process allows project ects, and Group Intellectual Property Management, teams to discover attractive business opportunities and which secures the generated value through intellectual translate global trends and unmet customer needs property protection. Innovation Project into compelling value propositions. By systematically Classes scouting emerging trends and ideas, scoping out cusIn 2018, Clariant adjusted its innovation governance to Class 1 projects have an estimated annual martomer needs, evaluating sustainability opportunities, enhance innovation management and further increase ket value of CHF 10 milexecuting product development, and commercializing the innovation rate and profitability. As of January lion or more and are products with agility and speed, project teams are 2019, the newly established Innovation Committee, managed by 18 fully dedicated Innovation able to launch differentiated innovations and decrease chaired by the Chief Technology Officer, will review Black Belts. Class 2 and time to market. To ensure the quality of new products and shape Clariant’s innovation strategy, maximizing Class 3 projects are led and solutions, the stage-gate process scrutinizes the value and delivery of the innovation pipeline. by over 270 Innovation Green Belts or trained innovation projects at each gate according to five ­Further, the Innovation Committee will play an active Class 3 project leaders. dimensions of attractiveness and feasibility. This allows role in driving cross-business and open innovation, Clariant to drive innovations from ideation to busiin securing public funding, and forging win-win colness opportunity, and efficiently execute more than 375 laborations with academia and industry peers to fosinnovation projects (Class 1 and Class 2) in 2018. ter Clariant’s position as a leader in innovation. It will 48 FOU NDATI ON — VA LUE C R E AT I O N also steer innovation talent development programs discovery and early incubation stages by applying agile to attract and develop talents and to foster expert as design thinking and lean start-up methodologies, well as cross-functional and general management yielding validated new business and technology concareer paths. cepts for identified, attractive opportunities. PAGE 57, PAGE 116 1.4. Fostering incremental and disruptive innovation through collaboration The Lab Excellence (LabX) program was initiated Clariant has several initiatives to strengthen collaboin 2017 to increase the speed and impact of innovation. ration across functions and businesses, as well as with The goal of the initiative is to streamline workflows external partners. The Open Innovation initiative, within and across laboratories to gain efficiency in managed by New Business Development, identifies order to transform the entire R&D system into a lean collaboration partners ranging from large corporaorganization, increase the quality of the research, tions to start-ups, universities, and other research instiand reduce time to market. In 2019 and beyond, the tutions. In 2018, it launched the program »Chinese identified measures from the first pilot projects will Innovation for China Market«, which encourages be rolled out within Clariant’s R&D community and Clariant’s Business Units in China to explore technol­ the initiative will be expanded throughout the organiogies that help meet local market needs. PAGE 116 zation to strengthen the lean innovation culture and the consequent innovation performance management. In 2018, Clariant also launched new formats to Moreover, the implementation of an Electronic capitalize on the innovation potential within its workLab Notebook across the company will significantly force. For example, iEngine (Innovation Engine) enhance efficiency by digitizing work flows. crowdsources expertise across the firm to tackle key PAGE 116 challenges within adjacent applications. Clariant also started the iGarage (Innovation Garage), a platform to develop strategic innovation opportunities at the 001 CLARIANT INNOVATION CHAIN Technology Platforms Market & Customers Performance Chemistry & Materials People Biotechnology Business Areas Planet Catalysis are influenced by Process Technology New Business solutions Development Group Engineering designs and constructs production plants Support to the Technology Platforms, New Business Development and to technology push Intellectual Property Management Business Areas. manages patents and trademarks market pull 24 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 49 In 2018, 24 products were awarded the EcoTain® label. MARKET TO CUSTOMER needs and stay competitive. Clariant addresses these challenges by leveraging digitalization capabilities in 2. Market to Customer operations and innovative services to improve proUnderstanding customer needs along the entire value duction efficiency and customer service. PAGE 51 chain, developing solutions to address those needs, and capturing the value created for profitable growth In 2016, Clariant launched Digital4Clariant, a dedicated are fundamental to Clariant’s success. Clariant cross-functional digital program to integrate opportufocuses on building customer relationships and increasnities presented by digitalization. By developing digiing its marketing and sales capabilities in order to tal business models, Clariant explores new ways to achieve these goals. spur growth, easily adjusts how it interacts with customers, and thereby meets customers’ ever-changing 2.1. Responding to market developments and needs. Customers increasingly prefer self-service evolving customer needs when searching for an ingredient for their formulaDue to overcapacity in Asian markets in recent years, tions. By offering comprehensive commercial and competitive and pricing pressure has developed in technical information about products and services the specialty chemicals industry. In 2018, the market digitally, for example through the new platform situation began to improve in China when older and Chemberry™, customers are more informed and can less environmentally friendly chemical production make quicker decisions when they speak with sales plants were shut down due to the enforcement of professionals. PAGE 120, PAGE 128 regulations. 2.2. Enabling active and consistent Also in 2018, customer demand for sustainable prodcustomer engagement ucts and solutions further increased. To meet this Looking through a »customer lens« allows Clariant to demand, Clariant is continuously bringing forward soluunderstand changing product and service needs, as tions that are more sustainable while not compromiswell as discern how the customer perceives the coming on performance and particular customer needs. pany. Clariant manifests its customer-centricity Using 36 sustainability criteria to screen products through the Commercial Excellence Initiative estabacross their entire life cycle, as part of its Portfolio Value lished in 2011, which underlines its commitment to Program (PVP), Clariant awarded 24 new products facilitating dialog with customers, partners, and prosthe EcoTain® label in 2018, given their outstanding pects to evaluate and improve commercial strategies, sustainability profile. PAGE 98, PAGE 122 customer engagement, and sales and marketing opera­ tions. In 2018, Commercial Excellence continued The continuing commoditization trend in the chemical to implement the Marketing Excellence Find & Win markets has required Clariant to increasingly provide process in order to increase sales in select market seginnovative products and services and maintain cost-­ ments. Find & Win maps a market’s value chain and efficient operations in order to meet customer-specific 50 FOU NDATI ON — VA LUE C R E AT I O N customer needs by interviewing customers and indus2.3. Developing compelling value propositions try experts, allowing Clariant to develop tailored The volatility of raw material prices over the last sevvalue propositions and go-to-market strategies to eral years has created pressure on the profit margins achieve targeted profitable growth rates. of Clariant’s Business Units, requiring close monitoring of costs and supply chain competitiveness while As part of all Commercial Excellence marketing and also staying focused on sales growth. Since the instistrategy projects, Clariant conducted 538 customer tution of the Pricing Excellence initiative in 2017, interviews and 150 interviews with industry experts Clariant has used Value Stream Design to analyze the in 2018. Driven by the new roles filled as part of the transactional pricing process and has drafted a roadLeading Marketing Organization, over half of the intermap of improvements to create a transparent, fast, views were conducted by the Marketing & Sales and effective way of pricing execution in the market. Departments of the Business Units. In addition, cusClariant is now developing a tool that transparently tomers completed scorecards to evaluate Clariant’s shows how the forecasted price changes of basic raw performance compared to its competitors’ product materials impact the costs and margins of finished and service offerings. The resulting insights provide goods, which helps determine where and when pricdirection for Clariant’s commercial and innovation ing actions are required to maintain value creation. pursuits. In 2018, Clariant initiated holistic pricing projects that To leverage customer feedback, Clariant conducts analyze a portfolio of products and services to deterbiennial customer satisfaction surveys, which provide mine whether value-based or transactional pricing is insights into how Clariant’s operational, commercial, better suited to maximize value in the long run. If the and innovation performance is perceived. In 2018, product or service offering is identified as adding customers of all Business Units in all regions were surmore value than the next best alternative, Clariant uses veyed. The results show that more than three-quarvalue-based pricing. If a product or service offering ters of the survey participants considered Clariant a is found to be nearly equivalent to the competitive offerreliable business partner and solution provider. Overing, transactional pricing is employed. In 2018, all customer satisfaction and loyalty remained stable Clariant also revisited the models that govern service at a high level. »Products and Packaging«, which offerings to support the focus on value-based selling. showed improved satisfaction and competitive perforAdditionally, it plans to further incorporate customer mance compared to 2016, was ranked as one of the needs into the definition of customer segments to most important buying criteria, along with »Technical refine value propositions and focus marketing and Service«. Sustainability, a new assessment criterion, sales activities. also showed a strong competitive performance and was rated as important for their operations and/or Clariant’s strategic marketing experts work with the markets by 92 % of the survey respondents. PAGE 143 Sales and Innovation teams to develop solutions that create value for both the customer and Clariant. By carving out the savings or revenue upside in terms of total costs of ownership at a mutually beneficial price 2.9 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 51 Clariant’s spend on raw materials amounted to CHF 2.9 billion. point, Clariant’s commercial organization transforms 3.1. Agility is key value created for customers into profitable growth. As customers across all markets are becoming more Clariant’s value calculators are a helpful tool to demonagile, they expect the same from Clariant. While long strate a product’s value to customers, as they quantify lead times for high product volumes were the norm and visualize the financial benefits of using Clariant’s in the past, short lead times and small volumes are now products as compared to the next best competing more typical. This is particularly pronounced in Asia, alternative. where production time is often more decisive than price, requiring Clariant to enhance its focus on optimizing 2.4. Establishing Leading Marketing Organization lead times. For example, in one of the Shanghai producIn 2017, Clariant launched Leading Marketing Organition facilities for Business Unit Masterbatches, lead zation, an initiative that further integrates marketing times in 2018 decreased from about two weeks to five within the Business Units. In 2018, all key positions days, with a future goal of only three days. This of the redefined marketing organizations were filled was achieved by implementing a value stream design and a training program that reinforces marketing skills approach developed in Kaizen workshops. Although was piloted. A »Marketing Essentials« training Clariant’s products are well-known for their high qual­program was successfully launched and an advanced ity, the company is striving to also be known as a fast, strategic marketing training program is being develreliable supplier. oped and will launch in 2019. Clariant also established a Marketing Advisory Board for the Marketing Heads 3.2. Optimizing procurement and delivery of each Business Unit and Commercial Excellence to with digitalization share best practices and drive further development Digitalization offers many new opportunities, and of marketing processes, tools, and capabilities. Clariant is in a leading position to seize them. Clariant aims to further integrate the operational with the CUSTOMER TO CASH commercial value chain to make comprehensive information more accessible to all departments. By con3. Customer to Cash necting all steps from planning to delivery, Clariant will With its holistic, cross-functional approach, Clariant be able to integrate sales volumes in production continually optimizes planning, procurement, producplanning in realtime and quickly react to changes in tion, and delivery. By balancing supply and demand, customer requirements. With a smartphone app, sales Operational Excellence improves product availability, representatives will obtain immediate information supplier cost, and risk. This results in ever-shorter about raw material availability and production capacity, lead times and increased On-Time, In-Full deliveries, allowing them to inform customers about delivery enhancing both customer satisfaction and Clariant’s dates within minutes. profitability. 52 FOU NDATI ON — VA LUE C R E AT I O N 0.15 The Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) decreased to 0.15 days lost per 200 000 hours of work. Digitalization is also influencing Clariant’s procurement. 3.4. Steady advance of the Integrated Planning Opportunities to purchase raw materials via electronic Landscape interfaces such as e-auctions are constantly growing, The Integrated Planning Landscape (IPL), launched speeding up purchasing and enabling instant cost in 2015, enhances organization, aligns best-practice comparisons between various suppliers. In addition, planning, and optimizes capabilities and IT tools. One artificial intelligence applied in production will key element is the Inventory Health Check, which ­identify machine outages, allowing for predictive maincontinuously improves inventory performance by tenance and impeding production bottlenecks. determining optimum levels, defining targets, and optimizing cash flow based on market research and 3.3. Continuous cost saving and risk reduction data analysis. Inventory Health Checks are now As a global player with a comprehensive product ­regularly applied across all Business Units. In 2017, portfolio, Clariant is embedded in an extensive supply Clariant began rolling out the Manufacturing chain. In 2018, approximately 7 000 vendors deliv­Execution System (MES), a powerful tool used in proered raw materials worth CHF 2.9 billion to Clariant, duction. It provides a real-time view of the producand Clariant purchased about CHF 1.3 billion of other tion status and online information that is essential for products and services from roughly another 27 000 continuous improvement. By the end of 2018, 50 suppliers. Careful procurement is therefore vital in plants with about 20 % of total production volume overall cost savings. In 2018, Clariant achieved savwere integrated. ings greater than the cost of inflation thanks in large part to Clariant Procurement Excellence (CPX). In addition, Clariant Production System methods (CPS) CPX takes a broad perspective on procurement to profit employ lean methodologies within the Customer-to-­ from countries with favorable sourcing conditions Cash Process, such as door-to-door material and inforand bundles purchasing power, reducing supply risks mation flows along value chains of shared facilities. and costs as well as improving free cash flow. This fosters collaboration between Business Units and is a key lever for increased productivity. Overall, IPL Clariant also continued de-specification in 2018. By contributes substantially to On-Time, In-Full (OTIF) widening specifications and available sources, the orders, ensuring profitable operations. company reduced supply chain complexity and broadened the supplier base, leading to lower purchasing 3.5. Toward integrated value chains prices, a minimized need for high safety stocks, and In 2018, Clariant thoroughly assessed all its supply more efficient inventories. A thorough analysis of chains to establish high-performing supply chain manClariant’s supply chain led to the implementation of a agement across all Business Units and regions. The customized tool that improved estimations of upcomassessment was used to prioritize gaps to close and ing efforts and trainings. This helped optimize external develop detailed roadmaps that will help different contractor management, which further reduced costs Business Units attain cross-functional processes and in 2018. end-to-end effectiveness. These new priorities will lead to optimized costs, inventories, and on-time deliveries. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 53 3.6. Operational efficiency through sustainability 3.7. Safe and healthy operations Sustainability topics are gaining in importance, not Running a safe operational chain is not only a stipulation only for Clariant’s customers but also for its operaof a responsible employer, it also minimizes disruptions. CPS embraces sustainable production as a tions in production. Clariant’s ambitious health and driver for cost savings by optimizing chemical yield safety target of zero accidents reflects both of these and reducing emissions, while simultaneously saving factors. In 2018, Safety Moments – brief documents energy. The Production System Yield, Energy, Environcontaining safety messages – were rolled out interment (YEE) contributes to these efforts, as does the nally and used at the beginning of meetings to raise eWATCH™ program. Within YEE, specific production safety awareness. Safety Moments helped slightly processes or production units are analyzed to gain a decrease the lost time accident rate (LTAR) from comprehensive picture of energy optimization, while 0.2 to 0.15 days lost per 200 000 hours of work in eWATCH™ identifies savings potential by carefully 2018. PAGE 140 analyzing energy consumption across Clariant’s entire operations. PAGE 160 »With Operational Excellence, we aim to achieve world-class performance in supply chain, procurement and production for all our operations.« AXEL SCHOENFELD Head of Operational Excellence 54 B U S I NESS AR EAS Value Creation in the Four Business Areas »Value Creation in the Four Business Areas« outlines how each Business Area contributes to Clariant’s overall growth and profitability. To contribute to value creation, the Business Areas transform key societal trends, market drivers, and ­stakeholder needs into valuable products and solutions. They succeed in the market by relying on Clariant’s three value creation phases: »Idea to Market«, »Market to Customer«, and »Customer to Cash«. U N DATION – 056 How Care Chemicals Creates Value 062 Two Perspectives: Where Can We Help Accelerate Innovation? 068 How Catalysis Creates Value 074 Two Perspectives: When Can We Advance the Shift to Renewable Energy? 080 How Natural Resources Creates Value 086 Two Perspectives: Where Can We Improve Safety Even Further? 092 How Plastics & Coatings Creates Value 098 Two Perspectives: Why Does It Pay to Focus on Sustainability? C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 55 With a vast product portfolio and countless applications, Clariant’s Business Areas serve multiple industries and continuously translate customer needs into innovative and sustainable solutions. In 2018, the overall economic conditions led to increased Business Area Care Chemicals sales throughout Clariant’s Business Areas. In addition, comprises the Business Unit Industrial & Consumer increased environmental awareness in the markets preSpecialties (ICS) and New Business Development sented business opportunities that fueled growth. (NBD). It focuses on attractive, high-margin, and low-­ cyclicality segments. Care Chemicals follows lifeThe Business Areas accelerated their innovation prostyle-driven megatrends and strengthens Clariant’s cesses, for example, by applying High Throughput position as a supplier of sustainable products. Experimentation. Strategic partnerships led to innovation breakthroughs, such as the development of a liquid Business Area Catalysis organic hydrogen carrier. comprises the Business Unit Catalysts and the Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives. It develops, manufactures, Implementation of the Leading Marketing Organization and sells a wide range of catalysts for the chemical and initiative in the Business Areas strengthened marketing fuel industries, which contribute significantly to value capabilities, helped better identify customer insights creation in customers’ operations, ensuring finite raw along value chains, and refined customer segmentation. materials and energy are used efficiently. In addition, Catalysis is at the forefront of developments for bio-­ In order to guarantee shorter lead times, the Business ethanol. Areas adapted production processes and implemented smart delivery systems. Multiple supplier strategies and Business Area Natural Resources increasing de-specification secured availability of raw comprises the Business Units Oil & Mining Services and materials. By increasing the share of direct spend on Functional Minerals. It is characterized by high growth suppliers covered by sustainability assessments, the as well as a strong megatrend orientation. Main drivers Business Areas solidified their reputations as sustainare the rising demand for high value-added specialty ability leaders. chemicals used in the oil, mining, food, and packaging industries and the increased consumption of oil, gas, and base metals driven by fast-growing economies. Business Area Plastics & Coatings comprises the Business Units Additives, Pigments, and Masterbatches. The Business Area is typically subject to GDP growth and economic cycles due to its highly diversified end applications. Main drivers are the increasing use of plastic applications, as well as the growing demand for more sustainable coating solutions. 56 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C A R E C H E M I C A LS How Care Chemicals Creates Value The Business Area Care Chemicals, comprised of Industrial & Con­sumer tions, and new brands in the North American market Specialties (ICS) and New Business Development (NBD), concentrates are spurring growth in eco-friendly and responsibly on markets with high margins and low cyclicality. By responding to consourced products. sumer-driven trends, generating cutting-edge innovation, and operating agile, integrated value chains, Care Chemicals has created a foundation In the home care market, Clariant offers a comprehenfor success in highly dynamic markets. sive portfolio of highly concentrated and easy-to-handle solutions that address new customer needs, such as 1. Responding agilely to market developments quick-drying formulations. With stringent regulations in each business for sustainability driving the industry toward ingrediAs overall economic conditions improve, and the megaents that perform well at low temperature and low trends of convenience, well-being, sustainability, and water consumption, Clariant constantly scouts new urbanization continue to drive demand, Care Chemicals ingredients in order to benefit from first-mover advanhas risen to the challenge with its high-performing, tages. sustainable products. Clariant’s paints and coatings business achieved market In the personal care market, Asia is a center of gravity growth of more than 5 % in 2018. With an extensive as new regulatory requirements are generating opportuportfolio of neutralizing additives, watering and dispersnities for developing market-specific molecules, while ing agents, and emulsifiers, Clariant capitalizes on the Latin America continues to set the trends in hair care and demand for more ecological and less harmful ingredicosmetics. In Europe, the new ISO standard 16128-1 for ents in waterborne paints, which represent more than organic products provides further pull for natural solu80 % of the architectural coatings market. 001 CARE CHEMICALS OVERVIEW The Business Area Care Chemicals is comprised of Industrial & Consumer Business Development (NBD), which scouts and develops solutions Specialties (ICS), which serves customers in the personal care, with high growth potential for all Business Areas. home care, paints and coatings, and crop solutions markets, and New APPLICATIONS Industrial & Consumer Specialties New Business Development — Automotive fluids — Industrial and home care —F ood ingredients —3D printing materials — Aviation — Industrial lubricants — Silver-based inks for the — Encapsulation technology — Construction — Paints and coatings electronic and graphic — Crop solutions — Personal care industries — Gas treatment — Special solvents — Heat transfer fluids 30 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 57 By 2025 Care Chemicals aims to increase the use of renewable raw materials by 30 %. While the crop solutions business has been affected by To minimize products’ ecological impacts during proshrinking farm incomes, new regulations and increasing duction and use, Clariant is improving the traceability demand for bio-based solutions are disrupting the crop of raw materials so customers can distinguish a susmarket. In Europe, the ban on additives for agrochemitainably produced ingredient from a chemically idencals and the discontinuation of endocrine disruptors has tical product. New Business Development addresses unlocked opportunities for substitute products. With this challenge by scouting partnerships with compaits previous investment in a modern crop greenhouse, nies offering suitable technologies. For example, a Clariant is now in a leadership position to benefit from minority stake in Haelixa, a spin-off from the Swiss the continuing global trend toward bio-based pesticides, Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, was acquired. foliar fertilizers, and plant growth regulators. Haelixa provides expertise in a unique tagging and tracing technology based on encapsulated DNA. This IDEA TO MARKET technology may be applied to ensure product authenticity in the value chain and is evaluated for several 2. Innovating ahead of the curve fields of application with the support of New Business Creating disruptive innovation requires a diversified Development. Areas of focus for future innovation toolset. In 2018, Care Chemicals broke new ground by activities include recycling plastic waste for chemical piloting the Innovation Garage. PAGE 116 The iGarage building blocks and developing biodegradable polycombines aspects of agile innovation and design mers to address the microplastic problem. thinking by bringing together various parties (e.g., detergent customers, washing machine manufacturers, Care Chemicals is striving to create a portfolio based and academic researchers) to enhance Clariant’s underon renewable resources coming from agricultural standing of different needs along the value chain. waste streams, which do not compete with food proSuch collaborations help formalize product and service duction. By 2025, Care Chemicals aims to increase offerings for the benefit of all parties in the value the use of renewable raw materials by 30 % and chain. achieve an innovation pipeline that is entirely based on renewable feedstocks. Regarding the use of palm To keep up with increasing requirements for agility oil, Industrial & Consumer Specialties already offers and speed, Care Chemicals is also exploiting the posalmost all personal and home care products in RSPO sibilities of digitalization. By synergistically combinMass Balance quality. PAGE 160 Since a key enabler ing advanced electronics laboratory documentation of this transition is the combination of chemistry and with data from High Throughput Experimentation biotechnology, Industrial & Consumer Specialties (HTE), PAGE 116 Clariant is able to develop predicteamed up with Group Biotechnology in 2018 to drive tive tools that can increase the speed and quality of future innovation in this field. innovation and enhance the capability to find disruptive solutions. 58 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C A R E C H E M I C A LS One example of how Care Chemicals addresses the MARKET TO CUSTOMER sustainability megatrend is with its high-performing hair conditioner line Genadvance®, which was 3. Addressing emerging customer needs with launched globally in 2018. The conditioning agents new products and solutions outperform classical technologies and show a signifiGiven the sharp increase in demand for plant-based cantly improved sustainability profile, mainly due ingredients, Care Chemicals strengthened its integrato the use of natural raw materials and a silicone-free tion of sustainability into key marketing segments. formulation. Genadvance® Hydra is certified by As a first step, a business development role was estabthe independent organic certification organization lished to fully capture the natural ingredients trend ECOCERT™ ­ COCERT™ and is one of nine new product launches E and further develop the portfolio. Mutually beneficial ECOCERT™ is active in that have been awarded the EcoTain® label in 2018. partnerships play a key role in this regard, such as a over 80 countries and PAGE 122 partnership announced in October 2018 with the one of the largest Indonesian company PT Martina Berto, which will organic inspection and certification organizaAnother 2018 highlight was the global launch of add Southeast Asian biodiversity ingredients to tions in the world. AristocareTM Smart, a versatile polymer that reduces Clariant’s expanding personal care portfolio. ecocert.com the filming, spotting, and drying time of cleaning detergents. This considerably lowers the cleaning effort The personal and home care businesses leverage their for consumers and responds to the growing demand respective trend-monitoring platforms, BeautyForward® for high-performance, easy-to-use home care products. and CleanForward™, to identify market trends at an early stage and pinpoint customers’ evolving needs. For example, in 2018, products that protect consum»Our ambition is to become the number one supplier for natural and sustainable solutions for consumer care.« VINCENT GASS Head of Global Marketing, Business Unit Industrial & Consumer Specialties C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 59 ers from blue light and pollution were identified as a 4. Increasing marketing and digital capabilities trending customer demand. In response, Clariant to enhance customer relationships launched Eosidin®, an active ingredient that protects Industrial & Consumer Specialties has further develskin from indoor pollution. Eosidin® won the silver oped its marketing organization in 2018 based on a ITEHPEC Innovation Award at InCosmetics in Brazil blueprint developed in 2017. It created five centers of in 2018 and the gold medal for »Sustainable Innovaexcellence for strategy execution, innovation managetion of the Year« at Cosmetics Design Europe. ment, market intelligence, launch management, and portfolio value management. All functions were repliNew Business Development focused on the rapidly cated at a global and regional level and new key growing 3D printing market. At the end of 2017, it bun­positions were filled, adding valuable competencies to dled Clariant’s materials capabilities to create a portdetect, qualify, segment, and serve local market folio of high-quality 3D printing filaments that meet opportunities. To translate improved market penetrathe evolving requirements of end-part production. In tion into profitable growth, Care Chemicals success2018, Clariant collaborated with Original Equipment fully ran a transactional pricing campaign in 2018 and Manufacturers (OEMs) to tailor filaments that meet implemented value-based pricing methods for all their specific material requirements and comply with new product launches. the relevant regulations in their respective end markets. In addition, Clariant continually increased the Customer relationships were simplified through a series printability of the materials. To make the printing as of digital initiatives. In Europe, an e-commerce platform reliable and simple as possible, a collaboration was was deployed for industrial applications and a chatbot entered with the printer manufacturer Ultimaker, was added on the Industrial & Consumer Specialties which provides optimized printing parameters for website to address basic customer requests. FurtherClariant’s filaments. Its high-quality materials, ability more, Clariant launched Chemberry™, a chemical to rapidly adapt to industry requirements, and its print ingredients search engine to enhance the connection optimization support have made Clariant an attractive between suppliers and buyers. PAGE 120 partner for OEMs who significantly support the expanding market of 3D printed products. CUSTOMER TO CASH According to the customer satisfaction survey con5. Streamlining production and delivery processes Net Promoter Score ducted in 2018, the customers of Business Area Care (NPS) To upgrade the portfolio to higher-value products, Care Chemicals particularly value its products. »Products Chemicals is working to adapt production processes The NPS gauges the loyalty of a company’s and Packaging« was ranked as the most important to smaller batch sizes and shift from bulk shipping to customers on a scale buying criteria by survey respondents and showed an transporting smaller packages. This shift will benefit from – 100 (no loyalty) outstanding competitive performance. Overall cuscustomers who demand more agility and shorter lead to + 100 (high loyalty). An NPS of > 50 % is felt tomer satisfaction improved to 79 points (2016: 77) and times for their orders. To improve production planto be excellent. the Net Promoter Score jumped to 43 % (2016: 28 %). ning and securing of raw material supplies, a web 360 60 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C A R E C H E M I C A LS Care Chemicals established relationships with 360 new suppliers. shop for distributor self-service was introduced, In 2018, Industrial & Consumer Specialties started enabling fast and flexible offer placement and manProject Olive II, which will upgrade the site in agement, and facilitating the coordination between ­Tarragona, Spain, to a fully integrated production plant the commercial and the operational chain. for Squalane and Squalene and the respective downstream products. Integrating several value creation steps As a result of the continued rollout of the Manufacin one location will allow Clariant to produce highturing Execution System, which provides a real-time er-value products while effectively reducing negative view of the status of production, and the implementaimpacts on the environment by decreasing transport tion of the Integrated Planning Landscape (IPL) in requirements. Latin America, North America, and Europe, operational reliability was strengthened. PAGE 52 Additionally, 7. Achieving safe operations relationships with 360 new suppliers were estabIn 2018, Care Chemicals undertook important steps lished to reduce dependence on single-sourced matetoward Clariant’s goal of zero accidents. The Avoiding rials, leading to improved flexibility and relia­bility. Accidents program was implemented at all sites while refresher trainings were conducted at four sites 6. Increasing efficiency while reducing that had already implemented the program. PAGE 140 environmental impacts Additionally, individual safety training sessions In 2018, Care Chemicals reduced the consumption of for managers were rolled out, covering modules such energy and water and the emission of waste, wastewaas electrical safety and personal protective equipter, and greenhouse gases, in accordance with Clariant’s ment. At its Gendorf, Germany, site, Industrial & Con2025 environmental targets. By analyzing end-to-end sumer Specialties conducted a pilot of the Global processes with a focus on increasing yield through Operational Discipline initiative, which is based on an initiatives such as the Production System Yield, Energy, approach developed by DuPont and consists of safety Environment (YEE) PAGE 53 , emissions and trainings and an awareness-raising campaign. The resource consumption were reduced, helping Indusglobal rollout of the initiative began in 2018 with the trial & Consumer Specialties achieve ISO 50001 initial implementation at Clariant’s Suzano, Brazil, certification for all of its sites in Europe. To further site. Other sites will follow over the course of 2019 and reduce pollution and protect ecosystems, a chiller 2020. Finally, frequent audits at all plants contributed at the Gendorf, Germany, site was replaced, eliminatto rigorous improvements in product quality, environing the emission of Frigen, a halogenated hydrocarmental protections, and health and safety precautions. bon. At the Bonthapally, India, site, the wastewater treatment was upgraded to achieve zero liquid discharge. PAGE 160 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 61 Targets 2021 5–7% 19 – 21 % Growth potential per year EBITDA target margin Performance INPUT OUTPUT 2.8 % 965 1 665 7% R&D spend of sales Raw material procured in CHF m Sales in CHF m Growth in local currencies > 70 13 19 % 0.98 1 Active innovation projects Production sites EBITDA margin before Production volume in m t exceptional items 2 988 Number of raw materials procured People INPUT OUTPUT 32 019 1 710 2 541 Training hours Raw material suppliers Staff in FTE at year end (2017: 2 582) Planet INPUT OUTPUT 806 60 217 2 2 2 Energy consumption in m kWh Waste in thousand t Greenhouse gas emissions in kg/t production Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital 1  or 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, F which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. Relationship capital Natural capital 2 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The Human capital last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 62 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — I N N OVAT I O N A N D T E C H N OLO GICA L A DVA N CES Innovation and Technological Advances Where Can We Help Accelerate Innovation? Speed was always crucial in innovation. Whether in solving a problem or bringing a new solution to market, being first can make all the difference. Ever shorter innovation cycles and lower entry barriers for competitors make it harder to stay ahead of the curve. At Clariant, new ways of doing research and a unique approach to joint product development help bringing new ideas to life faster and more reliably. Lucius Kemp Via High Throughput Experimentation (HTE), Lucius and his global team help Clariant to efficiently explore new research areas while boosting innovation output. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 63 Tiago Merckel Haugg Tiago worked with Clariant to develop three different dairy-alternative beverages in record time for Piá, a leading Brazilian dairy cooperative. 64 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — I N N OVAT I O N A N D T E C H N OLO GICA L A DVA N CES Lucius, what is the HTE lab you’re building in Houston, Texas, right now? The High Throughput Experimentation (HTE) lab in Houston is a satellite facility to the HTE lab we have established in Frankfurt, Germany. The instrumentation, infrastructure, and operational model are a direct clone of the facility in Frankfurt. This ensures that our efforts in extending these capabilities to the Americas region deliver the same successes as those experienced in Europe. The same concept will be applied in the HTE expansion to Asia. How does HTE speed up research? HTE approaches are a collection of research practices that are designed to deliver more information, hopefully How do you design experiments differently? with less effort. The more we understand about our By initially focusing on the most important aspects ­processes and products, the better we can design solutions required for screening, we can streamline efforts that will that deliver the required performance. Enhanced experideliver results with the greatest impact. We employ mental design, automation-assisted execution, big data software tools and statistical analysis to better understand evaluation, and modeling are concepts that enable this the process and point us to the most promising areas for in-depth knowledge. testing. This often yields solutions that can easily be overlooked with classical approaches. Automation is nothing new to the industry. What sets the Clariant HTE group apart from the rest? How do you physically set up the experiments? In most environments, automation is deployed for a This was actually the biggest challenge when designing particular process. At Clariant, for example, we successthe first HTE lab. As a central research group we serve fully use high throughput screening for the developall Clariant Business Units. One day we synthesize molment and optimization of catalysts at the Business Unit ecules for personal care applications, the next day Catalysts or for the screening of enzymes and microorwe optimize formulations for a refinery and the next, we ganisms in our Technology Platform Biotechnology. We model the stability of chocolate milk. So our lab is have designed a laboratory that truly automates designed to allow quick transitions from one workflow research from end to end with a broader scope of to another. applications. Does HTE increase sustainability? How does that increase efficiency? Yes, one way is by miniaturizing experiments. We can run The efficiency gained from automation comes from experiments on much smaller scales compared to a stannumbers, reproducibility, and times of operation. Many dard chemical lab, thus using less raw materials and generof our instruments work in parallel, and many reactions ating less waste. This both decreases costs and supports are being conducted simultaneously. Having operations the progress towards Clariant’s environmental targets. run continuously, overnight and weekends, greatly increases the throughput when compared to classical Will this type of automation replace people? laboratory approaches. This allows us to explore the No, not at all. Often when brainstorming on a new full solution space. The efficiency is realized by gaining research area, a great deal of ideas are generated and dismore knowledge in a shorter amount of time, thus cussed. But time and resources are finite, which in providing answers and ultimately solutions faster. turn limits the number of ideas that can realistically be explored. Automation allows for more. We use automation at Clariant to enable broad screening and exploration of the solution space. The information gained is then fed into the application labs of each Business Unit to help them determine where to focus their efforts and ultimately increase their chances of success in the market. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 65 What helps us test more ideas faster? LUCIUS KEMP Head of High Throughput Experimentation, Clariant 66 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — I N N OVAT I O N A N D T E C H N O LO GICA L A DVA N CES How can we help customers accelerate innovation? TIAGO MERCKEL HAUGG Marketing Manager, Cooperativa Piá C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 67 Why was that so important? It’s the difference between introducing your product to the whole sector within two days or having to go doorto-door to about 15 000 customers. How long would a project like this usually take? There is no general answer to this question. Complex projects like this can take up to two years. How did Piá and Clariant work together? Clariant presented some concepts and market opportunities. Then we started the development phase with the R&D team, prototyping and negotiating. They set up pilot plant tests and then we moved on to industrial testing. How would you describe that collaboration? What stood out for me was the interest and effort in speeding up the process to meet our deadline. That was Tiago, Piá was first established over 50 years really exceptional! It went very smoothly, which is ago as a milk farmers’ cooperative and now is amazing, considering we were developing a new prodone of southern Brazil’s leading dairy companies. uct and a new process with new ingredients and even Why did you decide to also offer non-dairy a new supplier. ­substitutes? Piá is about healthy food, regardless of whether that is What was particularly important in this project? milk or any other product. We see a growing trend for I think the most important aspect was trust. Both complant-based products. That’s why we launched a companies had to share some very valuable information. plete new line not only of vegetable-based beverages, but We worked very closely on a technical level but also also other vegetable-based dairy substitutes. We see it shared ideas on things like marketing, regulation, as a way to retain consumers who’ve stopped consuming and packaging. milk for different reasons, be it health issues or personal beliefs about animal welfare. How’s the new product doing with consumers? We’re still developing the market, and we have some How is that trend manifesting itself? work to do in increasing volumes. But the feedback We witnessed a strong trend in Europe and the United we’ve gotten so far is positive, especially regarding the States, with dairy brands buying out vegetable-based product’s sensory properties and its packaging. companies. Brazil’s market is in an emerging stage, but we made the strategic decision to be the first to build What are you working on now? Has the up such a portfolio and use our well-established distri­collaboration spawned any new ideas? bution system here in Brazil. We started working on some important new projects with Clariant. We’re testing new flavors and new pack­ You partnered with Clariant to develop the aging sizes. And we’re also developing vegetable-based product. What were your requirements? yogurt products. We wanted a good level of quality at a fair cost, but the product also had to work within our existing assets and manufacturing processes. What made that challenging? Apart from the technical challenge, there was also a very close deadline. We had only six or seven months because we wanted to launch the new product line at our region’s leading trade fair for supermarkets. 68 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C ATA LYS I S How Catalysis Creates Value Business Area Catalysis helps customers increase yield while simultafuels by 2030, and China is aiming to achieve a 10 % neously decreasing energy consumption and emissions. After developing renewable ethanol content in transportation fuels in the an innovative process to produce biofuels using biologic catalysts, next few years. These commitments offer substantial Catalysis entered a new, promising market. With its impressive innovagrowth potential for Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives tion activities and long-standing expertise, Catalysis contributes to by spurring demand for sustainably produced biofuels. Clariant’s growth and profitability. IDEA TO MARKET 1. Benefiting from economic growth and future-oriented regulation 2. Innovating for a fossil-free future Business Area Catalysis is embedded in a highly globalFor Business Area Catalysis, innovation is the cornerized business environment, with production sites stone of all activities to develop outstanding, multi-­ around the world and a product portfolio that serves a purposed products. Due to the negative environmenmultitude of industries. Thus, the global economic tal effects of burning fossil fuels, harvesting growth in 2018 supported strong sales in Business Unit renewable energies is becoming increasingly importCatalysts. In addition, promising business opportunities ant. As wind and solar power are dependent on emerged from the regulatory environment, which is weather fluctuations, storage is paramount in order to continually adapting to increased awareness of environensure steady energy supply. mental issues, such as climate change. In China’s fast-growing market, for example, stricter emission legIn 2018, Clariant partnered with Hydrogenious Techislation led to an increase in demand for catalysts, nologies to revolutionize the hydrogen economy. The enabling more sustainable production processes and innovative Liquid Organic Hydrogen Carrier (LOHC) products. In the European Union, the Renewable technology significantly improves safety, scalability, Energy Directive foresees a 3.5 % usage of advanced bioand convenience in hydrogen storage and transporta001 CATALYSIS OVERVIEW Business Area Catalysis comprises Business Unit Catalysts, which runs Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives complements the offering with 14 production sites globally, and Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives. sunliquid®, a groundbreaking technology to produce biofuels and The applications for its product portfolio include chemicals and renewable raw materials from agricultural residues. feedstock production, fuel processing, as well as custom catalysts. APPLICATIONS Business Unit Catalysts Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives — Ammonia — Hydrogenation — Hydrogen — Biocatalysis — Custom catalysts — Methanol — Refinery stream purification — Cellulosic ethanol — Ethylene and -derivatives — Off-gas treatment for — Sour gas shift — Fermentation — Fischer-Tropsch chemical plants and — Steam cracker and — Low carbon advanced biofuels — Fuel cell stationary engines Olefin purification — Residue derived biomaterials — Fuel upgrading — Oxidation — Styrene and BTX — Gasoline desulfurization — Polypropylene and — Synthetic natural gas — Gas processing on-purpose propylene, MTP — Zeolite powders C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 69 SUNLIQUID® – A FULLY INTEGRATED PROCESS DESIGN sunliquid® is an innovative process to produce biofuels and bio­ Enzyme materials from agricultural residues. First, an agricultural residue, Production such as wheat straw, is treated with steam, followed by a subseSaccharification quent sudden drop in pressure, which leads the straw to break down. Carbohydrates Second, the straw remnants enter a series of reactors in which they are liquefied and specific enzymes are grown. These enzymes break down the straw into simple sugars. Then, the sugars are fermented to create an ethanol-water mixture. In the last step, the ethanol is purified, so it can serve as biofuel or as a feedstock for biomaterials. By using lignin, the insoluble part of the straw, as fuel, Mechanical/ SUNLIQUID® the sunliquid® process is energy self-sufficient. Thermal PRODUCTION Fermentation Pre-Treatment CYCLE Clariant completed a report on the carbon footprint of sunliquid®, which revealed that the carbon intensity of ethanol produced with sunliquid® is up to six times lower compared to conventional fuels. Agricultural Residues Purification Ethanol Water tion. Clariant’s EleMax™ catalysts chemically bind and For Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives, the innovation release hydrogen to and from an organic carrier, focus remains on sunliquid®. In 2018, the sunliquid® permitting storage without notable energy losses and technology was granted the Meyer-Galow Award for enabling optimized life cycle efficiency of the LOHC. business chemistry, which is bestowed on innovations The carrier is non-toxic and of low flammability, thus with outstanding sustainability. Clariant was honored classifying it as non-hazardous. In addition, the comfor its achievements and contributions to the successpound remains liquid through a broad temperature ful development and commercialization of this ground-­ range at ambient pressure and can be transported in breaking technology. In collaboration with Exxon and the existing infrastructure for fossil fuels. This enables the Renewable Energy Group (REG) the technology a ready supply of industrial locations and fueling sites. was diversified to produce cellulosic diesel from secIn Tennessee, USA, the first commercial-scale units ond-generation sugars. Further Research & Developare in operation, confirming the technical and economic ment activities are aimed at optimizing sunliquid® attractiveness of the technology. Clariant is proud of with regard to further optimizing the platform in itself its role in facilitating this major leap forward to making and in further diversifying the suit of derivatives hydrogen a safe, efficient, and scalable energy carrier. products from sunliquid® platform. 70 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C ATA LYS I S MARKET TO CUSTOMER Clariant’s Business Unit Catalysts also organizes a biennial customer event, the »Defining the Future« 3. Engaging with customers conference, to gather the global industry community Understanding and anticipating customer needs is for networking, insight, and critical analysis. In 2018, crucial for business success. Thus, Business Area over 50 presentations by experts on global chemical Catalysis focuses on spotting and identifying customer markets were given to more than 600 participants insights along the value chain. Clariant’s Leading during the eighth »Defining the Future« conference Marketing Organization initiative is addressing these in Hangzhou, China. Clariant detailed several cusgoals by constantly analyzing the company’s existing tomer challenges and how the company addressed them marketing capabilities. by designing products with outstanding performance and sustainability properties. A central source of customer insights is the biennial customer satisfaction survey. The results of the 2018 Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives continued relasurvey emphasize the importance of innovation for tionship-building with political stakeholders in 2018. the customers of Business Area Catalysis. After »TechIn addition, the sunliquid® sales and marketing team nical Services«, it is the second most important buyparticipated in various international conferences, ing criteria and the customers see a clear competitive particularly in the biomarkets and renewable energy edge over Clariant’s competitors. The Customer Satsector, to further promote sunliquid® and its applicaisfaction Index reached 77 points (2016: 79) and the tions. 81 Customer Loyalty Index remained at a high ­level, reaching 81 points (2016: 83). 4. Launching products with enhanced sustainability profiles Products of Business Unit Catalysts enhance sustainability and safety performance of customer production sites and processes. In 2018, Clariant expanded its EnviCat® portfolio with a high-performance solution that significantly reduces nitrogen oxides, which contribute to a range of negative environmental impacts, such as acid rain, smog, and ground-level ozone. The honeycomb-structured catalyst uses ammonia as a reducing agent for the conversion of the nitrogen oxides into harmless nitrogen gas and water. The catalyst effectively lowers nitrogen oxide emissions from gas-fired exhaust streams and is well suited The Customer Loyalty Index of the Business Area Catalysis remained for use in a multitude of chemical and industrial at a high level of 81 points. applications, such as power generation or petrochemical refining. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 71 »The successful development of dedicated catalysts for the LOHC technology is not only a testament to Clariant’s pioneering capabilities, but also reflects the importance of sustain­ability to our culture, operations, and as a driver for growth and innovation.« MARVIN ESTENFELDER Head of R&D at Business Unit Catalysts Clariant prides itself on consistently innovating catalysts ability and carbon efficiency of the CNOOC site, that achieve optimal performance. The OleMax™ 260 owing to the catalyst’s high productivity and due to its catalyst, launched in 2018, for example, provides high activity and performance in lower operating close to 100 % selectivity to ethylene. Not only does temperatures. OleMax™ 260 produce higher yields, it also fosters a sustainable process with a simplified operation that CUSTOMER TO CASH reduces start-up-related hydrocarbon flaring, as well as time to on-specification ethylene production. The 5. Securing profitable partnerships first commercial start-up in the new ethylene producEngaging with partners along the value chain is vital tion plant of The Dow Chemical Company in Freefor Business Area Catalysis to drive business and port, Texas, USA, proved the potential of the catalyst. access new markets. In 2018, Business Unit Catalysts signed two key agreements with Sinopec, China’s With every product launch, Business Unit Catalysts largest petroleum and chemical company. One of the further strengthens its product capabilities. In 2018, agreements allows Clariant to license S-Zorb, a sorbent HYDEX™ E, the latest diesel dewaxing catalyst in the used to desulfurize naphtha for gasoline production. HYDEX™ series, was launched. The catalyst improves The sorbent is ideal for upgrading gasoline in existing the cold flow properties of the fuel, facilitating its refineries in order to comply with the China National V handling during cold conditions. HYDEX™ E is a new standards for fuel quality. The other agreement posicatalyst that can even operate under full sour service tions Clariant as representative for Sinopec’s fluid cataconditions, increasing diesel yield and reducing by-prodlytic-cracking catalysts to oil refineries in Qatar. uct formation. Due to improved desulfurization, Desulfurization additional product swelling, and an increased share of Another example showcasing that partnerships can Crude oil, the base of combustion-benign substances in the final product, lead to outstanding results is the contract to work diesel, always contains a fraction of sulfur, HYDEX™ E prepares customers for new, more strinwith McDermott, formerly CB&I, to design the world’s which is responsible for gent fuel regulations regarding particulate formation. largest single-train propane dehydrogenation unit acid rain. The latest for Jinneng Science & Technology Company in China. Clariant diesel catalyst shows improved desulIn 2018, the MegaMax® 800 methanol synthesis catalyst The partnership combines Clariant’s ­CATOFIN™ catfurization and thus was successfully implemented at one of China alysts and Heat Generating Material with McDermott’s helps reduce harmful National Offshore Oil Corporation’s (CNOOC) plants Lummus CATOFIN™ propane dehydrogenation emissions. in Hainan Province. Methanol is used as a feedstock ­technology. Clariant’s catalysts enable maximum confor a variety of chemicals, as well as a fuel, solvent, and version of raw materials, while the patented Heat antifreeze. MegaMax® 800 increases yield and effiGenerating Material increases the catalysts’ selectivity, ciency while being compatible across a range of methboth producing higher yields at lower operating costs. anol process technology platforms. Furthermore, it maintains high selectivity over its lifetime and therefore considerably reduces by-product formation. The installation of MegaMax® 800 improves profit72 B U S I NESS AR EAS — C ATA LYS I S 9 A smart cooling tower helped decrease overall electricity consumption of the precommercial plant in ­Straubing, Germany, by 9 %. 6. Advancing procurement, production, to enhance energy and water management. By 2020, a and operational safety modern evaporation unit will decrease overall energy Business Area Catalysis continued to advance Clariant’s consumption, and the installation of a reverse osmosis global procurement initiative in order to increase reliplant for wastewater treatment will introduce water ability and sustainability of its vast, global supply chain. circulation, reducing consumption and releasing In addition, Business Unit Catalysts managed to reach cleaner runoff. the goals set for third-party sustainability assessments. Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives initiated several sunliquid® For the sunliquid® production plant in Romania, a projects as part of Clariant’s eWATCH™ program and The sunliquid® producdedicated team worked on establishing a long-term the Production System Yield, Energy, Environment tion facility in Romania stable supply base and relationship with local farmers (YEE) to reduce resource consumption. In its precomis expected to produce to ensure feedstock supply in the operational phase mercial plant in Straubing, Germany, a smart cooling 50 000 tons of ethanol from straw every year. of the plant. Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives is tower decreased overall electricity consumption by developing a digital solution to support a transparent 9 %. In addition, thanks to optimized production and efficient operation of the straw supply chain. protocols, fresh water use and wastewater production are reduced continuously and the costs of wastewater Within Business Line Biofuels & Derivatives, ongoing discharge were reduced significantly by first feeding safety trainings are used to increase safety awareness the wastewater to a biogas plant. in day-to-day operations. In addition, by conducting health days, awareness on working ergonomics and a healthy lifestyle was raised. 7. Improving environmental performance of production sites Business Area Catalysis is determined to improve environmental sustainability of its production sites. At the Severodonetsk, Ukraine, facility, for example, upgrades with new technologies are planned in order C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 73 Targets 2021 6–9% 26 – 30 % Growth potential per year EBITDA target margin Performance INPUT OUTPUT 6.6 % 263 861 11 % R&D spend of sales Raw material procured in CHF m Sales in CHF m Growth in local currencies > 110 14 23.1 % 0.06 1 Active innovation projects Production sites (50:50 or minority EBITDA margin before Production volume in m t joint ventures not included) exceptional items 968 Number of raw materials procured People INPUT OUTPUT 27 726 538 2 061 Training hours Raw material suppliers Staff in FTE at year end (2017: 1 970) Planet INPUT OUTPUT 588 15 2 709 2 2 2 Energy consumption in m kWh Waste in thousand t Greenhouse gas emissions in kg/t production Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital 1 F  or 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. Relationship capital Natural capital 2 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The Human capital last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 74 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — E N V I R O N M E N TA L PR OT E CT IO N A N D RESO U RCES Environmental Protection and Resources When Can We Advance the Shift to Renewable Energy? Renewable energy sources are the future. Their use is taking hold across the globe but also poses new challenges with energy storage and distribution. The chemical industry has an important role to play both as a big energy consumer and by enabling new ways of using and storing electricity. Camilla Lang As Site Manager and Country ESHA for the Nordics region, Camilla helped Clariant's Swedish sites make the switch to renewable energy. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 75 Daniel Teichmann As CEO of Hydrogenious Technologies, Daniel has set out to finally make using hydrogen for storing and transporting energy easy and safe. 76 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — E N V I R O N M E N TA L PR OT E CT IO N A N D RESO U RCES What about energy costs? Because of our newly combined purchasing power, we now actually spend less on electricity than we did before. Is the supply as stable and secure as, say, nuclear power? We’re connected to the power grid the same way as before, so there are no concerns about stability. We just pay for hydroelectric power. It’s basically the same as when you switch at home. In any case, hydroelectric power is among the most stable renewable sources anyway. What are some of the other things you’re doing to reduce emissions? Clariant’s three production sites in Sweden We’re in the process of reducing diesel in our producrecently switched to renewable energy. Why? tion processes. We still use it mainly in the drying process Because it makes a lot of sense. Clariant has set itself for bentonite clay here in Hällekis. We’re also looking at global environmental targets, such as to reduce greenour fleet of cars and considering more sustainable house gas emissions by 35 percent per ton of produced options. But, admittedly, we still have quite a way to go goods by 2025. Our switch to renewables is a step in that regard. Still, little things have an impact. Some towards that. The time was right too. We had different years ago, we replaced an old engine in our mill here in contracts with our electricity providers for each of Hällekis, which now uses only half as much energy our three sites, and they were all up for renewal. So we as it did before. decided, first of all, to combine the three agreements and to look for renewable options. Do you think your experience with the switch to renewable energy is applicable elsewhere? What type of energy were you using and what do Certainly. There obviously needs to be enough supply you use now? and a working market for renewable energy. Then it’s We switched from mostly nuclear, which still makes up just a matter of, well, just doing it. For us, the timing was the largest share of Sweden’s electricity mix, to 100 right because we wanted to renegotiate our contracts percent hydroelectric power. anyway, and I had just taken over my new role for the region. I think that’s a lesson you can take away from it: How much electricity do the three sites use? get different sites and Business Units together under We use around three million kilowatt-hours, and we’ve one roof to increase your purchasing power and keep calculated that we now avoid about 300 tons of CO₂ costs down. That may be more difficult in other regions per year. where they operate, let’s say, more independently. And then you need someone or even a small team to take What was your role in all this? this idea and just run with it. I’ve been the site manager for our site in Hällekis since 2011. In 2016, I also took on the responsibility for Environmental, Safety and Health Affairs, or ESHA, in the Nordics region. In this role, I could negotiate a single agreement for all of our three Swedish sites across the business units. I talked to my fellow site managers and management. They were all immediately on board. Did you face any problems or concerns? No. It was fairly easy to convince people. We are very conscious of environmental issues in Sweden. And we have a well-working market for renewables. So it was actually very easy to switch. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 77 Can we fill our energy needs sustainably? CAMILLA LANG Site Manager Business Unit Functional Minerals & Country ESHA Nordics, Clariant 78 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — E N V I R O N M E N TA L PR OT E CT IO N A N D RESO U RCES Can catalysis shape the future energy storage? DANIEL TEICHMANN CEO, Hydrogenious Technologies C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 79 What role does catalysis play and what kind of catalyst do you use? Catalysis is the key to getting hydrogen into the molecule. We use precious metal catalysts from Clariant’s EleMax™ range tailored specifically to our needs. How is your partnership with Clariant helping? Efficiency is crucial. That’s why we work with ­Clariant to further tweak the catalysts and the process. One of the challenges was that we designed our system to extract hydrogen from mixed streams from industry exhausts. That makes it compatible with real-life hydrogen sources but it demands a lot from the catalyst. How much hydrogen can the LOHC hold? A cubic meter of LOHC can carry about 57 kilograms of hydrogen. To give you a better sense, a regular fuel tank Daniel, hydrogen is often touted as the fuel of the with 80 liters of LOHC would carry enough hydrogen to future. Why isn’t our world running on hydrogen? travel about 500 kilometers in a fuel cell car. Hydrogen is a powerful and fully renewable energy carrier. The only emission from using it as fuel is water. Could you fill your fuel tank with LOHC to drive That’s why we believe it will play a significant role as your fuel cell car? fuel for cars and as a way to store energy from renewThat’s certainly the long term goal. It will require, howable sources like wind and solar power. The problem ever, a miniaturized version of our technology. At the lies with storing and transporting hydrogen, which at moment, we’re focussing on large-scale applications, normal temperatures has a low density and is extremely like providing hydrogen to industrial users and largevolatile. The conventional fix was to either compress scale hydrogen refueling stations. Our current technolit or cool it to very low temperatures. Both methods ogy comfortably fits a 20-foot shipping container. The require elaborate equipment and additional energy. beauty is that LOHC lets us use existing infrastructure! Our system can work basically anywhere a truck can What is your solution? go. And the resulting LOHC is easy to transport using We store hydrogen in a liquid by chemically binding it in conventional fuel trucks. an oil – our Liquid Organic Hydrogen Carrier, or LOHC. What would a complete LOHC ecosystem for How do you get the hydrogen into the oil? hydrogen cars look like? We hydrogenate the oil using a catalyst. Basically, we A gas station could store loaded LOHC in their convenbuild our hydrogen atoms into the molecule. tional underground fuel tanks and de-hydrogenate it on demand. Our home city of Erlangen is the first to open What’s the oil in question? such a refueling station. But we’re also working towards Dibenzyl-toluene, a readily available commodity mostly solutions that could de-hydrogenate LOHC right in used to transfer heat in commercial applications. your car so that refueling would involve simply exchanging unloaded for loaded oil. Heavy-duty vehicles, such How safe is LOHC once it’s full of hydrogen? as trucks, trains and even ships, are obvious first contendA demonstration I often perform for TV crews involves ers on the path to an ever more compact system. One dipping a burning torch into a bucket of loaded LOHC. of the pilot projects, coordinated by our partner The torch just dies. The oil doesn’t react at all. Helmholtz-Institute of Renewable Energy Erlangen-­ Nuremberg, involves a train running on LOHC. You can literally carry your hydrogen around in an open bucket? Yes. It is non-toxic and not classified as a dangerous good. It is safer than diesel fuel. 80 B U S I NESS AR EAS — N AT UR A L R E S O UR C E S How Natural Resources Creates Value Business Area Natural Resources combines businesses that extract made and innovative solutions for the purification of minerals, oil, and gas with those that use these materials to develop second-generation biofuels through strong collaborahigh-performing and sustainable solutions. Driven by growing oil, tions with key customers. metals, and food consumption around the globe, the Business Area addresses emerging trends in multiple industries. Continued growth in the global automotive industry and an increasing trend toward reducing harmful emis1. Capitalizing on economic upturn and growth sions in the iron-casting process created favorable in key industries to drive business ­con­ditions for Clariant’s foundry additives business. In 2018, Functional Minerals continued on its growth ­Functional Minerals capitalized on this trend by expanding path supported by the positive dynamics of the global the sales of low-emission foundry additives, such as economy, which increased demand for processed Geko™ LE. The electrification trend in the passenger car ­bentonite. Global trends such as urbanization, renewindustry is a disrupting challenge where Mining Services able energy, and changing food consumption supported has refocused activities in the industrial minerals field growth opportunities for purification products. Although toward solutions for lithium extraction, a key raw matepurification sales were initially weak due to an unfavorrial for the batteries. able quality of soybean and palm oil crops, the market saw some recovery in the second half of the year. In addiIn 2018, the price of oil continued to recover while key tion, the growing demand for purification solutions commodity markets stabilized. This allowed many of in the field of renewable energy compensated for the Clariant’s Oil & Mining customers to reevaluate their weaker edible-oil purification sales in early 2018. operations to look for ways to grow and gain efficiencies Functional Minerals is very well positioned to grow in this alongside of opening strategic growth opportunities. segment as it demonstrated its ability to develop tailor-­ However, regional differences persisted. With the trade 001 NATURAL RESOURCES OVERVIEW The Business Area Natural Resources is comprised of Functional know-how at the customer’s operations. Oil & Mining Services provides Minerals and Oil & Mining Services. Functional Minerals operates a fully innovative chemistry, technology, and service solutions for the oil, integrated value chain, from the exploration and mining of bentonites mining, and refinery industries to the processing of finished products to the application of technical APPLICATIONS Functional Minerals Oil & Mining Services —O  il purification — C  lay specialties —  our point depressants P —C  orrosion management —F  oundry additives —  aper additives P — Explosive emulsifiers — Chemical delivery and data — Desiccants,  oxygen absorber, — D  etergent additives — Froth flotation chemistries management systems humidity indicator solutions —  VC stabilizers P — Well service additives — Gas well deliquification —S  ediment management —  TX catalysts B — Oil and water separation — Near wellbore remidation —C  ivil engineering —  erosene and jet fuel K — Asphaltene control technologies —W  astewater treatment purification technologies — Hydrate management and — Scale management control 35 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 81 Functional Minerals ran about 35 active innovation projects (Class 1 and 2) in 2018. dispute between the United States and China creating Addressing these three challenges contributed to a uncertainty in the market and hampering growth in China, well-filled innovation pipeline at Functional MinerChinese-sourced raw material prices might increase als, with about 35 active Class 1 and Class 2 projects due to the growing costs of regulatory compliance and and about the same number of smaller Class 3 projtariffs. ects in the stage gate process at the end of 2018. In order to accelerate innovation processes and improve IDEA TO MARKET the pipeline output, Functional Minerals improved the stringent evaluation, prioritization, and tracking 2. Innovating for food safety and of innovation projects. environmental protection The innovation agenda at Functional Minerals was 3. Increasing speed to exploit opportunities dominated by three main themes in 2018. First, Funcfrom unconventional oil production and tional Minerals addressed the need for improved electrification food safety with, for example, the launch of new Tonsil® The growing global oil demand and rapidly changing grades that reduce the risk of harmful substance characteristics of produced oils increase the complexformation, such as 3-monochloropropane-1,2-diol ity of oil production and require shorter innovation (3-MCDP), during purification processes. cycles. Oil Services is tackling this challenge by working with Group Technology & Innovation on High Second, Functional Minerals developed products that Throughput Experimentation (HTE) and advanced help customers reduce their overall costs. For examanalytics. PAGE 116 The collaboration led to five ple, Clariant supports the edible-oil processing indus­successful applications in identified growth fields, such try and the growing renewable fuel industry by innoas pour point depressants, and will continue into vating in the field of dry-soap removal. Dry soaps are 2019. To support the commercialization of the innogenerated during production processes and present a vative pour point depressants used in oil production, considerable cost factor for Clariant’s customers. the iGarage concept was adopted. PAGE 116 Third, the Business Unit further developed Invoque®, an innovative solution that helps customers in the dredging and mining industries manage disturbed sediments suspended in water. Invoque® allows users to separate solid and liquid components faster and more efficiently while also reducing water usage, environmental impacts, and overall costs. 82 B U S I NESS AR EAS — N AT UR A L R E S O UR C E S In 2018, Mining Solutions focused its innovation Intensive customer interaction around sustainability activities on copper and iron ore benefication by flotachallenges revealed an unmet customer need to elimition in efforts to improve customers’ operational nate hazardous compounds from copper and molyb­efficiency. To improve sustainability in the mining denum collectors. In response, Clariant developed non-­ industry, Mining Solutions has been working on hazardous collectors for enhanced copper and replacement technology for the current use of the molybdenum recovery, which customers in Chile and hazardous material xanthate. Clariant Hostaflot™ North America embraced for their improved perforproducts were developed to overcome the hazardous mance and sustainability benefits. xanthate properties. The current use of hazardous xanthate as a flotation additive to recover fine partiThe progress in sustainable product development is cles of the desired mineral is both dangerous and further exemplified by the successful commercializaFlotigam™ 7500 cost-intensive since storage involves controlled contion of Flotigam™ 7500, an EcoTain®-awarded colThe EcoTain®-awarded ditions, specific handling requirements, and constant lector to recuperate iron ore by flotation. iron ore collector monitoring. Flotigam™ 7500 deAs shown by the results of the 2018 customer satisfaccreases the amount of fine material discarded Lastly, as increasing amounts of lithium are needed to tion survey, the customers of Natural Resources place to tailing ponds by up support the growing sales of electric passenger cars high value on the »Technical Services« offering, to 70 %. and other battery-powered devices, Clariant is develwhich they ranked as the most important buying crioping innovative flotation collectors that improve teria ahead of »Products and Packaging«. Since the separation of lithium-bearing minerals from other the last customer survey in 2016, Natural Resources rock-forming minerals, enabling lithium extraction increased their competitive performance as well from new sources. as overall customer satisfaction and loyalty, which improved to 80 points (2016: 79) and 85 points MARKET TO CUSTOMER (2016: 82), respectively. The Net Promoter Score leaped to 45 % (2016: 37 %). 4. Addressing customer challenges sustainably In 2018, Functional Minerals helped solve some spe5. Building on Leading Marketing Organizations cific customer challenges and launched, for example, to turn value propositions into profitable growth the innovative solution Opazil™ FFR. Opazil™ FFR In 2018, the Leading Marketing Organizations (LMO) is an active adsorbent that avoids the penetration of initiative was implemented within Natural Resources. mineral oils from recycled paper into packaged food. By the end of the year, most of the new key functions Due to the specific absorption properties of the active were filled. In addition, the businesses aligned innoadsorbent, this product enables food-packaging manuvation strategies with Clariant’s overall growth stratfacturers to reduce potential health risks by adjusting egy and refined customer segmentation, exploring and streamlining their production process without synergies across regions, coupling offerings with digijeopardizing food safety standards. Another product tal support and improving pricing excellence. To supexample is Toxisorb™ Premium, an additive that port the latter, Functional Minerals launched a value-­ binds toxins and neutralizes harmful substances in based pricing initiative to ensure that products are animal feed. Both products were awarded Clariant’s priced according to the value they create for customEcoTain® label in 2018. PAGE 122 ers. Oil & Mining Services established a Pricing Council, which focuses on developing regional strategies Oil & Mining Services successfully launched a series to improve procurement negotiations and position the of products in 2018, including newly developed parafright value of Clariant’s products in the market. fin inhibitors: WAXTREAT DF, which prevent blockages of flow lines in deepwater oil production operations; a water-based paraffin dispersant LIBERATE®, which remediates existing paraffin deposits where inhibitors cannot be applied; and Hostaflot™ xanthate replacement products, which facilitate the efficient and sustainable collection of sulfide minerals. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 83 »Sustainability has become a part of the diagnostic conversations our sales professionals hold with customers. As a result, large copper producers have embraced Clariant’s sustainable xanthate replacement products, aiming to eliminate xanthate use in all their operations.« JORGE ARIAS Global Head of Mining Solutions CUSTOMER TO CASH 7. Enhancing research and production ­capacities through global investments 6. Balancing cost efficiency, risks, and In 2018, Natural Resources expanded its research and sustainability standards in the supply chain production capacity in several locations. For Functional Natural Resources relies on strong relationships with Minerals, the most important expansion took place in suppliers to create sustainable value for Clariant, Indonesia, where the Business Unit eliminated spe­customers, and suppliers. Functional Minerals implecific bottlenecks in the bleaching earth production at mented a series of initiatives in 2018 to increase different production sites that serve the Southeastern ­reliability in the supply chain. For example, it initiated Asian market, thereby supporting Clariant’s strategic preferred partnerships with logistics providers to growth and profitability targets in that region. Another ensure access to transport capacities and reformulated expansion occurred in South China, where Clariant certain product recipes to reduce supply chain-reincreased its production of bentonite desiccant clay to lated risks. To mitigate the impact of rising energy and meet increasing demand. transportation costs, Functional Minerals also optimized its value stream from mine to market by sourcTogether with Business Unit Industrial & Consumer ing the clays closer to operations and intensifying Specialties, Oil & Mining Services benefited from the the sun-drying of bentonite (for example, in Sardinia completed expansion of the industrial facility in and Spain) to reduce energy and logistics costs. ­Coatzacoalcos, Mexico, increasing the production capacity of ethoxylates, particularly demulsifiers, Oil & Mining Services uses an individualized review by several thousand tons per annum. In addition, it process to assess the performance of its suppliers. To opened a cutting-edge laboratory facility in Clinton, evaluate additional factors specifically related to the Oklahoma, and announced the inauguration of a simiproduct line of Oil & Mining Services that are not covlar technical laboratory in its facility in Midland, ered in the standard performance review or the Texas. In 2018, Oil & Mining Services terminated proTogether for Sustainability initiative (TfS), PAGE 148 duction activities of the Business Lines Mining and a lean questionnaire is distributed. As Oil & Mining Emulsions in Morocco and started servicing customServices prioritizes active supplier communication, it ers in the region with supplies from Europe. shares an updated standard information package ­regularly and participates in Clariant’s yearly procurement events, which are attended by more than 300 suppliers and offer an excellent opportunity to raise awareness for Clariant’s safety and sustainability requirements. 84 B U S I NESS AR EAS — N AT UR A L R E S O UR C E S 36.75 Shifting from bulk to intermodal deliveries reduces the yearly greenhouse gas emissions of BU OMS by 36.75 t CO₂ equivalents. 8. Improving profitability through Oil & Mining Services was able to transition from optimized operations bulk deliveries to intermodal deliveries across the Continually optimizing the operational chain is critiUnited States, resulting in net savings of approximately cal to ensure customer satisfaction and profitability. CHF 37 000 per year and a reduction of 36.75 t CO₂ In 2018, Functional Minerals began implementing a equivalents (– 65 %). system for web-based slot management with trucking companies to ensure just-in-time arrival of trucks to 9. Ensuring safety at the workplace and retrieve finished goods at Clariant’s production sites. on the road Furthermore, it took steps to better integrate the To increase the occupational health, safety, and well-­ commercial and the operational chain by testing a being of employees, Functional Minerals started the system for linking customers’ silo levels to Clariant’s Safety Teams initiative in 2018 to involve workers in planning system. continuously improving safety at the workplace. Oil & Mining Services focused its efforts on increasing road safety, as employees drive over 36 000 000 kilometers each year to deliver products or provide services to customers. In 2018, it introduced a driver training program for all employees in North America and installed camera systems with an incorporated event recorder in over 200 vehicles in the United States. The training will be rolled out in Latin America in 2019 and will be available as an e-learning course as well. »Under the new motto ›Customers are our passion, excellence is our way,‹ Functional Minerals engages in a close dialog with its customers. Starting with the question ›what is precious to you?‹ we co-develop new products or solutions with and for our customers.« SVEN SCHULTHEIS Head of Business Unit Functional Minerals C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 85 Targets 2021 6–7% 16 – 17 % Growth potential per year EBITDA target margin Performance INPUT OUTPUT 2.1 % 463 1 394 8% R&D spend of sales Raw material procured in CHF m Sales in CHF m Growth in local currencies > 90 36 12.8 % 2.9 1 Active innovation projects Production sites EBITDA margin before Production volume in m t exceptional items 2 713 Number of raw materials procured People INPUT OUTPUT 30 232 1 680 3 276 Training hours Raw material suppliers Staff in FTE at year end (2016: 3 235) Planet INPUT OUTPUT 857 109 94 2 2 2 Energy consumption in m kWh Waste in thousand t Greenhouse gas emissions in kg/t production Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital 1  or 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, F which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. Relationship capital Natural capital 2 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The Human capital last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 86 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — O CC UPAT I O N A L H E A LT H , SA FET Y, A N D W ELLB EIN G C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being Where Can We Improve Safety Even Further? Accidents in the chemical industry are few and far between. That’s undoubtedly a good thing. But it also means that there is less left to learn from mistakes. Managing ever more complex systems and further increasing safety will require a new way of thinking about risks. Paul Lieck As Corporate Safety Director North America at Clariant, Paul works to highlight and control everyday risks in the workplace and uphold ­safety as a core company value. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 87 Martin Clausen As Senior Risk Engineer at Zurich Insurance, Martin visits Clariant's chemical sites all over the world to assess risks and further improve safety. 88 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — O CC UPAT I O N A L H E A LT H , SA FET Y, A N D W ELLB EIN G implemented a program called »SmartDrive« where driving habits are continually evaluated and improved. Additionally, they’ve introduced an effort called »Check 6« to focus attention on checking the condition of each vehicle before use. Let’s talk numbers! How many accidents have you Paul, you’re coming up on 37 years of working seen in 2018? in environmental safety and health. What’s your In 2018, the Lost Time Accident Rate or LTAR is 0.16 for recipe for safety? Clariant North America. There’s not one simple answer to that. I always talk about all the different things that go into it – what we call the What does that mean in absolute numbers? elements of safety. You have policies and guidelines at a It means that, with over 2 300 employees working well Group level and then specific procedures at the sites. over 5 million hours annually, we’ve so far seen a total of You need proper training and the appropriate resources. four accidents where people had to miss at least a day Of course it’s about designing our plants so they can be at work. LTAR is a common indicator by which the indusoperated safely. But safety also involves ensuring people try measures work safety. have the right skills and attitude towards safety, as well as focusing on safe behaviors. All of these elements are Are there others? critical to our success. We track so-called OSHA reportable incidents where a person might need to get treatment but won’t have to How important is the right attitude in general? miss work. Then there are first-aid incidents – starting Awareness among employees and commitment from with even just a band-aid. And we track near misses or management are crucial elements of safety. I see that »safety deviations« as we call them, where employees with Clariant. And the commitment goes to the very top. report a potentially hazardous situation they’ve witOur former CEO has clearly supported safety, and our nessed. All this gives us data to work with. incoming CEO made it a key part of his message when he introduced himself to us. To me, that’s fantastic! What are the data telling you? What we see is that we’ve come a very long way in proSo it’s about making safety a priority throughout cess and work safety. But we have to stay aware of the company? everyday risks. As an example, in 2017, a third of our I’d go further than that. I see safety as one of our core more significant injuries in North America resulted values. It’s okay to talk about safety being a priority, but from slips, trips, and falls. That’s nothing specific to the it has to go beyond being a priority. A rush order that kind of work we do. But it led us to take action, and comes in or other factors may momentarily shift your already we’ve seen a significant drop in those types of priorities, but not your core values. accidents in 2018. Numbers aren’t everything, but they help us focus our attention and raise awareness. What about you personally? If you asked my wife and my daughters, they would tell What are some of the more creative ways you’ve you that safety has been a constant theme around seen used to raise awareness? our house for many years. Safety at home was already Our site in Chicago has a great program providing mateimportant to me, but became even more important as rials that people can take home and even use with their our daughters grew, especially when they started driving. kids. That encourages you to think about safety more broadly. At our site in Phoenix, Arizona, they’ve named Is driver safety an issue for Clariant too? the aisle ways in the plant using street signs like »Safety Absolutely. Our Business Unit Oil & Mining Services Way«, »Proper Lifting Lane«, or »No-Lost-Time Boule(OMS), for instance, places special emphasis on driver vard«. That’s a new and really innovative way to focus safety. OMS employs a significant number of trucks and on safety. Awareness is extremely important. Combindrivers to deliver our products to customers, even in ing this with the other elements of safety is what we very remote places. It not only puts our drivers on the have to do to ensure our success in keeping our workroad but often on our customers’ property. So OMS has places safe. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 89 What helps us keep employees healthy and safe? PAUL LIECK Corporate Safety Director North America, Clariant 90 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — O CC UPAT I O N A L H E A LT H , SA FET Y, A N D W ELLB EIN G Where should we look to improve safety even further? MARTIN CLAUSEN Senior Risk Engineer, Zurich Insurance C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 91 Speaking of goals, the industry as a whole has a record of reducing accident rates further and further. Clariant works towards »zero accidents«. What do you make of that? Personally, I’m skeptical. A world without accidents is a nice goal to have. A strong focus on ever lower accident rates does help to improve, and we have to learn from what went wrong. But things are more complex from my point of view. You’ll have to explain. Martin, you’ve just come back from Asia. Think of it this way: Do we really understand new risks What were you doing there? we’re dealing with if we mainly learn from past failures? I visited two of Clariant’s large production sites for a Systems are becoming ever more complex and interconrisk assessment, one in China and one in Indonesia. nected. We need to understand and work on what I call Zurich Insurance Group is Clariant’s main global insurer »system resilience«. Rather than focussing on what for property and supply chain risks. As a risk engineer went wrong, we should be asking why things go right. for Zurich, I personally visit about ten Clariant sites every What makes the system in question stable and safe? I year. It’s important to us that we understand the specific believe in looking at the bigger picture rather than chasrisks our client deals with and help find ways to reduce ing numbers. them. Are different aspects of safety connected? What kind of risks do you assess and how? Absolutely. A lapse in process safety can have immediI focus on risks to Clariant’s assets as well as their plants ate and drastic consequences on all aspects of safety. and facilities. Risks may involve accidents, fires, natural A healthy safety culture can’t have any blind spots, and hazards, and so on that could spell massive losses and laxness in one area usually seeps into others. potentially interrupt Clariant’s supply chain for days or even months. That’s why my visits are usually to larger What are warning signs when visiting a site? sites that play a critical role in Clariant’s supply chain. It literally starts right at the gate. If security is lax, for But occasionally Clariant might specifically ask us to example, I’m already alert. If the people I’m talking to analyze smaller sites, say, if they’re taking on assets aren’t prepared, I know there’s trouble. from someone else. You say safety is becoming more complex, but is Is the chemical industry a risky business? there still a simple golden rule to safety? The industry handles substances that can be very danI think there are a few life-saving rules in the working gerous to humans and the environment. And chemical environment that we need to enforce with zero tolerprocesses can involve large amounts of energy. All this ance. I’m thinking also about those little shortcuts we’re combined can pose huge risks. It’s paramount that those all attempted to take: Walking a red light, using the risks are mitigated effectively and the industry as a phone while driving. That’s the kind of unnecessary whole does this very well. Tight regulation and overrisk-taking we need to eliminate. I know of cases sight also do their part. where people have been fired on the spot because they called into meetings from their phone while driving. Are there regional differences? Not so much. Particularly with a global company like Clariant, which has very high safety standards and a working safety culture, because they establish the same policies and expectations all over the world. That being said, in my job, I find it especially interesting to see how different cultures go about meeting the same goal. And I think it’s important to give teams a certain degree of freedom to do so. 92 B U S I NESS AR EAS — PLAST I C S & COAT I N G S How Plastics & Coatings Creates Value Through continuous innovation, Plastics & Coatings satisfies the inTo proactively adapt or develop solutions, Clariant creasing demand for sustainable products while also meeting stricter closely monitors legislative developments that could regulations. By tracking megatrends and engaging with customers, ban or impact the use of critical substances. the Business Area develops solutions tailored to each market. Continuous improvements to the supply chain ensure a reliable, steady Fueled by increasing awareness of the persistence of supply of raw materials, which support the On-Time, In-Full deliveries plastics in the environment, particularly in the oceans, of finished products that are critical to Clariant’s profitability. the circular economy is poised to have the largest impact on the plastics industry in recent history. PAGE 164 In 1. Creating promising business opportunities from response, bio-based and bio-compostable products are demand for sustainable products and stricter gaining in popularity as potential solutions. Clariant is regulations addressing the persistence of plastics by promoting Plastics & Coatings is increasingly challenged by rising improved recyclability and usage of biomaterials in its environmental awareness. Customers ask for products product development cycle. In 2018, Clariant also joined that are free of hazardous substances or feature renewthe Plastics Recyclers Europe Association (PRE) as well able raw materials. In addition, new regulations and as the Responsible Packaging Coalition in South East toxicological reclassifications regarding ingredients Asia. such as biocides and impurities such as heavy metals, amines, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are Together, increased environmental awareness and the necessitating the development of alternative products. trending circular economy are driving demand for susIn food packaging, products free of allergens or genetitainable products and creating opportunities to accelercally modified organisms (GMOs) are also being requested. ate product-related innovation and sustainable growth. 001 PLASTICS & COATINGS OVERVIEW Business Area Plastics & Coatings is comprised of Business Units goods, medical, textile, transportation, building and construction, as Additives, Masterbatches, and Pigments. Plastics & Coatings serves well as agriculture. It delivers to local and regional customers as well as markets ranging from packaging, electrical and electronics, consumer multinationals. MAIN APPLICATIONS Business Unit Additives Business Unit Masterbatches Business Unit Pigments — Flame Retardants: Patented —A dvanced Surface Solutions: — C  olor and additive concen—D  ecorative, industrial, and halogen-free flame retardants Protect and enhance surfaces trate solutions for plastics automotive coatings provide environmentally comin Plastics, Coatings and Inks, processing — Coloration of plastic patible protection and pass or Adhesives, Agro and Care — Concentrates for functional applications comply with demanding fire sector packaging, medical devices — Applications for conventional safety standards and pharma packaging printing inks, inkjet inks, and —P  erformance Additives: — Protection against moisture electrophotographic toners Performance additive and oxygen in drug packaging — Special applications for e.g., solutions prevent oxidation, — Small lot color plastic comhome and personal care, aludissipate electric charge pounds for the use in automominum, seed coatings, statioaccumulation and improve tive, electrical and electronics nery, viscose, latex and leather heat, light and weather markets resistance C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 93 In addition, a globally growing middle class and the In 2018, Business Unit Masterbatches placed sustainadvance of the Internet of Things further support sales ability at the core of its innovation activities and growth. For example, as demand for electronic devices entered a collaboration with »We are Spindye«, a comfor smarter homes and smarter cars rises, so does pany that colors textiles by dyeing yarn prior to weavdemand for safe flame retardants. ing rather than bathing finished products in color dye. Its innovative process greatly reduces water usage, IDEA TO MARKET water contamination, and energy consumption, making it an effective alternative to conventional dyeing 2. Innovating for a sustainable future and a promising pathway for the textile industry to In 2018, Business Unit Additives made strong progress reduce its environmental footprint. Another major in transforming to a more market-driven organization innovation project for this Business Unit was the by advancing innovation and sustainability collaboradevelopment of oxygen barrier technologies for polytions with its customers. This was supported by ethylene terephthalate (PET) and polyolefins, both of intense technical consultation and development to which are used in food packaging. The technology is address new technical requirements in markets expected to prolong shelf life of packaged products affected by digitalization, such as solutions for smarter and reduce food waste. homes, smarter cars, and mobility. Additives increased its offering of EcoTain® products to 32 PAGE 122 and Business Unit Pigments focused its innovation activiexpanded partnerships for more sustainable value ties on increasing product safety and adapting to regchains. One example is the introduction of Licocare® ulatory changes. In addition, to improve the cost RBW, a high-performing lubricant, which is based on structure of the product portfolio, the Business Unit a renewable and non-food-competing by-product of investigated process innovation and examined techthe rice oil production. Another example is the partnologies such as micro reactors and process automanership with Neste, which will result in further possition. This supports growth targets, while simultanebilities to produce additives based on renewable ously increasing sustainability of products and materials. The Business Unit also engaged in the develproduction processes. opment of new additives to substitute for persistent, bio-accumulating, and toxic substances (PBT). Clariant’s MARKET TO CUSTOMER flame retardant product portfolio, already known for being halogen-free, was further strengthened by 3. Launching products successfully improving processability, durability, and electrical In 2018, Business Unit Additives launched the flame properties. Future developments will enable highly retardant Exolit® OP 945, a micronized version suited efficient recycling processes that align with goals of for adhesive layers used, for example, in the electronthe circular economy. ics sector. Due to miniaturization of electronic equipment, these layers have become ever thinner requiring that flame retardants adapt in size as well. Another launch was the 100 % polymer adhesive Licocene® PP 94 B U S I NESS AR EAS — PLAST I C S & COAT I N G S 2502 for mattress construction, which enabled the In 2018, Business Unit Masterbatches attended sevproduction of the first EcoTain®-labeled mattresses. eral industry-specific fairs in order to strengthen cusLicocene® PP 2502 is purer, less energy-consuming, tomer relationships and enable experience of new and can be based on renewable monomers – clear products, and hosted customer days in various counadvantages when comparing the product with contries. Customer feedback solicited through the ventional alternatives. Several new solutions were Clariant 2018 customer survey will also help to conlaunched under the AddWorks® brand, for example, tinuously improve and tailor solutions to customer AddWorks® PKG 906, which enhances post-manufacneeds. turing waste recycling in polyolefin films for packaging. Business Unit Pigments focused on the introduction In order to increase and simplify plastics recycling, of the LMO and strategic key account management Business Unit Masterbatches successfully developed process in 2018. Both will lead to a better understandNear-infrared (NIR) a near-infrared (NIR) transparent black color, which ing of market trends and demands, resulting in more NIR spectroscopy is enhances sorting of black plastic articles in recycling collaborative projects with customers. In addition, used in plastics recycling. plants. Black-colored articles typically blind the NIR Business Unit Pigments offered technical training to Typically, black colored detectors, potentially contaminating waste streams. its customers’ new staff, for which demand was high. plastic blocks NIR and thus hinders the recyThis breakthrough solution helps to solve this problem. cling process. Clariant The 2018 customer satisfaction survey underscored developed a NIR-transBusiness Unit Pigments worked on reformulating pigthe importance of »Technical Services«, which were parent black color to avoid this problem. ment preparation ranges. Tangible outcomes include rated as the second most important buying criterion, future-oriented formulations of Colanyl® 500, right after »Products and Packaging«. For the latter, Hostatint™ 500, and Hostafine® pigment preparations Plastics & Coatings maintained its high satisfaction for decorative and wood coatings, meeting the latest and score of 83 points (2016: 83), while the score for upcoming environmental and application requirements. »Technical Services« decreased slightly to 75 points In Latin America, new tailor-made Agrocer preparations (2016: 77). Overall customer satisfaction reached for seed coloration were launched to fulfill the unmet 76 points (2016: 78), while the Customer Loyalty Index customer need regarding technical performance and scored 80 points (2016: 84). batch-to-batch quality consistency. CUSTOMER TO CASH 4. Engaging with customers Gaining insights into customer demands and expecta5. Securing raw material availability tions is paramount to business success. To acknowlHaving a safe and reliable supply chain is crucial for a edge the importance of marketing and customer relaseamless Customer to Cash process. PAGE 51 In tions, the new Leading Marketing Organization 2018, a supplier dashboard that collects and updates (LMO) has been implemented within Business Area relevant information was introduced, enabling rapid Plastics & Coatings. The LMO strengthens business screening of factors such as price, lead time, environsegment focus with commercial and technical marmental performance indicators, and, if existing, keting. PAGE 49 possible connections to indicators of child labor and conflict minerals. In 2018, Business Unit Additives further strengthened its go-to-market organization by widening its portfolio as well as its technical and marketing capabilities. This resulted in several customer collaborations for joint innovation or sustainability projects. Particularly through collaborations with specifiers along distinctive value chains, new insights were shared and initiatives started in order to find answers to future challenges. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 95 »We increased our market insight and customer intimacy with strong value propositions along sustainability and innovation as well as intense value chain collaborations.« WOLFGANG WANZKE Sustainability Manager Business Unit Additives Availability of raw materials and intermediate prodBusiness Unit Masterbatches started a project to evalucts posed a challenge to Plastics & Coatings in 2018. uate the possibility for customers to place and track Stricter environmental regulations in producing orders online, which will enable customers to receive countries, such as China and India, as well as several regular, real-time updates on the order status. forces majeures led to supply shortages, impacting Clariant’s ability to ensure supply security to customBusiness Unit Pigments initiated project »Clockwork« ers. In order to increase flexibility, Plastics & Coatings in order to improve effectiveness and efficiency of implemented several countermeasures. For example, the end-to-end supply chain, which will lead to optisourcing strategies were expanded to include multimized transparency, reliability, and predictability ple suppliers for the most important raw materials as well as improved inventory levels and lead times. and de-specification of raw materials was advanced, enabling Plastics & Coatings to use alternative feed7. Ensuring safe operations stock for some products and reduce dependence on Plastics & Coatings is committed to protecting other raw materials. employee safety, health, and well-being and aspires to the company-wide goal of zero accidents. Within the 6. Increasing reliability of the operational chain Avoiding Accidents program, managers and employMarket dynamics require continuous improvement of ees are trained to optimize safety behavior and culthe operational chain as well as reductions in delivery ture to reduce accidents that cannot be eliminated time. Plastics & Coatings worked on several measures technically. PAGE 140 83 in 2018 to advance these topics. Business Unit Additives invested in expansions of existing plants as well as the commissioning of two new plants in China. Supply chain upgrades included capability building and process enhancements regarding planning, logistics, and communication. In addition, new digital tools were evaluated to improve processing and information flow. Plastics & Coatings maintained a high satisfaction score of 83 points in the category »Products and Packaging« of the customer satisfaction survey 2018. 96 B U S I NESS AR EAS — PLAST I C S & COAT I N G S »The key challenge is that the industry needs to connect along the value chain to develop tangible solutions adressing various circular economy topics.« JOCHEN AHRENS Head of Global Marketing & Innovation Business Unit Masterbatches Business Unit Additives has intensified its awareness All European facilities of Business Unit Additives are program with behavioral training, safety checks, and certified with the Energy Management system ISO accident avoidance projects. By implementing and 50001. Plants to be commissioned and built outside of providing management support for a stringent safety Europe will be certified in due course. Specially focus in all plants, Business Unit Masterbatches trained energy managers drive energy efficiency significantly improved safety performance in recent enhancement projects, waste avoidance, closed-loop years, which shows in the stark decline of the Lost manufacturing, and carbon footprint reduction. Time Accident Rate (LTAR) of 4.6 in 2008 to 0.11 in 2018. In the future, local, regional, and global stanBusiness Unit Masterbatches applies three layers of dards will be harmonized in order to apply the strictenvironmental protection. First, strict compliance est safety regulations across all operations. Business with all local regulations, laws, and permits of the Unit Pigments implemented site-specific programs to production sites is ensured. Second, Clariant’s ESHA improve overall accident and incident rates, e.g., guidelines, which typically go beyond local regulaphysical exercises to improve overall fitness and body tions, are followed at all sites. Third, all production awareness in Suzano, Brazil, and Shizuoka, Japan, or sites operate along ISO 9001/14001 standards. awareness trainings regarding walking, ascending and descending stairs, stumbling in Höchst, Germany, Within Business Unit Pigments, numerous projects to near miss recording, analysis and deduction of spesave energy, reduce waste, and use chemicals in a cific measures in all sites. Additional refresher trainmore efficient and sustainable way are being conducted. ing such as the Clariant Safe Behavior Training These projects are part of Clariant’s long-term (CSBT) as well as Safety Moments at the beginning of oriented excellence programs such as the Production each meeting and the Avoiding Accidents at Clariant System Yield, Energy, Environment (YEE) and Program further raise awareness among employees. Clariant Production System (CPS). 8. Improving environmental performance Plastics & Coatings is focused on achieving Clariant’s Environmental, Safety and Health (ESH) targets. PAGE 160 Production processes and workflows are constantly reviewed and optimized for improved environmental performance. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 97 Targets 2021 steered for absolute EBITDA and cash flow ^ global GDP = generation Growth potential per year Performance INPUT OUTPUT 1.4 % 1 149 2 703 1% R&D spend of sales Raw material procured in CHF m Sales in CHF m Growth in local currencies > 105 62 15.2 % 0.36 1 Active innovation projects Production sites EBITDA margin before Production volume in m t exceptional items 15 305 Number of raw materials procured People INPUT OUTPUT 28 459 4 746 6 793 Training hours Raw material suppliers Staff in FTE at year end (2017: 6 759) Planet INPUT OUTPUT 952 48 774 2 2 2 Waste in thousand t Greenhouse gas emissions Energy consumption in m kWh in kg/t production Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital 1  or 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting scope, F which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. Relationship capital Natural capital 2 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The Human capital last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 98 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — PR O D UC T ST E WA R DS H I P/SU STA IN A B LE CHEMIST RY Product Stewardship/Sustainable Chemistry Why Does It Pay to Focus on Sustain­ability? Sustainability is a pillar of Clariant's business strategy. Substantiating and quantifying claims about how a certain product helps customers perform more sustainably is a key. It's not always straighforward, however. With EcoTain®, Clariant has taken out the guess work. Not only about the environmental and social benefits of products, but also their economic impact and the shift in customer demand. Lynette Chung As Head of Corporate Sustainability Strategy & Advocacy at Clariant, Lynette helps businesses better promote and market sustainable products. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 99 Isolde Bachert As Head of Research & Development at Follmann, Isolde works on ways to measure and promote sustainability benefits across Follmann’s portfolio. 100 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — PR O D UC T ST E WA R DS H I P/SU STA IN A B LE CHEMIST RY Lynette, how would you describe EcoTain® to the uninitiated? The short answer: It’s Clariant’s brand for products and solutions that have outstanding sustainability advantages, don’t compromise on performance, and benefit customers, the value chain, and society as a whole. What’s the long answer? EcoTain® is a way to distinguish our sustainability ­offering from the mainstream. It sets an ambitious benchHow many products carry the EcoTain® label? mark for our aspirations. Each product carrying the As we speak, we have 193 EcoTain® products. EcoTain® EcoTain® label has undergone a systematic, in-depth products exist in all of our Business Units. screening process using 36 criteria, which consider the overall product life cycle and value chain. The criteria Do you track how well EcoTain® products are are forward looking, developed and tested with customdoing economically? ers, NGOs and other stakeholder groups, establishing a Absolutely! That’s one of the big questions. What kind solid approach. Only exceptional products that signifiof value are they adding – apart from, of course, the cantly exceed market standards, with a best-in-class environmental and societal contribution? performance in one or several of the 36 criteria, are awarded the EcoTain® label by the corporate EcoTain® And what are you seeing? panel that scrutinizes each application. Sales in our EcoTain® products overall are growing ­significantly faster than the rest of our portfolio, at a EcoTain® as a company-wide label was born in double-digit growth rate, which is excellent. In addi2015. Why does it make sense to have a universal tion, margins for EcoTain® products are typically stronset of criteria across so many different products ger. The higher growth rates and profitability clearly and markets? demonstrate the business case for sustainability. It helps to have a common understanding of what sustainability really means at the product level in the comWhat does that tell you? pany. There are always broad claims in every market It tells us that markets really are shifting towards more about what is a sustainable solution and what isn’t. Using sustainable solutions. And we have an opportunity to the same criteria across the board lets us validate and use sustainability as a driver for innovation and in marquantify our claims. This is very important in order to keting. have a strong, credible brand that customers but also we ourselves can relate to. That’s something our Business Were there doubts about that? Units appreciate. Maybe not doubts. We all believe that markets are shifting and are increasingly sensitive to sustainability, Has this common understanding changed the disbut having done this exercise and having actual proof of cussion about sustainability within the company? how it’s affecting our bottom line is very rewarding It has. Our Business Units and their markets face differand convincing. ent requirements and challenges. But lately, we’ve seen an overall shift that’s not just due to our corporate focus Have you seen other kinds of recognition? on sustainability – it is more businessand market-­ We’ve received a few awards and great feedback on our driven. Having a sustainability brand, ensures visibility approach from stakeholders, such as NGOs, policy-­ of our efforts in the market place. Internally, it drives makers, and peers. The greatest and most recent recogprogress as it also creates internal competition. Our nition comes from some customers that have asked to Business Units take pride in having an EcoTain® portfohighlight the EcoTain® ingredients in their own prodlio and growing it. We now also systematically use ucts with the EcoTain® label. This is tremendous! But I our sustainability criteria in screening major Research think we’re still not quite where we want to be. There’s & Development projects. still some way to go in promoting EcoTain®, advocating change, policy and market shifts to bring more customers and markets with us on our sustainability journey. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 101 Who benefits from labeling sustainable products? LYNETTE CHUNG Head of Sustainability Strategy & Advocacy, Clariant 102 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — PR O D UC T ST E WA R DS H I P/SU STA IN A B LE CHEMIST RY What helps to market sustainability? ISOLDE BACHERT Director Research & Development, Follmann C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 103 compounds that you’d have to collect and burn off. There were times when nobody cared too much whether that added a little to the overall carbon footprint. Those times are over. EcoTain® uses a methodology to quantify these kinds of benefits. What’s special about that? Clariant was the first supplier to come to us with the idea. I like that they use a wide range of criteria that are near and dear to our customers. Also, EcoTain® doesn’t just look at a product by itself. Instead, it analyzes the specific application and how that measures up to common alternatives. That helps make a convincing arguIsolde, you manage Research & Development ment for our solution. Additionally, applying that same at Follmann. What’s your relationship to Clariant methodology across our whole portfolio helps us see as a supplier? which products are set to do well and which might face They supply some of our most essential materials, but problems when regulations or customer demands not only that. We’ve come to value them for their innointensify. vative products and the way we work together on a technical level. It’s a great partnership – one that we’re What are some of your products that carry the expanding. EcoTain® label? One is a glue that’s used in book binding. Its main ingreYou’re talking about plans to jointly promote the dient is an EcoTain® product that’s based on renewable Clariant EcoTain® label. What’s the idea behind materials. Another product like this goes into glues for that? cardboard packaging. Sustainability has been a defining trend for us and our industry for some time. But recently, what our customAnd does Follmann plan to further apply the ers ask from us has become a lot more specific. Deliver­EcoTain® methodology? ing quantifiable benefits in terms of sustainability now The first step is to look for products that rely or could is a big selling point for us. That’s something the rely on EcoTain® materials. But then we expand this EcoTain® label helps us with. view and look to apply the same criteria to other products and ingredients. In the end, we’ll want to quantify Who is driving this trend? how well our products address what is most important Consumers are the driving force. Follmann specializes to our customers – be it renewable materials, CO₂ in printing inks, coatings, and adhesives. So while conreduction, energy savings, water use, or whatever. That sumers aren’t our direct customers, we deal with congoes for our current portfolio as well as innovation, sumer goods companies, the packaging industry, and whenever we’re evaluating if an R&D project is worth furniture manufacturers. Printing and bookbinding are pursuing. also big markets for our inks and adhesives. All these industries face a certain amount of consumer pressure Will you be making use of the EcoTain® in terms of sustainability. Initially, that was all about methodology with other suppliers? energy consumption and CO₂ emissions, but companies Absolutely. But that’s along the lines of what we’re seeare increasingly taking other factors into account. Many ing already. Our customers ask more and more detailed companies made big commitments to using only renewquestions about what goes into our products. A supplier able materials. that can’t or won’t help us answer those questions won’t be a supplier for long. How big is that impact though, when there’s just so little ink on a piece of packaging? It might be small in comparison, but it adds up. Take our water-based inks. They replace the need for organic solvents. That way the drying process doesn’t emit organic 104 R EV I EW Multicapital Review Organized along Clariant’s brand values Performance, People, and Planet, the »Multi­ capital review« presents Clariant’s progress during the reporting year on the topics deemed material for the company’s longterm business success. Key performance indicators covering economic, social, and environmental topics are explained and discussed. 106 Performance 128 Two Perspectives: Who Shapes New Digital Business Models? 134 People 152 Two Perspectives: What Will Our Customers Expect from Us Tomorrow? 158 Planet 166 Two Perspectives: Where Can Chemistry Help Close the Plastics Loop? C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 105 By drawing on a multitude of tangible and intangible, financial and non-financial resources, Clariant creates value for all its stakeholders. Six different capitals – financial, intellectual, manufactured, human, relationship, and natural – are all considered in balancing business perfor­ mance, social interests, and environmental ­stewardship. Clariant categorizes the six capitals under the brand values Performance, People, and Planet. Performance Planet Within Performance, Clariant combines financial, intelWithin Planet, Clariant reports on natural capital. This lectual, and manufactured capital. In addition to finanincludes the progress Clariant made on its ambitious cial performance, progress is outlined on the topics of environmental targets and on topics related to environinnovation and technological advances, digitalization, mental stewardship, such as safeguarding resources, product stewardship and sustainable chemistry, promitigating climate change, and promoting the transition curement, and production. to a circular economy. People Within People, Clariant combines human and relationship capital. Employee-related topics such as talent attraction and development, employee engagement, and occupational health, safety, and well-being are grouped under human capital. The topics regarding customers, policy-makers, suppliers, and society at large are discussed within relationship capital. 106 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E Performance Performance – Clariant’s first brand value – encompasses value creation The EBITDA before exceptional items rose by 5 % in regarding financial, intellectual, and manufactured capital. By reporting Swiss francs and reached CHF 1 018 million, compared achievements in the fields of innovation and technological advances, to CHF 974 million in the previous year. The corresponddigitalization, product stewardship and sustainable chemistry, procure­ ing EBITDA margin before exceptional items advanced ment, and production, Clariant broadens its review of results beyond to 15.4 %. The profitability improvement was attributfinancial performance, underscoring its holistic understanding of value able to the positive growth in Care Chemicals and Catalysis. creation. In 2018, operating cash flow increased significantly by 1. Financial Capital 24 % to CHF 530 million from CHF 428 million in the In 2018, Clariant increased its sales, profitability, and prior year. This increase is due to the improved absolute operating cash flow, thus achieving higher sales and EBITDA and net working capital management. profitability levels, in line with the Group’s positive outGRI look. 1.2. Profit and financial situation GRI Online Report 1.1. Business performance summary for 2018 KEY FIGURES in CHF m Management Approach Clariant reported Group sales of CHF 6 623 million in Growth and Profitability 2018 compared to CHF 6 377 million in 2017. This corre2018 2017 Change in % reports.clariant.com/ sponds to 5 % growth in local currency and 4 % growth Sales 6 623 6 377 4 2018/gri in Swiss francs, which was supported by both higher volGross profit on sales 1 933 1 902 2 umes and pricing. The 5 % organic growth in local curEBITDA 1 1 018 974 5 rency was supported by positive contributions from all EBITDA margin 1 (%) 15.4 15.3 – Business Areas. EBITDA 2 871 813 7 EBITDA margin 2 (%) 13.2 12.7 – All regions contributed to the sales growth in local curEBIT 1 693 673 3 rency. The expansion was most pronounced in Latin EBIT Margin 1 (%) 10.5 10.6 – America. Sales in Asia also increased, bolstered by a parEBIT 546 496 10 ticularly positive development in China and India. Sales Income before taxes 465 437 6 in North America continued to grow despite the strong Net income 356 302 18 expansion during the same time period in 2017. In Basic earnings per share (CHF/share) 1.02 0.84 21 Europe and the Middle East & Africa, sales advanced in Adjusted earnings per single digits. A slowdown was observed in some markets share 1.50 1.47 2 in the last quarter. 1 before exceptional items 2 after exceptional items C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 107 1.2.1. Continued sales growth attributable to all SALES BY BUSINESS AREA in CHF m Business Areas Change Change in 2018 2017 in % LC 1 in % In 2018, Group sales rose by 5 % in local currency and Care Chemicals 1 665 1 575 6 7 4 % in Swiss francs against the previous year to Catalysis 861 767 12 11 CHF 6 623 million (2017: CHF 6 377 million). The impact Natural Resources 1 394 1 357 3 8 of the full consolidation of the joint venture in India Plastics & Coatings 2 703 2 678 1 1 as of 1 April 2017 only had an impact in the first quarter Group Total 6 623 6 377 4 5 of 2018. The organic sales growth persisted at a high level throughout the entire year driven by increases in all 1 LC = Local currency Business Areas. Sales were driven by 2 % volume growth and by a 3 % price increase. Organic sales increased by a strong 5 % in local currency for the year. 1.2.1.1. Sales progression driven by all Business Areas 001 SALES BY REGION in CHF m Sales in the Business Area Care Chemicals improved by 7 % in local currency (6 % in Swiss francs). The notable 2 322 (+ 2 %) Europe sales development was supported by both the Consumer Care and the Industrial Applications businesses. In 1 295 (+ 5 %) North America Catalysis, sales grew by 11 % in local currency (12 % in Swiss francs), with an excellent organic sales expansion of 8 % 6 623 481 (+ 2 %) MEA 1 in local currency. This improvement was driven, in par775 (+ 12 %) Latin ticular, by higher Syngas demand. Natural Resources America sales advanced by 8 % in local currency (3 % in Swiss francs). The Oil & Mining Services business exhibited 1 750 (+ 7 %) AsiaPacific double-digit sales growth in local currency, despite the 1 Middle East & Africa continuingly challenging market trend in the oil business. Sales in Functional Minerals continued to grow 002 COST STRUCTURE BY CURRENCIES 2018 in % solidly at a single-digit rate in local currency. In Plastics & 39 (Euro) Coatings, sales expanded by 1 % in local currency (1 % in 16 (LC 1 Emerging Swiss francs), against a very strong comparable base. markets) 3 (Japanese yen) 42 (US dollar) 0 (Swiss franc) 1 LC = Local currency 108 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E 15.4Clariant’s EBITDA margin before exceptional items rose to 15.4 %. 1.2.1.2. Positive absolute EBITDA momentum The improvement in the EBITDA margin before excepcontinues in 2018 tional items was primarily attributable to higher profitClariant’s gross margin softened slightly from 29.8 % in ability in Care Chemicals, reflecting the top-line sales 2017 to 29.2 % in 2018. This development is largely the improvement, operating leverage, and an improved result of a less favorable product mix. product mix. In Plastics & Coatings, the favorable progression was mainly attributable to Additives and The EBITDA before exceptional items rose by 5 % in Masterbatches and some income from Stahl. As anticiSwiss francs and reached CHF 1 018 million compared pated, the slightly lower EBITDA margin before excepto CHF 974 million in the previous year. The corretional items in Catalysis was due to the change in sponding EBITDA margin before exceptional items product mix. The EBITDA margin decline in Natural rose by 10 basis points from 15.3 % to 15.4 %. Resources largely resulted from the unabated price consciousness of the oil market throughout the year as The increase in absolute EBITDA before exceptional well as a lower contribution from Functional Minerals’ items reflects the enhanced profitability in most Business Purification business compared to the previous year. Areas, with the most pronounced improvement in Care Chemicals at 9 % in Swiss francs and 6 % in Plastics & EBITDA 1 MARGIN BY BUSINESS AREA in % Coatings. In Catalysis, EBITDA before exceptional items 2018 2017 increased by 1 % in Swiss francs while in Natural Resources Care Chemicals 19.0 18.4 the absolute profitability was 14 % lower. Catalysis 23.1 25.8 Natural Resources 12.8 15.3 EBITDA 1 BY BUSINESS AREA in CHF m Plastics & Coatings 15.2 14.5 2018 2017 Change in % Group Total 15.4 15.3 Care Chemicals 316 290 9 1 before exceptional items Catalysis 199 198 1 Natural Resources 179 207 – 14 Plastics & Coatings 412 388 6 Clariant’s exceptional items in 2018 amounted to CHF 147 Group Total 2 1 018 974 5 million (2017: CHF 161 million). Restructuring, impairment, and transaction related costs (CHF 93 million) 1 before exceptional items 2 includes corporate costs of CHF 88 m in 2018 and CHF 109 m in 2017 include costs for efficiency programs that were initiated to further streamline business processes (CHF 14 million), and transaction related costs (CHF 79 million). Exceptional items also include a loss from the disposal of activities (CHF 54 million). C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 109 In 2018, the operating income (EBIT) increased to CHF 1.2.1.4. Long-term structured maturity profile 546 million (2017: CHF 496 million) as a result of the secures solid liquidity structure Group’s improved profitability but also due to lower In the year 2018, Clariant’s financing structure persisted exceptional items. at a very sound level. The Group maintains a broadly diversified maturity structure of financial liabilities with Income before taxes increased to CHF 465 million a long-term focus reaching until 2028. This funding (2017: CHF 437 million) and the net income after taxes has been secured at favorable terms. rose by 18 % to CHF 356 million (2017: CHF 302 million), supported by the continued expansion in absolute Current financial debts decreased to CHF 529 million at EBITDA as well as lower one-off costs and a lower the end of December 2018 from CHF 567 million at the effective tax rate. end of December 2017. With regard to the performance in 2018, Clariant’s On 25 September 2018, four certificates of indebtedness Board of Directors has decided to propose an increased were issued with a total amount of EUR 265 million distribution of CHF 0.55 per share for 2018 to the gen(CHF 300 million). eral assembly. The corresponding proposal will be presented at the 24th Annual General Meeting on 1 April 1.2.1.5. Operating cash flow boosted by working 2019. capital development and lower one-off costs Cash flow before changes in net working capital 1.2.1.3. Continued solid balance sheet rose to CHF 802 million from CHF 759 million As of 31 December 2018, total assets decreased to CHF in the previous year. 7 981 million from CHF 8 229 million at the end of 2017 mainly due to the decrease in current assets driven by Changes in net working capital, including provisions, lower trade receivables. amounted to CHF – 55 million in 2018 (2017: CHF – 230 million). The ratio of net working capital Net debt decreased to CHF 1 374 million at the end of to sales decreased from 20.1 % to 17.3 %. December 2018, compared to CHF 1 539 million at the end of 2017. This figure includes current and non-curCash flow from operating activities increased to Operating cash flow rent financial debts, cash and cash equivalents, shortCHF 530 million compared to CHF 428 million in the Cash flow from operatterm deposits, and financial instruments with positive previous year due to the improved absolute EBITDA ing activities increased to CHF 530 million. fair values reported under other current assets. and net working capital management. 110 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E 003 DEBT MATURITY PROFILE PER 31 DECEMBER 2018 in CHF m Liquidity Headroom Maturities of Financial Debt 866 7 Derivatives 1 529 1 Derivatives 243 Short-term loans & other liabilities 859 Cash and short-term 410 deposits 2 Loans & other liabilities 344 9 Loans & other liabilities 298 1 272 Loans & Certificates of other 265 indebtedness USD liabilities 1 Derivatives 408 63 104 CertifiCertificates of Certificates cates of indebtedness EUR of indebtedIndebtness EUR 175 Certificates of edness 174 CHF indebtedness EUR EUR Bond 297 Certifi285 cates of CHF indebtBond edness EUR 160 CertifiCHF cates of 19 10 Bond indebtCertificates Loans & edness of indebtedother EUR ness EUR 29 liabilities 16 Cash 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2028 1 Financial instruments with positive fair values reported under other current assets C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 111 004 CASH FLOW 2018 in CHF m Cash flow from investing activities declined to CHF – 132 million (2017: CHF 65 million). There were 900 871 – 286 no notable acquisitions in 2018 or 2017 and capital 800 expenditures decreased to CHF 237 million (2017: CHF 700 248 million). Free cash flow, which equates to operating – 55 600 530 cash flow after capital expenditures and investments in 500 intangible assets, increased to CHF 273 million (2017: 400 CHF 149 million). 300 200 Net cash flow after investing and financing activities was 100 positive by CHF 132 million (2017: CHF – 342 million). EBITDA Other cash items Change in Cash flow This allowed to further reduce the net debt of the Group. (taxes, etc.) working capital, from operat­ing incl. provisions activities EXTRACT OF CASH FLOW STATEMENT in CHF m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net Income 356 302 Reversals of non-cash items 438 452 Cash flow before changes in net working capital and provisions 802 759 Operating cash flow 530 428 Cash flow from investing activities – 132 65 Cash flow from financing activities – 246 – 826 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 132 – 342 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 701 1 043 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 833 701 112 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E 1.2.2. Business Areas ingredients each targeting different hair issues: Genadvance® Life – for thin hair, Genadvance® Repair – 1.2.2.1. Care Chemicals for damaged hair, and Genadvance® Hydra – for dry hair. Genadvance® Hydra, e.g., is based on an entirely CARE CHEMICALS KEY FIGURES in CHF m naturally derived, ethically sourced ingredient, that is 2018 2017 biodegradable 2 – 3 times faster than traditional prodSales 1 665 1 575 ucts. This product thus not only meets the market’s EBITDA before exceptional items 316 290 rising focus on naturality as well as safety and health, Margin (%) 19.0 18.4 but also the demand for more recyclable, sustainable EBIT before exceptional items 253 230 application formats and products made from renewable Margin (%) 15.2 14.6 sources, while not compromising, and in some cases Full time equivalent (FTE) 2 541 2 582 even improving, the performance. 1.2.2.2. Catalysis Care Chemicals sales grew by 7 % in local currency and 6 % in Swiss francs. Both Consumer Care and Industrial CATALYSIS KEY FIGURES in CHF m Applications delivered solid growth, which was sup2018 2017 ported by positive contributions from all three Consumer Sales 861 767 Care Business Lines and most Industrial Applications EBITDA before exceptional items 199 198 businesses. Margin (%) 23.1 25.8 EBIT before exceptional items 125 135 Most regions achieved good sales growth in local currency Margin (%) 14.5 17.6 with North America and Asia advancing at double-digit Full time equivalent (FTE) 2 061 1 970 rates, Latin America and Europe in single digits. Sales in the Middle East & Africa, the smallest region, reflected a negative growth. In 2018, sales in Catalysis rose by 11 % in local currency and 12 % in Swiss francs. The strong organic sales The EBITDA margin before exceptional items increased expansion of 8 % in local currency was primarily attribto 19.0 % from 18.4 % in 2017 primarily as a result of the utable to Syngas but also due to good progression in good top-line growth, operational leverage, and an Specialty Catalysts. improved favorable product mix. Consumers are increasingly looking for personalized products based on natural ingredients. Clariant’s Genadvance® range of forward-looking hair care technologies consists of three silicon-free hair conditioning C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 113 The solid sales development benefited from good In 2018, the EBITDA margin before exceptional items demand in Asia, the Middle East & Africa, and Latin declined to 12.8 % year-on-year. This largely resulted America while sales in Europe and North America from the persistent price consciousness of the oil marremained comparatively volatile throughout the year. ket as well as a lower contribution from Functional Minerals’ Purification business compared to the previThe EBITDA margin before exceptional items decreased ous year. to 23.1 % from 25.8 % in 2017 mainly as a reflection of the product mix, which remained largely unchanged The Oil & Mining Services activities address the throughout the year. The proportionally higher sales increasing requirement for intelligent electronics with from Syngas compared to last year and the ramp-up in the VERITRAX™ real-time chemical management Biofuels & Derivatives had a dampening effect on the ­system. VERITRAX™ turns data into actionable informargin. mation that is key to maintaining production and improving operational efficiency and reliability. Clariant offers a process to remove high levels of NOx Functional Minerals’ Purification business for edible from the air with its EnviCat® NOx SCR catalyst. NOx is oils addresses the nutritional demand linked to the the product of fossil fuel combustion and industrial growing population and higher standards of living, processes. It also contributes to the formation of smog, while the low emissions technology for the foundry ground level ozone, acid rain, and other hazards. Air industry focuses on and anticipates the intensification purification catalysts such as EnviCat® therefore meet of regulations and sustainability. the market’s rising focus on safety and health. Furthermore, Clariant’s emphasis on resource efficiency 1.2.2.4. Plastics & Coatings and sustainability in tandem with future regulations is reflected in the progress made on the construction PLASTICS & COATINGS KEY FIGURES in CHF m of the first large-scale commercial sunliquid® plant in 2018 2017 Romania for the production of cellulosic ethanol. Sales 2 703 2 678 EBITDA before exceptional items 412 388 1.2.2.3. Natural Resources Margin (%) 15.2 14.5 EBIT before exceptional items 332 310 NATURAL RESOURCES KEY FIGURES in CHF m Margin (%) 12.3 11.6 2018 2017 Full time equivalent (FTE) 6 793 6 759 Sales 1 394 1 357 EBITDA before exceptional items 179 207 Margin (%) 12.8 15.3 The Plastics & Coatings Business Area increased sales EBIT before exceptional items 118 148 by 1 % in local currency and in Swiss francs in 2018. Margin (%) 8.5 10.9 Full time equivalent (FTE) 3 276 3 454 In Masterbatches, the sales growth in local currency was underpinned by increased demand in Latin America and Asia. Sales increased mainly in Consumer Goods and Sales in Natural Resources increased by 8 % in local Automotive. Moreover, Healthcare Packaging also currency and by 3 % in Swiss francs. reported an attractive sales development in 2018. Sales in Pigments remained flat, but still grew in Latin AmerThe Oil & Mining Services business exhibited double-­ ica and Asia driven by China and Japan. On a Business digit sales growth in local currency in a slowly improving Line level, Coatings and Plastics reported continued environment. Sales in Functional Minerals grew at a sales growth. Additives sales remained very strong, supsingle-digit rate in local currency, primarily driven by ported by all Business Lines and also by solid demand the Foundry business. in almost all regions, North America, China, and Europe in particular. 114 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E 412 EBITDA before exceptional items in the Business Area Plastics & Coatings rose by 6 % to CHF 412 million. The EBITDA before exceptional items in absolute value By 2021, Clariant intends to achieve above market rose by 6 % in Swiss francs to CHF 412 million despite a growth, higher profitability, and stronger cash generation. strong previous year. The profitability improvement was primarily attributable to Additives and Masterbatches 1.4. Stock market 2018 and some income from Stahl. 1.4.1. Clariant share price development 2018 Additives develops products such as halogen-free flame After a strong increase in 2017, the share price developretardants, which are patented and provide environmenment in 2018 generally followed the market trends and tally compatible protection compliant with the demandwas impacted by corporate announcements and ing fire safety standards. In addition, Healthcare Packagchanges in the shareholder structure. ing offerings include desiccant canisters that contain sorbent components that help maintain drug stability At the beginning of January 2018, the share price traded and prolong shelf life inside Healthcare Packaging in the range of CHF 26.07 to CHF 29.38 amid break-up containers. speculations along with White Tale’s request for a strategic review of Clariant. On 25 January 2018, SABIC 1.3. Outlook 2021 purchased the 24.99 % stake from White Tale, which prompted some analysts to adjust their valuation to a 1.3.1. Above market growth, higher profitability, stand-alone basis (no M&A or break-up premium) and and stronger cash generation to reflect the fact that White Tale considerations were Clariant is a focused and innovative specialty chemical no longer relevant. On the announcement day of the company. We aim to provide more than just customer-­ change in main shareholder, the share price dropped oriented products. We strive to provide the best customer from CHF 28.38 to CHF 26.07. experience and fast, reliable customer fulfillment in the industry by setting the right priorities. On 13 February 2019, Clariant released the full year 2018 results and the guidance for 2021. The results were in Our aim is to make our customers more successful. We line with market expectations and analyst recommentherefore constantly focus on timely and rewarding dations remained largely unchanged, so that the innovations, products that are difficult to imitate, susClariant share price remained largely stable. tainability, agility, and ethical practices. We will only be satisfied with the highest level of excellence in every function within the Group. Our success will be realized through the execution of our strategy. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 115 In March and at the beginning of April 2018, the global 005 CLARIANT SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER 2018 in CHF stock markets vacillated between gains and losses based 30 upon the debate between the U.S. and China on the 28 potential introduction of tariffs. The Clariant share price 27.25 26 decreased during this period to a low point of CHF 24 22.33, in line with the chemical sector. The price recov22 ered amid an improved market sentiment as investors 20 focused on the start of the first quarter reporting sea18 18.09 son. Some analysts reduced their target prices based on 16 expectations of a slower EBITDA development in 2018. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec The Clariant share price declined due to the slight EBITDA margin miss (20 bps versus consensus) in the During October 2018, the Clariant share price dropped due first quarter results. This weakness was in line with to general market concerns on the global economy, targlobal stock markets and the chemical sector, which iffs, supply chain issues, and raw material prices, which was impacted by the oil price trend and the continued lead to a sell-off in the market. trade tensions between China and U.S. The overall perception of Clariant remained positive On 25 July 2018, the first half year 2018 results came in despite slightly lower than anticipated third quarter slightly below consensus, which was somewhat disapsales and a somewhat softer economic outlook for 2018, pointed by the further margin decline in the Natural published on 31 October 2018. The share price increased Resources Business Area and lower than expected cash from CHF 21.09 to CHF 21.71 on the reporting day. flow generation. The share price declined from CHF Clariant’s results were broadly in line with the trend 23.82 to CHF 23.10 on the reporting day; however, it seen in the chemical sector. began to recover again the following day. In November 2018, the disappointing earnings season The Clariant share price, along with the market in genand other geopolitical risks put pressure on markets, eral, was weighed down by the dampened market sentiwhich also had a negative impact on the Clariant share ment amid concerns over a Turkish currency crisis in price development. August. On 18 September 2018, the financial market initially reacted positively to the announcement of Clariant’s strategy update and the Governance Agreement, with the share price increasing from CHF 24.04 to CHF 25.93. 116 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E The Clariant share price came under pressure in DecemIDEA TO MARKET ber 2018 in tandem with the chemical market and the Swiss stock indexes and closed the year at CHF 18.09. 2. Intellectual Capital With a strong focus on innovation and digital transClariant has also been included in a number of notable formation, Clariant successfully expanded its intellecindexes such as the MSCI Equity Switzerland Index. tual capital in 2018. While managing its patents and Clariant has also been part of the Swiss Performance trademarks, active innovation projects, and promising Dow Jones Index Select Dividend 20 Index basket since 2017. This scientific collaborations, Clariant developed new Sustainability Index basket consists of the top dividend delivering Swiss digital products and services and implemented projects For the sixth consecustocks. Both these achievements are confirmation of the to improve operational efficiency via digitalization. tive year, Clariant success of Clariant’s strategy and its positive perforwas included in the renowned Dow mance result. OVERVIEW INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Jones Sustainability 2018 2017 Change in % Index. The company The inclusion of Clariant in the Dow Jones Sustainabil­ Patents (year end) 6 700 6 600 1.5 also received a Silver distinction in the ity Index, SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25®, FTSETrademarks (year end) 8 900 8 300 7.2 RobecoSAM yearbook. 4Good Index Series, Euronext Vigeo Eiris Indices, and Active innovation projects > 375 > 370 – Ethibel Sustainability Indices (ESI) also reflects the Of which Class 1 Procontinued progress made in various fields of sustainjects with double-digit million sales potential or ability as well as the outstanding, solid performance of strategic relevance > 70 > 65 – that has been achieved in economic, environmental, and Scientific collaborations > 125 > 125 – GRI social dimensions. GRI Online Report 1.4.2. Dividend payment 2.1. Innovation and Technological Advances Management Approach Clariant aims to increase or at least maintain dividends. Clariant achieves its growth targets by developing Innovation and Since 2013, Clariant increased the dividend by an averinnovative and sustainable products based on state-­ Technological Advances age of 9 % per annum. The continued improvement in of-the-art technologies. In 2018, Clariant grew over 3 % reports.clariant.com/ 2018/gri performance allows the Board of Directors of Clariant through innovation projects, surpassing its 2 – 3 % Ltd to propose a dividend distribution of CHF 0.55 per target and realizing 1 – 2 % sales growth from Top Line share for the 2018 financial year at the Annual General Innovation alone. This increase can mainly be Meeting on 1 April 2019. This proposal reflects an increase attributed to a heightened focus on innovations with of 10 % compared to the previous year. The distribution high value propositions. is proposed to be made from the capital contribution reserve that is exempt from Swiss withholding tax. Research & Development spending in 2018 was CHF 209 million, compared to CHF 211 million in 2017. As a share of sales, R&D spending was 3.2 %, a decrease from 3.3 % in 2017. The higher growth through innovation at slightly reduced R&D expenditures was likely a result of a more efficient and focused R&D organization, which was launched in 2017. The number of active projects in the innovation pipeline increased from over 370 in 2017 to more than 375 in 2018. This was mainly due to the newly introduced innovation formats iEngine and iGarage, and continuous and stringent innovation portfolio management. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 117 3 Clariant achieved more than 3 % growth through innovation. INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES 2.1.1. Accelerate innovation by using High 2018 2017 Change in % Throughput Experimentation (HTE) Growth through In 2018, Clariant mainly aimed to accelerate the innoinnovation (%) 1 > 3.0 2.5 > 20 vation process by exploiting the potential of digitaliResearch & Development expenditures zation. By applying the High Throughput Experimen(CHF m) 209 211 – 0.9 tation (HTE) method, which uses automation, Research & Development expenditures as miniaturization, and parallelization for intelligent share of sales (%) 3.2 3.3 – planning and execution of experiments, the time 1 Includes Top Line Innovation and Life Cycle Innovation. Potential needed to plan, prepare, and screen large numbers of cannibalization of existing sales caused by Life Cycle Innovation is not excluded from the calculation. formulations is reduced significantly compared to traditional methods. Since the experimental sequences State-of-the-art equipment and infrastructure in are operated on small scales, the approach also helps eight R&D centers and over fifty Technical Centers increase resource efficiency. By using intelligent formed the basis for successful innovation. In addidesign tactics, the HTE team can maximize analytical tion, Clariant increased the number of trained innovadata through proper planning and execution in line tion belts from 272 in 2017 to over 290 in 2018 – a key with the Business Units’ needs and project requests. factor in improving the project pipeline and increasThe analyzed data allows Clariant to find correlations ing the number of Class 1 projects (those with a double-­ that would not have been detectable with traditional digit million sales potential) from more than 65 in methods. It can also help develop prediction tools 2017 to over 70 in 2018. that find new digital business models beyond chemical products and thus enable Clariant to become a After Clariant revised its Intellectual Property stratfully integrated solutions provider. Given the effecegy in 2015 and 2016, it abandoned patents that were tiveness of the method, project requests from Busino longer of strategic relevance, leading to an overall ness Units to the existing HTE laboratory in Frankfurt, drop in the number of patents. After this strategy Germany, increased beyond available capacity. To adjustment, the number of patents started growing meet demand, Clariant is further expanding its capacagain in 2017. In 2018, Clariant registered another ity by opening an additional laboratory in the United 100 patents, leading to a total number of 6 700 patents States, which will be operational in early 2019. Further at year end. The number of trademarks increased expansion to Asia is planned for 2020. from 8 300 in 2017 to 8 900 in 2018. This was mainly due to the strong portfolio growth of Business Unit Industrial & Consumer Specialties as well as the enhancement of existing trademarks with non-Latin transcript trademarks to improve trademark protection in Asia. 4 118 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E Clariant launched four iEngine innovation workshop series in 2018. 2.1.2. Lab Excellence Program 2.1.3. New innovation formats spur disruptive To increase the speed and impact of innovation and innovation decrease time to market, Clariant initiated the Lab Finding solutions to unresolved challenges in the Excellence (LabX) program in 2017, which focuses on industry and exploring strategic growth fields beyond Clariant’s entire R&D community. The goal of the the core business also require collaboration and leverinitiative is to streamline work flows within and across aging the potential of Clariant’s workforce. Therefore, laboratories along the entire Idea to Market value the company launched two new innovation formats chain, in order to transform the entire R&D system in 2018, the iEngine and the iGarage. into a lean and agile organization, increase the quality of the research, and boost innovation for Clariant’s iEngine brings together a cross-functional, cross-­ customers. In 2018, the first pilots in the Technology business team in a series of virtual and face-to-face Platforms were completed, leading to an acceleration workshops to collect, prioritize, and refine potential of the examined processes by up to 50 %. The identihigh-quality technology solutions for unmet cusfied improvement measures will be rolled out within tomer needs. The most promising ideas are selected the R&D community. Together with the consequent and pursued in an innovation project. After a 2017 introduction of lean principles in the R&D system, pilot, four additional iEngines were launched in 2018, this will lead to increased speed in innovation, as running on topics across four Business Units and sample cycles are synchronized across application resulting in new Class 1 projects and first feasibility and analytical laboratories, and administrative tasks trials at production scale. are reduced. Moreover, the implementation of an Electronic Lab Notebook across the company will sigiGarage develops strategic innovation growth options nificantly enhance efficiency by digitizing work flows. at the discovery and early incubation stages by applyIn 2019 and beyond, Clariant plans to further expand ing agile, design thinking, and lean start-up methodolLabX throughout the organization in order to ogies to manage uncertainty and drive the development strengthen the lean innovation culture and the conseof customer-centric, macro-trend-derived breakquent innovation performance management. The through innovations outside the current solution space. achieved efficiency improvements are expected to On behalf of Business Units, a team consisting of dedimaterialize in reduced time to market, higher innovacated cross-functional talent and supported by extertion contribution margins (COMA), and hence a nal experts and coaches convenes off-site over three higher overall contribution to Clariant’s EBIT. to six months to explore an opportunity domain and develop business concepts through constant interaction with prospective customers and other partners. With agility and speed, the teams aim to design correC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 119 sponding business models, differentiating value propand unit operations with enlarged operational winositions, viable technical concepts, and build a dows are examples of technical solutions that can be compelling financial plan. The ultimate objective is to systematically designed and optimized with the tolerdevelop a validated innovation to the point where ant processes approach. To drive the development continuous staffing and funding from the sponsoring of tolerant processes further, the research partners Business Unit is secured. In 2018, two pilots of are also initiating a public funding platform via Prothe iGarage were conducted, one with Business Unit cessNet, the German platform for process technology, Industrial & Consumer Specialties PAGE 57 and chemical engineering, and technical chemistry. one on plastics recycling. Moreover, Business Unit Oil & Mining Services conducted the iGarage to develop In collaboration with the China Petroleum Chemical new business concepts for their innovative pour Industry Federation (CPCIF), Clariant organized the point depressants used in oil production. first Clariant Chemistry Day in China in 2018. It facilPAGE 81, PAGE 116 itated in-depth discussions on innovation and sustainability and fostered the exchange between the 2.1.4. Scientific collaborations industrial and academic research sectors. During the In addition to internal collaboration, partnerships event, five young researchers were awarded the with external parties are vital to stimulate innovation. CPCIF-Clariant CleanTech Award, recognizing their In 2018, Clariant engaged in more than 125 scientific achievements in the field of sustainable chemical partnerships, which is comparable to the number in technologies. the previous year. 2.1.5. Open Innovation initiative An example of such a partnership is the collaboration The Open Innovation initiative, managed by New with the Excellence Cluster of the Friedrich-Alexander-­ Business Development, identifies collaboration University in Erlangen-Nuremberg. The goal of the partners ranging from large corporations to start-­ups, collaboration is to explore new ways to achieve highly universities, and other research institutions, thus tolerant and flexible production processes that can supporting the Business Units in connecting with deal with various internal and external impacts on external partners around the world. Open Innovation plant operation, such as variations in feedstock comis increasingly focusing on Asia, as local technologies position or energy fluctuations over the asset life present attractive market-specific growth opportunities cycle. Modular plants, multifunctional equipment, with sustainability as a dominant theme. In 2018, more than 300 technology proposals were introduced to the Business Units for consideration. 120 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E To further build on regional needs regarding sustain2.1.6. Sustainability screenings ability, the 2018 Sustainability Trend Meeting was Sustainability is an integral part of the innovation held in Shanghai. Multiple Business Units, as well as process and a fundamental prerequisite for all new New Business Development and Corporate Sustainmajor product developments. Corporate Sustainabilability and Regulatory Affairs (CSRA), gathered to ity Assessments, as defined under Clariant’s Portfolio identify innovative business opportunities that address Value Program (PVP), known as PVP screenings, are significant sustainability challenges through innovathus systematically carried out not only for the entire tion. The technology challenges relating to these new product portfolio but also for Clariant’s innovation GRI opportunities will be sourced via the Open Innovaproject pipeline PAGE 122 tion initiative. GRI Online Report 2.2. Digitalization Management Approach In 2018, Open Innovation launched the »Chinese Digitalization Innovation for China Market« program, encouraging 2.2.1. A two-way approach reports.clariant.com/ Clariant’s Business Units to explore technologies Clariant considers digitalization an opportunity that 2018/gri that help meet local market needs in China. The Busiis best tackled in two ways. First, Clariant includes all ness Units are supported by external technology existing Business and Services Units – including IT – in scouts, which use big data analytics and artificial intela continuous effort to transition its business into the ligence to find the most promising local innovations. digital age. In 2018, all organizational units assessed and realized opportunities to digitally upgrade proUnder the umbrella of the Open Innovation initiative, cesses and products in their area of expertise and, Clariant also introduced a »Pitch Day« to provide where necessary, recruited digitally skilled talents. In selected technology providers an opportunity to pitch addition, the implementation of the »Leading Martheir technology directly to Business Units. Business keting Organizations« initiative supported the comUnit Industrial & Consumer Specialties was Clariant’s mercialization of products and services with well-­ first business to embrace this new format and condesigned marketing strategies that covered digital ducted a two-day pitching program for the Personal aspects. The use of data-driven predictive tools in Care and the Industrial & Home Care segments. procurement for risk management and the use of More than 15 startups participated in the »Pitch Day« automated e-auctions are also important steps to and seven of them were selected for further evaluation. speed up purchasing and allow Clariant to buy in a more competitive way, since offers from a large number of suppliers can be easily compared. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 121 Second, Clariant runs a dedicated cross-functional digisites. This platform, which is operated independently tal program, Digital4Clariant. In 2018, Digital4Clariant to ensure confidentiality and neutrality, currently further evolved along its three core workstreams features ingredients for the personal care industry, but »New Business Models«, »Digital@Operations«, and is positioned to be the most comprehensive tool for Chemberry™ »Big Data and Advanced Analytics«. ingredient-sourcing across all sectors. The platform simplifies the interaction between chemical buyers and 2.2.2. Generating new business models 2.2.3. Optimizing operations through suppliers by providing a The workstream »New Business Models« incubated six clusters comprehensive and several minimally viable products and soft-launched The workstream »Digital@Operations« ran several up-to-date directory of chemical ingredients. new services in the market for testing. One notable projects along six digital clusters identified as particchemberry.com/ example is Chemberry™, an internet platform that ularly relevant for Clariant. Clusters deemed to have ourSolution enables customers to easily find chemical ingredients the biggest impact in terms of cost saving and effiusing intelligent search engines. Chemberry™ ciency improvements are predictive process and qualincludes products from all relevant chemical suppliity control, predictive maintenance, digital material ers free of charge, automatically extracting and flow, connected workforce, retrofitting, and robotics. organizing product information from supplier webClariant also strengthened its collaborations, for 006 DIGITAL INNOVATION CYCLE Exploration Incubation Commercialization Validation through customer interviews Validation through test phases with Validation through market success customers Solutions Concreteness Concepts Ideas No Business Model Validated Business Model Revenue-generating Business Model Time 122 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E e­ xample, with universities and technology providers, MARKET TO CUSTOMER to better understand and make use of relevant digital process technology developments. 3. Manufactured capital In 2018, Clariant took further steps to improve the 2.2.4. Increasing speed and quality of innovation sustainability of the product portfolio. It awarded 24 with big data analytics products the EcoTain® label, increasing the total The workstream »Big Data and Advanced Analytics« number of products with proven sustainability excelidentified data science as a method that complelence to 193. By piloting the first EcoTain® Partnerments Clariant’s chemical competencies and bears ships, the company also underscored its commitment great process improvement potential. As a result, to solving sustainability challenges along the value Clariant’s demand for data scientists grew considerchain in a collaborative way. In addition, production ably. To meet this growing demand, a new Compeand research capacities were expanded considerably tence Center for Data Science focusing on data intelliin 2018, with significant investments in high-growth gence and process simulations was established at regions, such as China and North America. Group Technology and Innovation. While the data intelligence team will primarily support the DigiOVERVIEW OF MANUFACTURED CAPITAL tal4Clariant initiatives by focusing on data analytics Change 2018 2017 in % projects and automated analytics platforms, the EcoTain®-awarded process simulations team will focus on process develproducts 24 18 33.3 opment. Together with Clariant’s high throughput Research & Development Centers 8 8 0 experimentation team, this new organizational set-up Technical Centers > 50 > 50 0 is expected to increase the speed and quality of both Countries with digital and non-digital products and services developproduction facilities 39 39 0 ment, as well as the improvement of processes. Production sites 125 125 0 Raw materials procured (in m t) 3.57 3.14 13.7 2.2.5. Attracting and developing digital talents Production (in m t) 4.34 1 4.60 – Lastly, Clariant emphasizes attracting and recruiting 1 For 2018, the production volume is based on a reduced reporting candidates with the capabilities relevant in a digital scope, which includes sites that are responsible for 95 % of total production. GRI context. It has reviewed hiring processes and educated specific groups in the company with new skills. GRI Online Report Examples include training and education measures 3.1. Product Stewardship/Sustainable Chemistry Management Approach such as design thinking training for IT, data science Protecting customers, consumers, and the environment Product Stewardship/ training, and events like digital law days. by providing safer and more sustainable solutions is Sustainable Chemistry one of Clariant’s top priorities. In 2018, it took further reports.clariant.com/ 2018/gri steps to comply with the EU REACH regulation and promote the EcoTain® label, which designates products with outstanding sustainability properties. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 123 193 Clariant awarded a total number of 193 products with the EcoTain® label. 3.1.1. EU REACH Industry Association (VCI), and has taken leadership EU REACH In 2018, Clariant successfully completed Phase 3 of roles in workstreams relating to chemical manageREACH (Registration, EU REACH by submitting 100 % of the necessary dosment. As an example, the memorandum of understandEvaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of siers to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). ing between Cefic and the European Chemical Chemicals) is a regulaClariant continues to register newly manufactured or Agency (ECHA) was signed in 2018 during the tenure tion of the European imported chemicals in accordance with the REACH of Hariolf Kottmann as Cefic president. Union, adopted in 2007 to protect human health regulation. and the environment 3.1.2. Portfolio Value Program from potential risks Since the adoption of EU REACH regulation ten years In 2018, Clariant continued to screen innovative prodposed by chemicals, while enhancing the competiago, Clariant has submitted more than 1 200 dossiers ucts before commercialization and revise existing tiveness of the European for chemical substances that need to be kept up to date. product screenings to ensure high screening coverage. chemicals industry. Currently, the focus under the EU REACH regulation echa.europa.eu/ regulations/reach/ is shifting toward assessing the safe handling of PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP/SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY 1 understanding-reach substances, which requires Clariant to respond to 2018 2017 Change in % requests for additional information and react to EcoTain®-awarded products 24 18 33.3 assessments of the registered substances. This also Cumulative number of includes demonstrating efforts taken to communicate EcoTain® products 193 169 14.2 information on safe handling of products throughout Sales-based share of product port­folio screetheir entire life cycle along Clariant’s value chain. ned for sustain­ability performance (since In 2018, Clariant launched its REACH 2018+ project, 2012) (%) 80 80 0 which fosters awareness for the REACH requireSales-based share of screened products not ments in all relevant Business and Service Units to meeting internal sustainability definition (%) 9.0 9.4 – 4.3 ensure future compliance. 1 The displayed data excludes Business Unit Masterbatches. Clariant is also active in promoting the safe use and management of chemicals across the entire value In 2018, the screening coverage of the portfolio was chain and ensuring compliance with REACH obligamaintained at 80 %, reflecting Clariant’s efforts to tions. In addition, Clariant is represented in various assess new products. Likewise, the increase in total trade associations, such as the European Chemical number of EcoTain® products showcased how inno­ Industry Council (Cefic) and the German Chemicals vation fuels sustainability excellence and vice versa. Innovation also helps to capture the sustainability improvement opportunities uncovered in the portfolio screening. 124 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E Among other objectives, roadmaps for these improveTHE PORTFOLIO VALUE PROGRAM (PVP) ment opportunities focus on reducing the use of cerAND THE ECOTAIN® LABEL tain hazardous substances in Clariant’s product portIn 2012, Clariant developed the Portfolio Value Program (PVP) in folio. The roadmaps typically promote alternatives cooperation with the Collaborating Centre on Sustainable that go beyond relevant regulations, which is particuConsumption and Production (CSCP), founded by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) and the Wuppertal larly important in regions where regulatory action Institute. The program is based on a thorough analysis of is lagging. sustainability trends and needs, as well as on the input and views of external stakeholders. The PVP provides the overarching framework to develop Clariant’s product and innovation project As part of such a roadmap, Clariant supports the subportfolio toward more innovative and sustainable products. stitution of heavy metal pigments and, given the strong At the heart of the PVP lies Clariant’s ambition to steer the product portfolio and expertise of Business Unit Pigments, is portfolio toward solutions that add value through sustainability for customers and society, while also ensuring long-term in an excellent position to promote alternatives. As a profitable growth. Clariant continues to be inspired by the result of these roadmap activities, the share of prodopportunities to raise the bar in sustainability that are brought ucts that do not meet Clariant’s internal sustainability about by societal changes, market trends, existing and future regulations, customer preferences, and stakeholder expectations. definition further declined in 2018. Clariant uses the comprehensive screening of the PVP to further Clariant also strengthened its reporting capabilities to clarify the sustainability performance of its product portfolio with its distinguishing EcoTain® label. Products awarded the link the financial performance of products with their EcoTain® label must have best-in-class sustainability performance sustainability performance. The results of the PVP in at least one of the 36 criteria, offer benefits in several product Financial Reporting complement the traditional finanlife cycle phases, and not have any significant adverse environmental or social impacts. A corporate panel of experts cial reporting and support decision-making toward reviews all products in Clariant’s portfolio and awards flagship increased sustainability and financial performance. products with the EcoTain® label. At the end of 2018, 80 % of the product portfolio was screened for its sustainability portfolio and 193 products were awarded the distinguishing label. 3.1.3. EcoTain® During 2018, the EcoTain® label was further proSUSTAINABILITY CRITERIA moted through additional EcoTain® licensing discus36 criteria grouped into six categories are considered in the sions, a concept that had been launched in 2017. In Portfolio Value Program (PVP) to screen the product portfolio for sustainability. a joint effort to bring more sustainable products to the market, customers purchasing EcoTain® products Performance piloted the use of an EcoTain® label on their own Integrated sustainable Performance products. For example, an Indonesian mattress probusiness ducer used Clariant’s EcoTain®-awarded hot melt People adhesive Licocene® to reduce volatile hydrocarbons and odor emissions in their mattress core. As Safe use, transparency, Addressing and information megatrends and these emissions occur during the production and use societal needs phases, the new solution benefits the health of Planet employees and consumers alike. Additionally, using Licocene® reduced the carbon footprint of the matResource efficiency Raw materials and tress production. Given this strong sustainability perand environmental sustainable sourcing protection formance, after a strict evaluation process, this customer received the license to use the EcoTain® label on its own products and in its marketing materials. By highlighting EcoTain® as a sustainable ingredient in their offerings, Clariant’s customers not only promote the safety of their own products, but also support the recognition of the EcoTain® brand as a safer and more sustainable product. 4.3 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 125 Clariant spent CHF 4.3 billion on goods and services. To further rollout its initiative to promote sustain­ 3.3. Raw material procurement ability in the market and society in general, Clariant is Due to growing demand from customers and consumalso piloting EcoTain® Partnerships—a standard for ers, an evolving regulatory environment, and increasestablishing value chain collaborations on sustainabiling interest in the circular economy, renewable raw ity that highlights the importance of partnerships to materials are gaining importance. Clariant prioritizes solve sustainability challenges. It also draws attention responsible procurement of raw materials and proto outstanding collaborations on sustainability and motes innovation using biofuels and bio-based chemishows appreciation to the employees who go the extra cals and feedstock to solidify its role as a sustainabilmile to deliver sustainable value. In 2018, Clariant ity leader in the chemical industry. PAGE 68 advanced the development of possible EcoTain® Partnerships across its markets and value chains and Clariant spent about CHF 4.3 billion on goods and ­further refined the concept. For an example of model services in 2018. Roughly CHF 3 billion were diselements, please see the SPOTS project. bursed for raw materials from approximately 7 000 SPOTS suppliers. Across all Business Areas, more than 34 000 The Sustainable Palm CUSTOMER TO CASH different raw materials were procured, although 92 % Oil and Traceability in Sabah (SPOTS) aims to of the purchase volume was made up of around 200 support small Malaysian 3.2. Production volume raw materials. In 2018, around 23 % of purchased raw palm oil producers on Clariant’s production volume is comprised of finished materials stemmed directly or indirectly from crude sustainability, certification, and supply chain goods that leave production sites and are sold to oil, about 19 % were derived from natural raw materitraceability, and to ­customers. In 2018, the reported production volume als such as bentonite, and 5 % were made of renewincrease productivity by decreased to 4.34 million t. This is mainly due to a able raw materials. The remaining materials were either 20 % until 2020. clariant.com/en/ ­different reporting scope, in 2018 only the 79 largest base or specialty chemicals or non-chemicals. Sustainability/ sites of a total of 125 sites were considered. Business Value-ChainArea Natural Resources continues to provide the largIn addition to promoting renewable raw materials, Collaboration/ The-SPOTS-Initiative est share, with 2.9 million t of produced goods, repreClariant prefers to procure goods and services from senting a decrease of 0.2 million t over 2017. Business local suppliers in order to support the economic Area Care Chemicals increased production volume development of the respective regions. That said, in by 0.02 million t to 0.98 million t. Business Area Plastics order to opt for local raw materials, impeccable & Coatings reduced its production volume by 0.1 mil­q­uality as well as technical and economic feasibility lion t to 0.36 million t, while the volume of Business Area must be guaranteed. Catalysis remained stable at 0.06 million t. Overall, more than 40 % of the production volume is manufactured in plants with a certified ISO 50001 energy management system. 126 R EV I EW — P ER FO R M A N C E RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT ACCORDING TO REGION Business Unit expanded several production faciliin CHF m ties: in Coatzacoalcos, Mexico, ethylene oxide and 2018 2017 propylene oxide (EO/PO) derivatives production Asia-Pacific 672 627 was initiated; in Gendorf, Germany, an additional Of which with local suppliers 1 641 591 ethoxylation reactor began operating and a new Number of local suppliers 2 2 527 2 800 polyethylene glycol (PEG) flake milling line was Europe 1 340 1 237 built; and capacity of the PEG-producing Clear Of which with local suppliers 1 1 228 1 122 Lake site in the United States was expanded. In Number of local suppliers 2 1 514 1 690 Gebze, Turkey, production was halted and Clariant Latin America 320 307 began selling the site’s land and equipment. Of which with local suppliers 1 213 209 — Natural Resources: In Cileungsi and Cimapag, Number of local suppliers 2 1 085 1 092 Indonesia, Business Unit Functional Minerals Middle East & Africa 106 109 reduced bottlenecks of existing bleaching earth Of which with local suppliers 1 57 56 production. In Casablanca, Morocco, Business Number of local suppliers 2 378 407 Unit Oil & Mining Services closed its production North America 510 395 facility, without affecting other Clariant businesses Of which with local suppliers 1 464 359 operating in Morocco. Number of local suppliers 2 930 1 002 — Plastics & Coatings: Business Unit Additives sucGrand Total 2 948 2 674 cessfully began operating the newly built producOf which with local suppliers 1 2 603 2 337 tion line of Hostavin® NOW in Muttenz, SwitzerNumber of suppliers 2 6 434 6 991 land. In Germany, debottlenecking projects focused Raw material spending of Clariant production sites in this region on the expansion of plants for Exolit® halogen-free 1 2 Regional suppliers that supplied Clariant (production) sites flame retardants and Licocene® high-performance polymers. Business Unit Masterbatches opened a 3.4. Production sites and innovation facilities new production facility for white masterbatches in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. Additionally, a compounding 3.4.1. Developments in the production site line serving the medical industry was installed in network Lewiston in the United States. By the end of 2018, Clariant operated 125 production sites in 39 countries around the world. — Care Chemicals: Business Unit Industrial & ­Consumer Specialties integrated a new production plant for squalene and associated downstream products in Tarragona, Spain, which became operative in the last quarter of 2018. In addition, the C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 127 3.4.2. Continued investments in China In 2018, Business Unit Oil & Mining Services opened Clariant has remained committed to its China strata state-of-the-art laboratory in Midland, Texas, in egy and harvested further growth opportunities in the United States, with unique capabilities to support 2018. In Zhenjiang, Business Unit Industrial & Conits customers in the oil and gas industry. The latest sumer Specialties expanded production capacity. instrumentation enables the laboratory specialists to Business Unit Functional Minerals increased desicrapidly analyze samples and assess them for risk cant production capacity, upholding China’s status factors such as flow assurance, asset integrity, and oil/ as one of the largest desiccant markets in the world. water quality. This strongly supports customers in Business Unit Additives invested in three new prolowering their operational costs for shale oil and gas duction facilities: In Zhenjiang, two plants were comextraction. Combined with other facilities in Midmissioned in the second half of 2018. The new facililand, the laboratory augments Clariant’s service offerties are dedicated to the production of AddWorks® ings to customers in the fastest-growing oil basin in synergistic additive solutions and Ceridust® micronthe United States. ized waxes, both of which are used in various applications across the plastics, coatings, and ink industries. Prior to the opening in Midland, Business Unit Oil & Within the joint venture between Clariant and ­Tiangang Mining Services inaugurated another state-of-the-art Auxiliary Co. Ltd., construction of a plant for highlaboratory in Clinton, Oklahoma, in the United States. end process and light stabilizers, including the stateThis strategic investment will enable oil production of-the-art Nylostab® S-EED® chemistry, began in the companies to increase production efficiency and reduce Cangzhou National Coastal-Port Economy and Techoperating expenses. Situated in proximity to customnology Development Zone. Located about 200 km ers, fast turnaround times of laboratory analyses and south of Beijing, the plant will eventually serve various new solutions to be developed are ensured. Clariant industries, but will initially focus on the textile and is the fastest growing specialty oilfield production automotive markets. chemical supplier in North America, and its investments in technical facilities demonstrate its commitment IDEA TO MARKET to remain a key contributor in the production of oil and gas. 3.4.3. Research & Development and Technical Centers Clariant’s strong innovation infrastructure consists of eight Research & Development Centers and more than fifty Technical Centers. The centers are distributed around the world, with locations in Europe, North and Latin America, China, and India. 128 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — D I G I TA LI Z AT I O N Digitalization Who Shapes New Digital Business Models? The digital transformation is changing our daily lives and reshaping entire industries. Its impact on the chemical industry so far might have seemed limited. But that's rapidly changing. Both start-ups and corporations are trying out new ways of reaching out to customers. New platforms and disruptive business models are taking hold. By moving early, Clariant is staking its territory and shaping its future. Sibylle Mutschler As Head of Digital4Clariant, Sibylle works on Clariant’s digital transformation and rethinks business models for the chemical industry. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 129 Jian Min Sim As CEO and Co-founder of SourceSage, Jian uses market data and modern communication technology to revolutionize the global trade in specialty chemicals. 130 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — D I G I TA LI Z AT I O N Sibylle, is it true that the chemical industry is a bit What could that look like? of a latecomer in the digital transformation? One of the ways we’re exploring is to develop specialThat’s certainly a prevailing stereotype. But it’s wrong. ized software-based services that our customers can use If you’re comparing our industry with, say, banking, to leverage our vast chemical know-how. publishing or music, then obviously our way of dealing with customers hasn’t changed as much. But if you look On the other hand, Clariant recently started sellat the underlying processes, the picture is quite different. ing products via Alibaba in China. Doesn’t that Here it’s banks and publishers that struggle to transdetract from your customer relationships? form, while we’ve been dealing with automation, sensors, Alibaba is a way to reach customers. But it’s only one data, and digital tools for decades. To use some software way. And Clariant is actively looking for other ways to terminology, their front end looks modern, but our back reach its customers. end is a lot more digitally advanced. Is that the reason you started Chemberry™? So the chemical industry primarily needs to Very much so, yes. digitalize how it deals with customers? Don’t get me wrong! There’s a lot to benefit from new What is Chemberry™? hardware and data science in our operations, too. Things It’s essentially a search engine to look up suppliers of like predictive maintenance, digital material flows, and specialty chemicals, today in the area of personal care. It robotics will help us improve efficiency, and we’re very lets you conveniently browse information you wouldn’t much looking into these things. But when we at Clariant easily find using Google. talk about digitalization, we make sure it’s not just about the next software or hardware update. We want to see Why on earth would you set up a platform that what actual transformation looks like. makes it easier for buyers to find Clariant’s competitors? Who’s looking? That’s exactly what some of our detractors said. My My team has six workstreams reflecting major digital response is that we believe in fair competition and we opportunities we see – from big data to digital operations are not afraid to compete. Isn’t it a lot better then to to new digital business models. And Clariant as a whole help customers to find what they want and thereby learn is building knowledge and infrastructure. One example a lot about how they want to interact with us? is the new Data Science Center we recently set up in Frankfurt, Germany. What role does big data play for your business? We’re looking at a future where more and more jobs What is it you do there? will deal with at least certain aspects of data science. We’re combining our unique chemistry know-how with Chemberry™ is only the latest data source we added. new ways of using data. Mind you, we’ve been hiring We are by nature a »data-rich« company and there will data scientists for years. We just never called them that. be more data in the future. We expect a new generation But these people have been improving processes and of sensors to track almost every single aspect of our probuilding knowledge that’s extremely valuable. What we’re duction processes. The actual technical maturity of now doing is applying new tools and new ideas under sensors is still a challenge, however. We also learn from one roof. All to add more value and sell new services. data in Research & Development, in logistics, in customer relationships management, and in human resources. Speaking of selling, Clariant deals in physical The list goes on and on. The key is to find ever more materials, not ones and zeros like the music or ways of using data and the digital transformation to our banking industry you mentioned. Will that advantage. change? Every Clariant product comes with information, and lots of it. Selling specialty chemicals means providing solutions to very specific problems. So our business was never only about materials. Our customers rely on our know-how. I’m sure our business models will include ones and zeros in the future as well. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 131 How can we shape the digital future of our industry? SIBYLLE MUTSCHLER Head of Digital4Clariant, Clariant 132 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — D I G I TA LI Z AT I O N What makes chemicals trading more efficient? JIAN MIN SIM CEO & Co-founder, SourceSage C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 133 market intelligence firms. And on top of that, we have a growing range of customers that use our platform as a white-label solution to set up their own marketplace. How many subscribers do you have? Right now we have 1 057 individual subscribers from a Jian Min, around 2014 you and your father started few hundred companies. Over 10 000 users use the basic an app called SourceSage that has gotten a lot of features, and we learn a lot from them. attention. What is the idea behind it? In short, SourceSage provides real-time market intelliIt’s said that inefficient markets make for higher gence for chemical commodities and connects buyers prices. Do you make it harder for middlemen to and sellers. I like to call us the Amazon for market informake a profit? mation. First of all, especially with niche chemical products, buyers tend to value familiarity and reliability. So price What kind of products would I find on SourceSage? isn’t everything. You need to provide customized serWe have about 400 products on our platform. Most of vices for customers. And I believe we offer opportunities them are niche chemicals, downstream commodities, to all stakeholders, including middlemen. These and specialties you wouldn’t find with Google, for middlemen add value, for example by providing trade instance. financing and logistical support. How did you come up with the idea? How open are companies about their prices? My parents were running a chemicals trading company Initially, we saw that companies were very reluctant to when I came back from studying at Oxford. As a comshare specific prices. What we could provide, however, puter scientist, I realized that there was a lot of ineffiwas aggregated market reference prices as well as hisciency in this market. Gathering market intelligence and torical prices. Both help determine when to buy or sell. prices was all about getting people on the phone. What Today you’ll find product offers by companies that state, we set out to do was to digitize this whole process. In a for example, their price range, available packaging, and way, I wanted to digitize my father’s brain and his treatment options as well as the port they ship from. decades of experience. So initially, we set up a platform Once you then click on the »buy« button, you’ll enter a that provides market data and combined it with a chat private inquiry mode. That way both buyers and sellers functionality. can feel comfortable dealing via our platform. What’s so great about looking up suppliers Why don’t chemical companies just sell their on your smartphone? commodities via a site like Alibaba? We bring our data to the devices that people use anyway, Some do. But the types of transactions in this market be they smartphones, tablets, or desktop computers. aren’t really compatible with the payment mode of That lowers the barrier. Also, this business is global, but Alibaba. We’re dealing with transactions worth millions most people in it aren’t native English speakers. So of dollars, where companies almost never pay 100 perhaving a way to browse for information and then text cent in advance and may even pay 30 to 45 days after someone rather than talk on the phone helps people receiving the goods at their port. That’s where middlebecome more comfortable. We see customers becoming men, and especially banks, come in. more ambitious in venturing beyond their established network of suppliers, especially with global uncertainties What’s the next step for SourceSage? like the trade wars that disrupt existing supply chains. We have recently partnered with a bank in Singapore to build a B2B payments gateway for transactions via What’s your business model? escrow accounts and even complete with trade financRegistration to SourceSage is free, and you’re free to ing solutions. That’s something that’s becoming more browse general market information and offers. For longrelevant in 2019. term access to individual pricing data you need to subscribe. We also offer official channels to suppliers who want to promote their products and to third-party 134 R EV I EW — P EOPLE People People – Clariant’s second brand value – represents value creation that The age and gender structure of Clariant employees also stems from human and relationship capital. Human capital encompasses remained constant. In 2018, 14 % of employees were all employee-related value creation processes, from talent attraction younger than 30 years, 60 % were 30 – 50 years old, and and development to employee engagement and occupational health, 26 % were older than 50 years. The total workforce safety, and well-being programs. Achievements regarding value consisted of 78 % men and 22 % women. created for customers, policy-makers, suppliers, and society at large are reported in the relationship capital chapter. 001 FTE BY REGION 7 589 Europe 1. Human Capital In 2018, the number of full time equivalents declined by 4 882 Asia-Pacific 1.3 % to 17 901. Through targeted employer branding activities and training programs, Clariant continued to 17 901 secure the skills and capabilities it needs to remain a high-performing organization over the long run. Its 2 344 Latin America efforts to create an inspiring and motivating work envi2 294 North America ronment for a diverse workforce resulted in very positive feedback from employees, as captured by the 793 MEA 1 ­company-wide engagement survey. The continuous 1 Middle East & Africa focus on ensuring the health, safety, and well-being of its employees is reflected in the lowest Lost Time ­Accident Rate since the beginning of the monitoring. 002 AGE DIVERSITY 14 % (< 30 years) Compared to 2017, the distribution of the workforce between regions remained almost unchanged, with slight increases in Asia-Pacific (+ 0.8 percentage points) and Europe (+ 0.2 percentage points) and decreases of 60 % (30 – 50 years) the same magnitude in North America (– 0.3 percentage points), Latin America (– 0.5 percentage points), and Middle East & Africa (– 0.2 percentage points). 26 % (> 50 years) C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 135 GRI KEY FIGURES WORKFORCE 1.1. Talent attraction and development GRI Online Report 2018 2017 Change in % For Clariant and its stakeholders, talent attraction and Management Approach Total staff (in FTE) 17 901 18 135 – 1.3 development is a central factor for future business Talent Attraction and Development Employees (in FTE) 10 405 10 482 – 0.7 success, as shown by the comprehensive materiality reports.clariant.com/ Male 7 115 7 264 – 2.1 assessment conducted in 2017. Clariant follows an inte2018/gri Female 3 290 3 218 2.2 grated approach to talent management, aligning all Workers (in FTE) 7 496 7 653 – 2.1 related processes through its MySuccess platform. This Male 6 890 7 066 – 2.5 fully integrated tool covers all people processes from Female 606 587 3.2 recruitment and onboarding to learning, talent, and perNumber of people hired 2 142 1 983 8 formance management. In 2018, Clariant implemented Male 1 453 1 412 2.9 a broad range of projects along the entire employee Female 689 571 20.7 journey to realize the full potential of its workforce. Number of people who left the company 2 047 1 991 2.8 Male 1 515 1 448 4.6 Female 532 543 –2 Turnover rate (%) 11.1 10.7 – Number of employees in the local, regional, and global talent pools > 1 000 > 1 000 – Global management positions (ML 1 – 5) filled with internal candidates (%) 84 80 – Total training hours 234 240 192 435 21.7 Number of training participants 15 791 9 720 62.5 Training hours (Ø per participant) 15 20 – 25 Number of employees with standardized performance management process 10 350 10 300 0.5 Staff in Research & Development > 1 100 > 1 100 – Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR; accidents with at least 1 day lost/200 000 work hours) 0.15 0.20 – 25 136 R EV I EW — P EOPLE TALENT ATTRACTION AND DEVELOPMENT Overall, 15 791 employees participated in a training 2018 2017 Change in % recorded in the central learning management system, for Number of people hired 2 142 1 983 8 a total of 234 240 training hours. The sharp increase Male 1 453 1 412 2.9 of training participants compared to 2017 is due to the Female 689 571 20.7 global data privacy training conducted in 2018 and the Number of people who increased usage of e-learning by the Business Units. The left the company 2 047 1 991 2.8 average hours per employee that engaged in training Male 1 515 1 448 4.6 decreased by 25 % to 15 hours per employee. Female 532 543 –2 Number of employees in the local, regional, and More than 1 500 talents were discussed in 60 talent global talent pools > 1 000 > 1 000 – reviews across the organization and concrete developGlobal management positions (ML 1-5) filled with ment steps and career measures were defined and internal candidates (%) 84 80 – will be implemented in 2019. The reward for Clariant’s Total training hours 234 240 192 435 21.7 systematic talent management activities is a very high Number of training participants 15 791 9 720 62.5 talent retention rate of 95 % in 2018, which is only 3 perAverage training hours centage points lower than in 2017. Clariant promoted per participant 15 20 – 25 internal candidates into 84 % of senior management Number of employees with standardized positions, and filled 77 % of openings overall with the performance management process 10 350 10 300 0.5 internal population. 1.1.1. Employer branding and recruiting Clariant aims to attract people who fit with its values In 2018, a core focus of Clariant’s employer branding and meet the defined role requirements. In 2018, and recruiting activities was to recruit highly skilled Clariant hired 2 142 new employees (689 women and people that can support Clariant on its way into the digi­ 1 453 men) to support its profitable growth strategy. tal future. It rolled out a targeted digital campaign via WeChat With 35.1 % of new hires, Europe accounted for the largest the Asian social network WeChat, developing specific The Chinese messaging, share of new employees, followed by the Asia-Pacific brand content to attract digitally skilled candidates in social media, and region, which accounted for 23.5 % of new hires. China. The follower base of Clariant’s profile grew conmobile payment app has sistently over 2018 and the first results of the campaign more than 1 billion active users per month. Clariant’s performance management process ensures will be measured in 2019. Clariant also hired a Digital that strategic business objectives are translated into the and IT Talent Acquisition Specialist, whose primary employee’s day-to-day activities. In 2018, 10 350 mission is to support the company in the business-­ employees followed a standardized performance mancritical hunt for digital talents. This focus underscores agement process. Clariant’s commitment to exploit the full potential of digitalization as a growth lever. PAGE 120 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 137 60In 60 talent review sessions more than 1 500 talents were discussed. Another important development was the launch of a 1.1.3. Key position placement and succession digital interviewing platform, making it easier for canplanning didates from around the world to apply to open posiClariant maintains a resilient talent pipeline and has a tions. They can record and upload their video interview robust succession planning system in order to fill key anytime and from anywhere, saving time and travel roles according to a transparent set of criteria. In 2018, expenses. For Clariant, the new process facilitates an Clariant conducted 60 talent review sessions across all improved assessment of body language and communicacountries, regions, and global units and discussed more tion skills, while increasing flexibility and saving costs. than 1 500 talents. As part of these reviews, individual development measures and career steps were defined. In order to set up the Leading Marketing Organization, The results are translated into the global succession 320 marketing and sales positions were filled in 2018. plans. PAGE 51 Clariant supported recruiting with a targeted digital campaign running on social media and its own Clariant’s assessment center and capability developcorporate channels. The campaign further positioned ment program provide aspiring leaders with clarity on Clariant as a preferred employer and enabled the creation competence requirements for various job levels and of new talent pools, which were a valuable source in offer an assessment to identify development opportunities filling open marketing positions across regions. at organizational and individual levels. Every year, around 50 employees participate in this development 1.1.2. Strengthening commercial competencies program. In 2018, around 80 employees from innovation Adding to the broad range of in-person trainings and functions, Global Business Services, and procurement e-learning modules that are accessible via the MySuccess attended a competency assessment. platform, Clariant developed several new learning programs in 2018 to strengthen commercial competencies With Innovation and Research & Development as the within the organization. As part of the implementation first pillar of its Group strategy, Clariant launched the of the Leading Marketing Organization, an advanced Innovation Talent Management Review (ITMR) initiamarketing e-learning module was developed that will be tive, which ensures succession for core roles within launched in 2019. This was complemented by the rollinnovation job families. As part of the implementation out of »Manage for Growth«, a three-day program tarof ITMR, career paths in the innovation field were geted at senior sales managers and that aims to defined, candidates were identified, and a learning curstrengthen their competencies for driving growth within riculum focusing on innovation-specific topics was their teams. In 2018, several sessions were conducted developed. in Europe, Latin America, and North America. 138 R EV I EW — P EOPLE 1.1.4. Training and development programs process participated in one of the ten »License to Hire« To support key position placement and succession plantrainings offered. After the training, participants receive ning, Clariant offers a range of formal and informal proonline materials that summarize the main learnings and grams for younger high-potential employees. The Piobest practices. Clariant plans to make the training manneer Program enhances organizational understanding datory for all hiring managers across all levels in 2019. as well as leadership and communication skills of aspiring leaders by exposing them to short-term assignments Launched in 2017, the »Frontline Leadership Training« – outside of their area of responsibility. In 2018, the secdesigned for Production Managers and Shift Leaders – ond group of participants completed the program. One covers basic leadership instruments that enable managkey achievement of all participants was the successful ers to effectively lead and motivate teams and manage launch of a business project, which will be executed in change. The interactive training is facilitated by a dedi2019. cated Learning Manager and repeatedly receives outstanding reviews from participants. In 2018, the learnIn the Mentoring Program, younger professionals get ing content was refined to better fit the needs of the the opportunity to team up with experienced leaders to target group. More practical exercises, for example on Leadership skills strengthen leadership skills and to encourage knowlhow to provide effective feedback, were included in There are a variety of edge transfer across functions and age-groups. In 2018, order to allow participants to apply learnings in pracinternal and external ofmore than 40 new mentees started their internal mentice. Over the course of the year, 105 shift leaders ferings available for extorship program. participated in this training across all regions. ecutive training. These informal development initiatives are compleWith the »Authentic Leadership Training«, Clariant mented by formal learning programs delivered by busioffers a new intensive course that focuses on pivotal ness schools, specialized training companies, and communication skills necessary to be perceived as a Clariant’s internal experts. These efforts contribute to successful and inspiring leader. The participants either the continuous development of Clariant’s leadership attend the Executive Performance Training, which is population. designed for cross-functional groups of six people, or the Inspirational Leadership Creative Communication Clariant also offers various leadership trainings. These Program, which is open to larger groups. In 2018, 31 include, for example, the »License to Hire« trainings, senior leaders participated in the two-month training. which provide a toolkit for efficient recruiting and support line managers in making the right hiring decisions. In addition, Clariant continued the implementation of The program is offered to all hiring managers. In 2018, the team effectiveness program across leadership teams more than 200 employees involved in the recruitment in various locations and management levels. As part of the program, teams apply measures to enhance trust within the team, improve the quality of decision-makC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 139 ing, and strengthen the execution of commitments. The 1.2.1. Engaging with a diverse workforce program was specifically designed to help leaders build in times of change high-performing teams. More than 80 % of Clariant’s In times of change, providing the support and resources global and regional leadership teams attended the prothat employees need to achieve their goals, and showing gram during the past two years. appreciation for their efforts, is particularly important. GRI Following the updated corporate strategy and business 1.2. Employee engagement port­folio upgrade announced in 2018, Clariant’s global GRI Online Report Clariant’s people are its most valuable asset to stay workforce will adapt and encompass even more diversity. Management Approach ahead of the curve in contested markets. By developing, To facilitate the ongoing change process, Clariant’s Employee Engagement reports.clariant.com/ improving, protecting, and delivering Clariant’s prodGroup Human Resources ensures that the company stays 2018/gri ucts and services, they are the core of Clariant’s sustainopen to new ways of working, offers a global workplace able value creation. Therefore, Clariant pays close based on common values, and creates a sense of purpose attention to engaging with its employees on all levels, for all employees across regions and age clusters. focusing on its core value of appreciation. The development of a more global, diverse, and flexible Clariant is driven by the belief that diverse perspectives workforce requires adherence to standards that uphold enable the company to capture market opportunities Clariant’s approach to equal treatment and diversity. faster and foster a corporate culture that is conducive to Clariant thus adopted a new globally applicable Employinnovation and growth. Thus, cultivating an inclusive ment Policy in 2018. The policy, which is accessible to work environment that values differences in experience, all employees and is part of the onboarding curriculum, culture, nationality, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual oriendescribes what fair working conditions mean in daily tation, and physical ability is vital for Clariant’s business practice, underlining the importance of employee colsuccess. It also contributes to keeping the turnover rate laboration. It clearly commits to equal development and at a stable level. promotion of all people across every organizational level and age group. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 2018 2017 Change in % 1.2.2. The »Pulse Survey« as a strategic instrument Turnover rate (%) 11.1 10.7 – In 2018, Clariant broke new ground in assessing Employee engagement employee engagement. By implementing the »Pulse Surscore 85 1 n.a. 2 – vey«, which is considered the starting point for using a 1 Due to a change in the methodology, the engagement index 2018 company-wide survey as a strategic instrument to drive cannot be compared with previous engagement scores. organizational development, more Clariant-specific, 2 Surveys are conducted every two years strategic, and timely issues were covered than with previous surveys. A representative and randomly selected sample group of almost 2 500 employees was surveyed 140 R EV I EW — P EOPLE on topics such as change, strategy, and vision. The survey 1.2.4. Streamlining global benefits results showed a positive perception of the work Furthermore, in 2018, Clariant conducted a global benefit ­environment. With an engagement index of 85, Clariant survey to establish consistent benefit programs across ranked above the industry benchmark and achieved the organization. Building on the results of the survey, high scores on strategy endorsement, innovation culture, the Global Benefits Policy was developed. The policy and collaboration within and across teams. In future does not stipulate a one-size-fits-all benefit program, years, customized Pulse Surveys will be carried out upon but acknowledges country-specific circumstances. Business and Service Units’ requirements. A global It sets binding key elements regarding flexible work survey will be conducted biennially. arrangements, healthcare, travel, well-being, retirement, accidents and death. These elements will be 1.2.3. Recognizing extra efforts and leveraging reflected within each local benefit program to foster employee recommendations in recruitment consistency and create an attractive workplace for In 2018, Clariant further developed its »Recognition everyone. Program« to enhance employee engagement through GRI appreciation. As part of the program, special recogniCUSTOMER TO CASH tion awards were further promoted. These monetary GRI Online Report awards honor outstanding contributions and motivate 1.3. Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being Management Approach employees to »go the extra mile«. Beyond financial Clariant’s zero-accidents goal underscores its comOccupational Health, rewards, Clariant also started the rollout of local appremitment to protect and promote the health, safety, Safety, and Well-being ciation awards that acknowledge great achievements and well-being of all employees. In addition to multireports.clariant.com/ 2018/gri of peers or supervisors in form of presents or vouchers. faceted health and safety programs, such as AvoidingAccidents@Clariant, Clariant took further steps in In addition, Clariant further developed its referral pro2018 to maintain a safety-oriented leadership culture, gram, which encourages employees to recruit new enhance health and safety precautions at its sites, candidates. Employees are invited to refer people from and learn from past incidents through improved their professional networks for advertised jobs and are reporting. granted a cash reward if their referred candidate is successfully hired. In 2018, the referral program was rolled out to Clariant’s Shared Services Center in Poland, focused on recruiting external candidates, and in India, where the objective was to refer internal candidates for open positions. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 141 26The number of lost-time accidents decreased by 26 %. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELL-BEING AVOIDINGACCIDENTS@CLARIANT 2018 2017 Change in % Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being at Clariant means Lost time accidents 1 28 38 – 26.3 much more than wearing necessary safety gear. It is a commitLost time accident rate ment to tackle safety in a comprehensive way and ensure that (LTAR) 2 0.15 0.2 – 25 every employee returns home after work as healthy as they Number of recognized occupational diseases 1 0 – arrived. The most effective way to prevent occupational accidents and achieve the goal of zero accidents is by implementing a Number of work-related fatal accidents 0 23 – set of cohesive management programs and leadership measures. AvoidingAccidents@Clariant is a global program that creates Lost workdays (LWD) caused by occupational safe working environments, raises awareness of safety, and accidents 988 1 135 4 – 13 illustrates Clariant's focus on prevention. Since the start of the Lost workday rate program in 2007, the lost time accident rate (LTAR) has (LWDR) 5 5.23 5.95 4 – 12.1 declined from 0.92 to 0.15. Clariant’s »Safety Counts!« cards Process safety event also play an important role in ensuring health and safety, rate 6 0.46 0.35 31.4 helping employees record critical safety situations and the circumstances that led to them. Improvement measures taken 1 Number of occupational accidents with at least one day’s work lost are shared locally, enabling the production teams to build 2 Lost Time Accident Rate = ratio of the number of occupational accidents where at least one day’s work was lost in relation to best practices and promote a preventive mindset throughout 200 000 hours of work the entire company. 3 Fatalities disclosure includes employees and contractors. 4 Including 221 LWDs carried over from 2016 Consults the info Fills in the »Safety 5 Lost Workday Rate = loss of workdays caused by occupational board for the Counts!« card and accidents in relation to 200 000 hours of work follow-up status places it into the 6 Process Safety Event = Number of Process Safety Events in relation »Safety Counts!« box to 200 000 hours of work. In 2018, Clariant changed the reporting criteria from Cefic to ICCA. If Clariant had used the Cefic criteria for 2018, the process safety event rate would have been 0.35. Employee Collects and forwards In 2018, the overall health and safety performance at Receives measures »Safety Counts!« cards list and posts status Safety Safety Clariant’s sites further improved, as illustrated by on info board Counts! SAFETY Counts! to Plant or DepartCOUNTS! ment manager (daily) the key performance indicators. The number of lost Contact Contact time accidents decreased by 26 %, from 38 in 2017 to 28 in 2018, with six cases concerning supervised Plant/ (non-Clariant) workers. In addition, ten lost time Department ­accidents involved contractors, which is a slight increase Updates measures Manager Evaluates the hazard list and controls potential and initiates further of two cases compared to 2017. 83 % of all recorded implementation action for risk elimination injuries required first aid measures, 12 % needed medi­ cal treatment, and 5 % of recorded injuries were restricted work cases. The most frequent injury types in 2018 were bone fractures (29 %), sprains, bruises and contusions (25 %), and open wounds (14 %). 142 R EV I EW — P EOPLE Chemical burns, and internal injuries each accounted 1.3.1. Raising awareness of safety challenges for 11 %. In 7 % of the cases, a limb was lost, and in 4 % The »Safety Moments« initiative, launched in 2017 of the cases the injury was due to a foreign body. No to strengthen Clariant’s safety-oriented leadership work-related fatal accident was recorded in 2018. The culture, was further developed in 2018. Held at the number of recognized occupational illnesses beginning of each meeting, »Safety Moments« raise increased to 1, compared to 0 in 2018. awareness of safety-related challenges at the workplace and offer ideas for how to avoid or resolve these Clariant managed to further reduce the lost time acciissues. To support managers with implementation dent rate (LTAR) to 0.15 accidents per 200 000 hours across regions, an internal platform was launched to of work, as compared to 0.2 in 2017, representing the share customized handouts with relevant information lowest level since the beginning of the monitoring. The for each employee group. total number of lost workdays decreased significantly from 1 135 in 2017 to 988 in 2018, representing an 1.3.2. Improving safety reporting improvement of 13 %. This reduction indicates that Another priority area in 2018 was improving occupajob-related injuries were less severe in 2018. Clariant tional health and safety-related reporting, building also managed to reduce the lost workday rate to 5.23 on steps first taken in 2017. Clariant refined reporting workdays lost per 200 000 hours of work. Compared of restricted work cases – incidents that keep the to 2017, this is a 12 % reduction. affected employees from performing routine functions of their job or from working at least one full workday – One key factor that contributed to the good results by requiring all sites to issue a report immediately was the Leadership Improvement Initiative. This after an incident occurs and to make investigation includes measures such as site tours conducted by reports mandatory for all cases. The number of cases members of the Business Units’ management comdecreased from 95 in 2017 to 61 in 2018. mittees to respond to safety-related questions and deepen awareness, »Safety Moments« discussed In addition, Clariant started reporting Process Safety at the beginning of meetings, and the mandatory Events (PSEs) according to the criteria of the Internainvolvement of site managers and their next level tional Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). managers in Incident Investigation Reviews. Given the improved reporting culture, the number of reported Process Safety Events increased to 86 in 2018, compared to 66 cases in 2017. The Process Safety Event rate increased from 0.35 in 2017 to 0.46 in 2018. However, if Clariant had still used the Cefic reporting criteria, the rate for 2018 would have been 0.35. In order to comply with the reporting requirements of the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 143 Clariant will also record process safety events accord2. Relationship capital ing to Cefic criteria until 2020. From 2021 onward, In 2018, Clariant successfully expanded its relationship only ICCA criteria will be applicable. capital. It increased the number of interactions along the customer journey and received positive feedback 1.3.3. Enhancing employee well-being through its biennial global customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction survey The promotion of workplace health and well-being ­survey, deepening its understanding of value chains is a local responsibility that each Clariant region and unmet customer needs. It also maintained strong Clariant’s global customer satisfaction addresses with tailored programs. In many countries, contacts with chemical industry trade associations and survey 2018 was made Clariant offers free psychological counseling and policy makers. available to customers stress management trainings, and runs employee in nine languages. assistance programs that analyze and evaluate mental OVERVIEW OF RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL strain, educate employees on mental health risks, 2018 2017 Change in % and develop relief strategies with affected employees. Survey responses obtained from customer contacts 2 791 n.a. 1 – To protect its employees from work-related hazards, Customer interviews 538 515 4.5 every workplace at Clariant is subject to a systematic, Net Promoter Score (NPS) (%) 29 n.a. 1 – multi-step assessment that includes workplace ergoRaw material suppliers 7 000 7 000 0 nomics, illumination, noise, indoor air quality, humidRaw material supply ity, and temperature. Clear minimum requirements base by spend covered by sustainability are defined for each factor and measures to redesign evaluations (%) 74 65 – the workplace are taken if these requirements are 1 Surveys are conducted every two years. not met. In addition, Clariant offers a range of benefits designed to enhance the work-life balance of its employees. These include the provision of fitness MARKET TO CUSTOMER GRI facilities and contributions to external fitness programs, flexible working hours and working from 2.1. Customer Relationships GRI Online Report home arrangements, childcare facilities and contribuCustomer engagement, a key to profitable growth, Management Approach tions to external childcare, as well as support for lies at the core of Clariant’s commercial strategy. After Customer Relationships employees who care for elderly family members. reports.clariant.com/ taking significant steps in recent years to turn 2018/gri Clariant from a product-driven to a customer-centric organization, in 2018 Clariant refocused on streng­ thening the customer experience – a crucial shift to gain a better understanding of the customers’ needs and develop tailor-made value propositions. 144 R EV I EW — P EOPLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS The most important source of customer feedback in 2018 2017 Change in % 2018 was the biennial comprehensive customer satisSurvey responses obfaction survey. Customers of all Business Units in tained from customer contacts 2 791 n.a. 1 – all regions were surveyed, with the total number of Net Promoter Score respondents increasing to 2 791, almost 100 more (NPS) (%) 29 n.a. 1 – than in 2016. Compared to the previous survey, the Customers who want to continue doing business participants were also more diverse, with a growing with Clariant (%) 90 n.a. 1 – share of responding stakeholders from R&D and proCustomers who plan to ­intensify the business duction functions. relationship (%) 77 n.a. 1 – Customer interviews as part of marketing and The overall results show that the high level of customer strategy initiatives 538 515 4.5 satisfaction remained stable, with the Customer Interviews with industry experts as part of Satisfaction Index at 77 points (2016: 78). In total, more marketing and strategy initiatives 150 59 154.2 than three-quarters of participants stated that Number of Marketing Clariant is a reliable business partner and solutions ­Excellence projects 37 34 8.8 provider and 73 % highlighted Clariant’s excellent Commercial margin (CHF m) 12.8 12.3 6.2 customer-oriented approach. Respondents ranked »Technical Service« and »Products and Packaging« as 1 Surveys are conducted every two years. the two most important buying criteria. In »Products and Packaging«, Clariant increased its competitive 2.1.1. Leveraging customer feedback for edge, with a larger share of respondents rating Clariant’s continuous development products higher than those of the competitors. The The large number of customer interactions throughcompetitive performance of the »Technical Service« out the year reflects the increased focus on customers. decreased slightly compared to 2016 but remained In 2018, Clariant conducted 538 customer interviews at a high level. Sustainability was introduced as a new (2017: 515) and 150 industry-expert interviews (2017: assessment criterion in the 2018 survey and showed 59) as part of marketing and strategy projects, yielda strong competitive performance. Sustainability was ing valuable feedback on how to further improve its ranked as the 7th highest buying criteria, with 92 % product and solutions offerings and the entire cusof the respondents stating sustainability was important tomer journey. for their operations and/or markets. Customer loyalty was also found to be very high in 2018. The Customer Loyalty Index reached 81 points (2016: 84), while the Net Promoter Score (NPS) decreased from 37 % to 29 %. In the chemicals indusC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 145 try, an NPS of 30 % is considered the benchmark. marketing training program. The latter is being co-devel90 % of respondents are likely to continue doing business oped by the Business Units’ marketing departments with Clariant in the future (2016: 91 %) and 77 % and an industry-leading partner. In 2019, the Marketing stated they are likely to increase business with Clariant Excellence team will work with the Marketing and (2016: 81 %). The results also revealed several areas Innovation Heads to develop additional programs with room for improvement, including complaint that satisfy the evolving needs of Clariant’s marketing management and logistics. Since survey results differ community and customers. PAGE 135 considerably between regions and Business Units, future improvement efforts will target business-speIn 2018, Clariant carried out 37 Marketing Excellence cific and regional challenges in order to further projects, with the additional commercial margin from increase customer satisfaction and loyalty. PAGE 54 these efforts increasing from CHF 12.3 million to CHF 12.8 million in 2018. FIGURE 003 2.1.2. Advancing the Leading Marketing Organizations 003 COMMERCIAL MARGIN in CHF m Good customer and market research creates transpar12.8 12 ency at all touchpoints along the customer journey, 9 delivers customer insights that create unique value 4 propositions, and identifies market opportunities that can be addressed with innovative solutions. In 2017, 2015 2016 2017 2018 Clariant launched the Leading Marketing Organization to rethink its approach to marketing and further integrate marketing within the Business Units. Setting up dedicated marketing functions within each Business Unit was a first step. In 2018, Clariant filled all key positions and established a Marketing Advisory Board that serves as a platform to share best practices between the Business Units’ Marketing Heads and the Head of Marketing Excellence. The Marketing Advisory Board plays a key role in the continuous development and delivery of the marketing programs within and across the Business Units. Other key aspects of implementing the Leading Marketing Organization were the launch of marketing essentials training and the development of an advanced strategic 146 R EV I EW — P EOPLE 104Through the anonymous Integrity Line, 104 questions and allegations were issued. GRI GRI Online Report 2.2. Ethics and compliance 2.2.1. Excellence through Integrity Management Approach In 2018, Clariant continued implementing the measures In 2018, Clariant continued the rollout of its »ExcelEthics and Compliance outlined in its Strategic Integrity Roadmap. Structured lence through Integrity« campaign, which was launched reports.clariant.com/ around the company’s five pillars of leadership engagein 2017. As part of the campaign, members of the Executive 2018/gri ment, communication and training, risk assessment, Committee and regional heads articulated what ethics standards and controls, and monitoring, this roadmap and integrity mean to them personally in order to further anchors an ethical mindset and behavior in the workraise awareness for ethical behavior. These statements force and continues the ongoing process of transformwere printed on posters and displayed at all sites to ing Clariant from a rulesand principles-based organiincrease the visibility of the campaign. zation to a value-based organization. 2.2.2. Improving compliance through leadership ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE and training 2018 2017 Change in % To underscore its commitment to ethical business practice, Questions and allegations Clariant launched »Leader-led Compliance Sessions«, issued via the anonymous Integrity Line 104 80 30 which were held by roughly 1 000 leaders with their direct Fully or partially reports in 2018. These sessions provided a forum to substantiated 29 16 81.3 discuss ethical dilemmas that emerge in daily business Closed during the year 72 46 56.5 practices and share lessons learned and best practices. Percentage of Board members that received The dilemmas were all build around the commitments training on anticorruption (in %) 50 45 11 of the Code of Conduct related to the Anti-Bribery, Percentage of employees Antitrust, Data Privacy, Conflict of Interest and absence that received training on anti-corruption (in %) 30 60 – 50 of discrimination and harassment. With this effort, roughly 5 000 employees received Code of Conduct training. The »Leader-led Compliance Sessions« Clariant uses a comprehensive set of key performance resulted in more request for guidance from the Ethics & indicators to measure effective progress toward the Integrity functions and an increase of reports through objectives of the roadmap. the Integrity Line by 30 %. Clariant continued to conduct its mandatory compliance trainings for all employees, via e-learning and in-person, to prevent violations of the Code of Conduct. 50 % of the Board members and 30 % of employees ­received training on anti-corruption, while approximately 5 000 employees successfully completed the ­relaunched e-learning on antitrust law. Furthermore, an anti-bribC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 147 ery e-learning program was rolled out in 2018 that spewas set up and internally certified after extensive traincifically targeted sales, marketing, and procurement ing, covering the main topics for a certified Privacy Proprofessionals. In 2019, the anti-bribery e-learning will fessionals from the International Association of Privacy be rolled out to the remaining units of the organization. Professionals (iapp.org). The members of the Data Privacy Organization are responsible for creating awareness and 2.2.3. Internal communication increases build up the relevant knowledge throughout the organisensitivity for compliance issues zation with the »train the trainer« approach. Clariant also strengthened communication regarding ethics and compliance by publishing regularly articles 2.2.6. Providing clear grievance mechanisms around business ethics and shared results from internal A key instrument to track Clariant’s performance on investigations in its ethics journal. Each example ethics and compliance is the Integrity Line, which is illustrated a real case from Clariant’s businesses and disused to report workplace-related issues. To strengthen cussed how it was resolved. The articles caught considthis channel, Clariant rolled out the »Speak-up« camerable attention from employees, as indicated by paign. As part of this campaign the Integrity Line, was above-average click rates. promoted on Clariant’s website and made accessible to external stakeholders to anonymously report any 2.2.4. Reducing risk exposure across regions alleged violations of the Code of Conduct. In 2018, As Clariant’s businesses operate in a large number of 104 questions and allegations were issued via the Integcountries with diverging risk profiles, an ongoing risk rity Line (2017: 80), of which 29 were fully or partially assessment is conducted to identify gaps in the ethics substantiated (2017: 16). The substantiation rate is low, and compliance framework in different markets. In and we will focus in the coming year on more transpar2018, a compliance risk assessment was initiated for the ency related to the process and what should be most exposed Business Units. This process revealed reported. GRI gaps, which were closed by taking steps to reduce the risk exposure. 2.3. Policy and stakeholder relations GRI Online Report Clariant believes that maintaining an open and trustManagement Approach 2.2.5. Launch of the Data Privacy Program worthy dialogue with all stakeholders and participating Policy and Stakeholder Relations In response to the new General Data Protection Regulain relevant public policy developments are important reports.clariant.com/ tion (GDPR) of the European Union, Clariant started a aspects of its corporate responsibility. As a responsible 2018/gri Data Privacy Program in 2018. The program consists of corporate actor that values transparency, Clariant a policy framework, consisting of a Data Privacy Policy, publicly discloses its contributions to trade and business a general Directive on how to process personal data and associations. CLARIANT.COM/EN/COMPANY/ SOP’s on the subject of Data Breach and execution of CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE/PUBLIC-POLICY-DIALOG privacy rights and a basic Data Privacy e-learning course, to familiarize all employees with the principles of the data privacy policy as well as dedicated deep dive sessions for the more exposed functions like Human Resources, Marketing, Sales. In addition, a Data Privacy Organization 148 R EV I EW — P EOPLE The engagement of Clariant representatives in trade In 2018, Clariant decided to step up its support of the associations and other platforms supports strategic transition to a circular economy in the European Union. alignment across the industry, provides an opportunity It joined associations such as the «Plastics Recyclers for exchange on industry perspectives and best pracEurope» and «Petcore», the association representing tices, and brings forward Clariant’s views and positions the complete Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) value on various policy areas. chain in Europe. Clariant is a member of numerous interest groups and Active engagement in these bodies helps Clariant maintrade associations. At the international and regional tain a continuous stakeholder dialogue in strategically level, these include, among others, the International important fields. In 2018, dossiers related to sustainable Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and the Eurochemistry, circular economy, bio-economy, and innovapean Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). At the local tion policy frameworks were a particular focus. level, Clariant is part of national business federations GRI and chemical industry associations, such as ABIQUIM CUSTOMER TO CASH in Brazil, CPCIF in China, the Verband der Chemischen GRI Online Report Industrie (VCI) in Germany, and the American Chemis2.4. Sustainability performance in Management Approach try Council (ACC) in the United States. the supply chain Sustainability Clariant sources over 34 000 types of raw materials Performance in the Clariant is also active in sectorial associations, for examfrom approximately 7 000 suppliers. In 2018, CHF Supply Chain reports.clariant.com/ ple in the bio-economy field, and supports scientific and 2.9 billion was spent on raw materials, representing 2018/gri research associations, such as SusChem, the European the largest portion of Clariant’s total expenditure. Technology Platform for Sustainable Chemistry. Suppliers are critically important to Clariant’s value creation and substantially impact the company’s overThe top three contributions in 2018 were all made to all sustainability performance. Clariant uses a comEurope-based associations. Together, they represented prehensive set of criteria to select and manage supplimore than 50 % of Clariant’s total membership costs: ers, outsourcing partners, and service providers. 1. Verband der Chemischen Industrie e.V. – VCI, the Apart from economic and product-specific perforGerman national association of chemical producers; mance, these criteria include sustainability consid­ 2. Handelskammer beider Basel, the Basel Chamber of erations such as environmental and safety standards, Commerce; and social and governance aspects, complaint manage3. Scienceindustries, the Swiss business association for ment, working conditions, and respect for human the chemical, pharmaceutical, and biotech indutries. rights. 1 491 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 149 In 2018, the members of the »Together for Sustainability« initiative have assessed 1 491 suppliers. SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY (TFS) 2018 2017 TfS was founded in 2012 and currently lists 21 major chemical Number of new Sustainability companies as members, representing a combined yearly spend Assessments shared 1 1 491 2 309 of more than CHF 230 billion. Clariant joined TfS in 2014 in Percentage of direct spend (raw order to assess and steer sustainability in its supply chain, alongmaterials) on suppliers covered by side other members. As an active member, Clariant contributes shared Sustainability Assessments 74 65 to the initiative by providing sustainability performance assessNumber of new Sustain­ability Audits shared 2 358 441 ments and audits of its own suppliers. In turn, it gains access to assessments generated and shared by other TfS members. 1 »Together for Sustainability« Supplier assessments 2 »Together for Sustainability« Supplier audits To ensure independence and consistency of results, TfS supplier assessments are conducted according to a standard approach by best-in-class service providers. The sustainability assessments consist of scorecards providing an overall score 2.4.1. Supplier Code of Conduct as well as a sub-score for performance in Environment, Labor In its Supplier Code of Conduct, Clariant outlines the Practices, Fair Business Practices, and Sustainable Procurement. The on-site sustainability audits are carried out by globally strategy, scope, and expectations regarding the susrenowned and specialized service providers. tainability engagement and performance of suppliers. The Code is part of Clariant’s General Terms and Conditions of Purchase, which are incorporated into every purchase order issued by procurement. Suppliers and their subsidiaries are required to agree and fully comply with the Code. CLARIANT.COM/EN/ COMPANY/CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE/ CODES-OF-CONDUCT 2.4.2. Assessing and steering sustainability in the supply chain In order to ensure compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, Clariant relies on assessments and audits conducted by »Together for Sustainability« (TfS). In 2018, TfS members assessed 1 491 suppliers for the first time, compared to 2 309 assessments in 2017. In total, more than 10 000 suppliers have been assessed since the inception of TfS. To identify which portion 150 R EV I EW — P EOPLE of its total spend is covered by TfS assessments, 2.4.3. Goals and challenges in sustainable Clariant maps completed assessments against its supsupply chain management plier base. In 2018, coverage was 74 %, an increase In 2018, Clariant established supply chain sustainabilof 9 % compared to 2017. With this, Clariant managed ity targets for each Business Unit individually. The to reach its goal of a direct spend coverage of 70 % targets address increasing customer requests and proby 2019 one year early. The number of new audits actively support Clariant’s reputation as a sustain­ amounted to 358 in 2018, compared with 441 in 2017, ability leader. Clariant also organizes internal trainadding up to a total of more than 1 500 audits conings every year to increase awareness and enhance ducted since 2012. As such, TfS achieved its goal of its capability to evaluate sustainability performance 1 400 audits one year early. in the supply chain. The trainings mainly target employees in Global Procurement Services (GPS) and Based on TfS sustainability assessments, Clariant initiassociates in the Business Units. A particular focus ates Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) to reduce identiof the trainings provided to GPS is put on the toolbox fied sustainability risks. About 200 supplier CAPs were Clariant uses to further deploy sustainability with completed in 2017. The reassessment of these suppliers the company’s suppliers. The trainings for the Business in 2018 showed positive results: 75 % improved their Units serve to provide updates on GPS’ activities and score and the average score improved by 6 %. inform them about sustainable procurement initiatives in other businesses. In 2018, Clariant formalized TfS assessments in order to use them for screening customer eligibility for While Clariant is committed to motivating its suppliers EcoTain® licensing. Suppliers need to have a solid susto participate in the »Together for Sustainability« tainability performance and reach a minimum score program, a major remaining challenge is the systematic of 45 points in the online assessment conducted by extension of Clariant’s supply chain management to third-party service provider EcoVadis to become tier 2 suppliers and beyond. As Clariant does not have eligible for the use of the EcoTain® label on their own a direct business relationship with these companies products and marketing material. The assessment and in many cases does not know them, the company tool thus not only helps Clariant evaluate the sustainlaunches pilot projects that will facilitate an exchange ability performance of its suppliers but also contribwith tier 2 suppliers on the issue of sustainability. utes to the growth of the EcoTain® brand. PAGE 122 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 151 2.4.4. Strong engagement leads to outside that were identified as high-risk during our 2016 human recognition rights due diligence review. A specific focus was on Over the last few years, Clariant’s supply chain suscontracted labor in order to assess that all corporate poli­ tainability performance has consistently received cies were well implemented and that the same requireexternal recognition. In December 2017, the Euroments were applied to Clariant’s own employees as pean Institute for Purchasing Management (EIPM) to temporary workers and contractors. These efforts conhonored Clariant with its prestigious »Sustainability centrated particularly in high-risk geographies, such Leadership in the Supply Chain« award. With a score as India. of 80 points, it also received one of the highest EcoVadis assessment scores of more than 30 000 assessed In order to reinforce its commitment to workplace rights companies in 2018. The assessment focuses on 21 and globally ensure the same high standards regarding ­sustainability criteria grouped into the four categories working conditions, Clariant developed a new employ»Environment«, »Social«, »Ethics«, and »Supply ment policy in 2018. The policy fosters sustainable Chain«. In 2018, Clariant reached 80 points in all four employee relations and addresses fair working condicategories. In the supply chain category, this reptions, discrimination, freedom of association, occuparesents an improvement by 23 points since 2011. tional health and safety, as well as child and forced GRI labor. The policy applies equally to permanent and tem2.5. Human rights porary employees and workers, and is applicable to all GRI Online Report Clariant is firmly committed to protecting human rights employment agencies and contractors that collaborate Management Approach during all phases of value creation within all business with or engage on behalf of Clariant. The new policy Human Rights reports.clariant.com/ units. This obligation applies not only to Clariant’s own was communicated to all employees across all countries. 2018/gri business operations, but also to its entire supply chain and contracted workers. As a prerequisite for sound Finally, via the Together for Sustainability (TfS) platbusiness governance and license-to-operate, Clariant form and in cooperation with other companies, Clariant expects its business partners to uphold the same high assesses its suppliers in relation to child and forced standards regarding human rights. labor, among other social, governance, and environmental topics. PAGE 148 Clariant crafted a comprehensive framework of policies, guidelines, and processes to ensure the implementation of its human rights commitments. Over the last two years, deep-dive investigations were performed in areas 152 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C USTO M E R R E LAT I O N S H I P S C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 Customer Relationships What Will Our Customers Expect from Us Tomorrow? Trends and tastes shape what consumers buy. Knowing what people want is hard. Knowing what they'll want tomorrow or next year is even harder. With innovation cycles shortening and global trends moving faster than ever, it's crucial for consumer goods companies and their suppliers to know which way to innovate. That's why Clariant helps its customers predict trends and keeps its finger on the pulse. Judith van Vliet As Designer for ColorWorks™ at Clariant, Judith helps companies figure out which colors consumers will favor in coming years. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 153 Janis Ambrose Shard As Senior Manager for Cross Car Line at Toyota, Janis works on trends that may change what cars will look like and how we use them. 154 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C USTO M E R R E LAT I O N S H I P S Judith, what’s the color for 2020? There’s not one color. That’s a misconception people have, that a single color will work in every context. With ColorForward®, we outline trends and a range of colors that interpret and translate those trends. For 2020, we What’s in it for Clariant? see consumers gravitating to cooler blues and greens – It’s to positively distinguish ourselves from the compeaway from the warmer tones of recent years. tition. Clariant sells masterbatches that give plastics their unique visual appearance and functionality. The Okay, I feel we’ve jumped right into your work, masterbatches market is a crowded one, with many which is rather unique. dozens of competitors in Europe alone – from small Yes, we are one of a kind within the company – and the family businesses to other multinationals. Customers industry. I’m a conceptual designer at ColorWorks™, understand, though, that we know their markets better which is the global network of Design & Technology than anybody else. We know societal trends that will Centers within the Business Unit Masterbatches. shape consumer decisions and we speak the language In short, ColorWorks™ helps Clariant customers choose of their designers. the right aesthetic for their product. Why is that important? Who are those customers? Designers don’t talk in color codes. They try to evoke They come from a wide range of industries – from packfeelings or replicate things they’ve seen in the world. aging and automotive, to consumer goods and textiles, Translating that into something a chemist or an engito food and interiors. We work directly with these cusneer can work with is a big and beautiful part of what tomers. So I would work mostly with a designer or we do. And vice versa, we inspire designers by introducmarketeer at a brand to pick the color and finish for a ing them to things our chemists come up with. new product. Don’t your customers have people for that? What goes into these decisions and how can It depends. Some multinationals have entire buildings you help? populated by color, material, and finish designers – There’s a lot that comes into play. Obviously their brand basically people like myself. Yet the most creative comand their demographic target, but also societal trends panies will always invite different perspectives. and regional tastes. Clariant has developed its own foreBeiersdorf is a good example. The makers of NIVEA™ casting guide called ColorForward®. We’ve just finished certainly aren’t looking for new shades of blue and working on its 14th edition for trends, their respective white for their flagship product. Still, they’re usually the colors, and associated aesthetics in 2020. first to invite us each year to talk about trends. How do you forecast trends? How accurate are your predictions? Our team goes to shows, conferences, and exhibitions You never get it completely right. We compile four stories all over the world. We talk to other trend watchers, to and usually 20 directional colors. Each year, 15 to 17 of designers, artists, and customers. And even when we’re those are confirmed, making us 75 to 85 percent accujust walking down the street, we always have our antenrate. What is most important is that the overarching stonas out. We try to see what is happening and what is difries are almost always confirmed. ferent. It’s about all the small signs that might signal change. Have there been forecasts you were particularly fond of? Where are those teams you mentioned? I was personally very touched by a story we dubbed Our teams are located in Italy, Singapore, Chicago, and »Umswenko«. That’s a Zulu word describing the style São Paolo. and attitude of African millennials. It’s part of ­ColorForward® 2019 and tells the story of the creative and confident startup culture we see flourishing across the African continent, which is inspiring on so many levels. Not surprising, considering Africa is the next big thing C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 155 Why do we predict trends for our customers? JUDITH VAN VLIET Designer ColorWorks®, Clariant 156 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C USTO M E R R E LAT I O N S H I PS What shapes consumer tastes and trends in cars? JANIS AMBROSE SHARD Senior Manager Product Planning & Strategy, Toyota North America C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 157 Speaking of appearance, how might autonomous driving change the way cars look? We’re starting to see how the interior can be packaged differently, because suddenly you’ll have all this free time on your hands as the vehicle whizzes you from A to B. You’ve been with Toyota for twenty years now. How have tastes changed? Janis, Henry Ford famously said that his customWith things like Pinterest and Instagram, everyone’s ers could have their cars any color they wanted a designer now. Tastes and expectations are a lot more as long as it was black. Why are we still buying sophisticated. mostly black cars a century later? Well, we’re not. Actually pearl white has overtaken black, How are materials changing? especially in Asian markets. And more to the point, We’re seeing a lot more natural materials for interiors – when Henry Ford said that, black was the easiest color organic fabrics for example or bamboo. The European to paint. Today’s colors and today’s blacks are not easy market is leading the way here. to paint. But it is true that black, white, gray, and silver cars tend to hold their resale value a little better. So What role do suppliers play in addressing or even people play it safe. You don’t just throw out your old car setting new trends? the way you do with a carpet or an iPod. If it weren’t Our reliance on suppliers is huge. They’re the ones for that, I think consumers would be more open. My team bringing in, say, a new technology for a seat material. and I are always trying to infuse more colors. I’m not the expert in leather or paint technology. So we rely on suppliers competing on new technologies. And You help set the global color palette for Toyota they come with some pretty wild ideas. and Lexus. Was there ever a favorite for you? I remember a bright orange called »Inferno« that we Are trends the same for every car company? eventually chose for the launch of our TRD Pro trucks They can affect our buyers differently than those of in 2015. I had to fight tooth and nail to get that color. other brands. You buy a Toyota for specific reasons and Orange is technically challenging and parts were being those might be different than the ones for choosing a painted at different locations so I had to make sure that Honda or a Mercedes. each factory was able to get it right. But the color made a huge splash at the Chicago Motor Show. How important is it that a supplier understands your industry? Do societal trends affect which color people buy? It’s one thing if they’ve got a beautiful product. But it Yes, definitely! In my experience, when the economy is has to meet our standards, which are a lot higher than booming, colors go a little bit darker, people turn to for other industries, not least from a regulatory standblack and dark grey. When there is a downturn, we start point. I’ve had suppliers come to me with seat materials seeing fluorescence and bright colors because people they’ve developed for boats. But what might look amazneed optimism. ing on a yacht won’t necessarily hold up as a car seat in Louisiana humidity or in Texas heat. Another thing is Besides colors, your team oversees technologies how you deal with suppliers. For mass production, you to be rolled out across the entire model range. want to make sure that it’s a smooth process, whether What are you seeing and how far ahead of the it’s purchasing or the engineering side. So when we try curve are you? out a new material, for a concept car for example, we’re The next big thing will be electrification and the necesalso testing what it’s like dealing with that particular sary infrastructure – along with, eventually, autonosupplier. mous driving. Toyota is not always at the forefront of everything, even though we brought hybrids to the mainstream long before anybody else. We tend to be later to the party, but better dressed. 158 R EV I EW — P L AN E T Planet Planet – Clariant’s third brand value – encompasses the value creation comparisons of relative numbers (per ton of producprocesses that benefit the environment. To meet its ambitious environtion), rather than absolute ones. Thus, in the following mental targets, Clariant takes measures to ensure the responsible use tables and discussions, year-on-year comparisons of of natural capital. This includes programs to protect the environment, relative numbers are highlighted. safeguard natural resources, mitigate climate change, and promote the transition to a circular economy. In 2018, total sales increased, while production volume decreased – a finding that also remains valid when con1. Natural Capital sidering the effect of the reduced reporting scope. OverClariant remains committed to continuously improve all, the lower production volume led to increased relaoperational efficiency by tackling environmental chaltive figures, since resource consumption, emissions, and lenges. Stewardship of natural resources is paramount, waste can only partially be related to production volas Clariant’s production depends on reliable access ume. Despite these challenges, Clariant remains committo a multitude of raw materials. To monitor environmented to its 2025 environmental targets and is well on tal impacts from its production sites in a meaningful track to achieve them. FIGURE 002 and efficient manner, Clariant regularly validates and reports environmental data from its largest production CUSTOMER TO CASH sites. Collectively, these cover around 95 % of production volume. To keep track of the smaller sites as well, 1.1. Progress toward environmental targets 2025 Clariant collects environmental data for all production Clariant has set goals to achieve significant impact sites every three years. Due to this schedule, 125 proreductions in six crucial areas by 2025, as compared to duction sites were included in the 2017 reporting and 79 2013. In relation to produced goods (per ton), Clariant in the 2018 reporting. In addition, five administrative aims to reduce energy consumption and direct CO₂ sites are included in the reporting as well. This promotes emissions by 30 %, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, and waste volume by 35 %, and wastewater 001 E NVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2025 in % (per t produced goods) volume by 40 %. Reduction of Energy Reduction of Reduction of Emissions Consumption Direct CO₂ Emissions from Greenhouse Gases In 2018, energy consumption per ton of produced goods rose by 4.6 %, from 706 kWh to 739 kWh. Direct CO₂ emissions (Scope 1) and greenhouse gas emissions, – 30 – 30 – 35 including from the production of electricity (Scope 1 & 2), followed this development, with increases from 95 to 97.5 kg (2.7 %), and 211 to 215 kg (1.9 %) per ton of Reduction of Water Reduction of Volume Reduction of Volume production, respectively. The lower increase in Consumption of Wastewater of Waste ­emissions indicates Clariant’s shift to cleaner energy sources, such as natural gas. – 35 – 40 – 35 C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 159 eWATCH™ eWATCH™ oversees all forms and usages of energy at Clariant – electricity, heating and cooling, steam, natural gas, nitrogen, and the production of deionized water – by taking into account the design and setup of equipment and processes across Clariant's facilities. It also records and analyzes Clariant's energy consumption, including information on energy flows, prices, and usage optimization. It maintains information on total energy usage patterns and requirements and will increasingly consider maintenance activities, changeovers, cleaning, and production planning and scheduling in the future. 002 P ROGRESS TOWARDS 2025 TARGETS 0.72 0.71 0.74 101 98 0.64 95 83 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 Energy Consumption Direct CO₂ Emissions in MWh per t produced goods, corresponding to – 20 % since 2013 in kg per t produced goods, corresponding to – 18 % since 2013 218 211 215 195 11.7 10.6 11.3 10.6 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Consumption in kg per t produced goods, corresponding to – 28 % since 2013 in m3 per t produced goods, corresponding to – 31 % since 2013 53.3 43.2 35.8 3.2 33.5 2.75 2.9 2.75 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 2016 2017 2018 Target 2025 Wastewater Generation Waste Generation in m3 per t produced goods, corresponding to – 37 % since 2013 in kg per t produced goods, corresponding to + 4 % since 2013 (Waste performance mainly affected by reclassification of non-hazardous waste from gypsum waste) 160 R EV I EW — P L AN E T Water consumption per ton of produced goods increased 1.2.1. Energy by 6.5 %, from 10.6 m3 to 11.3 m3. This was mainly due to Clariant recognizes the critical role companies must an extremely warm summer and, consequently, increased play to reduce energy consumption and minimize cooling demand. Wastewater generation per ton of proenergy-related greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, duction increased by 5.6 %, from 2.8 m3 to 2.9 m3. energy consumption per ton of produced goods rose by 4.6 %. The increase is mainly due to a reduction Waste generation increased by 23 % in 2018, rising from of the production volume. Clariant will continue to 43.2 kg to 53.3 kg per ton of production. This significant work toward its energy consumption reductions increase is mainly due to different accounting, resulting targeted for 2025 by further investing in and developing GRI from internal and regulatory changes. PAGE 159 programs such as eWATCH™, Clariant Operational Excellence, and the Clariant Production System Yield, GRI Online Report 1.2. Environmental protection and resources Energy, Environment (YEE) initiative. Management Approach For Clariant, environmental protection and resources Environmental encompasses consumption of resources, such as Through eWATCH™, Clariant crafted a comprehensive Protection and energy and water, on one hand and preventing polluenergy efficiency program that analyzes energy Resources reports.clariant.com/ tion and ecosystem effects on the other. To minimize consumption across operations and identifies potential 2018/gri the company’s impacts on the environment and safecost-saving opportunities. Since 2013, a total of guard natural resources, high-level management CHF 26.7 million was saved by implementing energy attention and a corporate culture that prioritizes efficiency measures and energy-purchasing optimizaenvironmental stewardship throughout the company tions. In 2018, Clariant managed to save CHF 3.85 milis essential. To ensure this focus, Clariant uses lion. comprehensive management tools and programs that combine technology, data, and behavioral guidelines. eWATCH™ focuses on three pillars: operations and technology; awareness, mindset, and behavior; and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCES energy management. In 2018, the eWATCH™ program 2018 1 2017 was rolled out in Greater China, at two Business Unit Total energy consumption (in m kWh) 3 209 3 245 Catalysts sites in South Africa and at all Clariant sites Energy consumption in Indonesia. Clariant globally passed the recertification (in kWh/t production) 739 706 of the energy management system according to ISO Total water consumption (in m m3) 49 49 50001. More than 40 % of Clariant’s production volume Total wastewater generation (in m m3) 13 13 was produced at ISO 50001-certified sites. Clariant Total quantity of waste (in thousand t) 232 198 also continued performing energy benchmarks of utility generation systems internally as well as against state1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. of-the-art installations. A guideline of best practice for In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. utility engineering is in preparation and will be further developed in 2019. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 161 50 With the Yield, Energy, Environment (YEE) initiative, Clariant saved more than CHF 50 million since 2012. With the »eWATCH™ goes digital« initiative, Clariant In 2018, water consumption per ton of produced will identify additional energy saving and emission goods increased by 6.5 %, mainly caused by an extremely reduction opportunities by increasing transparency at warm summer that led to a higher demand for cooling the different levels of production and organization, water. The reduced reporting scope also contributed and by exploiting suitable tools for data monitoring, to the increased water intensity, as the omitted sites analysis and interpretation. For example, real-time are only responsible for a very small fraction of total energy consumption data at equipment, plant, producwater consumption. Similarly, wastewater generation tion, and product level is key to realizing further per ton of produced goods increased by 5.6 %. operational energy efficiency. The focus will be on identifying equipment that is mainly responsible for energy Wastewater is closely managed at all Clariant producconsumption in the utility and production areas. tion sites and local regulatory requirements regarding discharge limits are strictly followed. The company The Production System Yield, Energy, Environment assesses wastewater quality by measuring heavy met(YEE) initiative analyzes Clariant’s production als concentration, nitrogen and phosphorus comprocesses and units to discover even more opportunipounds, as well as biological and chemical oxygen ties to increase yields, improve energy efficiency, demands. Wastewater is often pretreated at Clariant’s and reduce waste streams. Since its inception in 2012, sites before being transferred to dedicated industrial Clariant achieved savings with the YEE of more or municipal wastewater treatment plants for further than CHF 50 million. In 2018 alone, savings amounted treatment. The pretreatment mostly consists of a to CHF 6 million. multi-stage chemical and physical treatment to ensure effluents do not impair the receiving water bodies. 1.2.2. Water consumption and wastewater With this multistep treatment approach and constant generation monitoring, Clariant guarantees that discharged Water is one of the most important auxiliary materials wastewater does not negatively impact ecosystems. for the chemical industry. Clariant considers the entire volume of water withdrawn and used as its In 2017, Clariant undertook a Group-wide water risk total water consumption. Cooling water returned to assessment to understand which production sites the source after being used in cooling cycles is not are located in water-risk areas. First, the World Re­ excluded from total consumption. Clariant uses about sources Institute’s (WRI) global risk assessment tool 70 % of purchased water for cooling production was utilized to prepare a short list of sites located in plants, 20 % for production processes, and 10 % as a areas with water risks. Second, the short-listed sites product component or for sanitary purposes. Conserwere analyzed in an internal survey aiming to undervation of water is mandated by local communities, stand site-specific water risks and impacts. To further customers, and regulators. develop an in-depth understanding of risks, a pilot water risk management project was completed in Santa Clara, Mexico, in 2018. While at-risk sites comprise only a small percentage of Clariant’s total sites, 162 R EV I EW — P L AN E T the results of the pilot study will be used to develop In addition, changes in regulations and definitions led goals to ensure all sites are equipped to responsibly to changes in reporting and a further increase of manage water risks. Due to its engagement to reduce non-hazardous waste. water-related risks, Clariant was recognized as the sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 1.2.4. Air pollution (DJSI) for the second consecutive year. In order to maintain healthy ecosystems, Clariant not only focuses on wastewater treatment, but also judiClariant is one of eleven partners in the European ciously monitors and contains air emissions from operINSPIREWater I­ NSPIREWater project, which is exploring innovative ations. Clariant adheres to local regulations regarding The eleven partners of solutions for industrial water management. The projair emission limits in all the countries in which it operthe EU-funded project ect includes developing a pilot wastewater treatment ates. Air pollutants tracked include volatile organic span eight industries, plant in the water-limited region of Tarragona, Spain, compounds (VOCs), sulfur oxides (SOx’s), and nitrogen including steel, paper, and chemicals. Clariant with the aim of achieving zero liquid discharge. oxides (NOx’s). joined the project in Knowledge obtained from this project can be trans2016. ferred to other Clariant sites, particularly those 1.2.5. Ecosystem protection located in water-stressed areas. Ecosystem services are vital for businesses and society. They include provision of fresh water, air purifica1.2.3. Waste tion, energy production, and protection against natuClariant is aware of the environmental harm associral disasters, among many other critical benefits. ated with waste production and consequently follows Clariant strives to ensure its activities do not impede a strict waste-management protocol. Clariant priorior degrade such services. Thus, Clariant does not tizes waste prevention over recycling waste, as this operate production sites in biological reserves or areas approach minimizes resource consumption in addiwith high biodiversity value. In addition, Clariant tion to costs. During product development and manucarefully addresses the environmental impacts of facturing, Clariant aims to generate as little waste as sourcing palm oil and mining bentonite, both of which possible, and any unavoidable waste is recycled or disare important raw materials for the company. posed of properly. Accumulated waste is documented in detail in order to enable proper classification and To protect rainforests and peatland and combat ecohandling. logical degradation caused by clearing land for palm oil plantations, Clariant pursues certification of its Per ton of production, generation of waste increased palm oil derivatives supply. As member of the Roundby 23 % in 2018. The increase can only be observed in table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Clariant non-hazardous waste, which is 76 % of Clariant’s total achieved mass-balance certification for all of its sites waste. Gypsum is a by-product of bentonite processin 2016 and has more than 250 products certified ing and represents 40 % of the total non-hazardous specifically. Clariant will continue to extend the certiwaste. In 2018, two sites accumulated large amounts fied product portfolio in order to help its customers of gypsum. The sites are exploring different commermeet demand for certified-palm ingredients. cial avenues to convert gypsum into a viable product. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 163 When mining bentonite, Clariant follows several In order to contribute to a sustainable economy, steps to exceed societal and community expectations Clariant adopted environmental targets to be achieved regarding the conservation of the surrounding ecoby 2025. Clariant committed to reduce Scope 1 and 2 system. Before drilling begins, Clariant’s geologists greenhouse gas emissions by 35 %, and to reduce craft a plan to minimize associated environmental direct carbon dioxide emissions by 30 %, both per metimpacts. This includes removing the topsoil and overric ton of production, compared to the base year burden to preserve the land for restoration, as well as 2013. Clariant is well on track to reach these targets. reduce operating costs and fuel consumption. During PAGE 159 mining, Clariant ensures that resident animals may easily move to adjacent areas. Before being transGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ported, the bentonite is sun-dried, reducing its weight 2018 1 2017 and thus emissions produced in shipping. Quarry Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & 2 CO₂ equivalents) (in m t) 0.93 0.97 closure is undertaken with local experts in order to Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions restore the land for profitable use in forestry or agri(Scope 3 CO₂ equivalents) (in m t) 5.69 5.21 culture. These efforts are crucial to maintain healthy Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & 2 CO₂ equivalents) (in kg/t production) 215 211 relationships with local communities and protect local ecosystems. 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from GRI all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95 % of production. 1.3. Climate change GRI Online Report Mitigating and adapting to human-induced climate Management Approach change is one of the world’s most pertinent challenges. In 2018, direct CO₂ emissions (Scope 1) per ton of proClimate Change reports.clariant.com/ The expectations and pressure for corporations to duction rose by 2.7 % and greenhouse gas emissions, 2018/gri address climate change have risen considerably in including from the production of electricity (Scope 1 recent years. Financial investors, customers, poli& 2), increased by 1.9 %. The increase per ton is cy-makers, rating programs, and NGOs have set clear mainly due to the lower production volume. Emission scopes expectations regarding the need to properly identify »Scope 1« covers direct and evaluate climate risks and opportunities, and to To increase transparency about its carbon footprint, emissions from operations, including from the develop mitigation strategies. Clariant is moving beyond Scope 1 and 2 and reports combustion of fuels further emissions that occur along its value chain, in vehicles, boilers, and Clariant’s overall objective is to address and promote so-called Scope 3 emissions. The most relevant Scope furnaces. »Scope 2« includes indirect emisthe transition to a low-carbon economy and ulti3 emission activities for Clariant are: purchase of raw sions from the generamately achieve climate resilience. Clariant also wants materials, energy-related emissions, transportation tion of purchased to capitalize on business opportunities such as reducand distribution of supplied materials and sold prodenergy, such as electricity and district heat. ing energy costs and developing low-carbon products, ucts, and the end-of-life treatment of its products. »Scope 3« comprises for which customer demand is rising. emissions occurring in the value chain, which are not included in Scope 1 or 2. 164 R EV I EW — P L AN E T Scope 3 emissions are typically much larger than In addition, Clariant is currently assessing how to Scope 1 and 2 emissions, given the broader value ­further integrate a dedicated climate risks and opporchain and activity coverage. The increase of Scope 3 tunities management process at the Group level. This emissions between 2017 and 2018 was primarily process would support the company to better identify driven by increased purchases of raw materials. A midto long-term developments, address and enable detailed breakdown of Clariant’s greenhouse gas the transition to a low-carbon economy, and ultimately emissions is available in the GRI report. secure climate resilience. To support the agenda on climate change mitigation, IDEA TO MARKET Clariant focuses on low-carbon products that are also GRI a promising growth market. Based on Clariant’s 1.4. Circular economy Port­folio Value Program, already more than 20 % of GRI Online Report sales are associated with products that help reduce 1.4.1 The circular model gains traction Management Approach carbon emissions. In the future, an increasing share of Increasing awareness of limited natural resources Circular Economy ­bio-based raw materials will replace fossil-based has generated support for the circular economy as a reports.clariant.com/ ­re­sources, leading to a reduced product carbon footnecessary alternative to the current linear economic 2018/gri print. Examples of products contributing to emissions model. In a circular economy, materials are kept in use reduction are lightweight solutions for automotive for as long as possible, and are fully reused or recycled applications, such as the foaming agent Hydrocerol® at a product’s end-of-life. Ideally, materials originate or the catalyst EnviCat®, which significantly reduces from renewable sources, where feasible, and are susnitrogen oxide emissions. tainably sourced. The circular economy eliminates currently prevalent and wasteful take-make-dispose Increasing pressure on natural resources, concerns on material flows and requires a strong focus on product climate change, rising expectations about corporate design that favors durability, reparability, and recyperformance, and higher availability and affordability clability. of renewable energy are factors leading to their growing uptake. To increase the share of clean energy in Due to increasing customer and policy attention, the consumed energy mix, Clariant started developintensified by media coverage of plastic waste, the ciring a global renewable energy procurement strategy. cular economy has gained importance as a topic More specifically, it investigates drivers, sourcing across all Business Units. In addition, two recent polioptions, contractual instruments, and the feasibility cies are further creating momentum: In 2018, the of green energy solutions at the country level. The European Union Plastic Strategy was adopted and the increase in renewable energy use will have a positive, waste ban in China came into force. As a supplier to direct effect on greenhouse gas emissions. PAGE 76 value chains in various industries, Clariant and other chemical companies play an important role in transiC LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 165 tioning from a linear to a circular economy. Clariant 1.4.3 A comprehensive approach yields also supports the development of public policies protangible results moting the circular economy and sustainable chemisA highlight in 2018 was the Cradle-to-Cradle™ certitry. PAGE 122, PAGE 147 fication for Business Unit Masterbatches’ CESA® solution for colored bottle caps made of 100 % recycled 1.4.2 Embracing opportunities with chemical polypropylene. The solution avoids the use of adverse expertise and sustainability innovations substances, such as halogenated pigments, while still Clariant is ideally positioned to seize new market enabling customers to obtain the requested color opportunities arising from the transition to a circular match and meeting the stringent Cradle-to-Cradle™ economy. Being a specialty chemical company with certification. The Cradle-to-Cradle™ certification strong connections and customers in the plastic value considers the complete life cycle of a product, assesschain, e.g., through its catalysts, additives, or mastering it along five dimensions: material health, material batches, Clariant’s understanding of product-related reutilization, renewable energy and carbon managerecycling efforts and deep chemical knowledge not ment, water stewardship, and social fairness. The soluyet represented in the recycling value chain are clear tion was awarded with the 2017 German Packaging advantages. Further, as a company with a strong focus Award and was tailor-made for Werner & Mertz, a on innovation and sustainability leadership, the topic German company offering cleaning agents and deterhas already been embraced in its early stage. gents. PAGE 171 Clariant contributes in several ways to the proliferaIn addition, an iGarage focusing on plastic recycling tion of the circular economy, for example, by increashas been set up. The iGarage is a platform to develop ing eco-efficiency of production processes by using strategic innovation opportunities by applying agile waste and renewable resources instead of virgin or and design thinking methods. PAGE 116 The objecfossil ones. For instance, waste streams from food tive of this iGarage is to evaluate challenges and production are used to source esters, and rice bran opportunities in plastic recycling and explore how wax serves as feedstock for esterquats. Clariant also Clariant can address these in collaboration with redesigns processes and promotes closed-loop recycustomers and other value chain partners. PAGE 168 cling on-site, such as solvent recycling in wax production and comprehensive concepts on de-icing fluids for aircraft, as well as water recycling within the INSPIREWater project. In addition, Clariant engages in industrial symbiosis and value chain clusters, such as the Carbon2Chem project, which aims to convert process gases from steel production into base chemicals. Furthermore, circular economy principles are integrated in product and technology development. 166 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C I R C ULA R E CO N O M Y Circular Economy Where Can Chemistry Help Close the Plastics Loop? Plastic is everywhere. Our modern lives depend on it. But the miracle material is becoming a global problem as single-use plastics waste resources and choke ecosystems. A circular economy for post-­ consumer plastic could change that. Modern chemistry might hold the key. Richard Haldimann As Head of New Business Development at Clariant, Richard works with a unique team that is rethinking how we design and formulate plastics for a circular economy. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 167 Alexander Schau As Packaging Developer for Werner & Mertz, Alexander designs recyclable packaging that's easy to separate and reuse, and works to incorporate more and more recycled materials in his designs. 168 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C I R C ULA R E CO N O M Y Richard, Clariant is exploring new approaches to plastics recycling. Why? As a company we are driven by sustainability. In a sense, it’s become the lens through which we look at any new business opportunity. And plastics are an interesting case here. Their strength, light weight, and versatility have made them ubiquitous. Which, in and of itself, isn’t a bad thing. Better plastic packaging has dramatically reduced food waste. Light weight plastics help save fuel. And plastics have increased the durability of products more durable reduces waste. And that’s something we in many aspects of modern life. That’s why demand for are already doing a lot today. Our second contribution plastic has reached 322 million tons in 2015. Unfortuwould be to help design plastic products for improved nately, much of the produced plastic is lost after a single recyclability. That can mean designing materials to use. Every year, about 200 million tons are disposed make them easier to separate, recover, and reuse them of in landfills and about eight million tons leak into the for new products. It can also mean designing materials oceans uncontrolled. We desperately need to find a that make mixing different materials obsolete in the solution for this waste problem. Having decades of first place. Imagine a single recyclable material that experience in improving plastics, we consider Clariant does the job usually reserved for several layers of to be well positioned to do just that. This also drove different plastics. our decision to become a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste. What’s driving the push for a circular plastics economy? In your search, you’ve applied a new concept Consumer awareness is very high, which drives brand called iGarage. What is that and how does owners and consumer-facing industries to make strong it help? commitments. I know of big companies that want to The problem is very complex and involves many differuse 100 percent recycled materials by 2025. As things ent industries. We applied the iGarage, a new concept are going, they won’t even find those materials. Addideveloped by Clariant Excellence to drive customer-­ tionally, legislation is being introduced around the world centric innovation. It’s a space where we bring together that increases the pressure on industries to reduce different experts from across the company as well as plastic waste. from the outside. By leveraging methods like design thinking and lean startup tools, they come up with new What are the next steps for Clariant? insights and approaches for a business. The main point We’ve prioritized five specific concepts that we're is to gain speed and to focus on a singular challenge fleshing out right now, again working with external together. The iGarage allows us to tackle opportunities experts and scouting for technologies. that are more complex and uncertain but also more rewarding. What are you looking for? New products, new services, or even new business models? What could Clariant’s contribution look like? All of the above. We want to apply our products, but we We can contribute in two important ways. First, we can also think about new business models. Is there, for help increase the lifespan and use of plastic products. example, an opportunity to co-develop recyclable and Reusing a plastic product several times because it’s high-performing post-consumer solutions in particular? Those are things the individual Business Unit could do, but there may be opportunities for an overarching business model addressing the whole plastics-recycling value chain. How is the industry reacting to your efforts? They haven’t gone unnoticed. We’re now being invited to join various consortia like the Circular Economy Initiative Deutschland. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 169 How can we help improve plastics recycling? RICHARD HALDIMANN Head of New Business Development, Clariant 170 TWO P ER S P EC TI V E S — C I R C ULA R E CO N O M Y How are design and recycling interlinked? ALEXANDER SCHAU Packaging Developer, Werner & Mertz C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 171 Alexander, your company prides itself on being a You mentioned joint Research & Development. pioneer in eco-friendly products. Does that apply Who are you working with? to their packaging as well? No one company can solve this problem alone. We need Back in 1986, with environmental awareness on the rise, to work with partners along the entire packaging value Werner & Mertz established Frosch as a brand for chain. That's why, in 2012, we started our recyclate inieco-friendly cleaning products. It led the way back then tiative. It involves »Der Grüne Punkt™«, Germany’s largand we’re leading the way again by working to close est industry-funded waste collection scheme, a superthe loop for our packaging materials. market chain, a big manufacturer of plastic bottles and caps, as well as an environmental group and the makers What’s the current share of recycled material in of sensors used to sort waste. But it’s an open collaborayour bottles and what’s the target? tion that invites any company to get involved, including Roughly 70 percent of our bottles currently incorporate our competitors. recycled materials. We’ve committed ourselves to using 100 percent recycled material by the year 2025 for all of Don’t recyclers work with plastics manufacturers our packaging. So we’re well underway, but there’s work anyway? left to be done. A lot less than you’d think. We made an effort to actually visit recycling facilities and bottle-production sites What’s holding you back? together. That was a first for some. To better understand There are both economic and technical hurdles. The use the needs and constraints along the value chain is part of recycled materials still lacks economies of scale. of our drive to rethink packaging. Today, recycled plastics are in many cases more expensive than virgin plastics. But we’re confident that this Where does a supplier like Clariant come in? will change with growth in demand and supply. In the We recently introduced a new bottle cap made entirely meantime, we´re working with different shareholders of recycled polypropylene extracted from household on solutions for recyclable packaging and working to waste. Together with Clariant, we’ve developed a new open new fields for the use of recycled materials. type of color masterbatch for our trademark green that is tailored to this specific post-consumer plastic. Not Impurities in recycled materials are a problem. only that, we were able to substitute certain chemicals Where do they come from? in this masterbatch, making it particularly sustainable Some stem from labels for example. We’re dealing with and recyclable. It follows the Cradle-to-Cradle™ guideinks, adhesives, and paper fibers that end up in the recylines, and the certification process has started. clates. Here we need to call both on recycling firms to improve treatment processes and on packaging manuWhat’s the key in designing for recyclability? facturers to use more recycling-friendly solutions. But We need to rethink certain paradigms in packaging. For there’s also the issue of complex plastic mixes. What to example, for years the industry has designed for packaga consumer might seem like a simple enough plastic ing to be lightweight. That often meant using ever thinpack, say for cheese or meats, is in fact made up of sevner layers but adding different materials, additives, eral functional layers, each from a different plastic with and functions. This causes problems in recycling up to any number of additives in the mix. Here we need unino recyclability at all. »Healthy materials«, meaning fication in materials. mono-materials without additives, would actually be a huge boon to recyclability. Are you following this route to simplicity? Yes. Last year, we patented a 100-percent recyclable pouch made of a polyethylene mono-material that will hit the shelves this year for a laundry detergent and a host of other products. The spout and cap are also made of polyethylene, and, instead of printing or gluing on any labels, we dress the pack in a decorative layer of low-density polyethylene that comes off easily and cleanly after use. 172 I ND EP END ENT ASS UR A N C E R E PO RT Independent Assurance Report on the Clariant Non-Financial Performance Reporting 2018 To the Board of Directors of Clariant Ltd, Muttenz We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide limited assurance on the non-financial performance reporting of Clariant Ltd and its consolidated subsidiaries (›Clariant‹) for the year ended 31 December 2018. Scope and Subject matter Our limited assurance engagement focused on the 2018 non-financial performance indicators published in the Integrated Report 2018 of Clariant: a) The »Intellectual Capital« indicators on page 116, the »Manufactured Capital« indicators on page 122, the »Product Stewardship/­ Sustainable Chemistry« indicators on page 123, the« Raw Material Procurement according to Region« indicators on page 126, the »Key Figures Workforce« on page 135, the »Talent Attraction and Development« indicators« on page 138, the »Employee Engagement« indicators on page 139, the »Occupational Health, Safety and Well-being« indicators on page 141, the »Relationship Capital« indicators on page 143, the »Customer Relationships« indicators on page 144, the »Ethics and Compliance« indicators on page 146, the »Sustainable Value Chain« indicators on page 149, the »Environmental Protection and Resources« indicators on page 160 and the »Greenhouse Gas Emissions« indicators on page 163; and b) The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the data as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation of these data. Criteria The reporting criteria used by Clariant are described in the internal reporting guidelines and define those procedures, by which the non-­ financial performance indicators are internally gathered, collated and aggregated. The internal guidelines are based on the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Inherent limitations The accuracy and completeness of non-financial performance indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with Clariant’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on non-financial performance reporting. Further, the greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Clariant Responsibilities The Board of Directors of Clariant Ltd is responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well as for selection, preparation and presentation of the information in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of related internal control relevant to this reporting process that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our Responsibilities Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the non-financial performance indicators are not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. C LA RIA NT I NTEGR ATED R E PO RT 2 01 8 173 We planned and performed our procedures in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) ›Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information‹ and with ISAE 3410 ›Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements‹. These standards require that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance the identified non-financial indicators. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a ­reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable assurance engagement is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable assurance. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Summary of work performed Our limited assurance procedures included, but were not limited to the following work: — Reviewing the application of Clariant’s internal guidelines — Interviewing Clariant representatives at Group level responsible for the data collection and reporting — Interviewing Clariant representatives in South Africa, Mexico and USA responsible for the data collection and reporting by phone — Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting the non-financial performance indicators as outlined in the scope and subject matter section concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency — Inspecting the relevant documentation on a sample basis — Reviewing and assessing the management reporting processes for non-financial performance reporting and consolidation and their related controls We have not carried out any work on data other than outlined in the scope and subject matter section as defined above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. Limited assurance conclusion Based on the procedures we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that a) The 2018 non-financial performance indicators of Clariant as described in the scope and subject matter section are not prepared and ­disclosed in all material respects in accordance with Clariant’s internal guidelines and procedures; and b) The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the data as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation are not functioning as design PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Dr. Marc Schmidli Raphael Rutishauser Basel, 6 March 2019 174 F I NANC I AL C AL E N DA R 2 01 9/ PUBLI C AT I O N D E TA ILS Financial Calendar 2019 13 February 1 April 30 April Full Year 2018 Annual General First Quarter 2019 Results Meeting Results JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 25 July 30 October First Half 2019 Nine Months 2019 Results Results Publication Details Publisher Editor and integrated reporting consultant Clariant International Ltd, Muttenz Sustainserv, Zurich and Boston Contact Concept Investor Relations Mutabor Design GmbH, Hamburg Anja Pomrehn Phone +41 61 469 67 45 Design, graphics, layout, and editorial interviews Fax +41 61 469 67 67 Kammann Rossi GmbH, Cologne Group Communications Credits Kai Rolker Media Central: p. 89, 156 Phone +41 61 469 63 63 PixelMusica: p. 132 Fax +41 61 469 75 49 Ricardo Funari: p. 66 Scanderbeg Sauer Photography: p. 3, 23 – 29, 34 – 65, 77 – 78, Editorial office, project management 90 – 131, 155, 169 – 170 Claudia Kamensky Shanghai Saygo Culture Media: p. 30 Joana-Isabel Kelp Printing Financial Editor Neidhart + Schön Print AG, Zurich Philipp Baberschke Note about forward-looking statements Website This report contains forward-looking statements based on current www.clariant.com assumptions and projections made by management. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other ® Trademarks of Clariant, registered in many countries factors which may cause the actual results and performance of Clariant ™ Trademarks of Clariant International Ltd to differ from those expressed in, implied or projected Hostafine and Hostavin are registered trademarks. Hostaflot, and by the forward-looking information and statements. The information Hostatint are trademarks. published in this report is provided by Clariant International Ltd and ECOCERT, DER GRÜNE PUNKT, Responsible Care, Cradle-to-Cradle, corresponds to the status as of the date of publication of this report. and NIVEA are trademarks of their respective owners. Disclaimer © 2019 Clariant International Ltd, Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Clariant International Ltd published the Integrated Report in English Switzerland and German. The English version is legally binding. Five-Year Group Overview 2014 – 2018 CHF m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Group sales 6 623 6 377 5 847 5 807 6 116 Change relative to preceding year in Swiss francs (%) 4 9 1 –5 1 in local currencies (%) 5 9 2 3 5 Operating income before exceptionals 693 673 622 596 585 Operating income 546 496 512 496 525 EBITDA before exceptionals 1 018 974 887 853 867 EBITDA 871 813 785 767 923 Net income 356 302 263 227 1 235 1 Basic earnings per share (in CHF) 1.02 0.84 0.78 0.67 0.55 Distribution per share (in CHF) 0.55 0.50 0.45 0.40 0.40 EBITDA margin before exceptionals (%) 15.4 15.3 15.2 14.7 14.2 Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) 10.1 10.2 10.2 9.7 9.4 Operating cash flow 530 428 646 502 334 Investment in property, plant, and equipment 237 248 297 374 310 Research & Development expenditures 209 211 206 206 213 Depreciation and amortization 325 301 265 257 282 Net working capital 1 145 1 281 1 087 1 027 1 169 in % of sales 17.3 20.1 18.6 17.7 19.1 Total assets 7 981 8 229 8365 7 461 7 915 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2 970 2 939 2 546 2 494 2 733 Equity ratio (%) 37.2 35.7 30.4 33.4 34.5 Net financial debt 1 374 1 539 1540 1 312 1 263 Gearing ratio (%) 46 52 60 53 46 Employees (in FTE) 17 901 18 135 17 442 17 213 17 003 1 Continuing operations Curiosity sparks progress SAP-Nr. 1392832 CLARIANT INTERNATIONAL LTD Rothausstrasse 61 · 4132 Muttenz · Switzerland © Clariant International Ltd, 2019 CLARIANT.COM
