Sustainability Report China Mobile Limited CONTENTS Chairman’s Statement................................................................................02 About China Mobile....................................................................................04 Sustainability Strategy and Management................................................05 A Beautiful Life Created Together.............................................................07 Building Quality Networks and Sharing Digital Benefits................................................08 Providing Satisfactory Services and Seeking Trusted Communication..............................13 Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Innovative Possibilities....................................18 Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting Rural Revitalization.....................................25 Supporting Public Welfare and Helping Community Thrive ...........................................30 A Digital Future Achieved Together..........................................................35 Cementing Leadership in Innovation and Accelerating Transformation and Development......36 Committing to Green Development and Environmental Protection...................................43 Facilitating Employee Growth and Fostering Innovative Talents .....................................48 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Analysis................................54 Independent Assurance Report................................................................56 About this Report.......................................................................................58 Report Disclosure Indexes........................................................................59 Feedback.....................................................................................................64 Chairman’s Statement Embrace the 5G Era and Create a Future of Intelligent Connectivity Together The year 2018 marks the 40th anniversary of China’s reform and opening up. Over the years, China’s information and communications technology (ICT) sector has made massive strides to establish itself as one of the industrial leaders worldwide. China Mobile continues to enhance economic and social well-being through ICT and acts as a key driver in the historic transformation of China’s ICT sector that has undergone different phases: blankness in 1G, falling behind in 2G, making breakthroughs in 3G, keeping pace in 4G, and leading in 5G. To capture the opportunities associated with 5G, in 2018, China Mobile strove constantly to build stronger connectivity capabilities, joined hands with other industry players to accelerate digital innovation, and actively fulfilled its social responsibilities, thereby playing an active role in building China’s strengths in cyberspace and digital technology. Yang Jie Chairman China Mobile Limited 2 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Provide high-quality connections and consolidate digital inexternal, through a series of initiatives, including the And-Crefrastructure. We continued to expand the depth and width of ation Space, independent development competitions as well our network coverage to deliver unimpeded, high-quality and as employee entrepreneurship and innovation activities, and high-speed connectivity capabilities. As of the end of 2018, to support and empower SMEs and individual entrepreneurs. we had 2.41 million 4G base stations and had served 713 We stepped up strategic cooperation with our industry peers million 4G customers and 157 million wireline broadband cuson all fronts in emerging technology areas such as 5G, Intertomers and launched our international data roaming services net of Vehicles and artificial intelligence to jointly explore new in 239 countries/regions. We had rolled out NB-IoT in 346 opportunities in digital services. cities, and achieved continuous coverage at township level Fulfill responsibilities in all respects and share sustainable valand above. The number of our IoT smart connections grew by ue. We further implemented measures of speed upgrade and 322 million to 551 million. At the same time, we actively hartariff reduction to bring affordable information access to our nessed new technologies such as artificial intelligence to boost customers. We continued putting in more efforts to combat cloud computing and data center infrastructure upgrades with telecommunications frauds and regulate harmful informaa view to building new world-class information infrastructure. tion and devising new methods to safeguard information Pioneer technological innovations and create an intelligent, security for our customers. We actively implemented special beautiful life. We continued to promote research on key initiatives including the Telecommunications Universal Service technologies and applications, taking the lead in developing Project, cumulatively delivering broadband access to 417,000 international standards for 5G infrastructure and actively enadministrative villages and bringing 4G coverage to 97.8% Chairman’s Statement gaging in 5G network scale experimentation and business use of all administrative villages, thereby further narrowing the case demonstration. We launched the “5G Device Forerunner urban-rural digital divide. We deepened our partner assistance Initiative” and built global open laboratories and 5G industry and targeted poverty alleviation efforts in eight counties of alliances based on our 5G Joint Innovation Center to promote five provinces, expanded the scope of our Targeted Poverty the maturity of the end-to-end industry chain. As part of our Alleviation System and poverty-alleviation preferential tariffs, R&D deployment expansion efforts, we established three new and launched projects in livelihood enhancement, industry industry research institutes in Xiong’an New Area, Chengdu support, education improvement, healthcare and many other and Shanghai in 2018. We incubated 5G demonstrative appliaspects to do our part in supporting rural revitalization and cations across key verticals of the economy including industry, fighting poverty. Our Blue Dream Educational Aid Plan and agriculture, healthcare, education, transportation, finance and Heart Caring Campaign continued in 2018, through which smart cities to drive the in-depth integration between digital we cumulatively trained 115,782 rural primary and secondary economy and real economy and the construction of an intellischool principals in central and western China and sponsored gent society. the surgeries of 5,358 impoverished children with congenital heart disease. We carried out the “Green Action Plan” for the Deepen industry cooperation and create a prosperous digital 12th consecutive year and contributed to the realization of ecosystem. We continued to implement the 139 Cooperation UN Sustainable Development Goals through measures such Plan with three major specific measures, namely upscaling as continuously improving energy conservation and emission digital industry cooperation, strengthening digital home coreduction management and developing low-carbon environoperation, and deepening pan-intelligent terminal cooperamentally friendly applications. tion, to provide industry partners with an open platform for achieving win-win cooperation. In 2018, our communications At the dawn of the 5G era, China Mobile is intent on continucapability sharing platform was selected as a Sharing Economy ing to pioneer technological innovations powered by 5G, big Demonstration Platform by the National Development and data and artificial intelligence and uniting with other industry Reform Commission of China, serving more than 305,000 players, in order to drive the digital and intelligent transformaenterprises; our mobile authentication platform processed tion of our economic and social life and jointly shape a new an average of 670 million accreditations per day; and our future of intelligent connectivity that is to the benefit of everyOneNET IoT platform brought together 9,396 enterprises and one. empowered nearly 100,000 developers. We were actively engaged in building a national-level mass entrepreneurship and innovation demonstration base and made an all-out effort to inspire entrepreneurship and innovation, both internal and March 2019 3 About China Mobile Company Profile Organizational Structure As the largest telecommunications service provider in MainThe Company owns 100% interest in the following maland China, China Mobile Limited (“China Mobile”, “the jor subsidiaries: Company” or “we”) serves the world’s largest number of China Mobile Communication Company Limited, China mobile customers and operates the world’s largest mobile Mobile Guangdong Company Limited, China Mobile network, maintaining a leading position in the telecommuniGroup Zhejiang Company Limited, China Mobile Group cations market in Mainland China. Jiangsu Company Limited, China Mobile Group Fujian Incorporation Company Limited, China Mobile Group Henan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Hainan Company Limited, 3 September 1997 in Hong Kong, China. China Mobile Group Beijing Company Limited, China Operation Regions Mobile Group Shanghai Company Limited, China Mobile Group Tianjin Company Limited, China Mobile Group All 31 provinces, autonomous regions and directly adminisHebei Company Limited, China Mobile Group Liaoning trated municipalities in Mainland China, and the Hong Kong Company Limited, China Mobile Group Shandong ComSpecial Administrative Region. pany Limited, China Mobile Group Guangxi Company Credit Rating Limited, China Mobile Group Anhui Company Limited, China Mobile Group Jiangxi Company Limited, China Currently, the Company’s corporate credit ratings continue to Mobile Group Chongqing Company Limited, China be equivalent to China’s sovereign credit ratings from StanMobile Group Sichuan Company Limited, China Mobile dard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Group Hubei Company Limited, China Mobile Group Shareholding Structure Hunan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Shaanxi The Company’s ultimate controlling shareholder is China Company Limited, China Mobile Group Shanxi CompaMobile Communications Group Co., Ltd. (“the parent company Limited, China Mobile Group Neimenggu Company ny”), which indirectly held approximately 72.72% of the total Limited, China Mobile Group Jilin Company Limited, number of issued shares of the Company as of 31 December China Mobile Group Heilongjiang Company Limited, 2018. The remaining approximately 27.28% was held by pubChina Mobile Group Guizhou Company Limited, China lic investors. Mobile Group Yunnan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Xizang Company Limited, China Mobile Group Gansu Company Limited, China Mobile Group Qinghai Company Limited, China Mobile Group Ningxia ComHonors and Recognitions pany Limited, China Mobile Group Xinjiang Company Limited, China Mobile Group Design Institute Company Ranked the 25th in the “2018 Forbes Global 2000 List”; Limited, China Mobile Hong Kong Company Limited, China Mobile International Limited, China Mobile IoT Listed in the “BrandZ™ Top 100 Most Valuable Global Company Limited, China Mobile Information Technology Brands 2018” published by Kantar Millward Brown and Limited, China Mobile Online Services Company Limited, Financial Times for the 13th consecutive year, ranking 21st China Mobile (Suzhou) Software Technology Company globally; Limited, China Mobile (Hangzhou) Information TechnolContinued to be the first and only company from Mainland ogy Company Limited, MIGU Company Limited, China China listed in CDP’s Climate A List for the third consecutive Mobile Internet Company Limited, China Mobile Tietong year, and was acclaimed as a Sustainability Leadership EnCompany Limited, China Mobile Investment Holdings terprise Model by CDP China for our work to tackle climate Company Limited, China Mobile Quantong System Inchange for the fifth consecutive year; tegration Co., Ltd., China Mobile Financial Technology Co., Ltd., China Mobile (Chengdu) ICT Co., Ltd., and Received “The Asset Platinum Award” from The Asset; China Mobile (Shanghai) ICT Co., Ltd.. Ranked 1st in the “Social Responsibility Development Index of Chinese Enterprises Top 300 2009-2018”, and won the “10 Years of Responsibility; Top 10 State-owned EnterprisIn addition, the Company owns a 99.97% equity interes” award; est in China Mobile Group Device Company Limited, a 92% equity interest in China Mobile Group Finance Won the “Exemplary Enterprise Award for Sustainable Company, and a 66.41% equity interest in Aspire HoldCompetitiveness” presented by Outstanding Chinese Enterings Limited. prises with Sustainable Competitiveness 2018. 4 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Strategy and Management Following the corporate core value of “Responsibility Makes Perfection”, China Mobile strives to bring out the best in people and things, and make a continued effort to pursue coordinated development in the economy, society, and the environment. We adhere to the new development concept of “innovation, harmony, green, open and sharing” and incorporate the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our sustainability strategy, thereby responding to stakeholder expectations through responsible operations, and co-creating and sharing the value of sustainable development. The ICT Model for China Mobile Sustainability Building Quality Networks and Providing Satisfactory Services and Sustainability Strategy and Management Sharing Digital Benefits Seeking Trusted Communication Continuously expanding the scope of conAdopting a customer-centric approach nections, implementing speed upgrade to comprehensively optimizing customer and tariff reduction measures, enhancing services, reinforcing network and user network quality and emergency response information security protection, responding capabilities, and striving to build ubiquipromptly to customer concerns, and ensurtous, high-speed and intelligent first-class ing delivery of more convenient, intelligent infrastructure. and considerate customer services. Facilitating Employee Enabling a Digital Society Growth and Fostering Inand Unlocking Innovative ustainable dev novative Talents as of s elop Possibilities cal are me Fo nt Boosting employees’ innovativeness Accelerating capability opening-up and through continuous improvements to cooperative innovations, leading the Wider Connections our innovation incentive mechanism, construction of a new digital service inrespecting and protecting employees’ leInclusion dustry ecosystem, innovating individual gitimate rights, and implementing more and industry intelligent applications, comprehensive healthcare and safety facilitating supply-side reform and digital measures to help our employees achieve transformation and upgrading of the work-life balance. industry, and building a digital society Core targets together with stakeholders. of sustainable development Committing to Green Development and Environmental Protection Stronger ICT Better Value Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting Rural Revitalization Capabilities Creation Continuing to implement the Green Fully deepening poverty alleviation Transformation Action Plan and improve our environefforts, utilizing technological and mental management system, rallying all platform advantages to encourage and employees, industry chain partners and empower people to lift themselves out the general public around energy reserof poverty, contributing to targeted vation and emission reduction efforts, poverty elimination, and providing inforand contributing to the development of mation-based and intelligent solutions ecological civilization. for rural revitalization. Cementing Leadership in InnovaSupporting Public Welfare and tion and Accelerating TransformaHelping Community Thrive tion and Development Improving R&D deployment, compreContinuing to develop branded public hensively enhancing independent innowelfare programs consistent with our vation capabilities, joining hands with business expertise and society’s needs, industry peers to drive 5G technological enhancing the scope and effectiveness and application innovations, accelerating of these programs, and striving to offer digital transformation, and strengthengenuine assistance to underprivileged ing sustainable development capabilities. groups through more professional volunteer service philosophy and capabilities and including them in community development. 5 The strategic corporate social responsibility (CSR) management at China Mobile began in 2006 and is closely related to our corporate strategies and operations. Building on this, we have constructed a strategic CSR management system over the years comprising four modules, namely strategy, implementation, performance and communication. Responsible Operations & Sustainable Development Culture Organization System Process CSR Strategy CSR Implementation CSR Performance CSR Communication Management Management Management Management Sustainability philosophy CSR promotion and training Integration of sustainability into Sustainability reporting and and vision setting CSR issue benchmarking performance management communication CSR strategy and work plan CSR information collection Best CSR practices Selection Stakeholder engagement development and tracking In light of the latest We continuously conWe organized the Best In 2018, the Company trends and requirements ducted sustainabiltiy CSR Practices Selection released its 12th susof sustainable develbe nc hm a r k ing , m e a for the 11th consecutive tainability report, fully opment, the Company suring our performance year in 2018, inviting excomplying with ESG launched the new China against sustainability perts from governmental information discloMobile ICT Sustainable indices such as DJSI, departments, NGOs, sure requirements and Development Model in MSCI, Sustainalytics and academic organizations specifically optimizing the new era in 2018. Hong Kong Business and authoritative media methods of commuBased on clearly identiSustainability Index to as well as from inside nicating with readers, fied key sustainability isfurther improve the the Company to sit on with relevant new media sues and implementation management and disthe review panel. Over coverage reaching 12.23 priorities over the year, closure of key issues 11 years, more than 750 million person-times. we carried out our social and maintain sound suscases have been submitThe Company actively responsibility work using tainability performance. ted in total, with 184 of engages with industry a top-down approach. The Company regularly them winning an award, peers at experience-sharhosted internal training effectively inspiring innoing events to promote and awareness-building vative CSR practices at better CSR management activities on CSR, with a all levels of the Compaand practices across the participation of 447,006 ny. whole industry. 38 key person-times in 2018. communication events were held in 2018. Best CSR Practices Selection We received 72 applications from 41 units at the 11th Best CSR Practices Selection in 2018. Through case collection, qualification examination, preliminary assessment, online voting and expert review, we presented 14 outstanding CSR practices with the following awards: Top 10 CSR Practices of the Year, CSR Originality Award, Outstanding Employee Engagement Award, Best Public Welfare Organization Award, and Netizens’ Choice Award, and recognized three employees as the “Philanthropy Stars of China Mobile”. In 2018, we launched an online voting in the CSR section of our website, while also enabling voting via WeChat and Weibo. The online voting lasted for two weeks with over 640,000 valid votes cast, receiving considerable public attention. Scan the QR code for more information on the sustainable development of China Mobile. 6 中China 国移动 有限公 司 2018 年Sustainability 可持续发展报 告 Mobile Limited 2018 Report A Beautiful Life Created Together 08 Building Quality Networks and Sharing Digital Benefits 13 Providing Satisfactory Services and Seeking Trusted Communication 18 Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Innovative Possibilities 25 Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting Rural Revitalization 30 Supporting Public Welfare and Helping Community Thrive 7 y re 01 Building Quality Networks and Sharing Digital Benefits Strengthening Foundation for Connectivity Aligning its efforts with the development requirements of the new era, China Mobile further implements the “Big Connectivity” strategy and commits itself to building quality networks and bridging the digital divide. In doing so, we strive to meet the public’s ever-growing demand for digital consumption and lay the “connectivity” foundation for economic and social transformation and development. As of the end of 2018 Mobile Customers Wireline Broadband Customers IoT Smart Connections 925 Million 157 Million 551 Million Narrowing Digital Divide We try constantly to extend broadband coverage in remote villages and islands to further narrow the digital divide. By the end of 2018, through the Telecommunication Universal Service Project, we had cumulatively delivered broadband services to 38,352 administrative villages and our wireline broadband services covered 417,000 administrative villages. Fujian: Tackling Challenges in Building Island Broadband Fujian Province is surrounded by mountains on three sides and by the sea on one side. This caused difficulties in broadband construction in remote areas, in particular on coastal islands, such as significant signal loss and proneness to interference. China Mobile introduced a domestic cross-sea communications expert team and state-of-the-art big-broadband telecommunications equipments and formed 20 technical teams. They worked around the clock conducting investigations and developing construction plans and effectively overcame the obstacles of building cross-sea networks. On May 12, 2018, the Company took the initiative to launch 100Mbps fiber-optic broadband on 23 coastal islands, not only providing the citizens on islands with access to high-speed broadband services but also greatly enhancing the development of local tourism and fishery sectors. 8 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Jiangsu: Collaboration in Developing Offshore Base Stations Nantong city of the Jiangsu Province has a coastline of 206 kilometers. To effectively resolving the issue of delivering offshore mobile signal coverage to meet the communication needs of maritime workers such as fishermen, harbor workers and wind turbine operators, China Mobile collaborated with coastal wind power companies in building high-power base stations utilizing offshore boosting stations and offshore wind turbines. At present, the Company has started four offshore base stations on Nantong and Yancheng waters in Jiangsu, providing seamless mobile network coverage within 70 kilometers of the coastline in the respective areas. Broadening International Connections China Mobile continues to grow its capacity for international connections through strategic measures such as optimizing roaming services, developing overseas service channels and strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation with its global telecommunications counterparts. As at the end of 2018, China Mobile continued to lead the world with its 4G international roaming services extending to 181 countries/regions around the globe, achieving a 61.2% year-on-year growth in its international data roaming users. To persist in complying with the principle of achieving shared growth through discussions and collaboration, China Mobile continued to optimize the multi-dimensional high-speed information channels encompassing Information Highway (transmisBuilding Quality Networks and Sharing sion resources), the Information Station (POPs), and the Information Island (data centers) to expand its capabilities for overseas communications infrastructure construction and deployment. In 2018, we achieved positive development in serving the needs of Chinese enterprises for “going out” and the needs of transnational companies for pursuing information-based development through the provision of reliable dedicated cross-border communications connections, international data center services, and holistic ICT solutions. Digital Benefits Speed Upgrade and Tariff Reduction China Mobile earnestly implements network speed upgrades and tariff reductions, laying the requisite foundation for a thriving digital economy. Our speed upgrade and tariff reduction measures cumulatively benefited 4.7 billion person-times as at the end of 2018. At present, high-speed Internet experience has become the Average 4G network downloading rate on urban new norm of the day, where people have ubiquitous access to roads reached 42.6Mbps HD movies, intriguing videos and live broadcasts, can enjoy inAchieved comprehensive home broadband speed stallation-free online gaming experience with no lag, and can upgrades, with the broadband connection speed of instantly transmit huge files. The list goes on. While continuthe whole network exceeding 100Mbps; rolled out ing to improve our 4G network speed, we placed a dedicated 1000Mbps demonstration communities in every city focus on comprehensive speed upgrades for our home broadacross the country, taking a lead in the provision of band services in 2018 to fully accommodate people’s demand 1000Mb networks for high-speed Internet. In an effort to ensure both quality and affordability, we made Completely eliminated charges for long-distance our services more accessible to consumers in 2018 through calls, roaming calls, and data roaming a range of measures to reduce tariffs for our voice, data and Introduced measures such as big-volume data plan, other services. By doing so, we managed to stimulate customsponsored data tariff, and data assurance services ers’ consumption demands and nurture their habits of digital living, while fueling the digital transformation of SMEs. Lowered charges for home broadband, business broadband, and dedicated Internet access 9 Improving Network Quality In light of the growth of the scale of connections, the complexity and difficulty in maintaining the networks has continued to grow. It thus becomes the Company’s top priority to maintain robust network quality and user experience. In 2018, China Mobile continued to improve its network quality management system, robustly upgrade network maintenance and emergency communication support, so as to ensure a smooth and premium network experience in all kinds of scenarios. Reinforcing Network Quality Management In 2018, we created the innovative Network Experience Index (NEI) to further refine our network quality evaluation management. Based on accurate user experience analysis and timely response, we strive to overcome the difficulties in network maintenance to provide better connections. In the meantime, big-volume data services have created new requirements and challenges for developing the necessary network capabilities. We proactively adapted ourselves by introducing new technologies and building new platforms dedicated to addressing issues such as high-load communities and network interferences, thus improving our network operations capabilities. Network Experience Index New Capacity Smart Operations System In 2018, China Mobile launched the Network Experience Major scenic spots across the country witness a sharp rise Index (NEI) in collaboration with our partners. For the first in the number of tourists during public holidays. People use time, the index theory and genetic engineering models were their mobile phones to search for food to enjoy and beautiful introduced into the mobile communication network, which, places to visit, upload photos and videos, interact real-time together with four innovation technologies including artificial with their friends and relatives, etc. Such exploding demands intelligence algorithm and big data, served as the pillars of for mobile data often lead to short-term, regional ultra-high the experience-based digital evaluation system of the telenetwork load, which significantly undermines network quality communications industry. The system enables digital repreor even leads to network jams. To satisfy the high network sentation of network experience, quantitative correlation of traffic demand in these situations, China Mobile Zhejiang customer perception, and rapid quality benchmarking against Company established the new Capacity Smart Operations international operators, thereby more accurately pinpointing System in 2018, with “resources operations”, “capability key contributing factors to network capabilities and providing operations” and “efficiency operations” as its guarantee direction for network quality improvement. guidelines. With intelligent analysis and judgment, automatic evaluation, and automatic execution enabled by its network maintenance support platform, the system provides solid support for meeting customers’ data demands in a timely and effective manner. “Four-aspect & Ten-dimension” Quality Evaluation System With the “Four-aspect & Ten-dimension” quality evaluation system, China Mobile defines perception indicators across 10 vertically refined dimensions under the four aspects of macroscopic scale, microscopic scale, network foundation, and major events and measures the daily network experience of its individual, household, government and enterprise customers, and new business users in a comprehensive and multi-dimensional manner. Improving Emergency Response Capability We continued to improve our critical event network supportProvided emergency commuing system characterized by 4 “Rs”, namely “clear Responnications support 4,899 sibility, readily available Resources, manageable Risk, and timely Response”. Meanwhile, we further strengthened our times long-standing critical event supporting mechanism, which involved unified efforts between the Group and provincial Activated support personnel subsidiaries as well as cross-departmental and interdisciplinary 314,427 collaboration, to improve our overall capability in providing emergency support. 2018 persontimes In 2018, we successfully provided communications and network security support for major events including Boao Forum for Asia, Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Qingdao Summit, Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and Dispatched support vehicles Deployed support equipment 8,986 China International Import Expo (CIIE) as well as providing communications quality and network security support for natural disaster relief, and achieved our service goals of “zero major network failures, zero major network security incidents, times 36,596 settimes 10 and zero complaints from key customers”. China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Combating Typhoon “Wambia” From the afternoon of August 18th to the early morning of August 20th, the No.18 Typhoon “Wambia” brought widespread torrential rain to Shandong Province, leaving Weifang severely ravaged by the biggest flood in decades. On the eve of the disaster, China Mobile launched the emergency communications response plan and prepared support resources in advance. In the aftermath of the disaster, we rapidly deployed and set up the centralized command and control center for flood control and disaster relief. Using the “Zhiduoxing” command and control system and a range of new emergency response devices such as drones, satellite communications vehicles, satellite phones, and Gigabit microwave, we effectively addressed issues of dangerous scenarios and serious network damages and rapidly restored Internet access in disaster-stricken areas. Moreover, we sent out 900,000 charitable text Post-disaster communication equipment repair messages in support of disaster relief and provided affected people with free access to phones, as well as phone charging, consultation, and other services. Building Quality Networks and Sharing Communications Support for SCO Qingdao Summit From June 9th to 10th, 2018, the 18th Meeting of the Council of Heads of Member States of The Shanghai Cooperation Organization was held in Qingdao, Shandong Province. Bringing together its group of experts, China Mobile undertook comprehensive safety tests and Digital Benefits loophole rectification for 687 systems/mobile apps and developed the innovative “Haina” multilayer network emergency communications vehicles. Together with the newly developed one-button disaster recovery system that realized safety protection at important sites at the press of one button, all these efforts helped ensure secure and smooth Internet access during the summit. Service team at the SCO Qingdao Summit Communications Support for CIIE From November 5th to 10th, 2018, the first China International Import Expo (CIIE) was held in Shanghai. To ensure a sound communication service experience for guests from all over the world, China Mobile had initiated a “carpet-style international business test” for global network operators in advance. The Company actively engaged over 300 operators from 165 countries in tests on the interconnectivity between international roaming cards and international Internet. During the Expo, the “breathing network” was adopted for the first time to ensure on-site communication, whereby intelligent adjustments were made consistent with the real-time people flow and network use inside the exhibition hall to cater to the communication needs when there was heavy passenger flow. Meanwhile, we managed to solve the problem of communication interference caused by densely located base stations using innovative technologies, increasing the wireless communication capability inside the hall by around 6.5 Emergency communication drill at the CIIE times to accommodate the communication needs of up to 500,000 people simultaneously. Communications Support for Boao Forum for Asia On April 8th, 2018, the 17th Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference was held in Hainan Province. Using its independently developed technological applications such as the “And Cloud Speed” device and “AR Network Map” mobile app, China Mobile conducted Internet speed test at important sites and surrounding roads as well as base station monitoring, providing successful communications support for the Forum. 11 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale Like roads, water supply, power supply, and other types of infrastructure, information and communication networks and services have become an integral part of economic development and our social and personal lives. The size and quality of information infrastructure will impact our quality of life and social productivity in profound ways. As a provider of connection services, China Mobile recognizes providing extensive, quality, Key Performance Indicators and reliable connections as its top priority for contributing to the SDGs. To this end, we commit ourselves Indicators 2016 2017 2018 to expanding 4G and broadband network coverage, Connection scale accelerating the development of IoT, offering premium Number of mobile customers 849 887 925 networks, and delivering continuous improvements in (million) our universal services and emergency communications Number of 4G customers 535 650 713 support capabilities. Through the provision of quality in(million) Number of wireline formation and communication services, China Mobile is broadband customers 78 113 157 on track to contribute to an inclusive digital economy and (million) information society that is to the benefit of everyone. Number of IoT smart 103 229 551 connections (million) Roaming services Number of countries and regions with 4G international 143 172 181 Our Achievements in 2018 roaming service Number of countries and regions covered by our data 218 229 239 Cumulatively set up 2.41 million 4G base stations, and roaming services served 925 million mobile customers and 157 million Network capability wireline broadband customers Number of 4G base stations 151 187 241 Improved broadband network coverage in remote ru(10,000) ral areas and island regions, and cumulatively delivered Average 4G network downloading rate on urban 40 42 42.6 broadband services to 38,352 administrative villages roads (Mbps) through the Telecommunications Universal Service International transmission 12,942 23,750 39,000 bandwidth (G) Project Network quality guarantee Comprehensively improved emergency response caNumber of emergency pabilities, performing 4,899 emergency support tasks communication support tasks 4,128 4,476 4,899 and realized the service goals of “zero major network Significant political/ 3,748 4,253 4,597 failures, zero major network security incidents, and economic event support zero complaints from key customers” Significant natural disaster 347 190 266 support Significant accident or 25 23 16 Our Goals for 2019 catastrophic event support Public health incident 2 0 1 Achieve a net increase of 45 million 4G customers, 25 support Social safety incident million household broadband customers, and 300 milsupport 6 10 19 lion IoT smart connections. Number of emergency 15,425 7,362 8,986 support vehicles deployed Build a network quality assessment system that covers Number of emergency all networks, systems, platforms, and applications, and support equipment deployed 56,625 30,642 36,596 extend the scope of assessment from 31 provincial (set-times) subsidiaries to also include all specialized organizations Number of emergency communication support 386,214 201,250 314,427 personnel activated (persontimes) 12 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report 02 Providing Satisfactory Services and Providing Satisfactory Services and Seeking Seeking Trusted Communication Trusted Communication Optimizing Customer Experience As our business evolves along with the technological advancements, the scope and boundary of telecommunications services have been significantly expanded. The increasingly complex service portfolio presents an ever-greater challenge for ensuring premium customer experience. China Mobile firmly adopts the Customer-centric and Service-oriented approach and strives for an all-round service management system that leads to services satisfactory to customers, whose personalized service demands are responded to and met in a timely and effective fashion. Improving Service Management System We set up the Customer Service Department in 2018 to further reinforce the management responsibilities and implemented a series of measures to improve our service management system and customer service work mechanism. Enhancing Optimizing complaint Improving management management customer responsibilities measures satisfaction surveys Set up the Customer Service Department Revised the China Mobile Management Conducted customer satisfaction and to assume overall customer satisfaction Measures on Customer Complaints to Net Promoter Score (NPS) surveys tarmanagement responsibilities, strengthraise time-limit standards for tiered and geting key business areas including 4G, ened service quality regulation, and accelclassified complaint handling and clarify rehousehold broadband, and international erated implementation of the customer quirements for each stage of the complaint roaming services to deliver 360-degree service responsibility system. handling process. monitoring of the key elements of cusStrengthened cross-departmental collabSet up the National Upgraded Complaint tomer perception. oration and established the cross-departCenter to handle all sorts of upgraded Planned to construct a centralized mental joint work mechanism to enable complaints in an omnichannel, all-round overall customer satisfaction evaluation timely communication and handling of manner, thus enabling more efficient comsystem to further improve the efficiency customer service issues. plaint handling. and accuracy of the surveys and inform Improved the customer service personnel Set up the Voice of Customers platform, improvements in customer service capaarrangement and service quality superviand established company-wide mechabilities. sion, and strengthened customer service nisms to collect customers’ true thoughts. Our 4G customer satisfaction rate responsibility and service awareness to Intensified communication with governreached 78.5% in 2018, maintaining a improve capability to provide professional mental departments and organizations like leading position. services on all fronts. the Consumers’ Association, paid close attention to customer demands, and actively resolved service-related disputes. 13 Improving Customer Complaint Handling Procedures Risk identification Timely response Problem analysis Service supervision and resolution and follow-up Determine key risk control points at each stage of 01 Establish a dedicated reminder line to set up a Conduct in-depth analysis regarding issues that lead Ensure that upgraded customer complaints are customer service from the green channel between the to customer complaints, properly received, resolved three dimensions of moncommunication and resoluand urge concerned deand followed up by setting itoring, intervention and tion of complaints; create a partments to resolve such up the service supervision remediation before, during proactive care mechanism issues through effective hotline 4001110086. and after an event respecdedicated to frequent commeasures. tively; create a closedplainants, set up an alert loop complaint handling platform, and respond to mechanism that involves customer demands in a unified efforts between the timely manner through the headquarters and provincial provision of proactive sersubsidiaries. vices. Responding to and Resolving Key Issues In 2018, we conducted joint analysis among the various departments, implemented powerful measures, and ensured timely response and resolution to issues about which our customers have complained intensively according to their feedback, thereby trying our best to improve customer experience. Top customer concerns & China Mobile solutions Unauthorized service orders and data tariffs Regulatory guarantee: We formulated a number of policies including the China Mobile Management Measures on Unauthorized Service Orders (Trial), Notice on Further Regulating “Unlimited Data” Plan Offering, and Notice on Further Standardizing Customer Agreement Orders to further regulate our related management practices. Specific measures Making our service tariffs public at all contact points such as China Mobile sales channels, website and mobile apps, and moving the tariff section on the Company website to the featured section on the front page to give users easier access. Regulating outbound marketing and improving transparent consumption practices such as “0000 unified inquiry and unsubscription”, “double check”, and “payment notifications” to ensure correct billing. Improving the “daily report, weekly analysis, monthly review” customer complaint collection and reporting mechanism and incorporating unauthorized service order complaints into the KPI appraisal of relevant subsidiaries to strengthen management accountability. Improving data reminder service to help avoid high data costs and recommending targeted data plans based on user behavior to protect customer interests. Customers’ rights of choice Regulatory guarantee: We published the Notice on Further Guaranteeing Customers’ Right of Choice to fully guarantee customers’ proper rights when choosing services to subscribe or accept. Specific measures: Explicitly forbidding such non-conforming behaviors as limiting customers’ rights to subscribe to or change services and forcing bundle sales; adjusting unreasonable restrictions on subscription conditions; removing unreasonable requirements regarding scope of services for subscription; resolving the issue of differential treatment for old and new customers. Introducing the DIY plan priced between RMB8 and RMB38, which allows customers to freely pick and combine data and voice services as they need, satisfying customers’ demands for lower range offers. 14 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Creating New Service Platforms We fully embrace the transformation towards providing “integrated services, Internet-based services, big data-driven services, and intelligent services” to deliver a brand-new customer experience that is efficient, convenient, intelligent and interactive. In 2018, we continued to improve our 10086 Internet service system to establish a full-service, all-contact-point service platform. Meanwhile, 24/7 access to 10086 hotline was guaranteed to improve the efficiency and quality of our online services. We delivered continuous innovations in our service contents and improvements in our service offerings and functions based on the new mobile Internet platform. Using more everyday language, we strengthened interactions with our customers and created communication channels that were more flexible, direct, and effective. At the Chinese Enterprises New Media Annual Meeting 2018, China Mobile 10086 Weibo account and China Mobile 10086 WeChat account were awarded the “Most Impactful Central Enterprise New Media Second-tier Account of 2018”. Moreover, we improved our intelligent customer service system by introducing new technologies such as AI and big data, and strove to build our integrated online-to-offline intelligent customer service capabilities by introducing fully self-service machines. Intelligent All-In-Ones In 2018, China Mobile launched unguarded self-service intelligent AIOs to facilitate the construction of intelligent sales channels. At present, we had deployed over 70,000 intelligent AIOs in 30 provinces, offering our users convenient access to real-name auProviding Satisfactory Services and Seeking thentication, account opening, card reissue, broadband, business inquiry and processing, and a range of other services. Ensuring Worry-free Consumption Trusted Communication A prosperous digital economy is dependent on a secure and reliable information consumption environment. China Mobile embraces customer-centricity and makes an all-out effort to reinforce the protection of customer privacy and information security and prevent customer rights violations resulting from telecommunications frauds and harmful information, thereby ensuring worry-free consumption by customers. Intensifying Customer Privacy Protection In 2018, we continued to intensify customer information security protection, with zero major customer information leakage event recorded during the year. Regulation formulation Implementation Methods Monitoring and inspection We formulated 14 regulations including We implemented the customer informaWe intensified customer information the China Mobile Regulations on Custion protection Vault Mode, where all security checks and actively undertook tomer Information Protection according high-risk operations involving sensitive third-party monitoring to reinforce superto numerous relevant laws and regulacustomer information on key system vision both during and after the occurtions including the Cybersecurity Law, platforms were placed under vault rence of customer information security the Law on the Protection of Consumer management, and sensitive customer incidents. Rights and Interests, and the Provisions information was obscured to prevent on Protecting the Personal Information leakage. of Telecommunications and Internet Users, establishing a long-standing customer information protection system and incorporating customer information protection in employees’ performance appraisal. Privacy Protection Solutions: And Multiple Numbers and Intermediate Numbers While making people’s lives a lot more convenient, the popularity of the Internet and smartphones has also increased the risk of personal information leakage. In response, China Mobile launched the And Multiple Numbers and Intermediate Numbers, with a view to providing privacy protection for individual and corporate numbers. The And Multiple Numbers are for individual use and enable the addition of 1-3 secondary numbers without having to insert another SIM card. Those secondary numbers can be used for registration or contact purposes. Corporate users are provided with “Intermediate Numbers”, which are ad hoc virtual numbers assigned to transacting parties, thereby “double-encrypting” the numbers of both the vendor and the customer. The total number of our Intermediate Number services exceeded 1.1 billion in 2018, providing over 2.2 billion person-times with temporary transaction communication safety guarantee services. 15 Preventing Telecommunication Frauds With a close eye on the new forms of telecommunication frauds, China Mobile continues to improve its overall capabilities in telecommunication fraud prevention and crackdown to provide maximum protection of customer interests. Improving We set up Network Safety Leading Groups at both the Group and provincial subsidiaries; we formumanagement lated the China Mobile Implementation Plan for Deepening ICT Fraud Prevention and Crackdown system Measures and China Mobile Accountability Management Measures for ICT Fraud Prevention and Crackdown, further improving the evaluation and accountability system. Innovating We have realized systematic identification, monitoring and quick handling of roaming numbers regulation from places where frauds frequently originated from as well as numbers indicated in fraud messagmeasures es, through the use of innovative, integrated data analysis-based measures; we provided users with fraud number alert service free of charge via our And Color Printing service. Strengthening We fully implemented real-name phone number registration and intensified rectification and regusource control lation over key businesses; we took measures to shut down pseudo base stations and deal with moand treatment bile malware, “Call you to death” numbers, “Ring once” numbers, and phishing sites; we provided a variety of reporting channels and established a normalized verification mechanism. Big Data-Based Telecommunication Fraud Prevention and Crackdown Technology The “Big Data-based, Scenario-oriented Communications Information Fraud Prevention and Crackdown Technology” of China Mobile is based on its massive user database. The Company has set up high-risk number identification models and fraud incident analysis models based on the various fraud scenarios and established a telecommunications fraud prevention platform that enables accurate and effective discovery and timely interference and prevention. In 2018, the Company identified 11.896 million fraud incidents, sent out alerts against 435,000 high-risk fraud numbers, and dissuaded 1.23 million person-times of potential deceived users. The technology was presented with the Black Technology Award and New Technology Award by China International Big Data Industry Expo. Intensifying Harmful Information Management We make a continuous effort to intensify harmful information Handled “Call you to death” and management with the aim of creating a secure and clear conother harassment phone numbers sumption environment and cyberspace for our users. In 2018, we formulated the China Mobile Work Plan for “Campaign on Comprehensive Regulation of telephone harassment” to enforce targeted management measures against telephone 2018 over 260,000 harassment for commercial marketing, malicious and crimIntercepted spam Monitored and interceptmessages per month inal purposes. We provided our customers with a range of ed malware on average relevant services including emergency protection against “SMS bombs”, high-frequency harassment phone numbers 557,000 390 interception, and mobile phone safety protection. We strictly followed regulatory requirements to adopt a “zero tolerance” over types million attitude towards information with pornographic content, implementing “network-wide one-click blocking” of noncompliant websites. Building Sunshine Internet Screen to Safeguard Healthy Childhoods As more and more parents equip their children with a smartphone, issues such as malicious online information and phone addiction have seriously affected the physical and mental health of minors, giving rise to an urgent need for parents to effectively manage and properly supervise their children’s use of smartphones. The Sunshine Protection platform is an integrated solution developed by China Mobile Beijing Company to ensure the healthy use of Internet by minors. The platform allows parents to activate safety protection features to block pornographic, violent and virus-infected websites, thereby creating a green and safe online environment for their children. Functions like screen time limit can be set up to encourage children to develop good habits for using the Internet. 16 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report China Mobile and SDGs Providing Satisfactory Services and Seeking Our Sustainable Development Rationale Our Achievements in 2018 Trusted Communication As information consumption finds its way into every corner of our social and personal lives, people are Set up the Department of Customer Services, further exposed to an increasing number of negative events improved customer service management procedures, such as telecommunications frauds and information responded to and addressed key issues, and drove imleakages, which has become a major risk to be guarded provements in customer service quality against for building a digital society. It is China Mobile’s top priority to deliver quality products and reliable Enhanced capacity for customer information security services and ensure solid protection on top of greater protection on all fronts by means of institutional imconvenience for information consumption. We actively provements, technologies, supervision and control, practice sustainable operations and responsible proand identified 11.896 million fraud incidents and disduction strategies by improving our customer service suaded 1.23 million person-times of potential deceived management system, optimizing customer experience users through the telecommunications fraud prevenand intensifying crackdown measures on illegal actions tion platform based on big data such as telecommunications frauds, continuously championing and contributing to a sustainable information consumption environment. Our Goals for 2019 Fully strive for high-quality development, construct a customer-oriented service management system, and improve closed-loop service management which covers the whole process of formulation and implementation of service standards, service quality assessment and customer complaint management to improve customer satisfaction Focus on where we fall short in customer perception Key Performance Indicators and improve the quality of our networks, products, business, support, and service on all fronts by intelliIndicators 2016 2017 2018 gent means Customer rights protection Fully utilize new technologies such as big data and Number of complaints per artificial intelligence to further strengthen the protecmillion customers 46.2 35.4 32.1 tion of customers’ privacy and enhance network safety (person-times) standards Number of reported spam messages handled (10,000) 149 128 133 Number of fraud numbers dealt with 136,000 50,700 19,600 17 03 Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Innovative Possibilities Building Industry Ecosystem In the era of intelligent connectivity, cross-industrial collaboration and win-win development have become the inevitable choice for realizing integrated industrial innovation. China Mobile strives to make good use of its connectivity expertise and role as an industry leader to actively contribute to building a new digital service ecosystem. The Company makes a concerted effort with its partners to deliver innovations in frontier fields such as 5G, AI, and IoT, providing new possibilities to satisfy people’s growing need for a better life. Embracing Openness and Cooperation Consistent with the “Value co-creation, mutual benefit, and By the end of 2018 win-win” cooperation philosophy, in 2018, China Mobile enThe number of operator members attracted tered into strategic cooperation agreement with 15 partners 134 including large Internet companies, leaders of vertical industries, and important organizations to explore cooperation in new infrastructure areas such as cloud computing, big data, GTI AI, IoT, and key vertical industries. The number of partners In terms of international communication and cooperation, attracted in 2018, we took an active part in major events hosted by industrial organizations such as the GTI (Global TD-LTE Initiative) and ITU (International Telecommunication Union), and continued to scale up our Hand-in-Hand Program. We actively 176 The number of industrial boosted business cooperation in voice and data services as leading partners attracted well as the “going out” of self-owned brands, technologies 25 and services to enhance the platform’s capabilities in providHanding services worldwide. in-Hand Program As a Gold Member of OPENSTACK and Priemer Member of the CEPH open source community, we are actively involved in Approximate proportion directing the development of international cloud computing Served mobile users of global users and cloud storage technologies. We seek to engage in deeper 2.9 60％ communication and cooperation with industry leaders via the open source community to foster the healthy development of billion the industry ecosystem. 18 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Upgrading “139” Cooperation Plan With capability openness and win-win development at its core, we upgraded our “139” Cooperation Plan on all fronts in 2018 so as to seize the broad range of opportunities associated with 5G development. By doing so, we further improved the capability sharing system of China Mobile and enabled closer connections, interactions and cooperation among enterprises in the upper and lower end of the industry chain to jointly create a bright digital future. The Achievements of “139” Cooperation Plan in 2018 We have completed NB-IoT netThe China Mobile Digital Home Alwork deployment in 346 cities liance has 165 official members enacross the country and built the compassing a wide range of industry world’s largest NB-loT network. sectors including chips, modules, and 1 smart hardware, etc.. The China Mobile IoT Alliance has NB-IoT Network 675 official members and it gives them a variety of rights including standard setting and mobile empow3 Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Industrial erment; the OneNET platform brings Alliances together nearly 100,000 developers. We offer nine key capabilities applications, of which the Mo9 The China Mobile 5G Innovation Capabilities and bile Authentication Platform proCenter initiated five major industry Applications cesses an average of 670 million alliances in multimedia, autopilot, accreditations per day. Innovative Possibilities smart cities, Internet of Flying Things and Internet of Energy, with 260 coWe published the White Paper operation partners. on China Mobile Capability Openness 3.0, which lists our core capabilities and solutions. Launching the Upgraded Version of “139” Cooperation Plan Initiating the formation of the Industry Digitalization Alliance, offering partners products like dedicated Internet access, Expanding cloud, IDC, and IoT at preferential rates and integrating ICT Connections Connections + Applications boundaries capabilities into their products and solutions to help realize Expanding industrial digitalization cooperation of cooperation upgrading; developing open platform structures while advocating “full integration” of customers, products and channels, helping companies use cloud services; providing companies with strategic subsidies and 5G fund. Creating intelligent hardware ecosystem, launching the Andlink Platform Plan that can be accessed by hardware partners for Breakthrough Hardware Pan-intelligent terminal free, thus realizing lightweight development of applications. in joint operation cooperation Creating content and application ecosystem, and providing Strengthening household digital cooperation partners with over 200 million bigand small-screen resources to realize accurate recommendation with big data. Deepening terminal customization with an investment of RMB10 billion in subsidies. Upgrading Commodity Adding value to customers content of trade and partners Implementing the 5G Device Forerunner Initiative, providing cooperation Deepening pan-intelligent terminal cooperation test environment and technological support for chip and terminal partners. 19 Supporting SME Development Smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are important driving force behind China’s economic and social development. Through its communications capability open platform, China Mobile enables the information-oriented transformation of SMEs and inspires innovation and entrepreneurship. We have established the “1 (business broadband) + 1 (converged business gateway) + N (value-added services)” service system to provide SMEs with customized broadband, standardized products and industry solutions that are stable and cost-effective. By including partners from a wide spectrum of backgrounds such as software, hardware and services, in jointly building the service alliance, we provide a full-service platform dedicated to SMEs where all their needs for information-based services can be satisfied. Building Entrepreneurship and Innovation Demonstration Base We have continuously fostered the organizational, all-member, We established three And-Creation Spaces in 2018, namely and open innovations. Leveraging our capacity openness platform “intelligent hardware”, “cloud computing and big data”, and online and the series activities offline, we built a cross-industrial and “artificial intelligence and smart cities”, and signed And-Cremulti-dimensional capability sharing system to promote the agation Spaces incubation agreements with ten external mass gregation, openness, and sharing of premium resources along the entrepreneurship and innovation teams. Meanwhile, we have industry chain. We thus sought to enhance the dynamics of internal expanded the scope of our Makers’ Marathon series compeand external entrepreneurship and innovation and actively explore titions to cover the six major areas of the Internet, 5G innothe mass entrepreneurship and innovation model where large envative applications, digital home, MIGU culture, Internet of terprises can engage SMEs in integrated development. Things and digital industry to further stimulate the creativity of the wider society. In 2018, we actively explored the innovative path of “unified production and research” and fostered the construction of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Demonstration Base. The Base has been listed by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China “Longyu”: Making Phone Calls Possible for the in the entrepreneurship and innovation platform pilot and demonHearing Impaired stration projects for the manufacturing sector and by the National Development and Reform Commission of China in the sharing “Longyu”, an intelligent device designed by Nuobaiai specifieconomy demonstration platforms and included in the China Sharcally to allow people with hearing impairment to make phone ing Economy Development Report. calls, won the first prize at the 2018 China Mobile Digital Home Makers’ Marathon Contest. Established united laboratories with university demonstration bases including Tsinghua University and key enterprises along “Longyu” features the Bluetooth peripheral box + app soluthe industry chain to pursue collaborative breakthroughs in core tion. When people with hearing impairment get phone calls, areas such as Internet of Vehicles and Internet of Things the voice messages are translated into texts and displayed on the app. They can reply the messages by typing texts, which Set up innovation incubation bases with local governments and are then processed by a speech synthesis system before being universities in line with regional features to promote local ecoclearly played out as voice messages. The device thus enables nomic transformation and development hearing-impaired people to easily engage in barrier-free comFounded the AND-HOME Innovation and Entrepreneurship Incumunication in situations where phone calls are required such bation Base with business partners focused on hi-tech areas such as food delivery ordering, parcel collection, and job interview. as smart hardware and artificial intelligence to jointly innovate During the contest, China Mobile provided the team with and incubate relevant products and capabilities funding and an interview opportunity for being prioritized for entering China Mobile Digital Home product portfolio and securing marketing channel and strategic investment. 2018 Entrepreneurship and Innovation The number of projects created platform hosted users through Entrepreneurship and “The contest provides a platform for us to showcase our compaInnovation activities ny and our products. From the experience, I felt the enthusiasm 156,000 2,918 of China Mobile and its dedication to helping special groups and engaging in social causes. This also allows the makers to quickly and freely fit in as part of the big family and has enorThe number of teams engaged in The number of teams worked at mously benefited startups like us.” innovation and entrepreneurship the And-Creation Space projects —Du Bowei, Team Member 1,855 109 Nuobaiai (Hangzhou) Technology Co., Ltd. 20 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Enjoying a Digital Life Leveraging its strengths in business offerings, technologies, networks, and economies of scale, China Mobile constantly fosters the integration between technological applications and industry scenarios through the provision of customized solutions across various verticals of the economy, thereby accelerating the digital transformation and upgrading of industries and providing people with a rich spectrum of opportunities for enjoying a more intelligent digital life. And Connected Vehicles And Yixing And Easy Traffic And Finance Medical Cloud Platform And Intelligent Manufacturing Telemedicine Smart Hospitals Regional Healthcare Health Management And Media Healthcare Big Data Finance And Interconnection TransporIndustry and tation energy Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Healthcare Internet And Baby And Campus And Agriculture And Faculty And Tourism Layout of Vertical Industry Products Rural Education commerce And Education: Supporting Information-based Education Innovative Possibilities China Mobile developed the And Education cloud platform to provide an integrated solution combining “teaching, learning, and education” to drive the information-based development of pre-school education, K12 primary and secondary school education and vocational education. And Baby Provides a great wealth of premium content, applications, smart hardware and offline resources for parents and kindergartens, facilitating child growth, helping parents in child raising, and alleviating teachers’ burden. And Provides secondary and primary schools throughout China with four functions, Education Campus namely home-school interaction, information, resources and application, as well as nearly 70 premium applications. And Faculty Provides online training, resource building, knowledge community and exam certification services for government, enterprises, and middle and higher vocational technical colleges. “Shared Parking Spaces” Solving Parking Problems in an Innovative Way As the standard of living is getting higher, there is an increasing mismatch between the growing number of private vehicles and limited public parking spaces. Given that Lanzhou city featured a compatible mixture of commercial and residential areas, China Mobile developed China’s first private parking space sharing solution here based on the concept of sharing economy. The solution utilizes the intelligent linkage between the parking lot entry/exit management system and parking space locks and realizes time-based space rental using IoT technology. Parking space owners can publish real-time space sharing information by themselves via the mobile App or WeChat official account. Car owners in need of a parking space can select and pay for an idle space online to make a reservation. The relevant parking lot entry/exit management system would automatically recognize those cars and let them through. Not only does the service bring profits to space owners but it has also put idle parking spaces to efficient use. As at the end of 2018, the number of monthly parking space sharing reached 586 and the parking spaces enjoyed an average daily use rate of 89% through sharing, effectively relieving people’s “anxiety” for parking. 21 Mobile Community Healthcare Platform: Facilitating the Life of In-home Elderly To solve the problems with health management at community hospitals in Beijing, China Mobile proactively seeks to build the Mobile Community Healthcare Platform, to help create a hierarchical diagnosis and treatment system that is institutionalized, personalized, and archived. Currently, the Mobile Community Healthcare Platform has signed on over 50,000 family doctors, benefiting more than 70,000 residents at the initial stage. The Hospital Information System (HIS) at hospitals is opened up based on mobile virtual private Health Display Cloud dialup network (VPDN) technology to enable the cloud platform to receive examination measurePlatform for Hospitals ments and display health data. The variety of portable devices contained in the medical box comes with built-in wireless transMulti-functional Portable mission modules so that after performing health checks with these devices, data will be autoMedical Box for Doctors matically uploaded to the server to be synchronized with personal health records. The “Home Doctor Dongcheng” app allows patients to read and upload health data by themMobile App for Patients selves using the NFC function of their mobile phone; other features of the app include enquiring for information of doctors and receiving hospital notifications. “Aged people living in Dongcheng District are fortunate. Doctors can bring a Portable Medical Box to my home and my daughter can view the results on her phone. I can also get prescriptions from experts in 3A hospitals. I am feeling better now.” — A senior patient in Dongcheng District, Beijing “Internet of Teas” Making Teas Reliably Traceable Due to the lack of effective tracing system and technologies, the China (Shanghai) International Tea Expo, the Company has signed West Lake Longjing Tea is plagued by a large volume of countera letter of intent for cooperation with 52 companies across the feit products in the market. China Mobile worked with a number country. of partners and developed the first NB-IoT + Blockchain Tracing System in China. This system enables information collection and transmission in rural areas based on intelligent IoT sensors and networks and utilizes blockchain for data storage and management, producing traceable data that are safe from manual manipulation. The data is more accurate and credible thanks to real-time monitoring and direct uploading. In 2018, China Mobile launched the platform with the Tianzhu Tea Garden in West Lake Longjing Tea Grade 1 Production Area of Zhejiang as the demonstration base, reducing the tracing time for tea’s vital information from several days to merely 2.2 seconds and increasing the sales volume by 50%. Thanks to the promotion by Intelligent sensors at the tea garden conducting real-time monitorLeisurely Tourism Big Data Platform Enabling ing of tea data Intelligent Tourism We independently developed the Leisurely Tourism Big Data Platform for tourism management agencies, scenic spots, tourism Satisfying the various marketing needs of clients companies and tourists. With customer privacy protection and data masking as prerequisites, the platform supports a range of functions including accurate and real-time monitoring of tourist Contact flow, tourist attributes and transportation analysis, and travel point based operations itinerary analysis by various means such as cloud service, API, and WeChat Official Account. At present, the Platform has been put Providing flexRealizing to commercial use at the tourism departments and scenic spots in ible and varied whole-sample Jiangsu, Henan, Yunnan, Shanxi and other provinces, effectively data integraIntegrated Intelligent user data data technique fostering the development of intelligent tourism. In 2018, the tion capabiliidentification Leisurely Tourism Big Data Platform was elected as an outstanding ties and open and analysis case of big data product and solution by the Ministry of Industry capabilities capabilities and Information Technology of China. 22 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Serving for the Regional Development Actively aligning with the guidance and opportunities of the national regional development strategies, China Mobile takes Xiong’an New Area, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area and the Hainan Pilot Free-trade Zone as the demonstration areas for pioneering digital innovations. China Mobile plans and builds the next generation of telecommunications infrastructure in accordance with the highest international standards. It also provides innovative digital solutions in association with the respective regional characteristics and development needs, establishing itself as a benchmark in supporting innovation-driven development while serving and implementing national strategies. Actively Participating in Developing Xiong’an New Area In 2018, China Mobile entered into a strategic cooperation agreement with the government of Xiong’an New Area, established the “Xiong’an New Area Office” and implemented a series of measures to support the intelligent city development of the area. Infrastructure construction Innovation capability development Achieved full coverage of NB-IoT and regional Established the China Mobile (Xiong’an) Industry Research Institute, and coverage of 5G demonstration networks in key announced the Urban Superbrain Action Plan. areas. Enabling a Digital Society and Unlocking Trial deployed and successfully demonstrated the super intelligent system providing feasible intelligent city solutions for Xiong’an in areas such as city Initially established access capability of “Gigabit in governance and environment monitoring. households and 10 Gigabit in businesses” for key areas. Organized a series of 5G intelligent city forums, engaged in intelligent city general working group in standard setting, and participated in partnerships with industry peers on Xiong’an intelligent town planning. Innovative Possibilities To Become the Best Digital Life Partner of Customers in Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area In 2018, with the vision of “becoming the best digital life partner of customers in Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area”, China Mobile worked to promote the construction and integrated development of the Area through the provision of improved telecommunications infrastructure and integrated digitalized solutions. Constructing high-speed inCreating an interconnectProviding cutting-edge formation channels connected net of information digital solutions ing the Greater Bay Area Actively involved in network coverage Launched Greater Bay Area serLaunched the IoT-based “Guangconstruction for key connectivity projvice plans, providing visitors to dong and Hong Kong Card” and ects in the Greater Bay Area such as the Greater Bay Area with quality focused on exploring cross-border the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge communications services. operations such as connected and Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong vehicles, shipping and personal Provided Hong Kong enterprises Kong Express Rail Link to provide consumption intelligent hardware. with high-quality ICT solutions high-quality network services. including fixed-line voice service, Deployed a local IoT platform Expanded the local network capacity dedicated line service and mobile of OneNET in Hong Kong, and in Hong Kong, accelerated 5G and office service, fulfilling their needs launched NB-IoT-based intelligent NB-IoT technological evolution, and for digital development. parking solutions which have been completed end-to-end 5G laboratory put to commercial use as a pilot testing, laying the foundation for proproject. viding users with high-quality and fast network services. Supporting Construction of Hainan Pilot Free-trade Zone In 2018, China Mobile signed a strategic cooperation agreement with Hainan Province government to improve its information infrastructure and support the construction of the pilot free-trade zone and free-trade port with Chinese characteristics in the Hainan Special Economic Zone. With an aim of being first class of its kind in the world, we formulated the Hainan International Undersea Cable Hub Construction Framework and Planning to support the digital development in Hainan. 23 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale The digital economy is becoming a new driver of economic growth in China and enables new possibilities for the sustainable development of cities Our Achievements in 2018 and communities. The technological and application Advanced the construction of Mass Entrepreneurship innovation in the digital area requires a concerted and Innovation Demonstration Base to further inspire effort by multiple parties and the formation of a new innovative initiative and invested RMB83.59 million in industry ecosystem that features shared resourcsupport of mass entrepreneurship and innovation es, complementary capabilities, co-created value, openness and inclusion. To this end, China Mobile Our communications capability open platform served leverages its strengths and its role as a platform and over 150,000 enterprises and our OneNET platform incubator of digital innovations and implemented attracted 9,396 enterprises the following measures: further cooperating with inActively delivered innovative applications based on dustry chain players by pushing forward the 139 Coour own platform strengths and industry scenarios to operation Plan and establishing a multi-dimensional pioneer a richer selection of intelligent digital life aponline/offline capability sharing platform; providing plications all-round support for mass entrepreneurship and inMade forward-looking deployment in key develnovation to empower SMEs and individual entrepreopment areas such as Xiong’an New Area, Guangneurs; developing and delivering innovative solutions dong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area and the tailored to the basic needs and key issues relating to Hainan Pilot Free-trade Zone with high standards, the sustainable development of cities and communibuilding first-class information infrastructure and layties to facilitate the realization of relevant SDGs. ing an important foundation for demonstration areas of the next generation digital services. Our Goals for 2019 Further advance the “139 Cooperation Plan”; work with stakeholders to build a digitalized industry ecosystem that is more integrated and dynamic to capture the new opportunities associated with 5G Key Performance Indicators Explore the various industry verticals in collaboration Indicators 2016 2017 2018 with partners to continuously innovate digital platforms and products and boost the digital transformaR&D and Innovation tion of industry verticals Investment in entrepreneurship and innovation support 400 7,955 8,359 Accelerate new explorations into intelligent cities to (RMB10,000) provide relevant regions with all-round, high-quality Number of developers on over platform and application services and foster the in56,728 99,963 OneNET 30,000 tegration between information technology and city Number of connected deover 3,154.31 7,987.85 governance and industry development vices on OneNET (10,000) 700 Number of applications on 12,000 27,897 57,667 OneNET 24 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report 04 Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting Rural Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting Revitalization Rural Revitalization Committed to Targeted Poverty Alleviation To help realize the goal of eliminating poverty for rural residents living below the current poverty line in China by 2020, in 2018, China Mobile aligned efforts with the parent company and undertook partner assistance and targeted poverty alleviation in eight counties of five provinces, namely Xizang, Qinghai, Heilongjiang, Xinjiang and Hainan. The Company endeavored to help realize empowerment-based poverty alleviation and steady poverty eradication through measures such as optimizing the poverty alleviation management mechanism, prioritizing key projects, conducting education and training as well as providing information networks, platforms and technologies. Strengthening organiImplementing poverty Building bridges of zational guarantee elimination programs information Formed the poverty alleviation By the end of 2018, the ComBuilt 768 4G base stations in leading group led by the Chairpany had cumulatively invested counties chosen for partner asman of the Board, with a suborRMB530 million into partner sistance and targeted poverty dinate task force that coordinates assistance and targeted poverty alleviation with additional 66,500 work of relevant units as well as alleviation in the eight counties of households covered by household dedicated departments and perfive provinces, and implemented wireline broadband, and realized sonnel at the headquarters and all 30 poverty alleviation programs a broadband network coverage 31 provincial subsidiaries. concerning livelihood improveof 98% among registered and Reinforced selection and management, industry development, eduarchived impoverished villages in ment of poverty alleviation cadres cation support, healthcare, etc. counties chosen for targeted povand assigned temporary poverty Launched programs in Maqin erty alleviation. alleviation cadres and village-staCounty of Qinghai such as inforDeveloped smartphones customtioned first secretaries to counties mation training as well as college ized for poverty alleviation and chosen for partner assistance and employment and entrepreneurprovided purchase subsidies for targeted poverty alleviation. ship training, and helped introimpoverished households in the Improved the three-tiered manduce remote medical programs eight counties of five provinces to agement mechanism whereby such as “4G Village Doctors” and allow more impoverished people the Group made overall plans, “4G Cloud Medical Care” to local to benefit from information techprovincial subsidiaries played a hospitals. nology. management role, and city-level Rolled out Mandarin popularizaProvided poverty alleviation prefcompanies and temporary poverty tion and poverty alleviation inierential tariff plans for registered alleviation cadres were in charge tiatives nationwide together with and archived impoverished people of implementation. the Ministry of Education of Chinationwide, with extra data and na to help impoverished people in voice volume offered. 25 remote areas overcome language barriers to poverty alleviation. Promoting Targeted Poverty Alleviation System As at the end of 2018, the Targeted Poverty Alleviation SysIn addition, China Mobile live-streaming team visited the lotus tem independently developed by China Mobile had been root farming and production base in Yanglou Village and utiimplemented in 71 cities/counties of 14 provinces across lized the e-commerce platform on the system to live-broadcast the country, covering 8.11 million impoverished people and the sales of lotus root and Fan County rice, helping the villag740,000 frontline poverty alleviation cadres. ers to make an income of more than RMB1,500 that day while making Fan County organic food known to more consumers. Qian Yajun is the First Secretary stationed in the Yanglou Village, Fan County, Henan Province. Before the application of our Targeted Poverty Alleviation System, work on dozens of indicators related with targeted poverty alleviation of all the impoverished households in the village, including field investigation, record keeping and written summaries, had to be done manually by Qian Yajun. It was cumbersome, prone to inaccuracies and quite inefficient. Now, with the help of the Targeted Poverty Alleviation System, all Qian Yajun has to do is input the latest figures and poverty alleviation process records into the mobile app wherever he goes, and a work report is smartly and conveniently generated for him. The Targeted Poverty Alleviation System has even greater significance for Li Daokai, an impoverished farmer from the LiRallying donations of study supplies through the Targeted Poverty baiqiu Village, Puyang County, Henan Province. In April 2017, Alleviation System Li Daokai had a sudden heart attack that had to be treated as soon as possible, but the high surgery fee was unaffordable “All our poverty alleviation work used to be done manually. Now for his family. After learning about his situation, the staff from with the help of the China Mobile Targeted Poverty Alleviation the Targeted Poverty Alleviation System managed to raise System, a mobile phone is all we need to conduct surveys and over RMB90,000 in donations on the platform in just a week, investigations at impoverished households.” enough for him to receive the treatment. After the surgery, Li —Qian Yajun, First Secretary of Yanglou Village, Fan County, Daokai’s family started to engage in rex rabbit ranching under Puyang City, Henan Province the online guidance of experts on the platform, thus alleviating his plight of poverty. Five-legged Pig Ranching Helping Lingwei Out of Poverty The five-legged pig was originated in Wuzhishan, Hainan gradually lifted out of poverty since they began to work at Province. It wanders in the wild, using its nose to dig for food the pig farm. in the ground. It walks with its mouth on the ground, which So far, an agriculture-based circular income growth model looks like a fifth foot from behind. That is how it gets the has been established in the five-legged pig ranching demonnickname of “five-legged pig”. Today the pig has been given stration base in Lingwei Village, where government and coma new nickname by villagers in Baisha Li Autonomous County, panies work together to provide funding and self-regulation Hainan – the “poverty alleviation pig”. and operations are implemented by the villagers. The base China Mobile launched the “cooperative societies – impoverhas pulled in over RMB170,000 of income since its pig ranchished people – poverty alleviation industry program” model in ing industry developed in 2017, with a total of RMB94,900 the local region, uniting with local government and impoverdividend distributed in November 2017, February 2018 and ished households in developing the five-legged pig ranching January 2019 to 33 impoverished households, on average industry. We have also made project-specific poverty alleviRMB2,876 to each household. Thanks to the base, a total of ation investments in building pig ranching infrastructure in 154 people from 38 households have been steadily lifted out strict compliance with relevant standards, including sow pens, of poverty. Those five-legged pigs are really “poverty allevianursery pens, pork pig pens, and porkers’ pens to fodder fertion pigs” to the villagers. mentation rooms, sick pig isolation rooms, national-standard biogas digesters and offices. Every day at noon, the Athletes’ March begins to play at the Baisha Heyou Planting and Raising Specialized Cooperative Society that has been jointly funded by China Mobile and the Rongbang Township Government of Baisha County. For the five-legged pigs in the Cooperative Society, the song is the call for lunch, at the sound of which they all rush out of the yard to the pen to enjoy the meal. The villagers have been Villagers receiving dividends for five-legged pig ranching 26 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Enrooted in Xizang to Help Pastoral Regions Out of Poverty Located in the northwestern region of Xizang, Gaize County is ucts stores have also been set up to showcase and sell featured one of the largest purely animal husbandry-based counties in local products such as locally-manufactured woolen sweaters, Ali. Duan Yuping, a Xizang-aiding cadre of China Mobile, came scarves and Xizang incense, yielding a monthly turnover up to here in 2016 and has committed himself to boosting local liveover RMB300,000. The tourism industry in Gaize County has lihoods and economic development by introducing an array of been on fast track since then. resources. Actively supporting Poverty Alleviation through Education Growing Leafy Vegetables on the Snowy Plateau It is important to help people increase ability and confidence With an average altitude of over 4,700 meters, Gaize County in their own ability to help themselves out of poverty. Poverty experiences eight-month long winter every year. The harsh has been a cause of school dropouts in Gaize County. To adnatural environment makes it almost a luxury to get leafy vegedress the issue, Duan Yuping mobilized people around him to tables in winter. Seizing the opportunity, China Mobile invested engage in paired assistance for students from impoverished RMB13.85 million of Xizang-aiding fund in building eight vegfamilies in Gaize County. A dozen units including China Mobile etable greenhouses. Thanks to the active efforts led by Duan Jiangsu Company rallied behind efforts to call on more peoYuping, a variety of greenhouse-grown vegetables, such as ple to donate goods and materials for the students including pakchoi, coriander, spinach and garland chrysanthemum gradclothes, dictionaries, sports equipment, stationery, and more. ually appeared on the dinner tables of villagers in Gaize County Donations from companies were used to set up scholarships in in the winter of 2018, addressing their difficulty in getting vegPromoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting local secondary schools, alleviating the difficulty in getting eduetables in winter. cation and the shortage of education resources. Supporting Tourism in Line with Local Conditions For the archived poor in Gaize County, we provide them with As Temporary Deputy Head of Gaize County, Duan Yuping skills training in catering, loader and excavator operations, etc.. proposed the idea of boosting local economic development The trainings are systematically designed according to relevant through tourism based on an in-depth research and investinational occupational standards and training syllabus and comRural Revitalization gation. With support from local government, Duan Yuping bine teaching with practice. Apprentices who pass the exams helped to set up the Gaize County Tourism Company. The are presented with a certification of compliance or profession Company undertook market-oriented development of local qualification certificate. So far, 30 apprentices have received the tourism resources, launching scenic spots and cultural tourism profession qualification certificates, with 20 of them already routes such as the Xianqian County Tourism Base and country earning a steady income. Some apprentices started their own tours in Dongcuo County and Quedeng County. Featured prodbusinesses after graduation and now make an income of up to RMB10,000 a month. Xizang farmer working in a vegetable greenhouse 27 Constructing Digital Countryside China Mobile accelerates the comprehensive and thorough integration of modern information technologies such as IoT, big data and cloud computing with rural production and life. The Company contributes to the development of modern agriculture and diversified industries to transform villages with more robust agriculture, a more beautiful countryside, and better-off farmers by providing digitalized products and innovative solutions and advancing the application of information technology in rural areas. Smartphones Becoming Farmers’ “New Farm Tools” The Saihu Farm in Ruichang, Jiangxi Province is a state-level modern agricultural park featuring comprehensive agricultural development, with 98% of its farmers owning a mobile phone. Closely in line with the requirement of delivering “intelligent agricultural production, e-commerce-based agricultural operations, efficient agricultural management, and convenient agricultural services” at Saihu Farm, China Mobile developed the smartphone-oriented “four farm tools on smartphones” based on agricultural IoT technologies to provide all-round services for agricultural development. By providing backbone farmers and technical personnel at the Farm with training on IT applications, the farmers become good at utilizing the smartphone. Since the inception of the project, grain yields have increased by 1.05 million kg and the farmers have made a total net income of RMB5 million, while the fine breed coverage rate has reached 98% and the rate of soil test and fertilizer recommendation reached 100%. Pest Prevention and Control Soil Testing and Fertilizer Recommendation Set up the Intelligent Pest Risk Monitoring Set up the Intelligent Soil Testing and Fertilizer Station that allows farmers to keep an eye Recommendation System to intelligently collect on insect pest on their phones in real time soil data; based on shared locations, a Soil Testing and eliminate it using drones or other tools and Fertilizer Recommendation card is generated, enabled by cloud computing analysis and which truly delivers “approaches tailored to specifremote control technologies. ic pieces of land”. The four farm tools on smartphones Agricultural Material Quality Tracing E-commerce Platform Set up the Agricultural Material Quality Tracing PlatWorked with the biggest agricultural product e-comform which allows farmers to look up the quality of merce platform “Jiangxi Selected (Gan Po Youpin)” in production materials on their phones, thus enabling Jiangxi province to explore the new “cooperative soci“safety alerts, traceable sources and trackable inforeties + farmers + industries + e-commerce + training” mation”. integrated model of agricultural e-commerce. In 2018, China Mobile actively helped the farmers adopt new sales channels based on featured e-commerce services such as Caiyun Youpin and Sales Manager so as to help enhance their sales and popularity. In Yunnan, the number of sales of Suijiang Banbianhong plums exceeded 1,000 cases in just 5 days; in Anhui, the timely release of the picking and sales information of Dangshan nectarines brought hope and happiness to the local farmers. Anhui Company employees teaching farmers how to publish information for picking and sales “Internet+” Program Launched in Maqin County, Qinghai The Maqin County of Golog Zang Autonomous Prefecture is located in southeastern Qinghai Province with harsh natural conditions and a relatively underdeveloped economy. In 2018, China Mobile Qinghai Company initiated a pilot “Internet+” program in Maqin County. The program provides information-based system upgrades for Maqin County Hospital and deploys systems such as 4G Cloud Medical Care and Cloud Doctors’ Alliance and relevant equipments, realizing intraand inter-hospital information exchange and driving improvement in local medical conditions. To facilitate environmental protection and sustainable local economic development, China Mobile helped Maqin County Government develop the Maqin County Tourist Attraction Signs Information System with a series of core functions such as Travel Guide, electronic maps and accommodation and transportation guidance, giving a significant boost to local traditional cultural heritage preservation, county-wide tourism economy development, and delivery of self-reliant, sustainable economic development. 28 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale Against the backdrop of global attention to poverty eradication and efforts to help everyone secure equal Promoting Poverty Alleviation and Boosting opportunities for development, China Mobile actively plays to its business strengths to contribute to the realization of China’s 2020 poverty alleviation goal. Our Achievements in 2018 Overcoming numerous challenges along the way, we Cumulatively launched the self-developed Targeted have built 4G networks in remote, impoverished areas Poverty Alleviation System in 71 cities/counties in 14 comparable to those in developed regions and made provinces across the country, covering 8.11 million Rural Revitalization an all-out effort to implement the Telecommunication impoverished people and 740,000 frontline poverty Universal Service Project, thereby providing broadband alleviation cadres access to impoverished families and serving as the Undertook partner assistance and targeted poverty lifeline for local economic development and comalleviation in eight counties of five provinces togethmunity growth. On this basis, we invested funds and er with the parent company, investing over RMB100 manpower and conducted programs in livelihood immillion in assist fund, implemented 30 focused povprovement, industry development, education support, erty alleviation projects, and improved infrastructure healthcare, etc. in partner assistance and targeted povconditions and economic development levels in imerty alleviation areas to realize empowerment-based poverished areas poverty alleviation, thereby helping impoverished people increase production and income and lead a Further enhanced information technology application better life. We also integrated new technologies and in rural areas and formed a number of unique rural applications such as 4G, IoT and cloud computing information-based application demonstration projclosely with the practical needs of rural development, ects, thereby providing new ideas and new means harnessed local characteristics to help realize new for rural development types of rural economy such as intelligent agriculture, intelligent animal husbandry and intelligent tourism, and built modernized “new villages”. Our Goals for 2019 Strengthen the organization of and resource assurance for poverty alleviation, enhance the effectiveness of poverty alleviation projects, and help impoverished regions establish normalized mechanism for poverty Key Performance Indicators eradication and help impoverished people develop capacity for sustainable development Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Continue to amplify efforts in network-based poverty alleviation and serve as a more effective platform to Narrowing digital divide drive effective integration between social forces for Number of sales channels in poverty alleviation and the needs of impoverished 55.0 46.2 41.0 township-level areas1 (10,000) regions, and provide technological and platform supNumber of Rural Information port for realizing poverty alleviation targets 6,487 7,480 8,924 Service users (10,000) Further combine the resource endowments and Note: development needs of villages in different regions, 1. With the development of the Internet, the number of customers, volume of provide tailor-made village information applications, business and market share have all increased rapidly in our online store, mobile promote demonstration programs, and help villages store and other electronic channels. This has been accompanied by a corresponding decline in the scale of offline channels including village channels. In enjoy information benefits and realize leapfrog develthe future, we will further enhance the business capacity of our electronic chanopment nels to provide rural customers with convenient services that can be enjoyed at home. 29 05 Supporting Public Welfare and Helping Community Thrive Promoting Social Welfare China Mobile fulfills its part as a corporate citizen by being actively involved in supporting social welfare. Since founding the China Mobile Charity Foundation in 2009, we have constantly improved the construction and management of our public welfare platforms. We have continually launched a range of brand programs such as the Blue Dream program and the Heart Caring program, utilizing information technology to improve children’s education and medical aid conditions in remote rural areas, resolving the “last kilometer” problem of public welfare. In the national social organization assessment led by China Ministry of Civil Affairs in 2018, China Mobile Charity Foundation was promoted to Level 4A. The Blue Dream program won the third CSR China Education Award Special Award for Targeted Poverty Alleviation in 2018. The Heart Caring program won the Charitable Program Award at the 10th China Charity Award. In 2018, we thoroughly implemented the MIGU Running initiative. We continued to optimize the user experience of our online platform and expand the scope of our offline activities. Combining the Blue Dream and Heart Caring programs, we matched user running mileages with company donations to further increase social participation and gather the power of public welfare. At present, 4.5 million people have cumulatively participated in our MIGU Running public welfare activities. Heart Caring Program Passing on Love In November, 2018, the program was brought to the She County of Hebei Province. A 12-year-old boy named Zhao Zhiwei was the oldest of all the children screened for the disease and also had the latest diagnosis, rendering the disease life-threatening. When learning that Zhiwei was qualified for assistance from the Heart Caring program, his grandma cried with joy. Our staff learned that Zhiwei’s grandma had adopted him in 2008 and since been raising him with her every effort. Through the kind gesture of adoption, she had saved Zhiwei’s life years ago, and now China Mobile is passing on that love with its Heart Caring program. China Mobile started the Heart Caring program in 2011 to provide free screening and treatment for children diagnosed with congenital heart disease. By the end of 2018, the program had covered nine provinces including Neimenggu, Liaoning, Henan, Shanxi, Qinghai, Guangxi, Ningxia, Hebei and Guizhou, cumulatively donating RMB160.8 million and providing free screening for 45,648 impoverished children, with 5,358 diagnosed children receiving free surgery. 30 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan Since 2006, the China Mobile Blue Dream Education Aid Plan has been dedicated to improving the balanced development of “The training allowed me to learn firsthand better ways of school school education and teaching facilities in central and western management. When I return to school, I will engage teachers from China for 13 years. In 2018, based on the continual and intedifferent schools in Simao District in sharing and research sessions to grated adoption of shadow training and long-distance training, deliver higher-quality and more specialized school education.” the China Mobile Principal Training program newly launched — Xiao Weishu, Principal of Simao No.7 Primary School, Pu’er City the Diagnostic training model, where programs such as principal visits to the Mobile Information-based Exhibition Hall are included in the training to expand the training model and content, improving the effectiveness of training. In the meantime, we visited Sichuan, the Three Regions Three Cities at the Shanxi Provinces as well as areas of extreme poverty where we donated 272 multimedia classrooms equipped with multimedia long-distance teaching facilities and our And Education products to the local secondary and primary schools. By the end of 2018, the Company has invested over RMB156.8 million in the Blue Dream program, training 115,782 rural school principals Supporting Public Welfare and Helping and donating 2,310 China Mobile libraries and 2,302 China Mobile multimedia classrooms. Children having class in the China Mobile multimedia room Music Classrooms Filled with Love “These kids deserve better music education,” said volunteer teacher Sha Nanjie. As a Yi ethnic singer from Daliang MounCommunity Thrive tains, Sha Nanjie still clearly recalls the first time he visited the school in impoverished areas of his hometown, when he was truly amazed by the children’s passion for music there. “Every classroom was packed with 50-60 children. The music lessons were part-time covered by other subject teachers. Due to the lack of hardware facilities, music classes were taught by the following to sing with the teachers repeatedly. However, I was surprised to find that the children could choreograph by themselves and would give performances in class now and then, clearly very eager for opportunities to perform.” In June 2018, Sha Nanjie arrived at Sanchahe Township PriYi ethnic singer Sha Nanjie and primary school students from Damary School and Jiefang Township Primary School in Zhaojue liang Mountains County with our MIGU Music Classroom program. Drawing on his own specialties, he gave a singing and vocal class to rials including stationery, musical instruments and books, etc., the children. Through easily understandable beats combined which have satisfied the student’s needs for learning music with improvisational composition rooted in everyday life, he and improved local learning conditions. brought a brand new music experience to the children and Asemalimu, a 14-year-old girl of the Yi ethnicity from Bi’er inspired their imagination about musical forms. County Central Primary School, Zhaojue County, Liangshan Since its launch in November 2017, the MIGU Music ClassPrefecture, contributed a pristinely-rendered song to the room program has joined forces with music experts, profespublic welfare album Ceiba (“Mumian”) under the prosional singers, employee volunteers, and other parties to bring fessional guidance of MIGU volunteer music teachers. The music lessons to six schools in Zhaojue County of Liangshan album has been released on MIGU Music and is intended Yi Autonomous Prefecture and Kaili County of Qiandongnan to use music to bring more people’s attention to remote Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture. Over 3,000 children and mountainous areas and ethnic minorities, delivering have been benefited from our music lessons on basic musical positive message through music. knowledge, musical instruments and singing, as well as mateScan the QR code to listen to Ceiba, the public welfare album 31 Sunshine Children Safety Monitoring Poverty Alleviation Program Bijie City is a remotely located city in Guizhou Province, and nearly 180,000 residents work outside the city as migrant workers, leading to a huge number of left-behind children. The life and education of those children have become an issue of wide public concern. Child safety accidents frequently occur in Bijie City. In response, China Mobile launched the Sunshine Children Safety Monitoring Program in cooperation with local government and social security departments, sending out 65,088 safety intelligent phone watches to left-behind children in 7 counties/districts of Bijie. Equipped with features such as family calls, emergency calls, location tracking, trail playback, etc., those watches build a bridge of safety between those children and their guardians. The watch enables the left-behind children to talk with their parents, thus ensuring better care and guardianship, helping them to develop All the left-behind children wearing the Making children more intimate communications and relationship no longer lonely with their parents, getting rid of the “shadow” intelligent watches are included in the And Campus platform, where, utilizing Making of loneliness. education the “Internet + Education” approach, more reassuring targeted quality educational resources Making We developed the left-behind children safety designed by renowned schools/teachsupervision more supervision platform, which has been incorpoers are provided based on the students’ convenient rated into the public security system to show records of academic scores and evaluthe children’s real-time location and historical ations to help improve their academic movement and send timely notifications when performance. they are near dangerous spots; in case of emergency, nearby equipment can be maneuvered for quick response to reduce the time for resolutions. Championing Volunteer Services We encourage employee volunteerism and continue to improve the volunteer service implementation and guarantee mechanisms to make our volunteer work more effectively delivered and richer in content. We are concerned about the needs of under-privileged groups and actively implement a rich variety of employee volunteer service programs for impoverished households, left-behind children, outdoor workers, the elderly, the disabled, and other groups, providing them with comfort and assistance. In 2018, we formulated the Guideline on Further Promoting China Mobile Volunteer Work to make our employee volunteer management more standardized, program-oriented, systemized and normalized, thereby improving the management effectiveness and impact of voluntary management programs. 135,900 employees had registered as volunteers, collectively contributing 567,600 hours of volunteer work. With You – With Seedlings Campaign With You is a China Mobile volunteer brand dedicated to Hui People No.1 Elementary School in Yinchuan City to proimplementing “one-on-one” donation and assistance inivide better learning conditions for the children. tiatives aimed at poverty alleviation and education improvement in the Company’s targeted poverty alleviation regions. With Seedlings is a With You sub-brand designed to provide volunteer teaching in impoverished areas to drive education-based poverty alleviation and broaden students’ horizons and knowledge base. We also recruited the children of our employees to be “little volunteers”. They have participated in gatherings with donations (like stationery) for left-behind children, passing on the kindness of heart. In 2018, our With You volunteer activities inspired active employee participation and donations. Through 6,301 activities, we raised a total of RMB9.1816 million in donations. Meanwhile, our With Seedlings platform sent 10 volunteer teachers to Ningxia Province and donated 105 sets of new desks and Shaanxi Company employees celebrating birthday for left-behind children chairs and RMB25,000 worth of books to Xingjing County 32 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Having You Under Our Roof – The Outdoor Workers’ Care Station Outdoor workers are “guardians of the city”. Regardless of lating Outdoor Workers’ Care Station operations and managethe weather conditions, they always spare no efforts in conment regulations and conducting regular on-site inspections on tributing to the betterment of the city and the citizens’ lives. the supplies and service quality. By the end of 2018, the OutHowever, they are always in lack of a roof to protect them door Workers’ Care Station had been set up in 119 China Mofrom the rainstorms and harsh weather conditions. In 2018, bile outlets throughout Shanghai, collectively serving over 3,500 China Mobile Shanghai Company set aside a special section outdoor workers in all kinds of professions such as sanitation and established the Outdoor Workers’ Care Stations in the workers, assistant traffic police, messengers and deliverymen. numerous China Mobile stores throughout the city. Over time, a service model that incorporates “space, sign, personnel, services, facilities and guarantee” has been established, with a focus on addressing the workers’ practical needs for drinking water, shade from the sun and shelter from the cold, food warming, phone charging, bathroom breaks, etc. Drawing on our own business features, we also provide them with free 300Mb or 500Mb domestic data and free tryout of our mobile information services. At present, the Company solidifies construction of the care staSupporting Public Welfare and Helping Staff from our business store in Shanghai offering hot water to outdoor tions by setting up a dedicated workgroup tasked with formuworkers “I am so happy about these Care Stations. In the past, when I needed to use the bathroom, I would feel too awkward to ask the shoppers in case it would cause them any inconvenience. There was no proper place for lunch or taking a rest, so I would just sit under the shade of a tree. Now these Care Stations have made my job much more enjoyable. It is a wonderful service, and we all love it.” Community Thrive — Aunt Zhang, Cleaner Philanthropy Stars of the Year Zeng Huiling: Participator in charitable causes and spreader of love Zeng Huiling is an account manager at the Tengzhou Branch of China Mobile Shandong Company. While taking good care of her own child, she has also long been dedicating her time and energy to caring for elderly empty nesters, left-behind children and special children in the community as a volunteer. To spend time with deaf-mute children, she has even mastered the sign language. For over ten years, she has influenced people around her with concrete actions and inspired more people to participate in social welfare through her unwavering commitment to charitable work. Zheng Yaru: Rose-giving hand has a lingering fragrance Zheng Yaru is an employee of the Zhongshan Branch of China Mobile Guangdong Company. Her responsibility is to oversee work implementation of the Company’s chief youth volunteer squad. She believes that outstanding and refined charitable work lies in a continuous effort to innovate and give character to past experience. With a focus on caring for migrant workers and providing premium service, Zheng Yaru has actively explored the way and managed to deliver a perfect blend of commercial activities and social good as well as diversified forms of charitable events and services. Lin Wanlv: Applying knowledge to practice to innovate poverty alleviation Lin Wanlv is the Chief Operator of the Network Management Center Monitoring Room of China Mobile Yunnan Company. Since May 2018, he has volunteered to participate in poverty alleviation in Huangping Village, Suijiang County, Zhaotong City. Drawing on his technological expertise to overcome numerous difficulties, Lin Wanlv set up an innovative impoverished household information display platform and FTP information storage platform. The platform helped the work team solve chronic problems such as difficulty in locating specific people, information asymmetry, and difficulty of finding required resources, enhancing the efficiency of poverty alleviation work. 33 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale Information and communications technologies have unique advantages in helping to narrow down development divide, alleviate and eradicate poverty, balance educational and medical resources, unite forces for public welfare and other aspects. China Mobile leverages its business strengths and Internet thinking and strives to deliver “last kilometer” solutions for providing public welfare assistance. From Blue Dream and Heart Caring to the platform dedicated to caring for left-behind children, and from the music classroom to MIGU Running Initiative, the Company gives play to its public welfare resources and featured platforms to connect groups in need with public welfare endeavors, enhancing the effectiveness of public welfare assistance and building and sharing prosperous communities with relevant stakeholders. Our Achievements in 2018 Improved the construction and regulatory management of our public welfare platforms and promoted China Key Performance Indicators Mobile Charity Foundation as a Class 4A foundation 115,782 principals from rural primary and secondary Indicators 2016 2017 2018 schools in central and western China trained through Public Welfare our Blue Dream Educational Aid Plan and 5,358 impoverished children diagnosed with congenital heart Total number of registered employee volun13.10 11.10 13.59 disease treated through our Heart Caring Campaign teers (10,000 persons) Total amount of employContinued to improve our volunteer service manageee volunteer service time 50.20 56.80 56.76 ment and guarantee mechanism to enhance the volun(10,000 hours) teer service abilities of our employees and extend the Cumulative number of impoverished children to 33,417 39,488 45,648 coverage of our volunteer services, providing 567,600 receive free congenital hours of voluntary service this year heart disease screenings Cumulative number of impoverished children diOur Goals for 2019 agnosed with congenital 3,633 4,498 5,358 heart disease assisted and treated Train 11,120 principals from rural primary and secondCumulative number of ary schools in central and western China and build 538 China Mobile Libraries 2,310 2,310 2,310 multimedia classrooms through the Blue Dream plan built Cumulative number of Provide treatment for around 600 impoverished chilmultimedia classrooms 1,760 2,030 2,302 dren diagnosed with congenital heart disease through built the Heart Caring Campaign Cumulative number of rural primary and secondary 92,532 103,828 115,782 school principals trained Fully implement and improve the effectiveness of povCumulative donation erty alleviation volunteer work made by China Mobile Charity Foundation 23,395 27,225 31,055 (RMB10,000) 34 A Digital Future Achieved Together 36 Cementing Leadership in Innovation and Accelerating Transformation and Development 43 C o m m i t t i n g t o G re e n D e v e l o p m e n t a n d Environmental Protection Facilitating Employee Growth and Fostering 48 Innovative Talents 35 06 Cementing Leadership in Innovation and Accelerating Transformation and Development Leading 5G Innovations As 5G technologies continue to mature, the 5G era, an era of intelligent Internet of Everything, is just around the corner. China Mobile continues to drive up 5G technology R&D, explore the forms of 5G products, and extend 5G application scenarios to areas such as smart factory, new media and smart transportation. The Company joins forces with business partners to boost the Internet-based, digital and intelligent development of all sectors and jointly deliver a beautiful 5G lifestyle. Successfully Building the First 5G Smart Power Plant In January 2019, China Mobile completed the first 5G-based multi-scenario smart power plant end-to-end business verification exercise in China at Jiangxi Photovoltaic Power Plant in collaboration with industry partners. Based on China Mobile’s 5G networks, the power plant successfully materialized a number of smart energy application scenarios, delivering significant breakthroughs in the application of 5G technologies in the smart energy sector. Drone patrol inspection and robot patrol inspection scenario: Intelligent security protection scenario: Realizing real-time monBased on the platform, the Centralized Control Center in Nanitoring and integrated environmental surveillance at the power chang remotely controls drones and robots at the Gongqing plant through panoramic HD cameras. Photovoltaic Power Plant to perform patrol inspections. The HD inspection footages are then transmitted back to the control Personnel operations scenario: Audio & video and location funccenter in Nanchang in real time, realizing the transition of the tions enabled by intelligent wearables allow experts in Nanchang mode of equipment control from local to remote. to provide remote guidance for on-site maintenance and repair personnel at the power plant. Helping China Media Group Deliver Its First “5G+4K” Spring Festival Gala Live Broadcast In 2019, the Spring Festival Gala was successfully live-streamed over 5G networks in 4K ultra high-definition through a concerted effort among China Mobile, China Media Group and relevant partners, the first time since the program debuted. The broadcast is not only a 5G application demonstration that has received the largest viewership in history but also an integration between the traditional Chinese New Year and state-of-the-art 5G technologies. With the support of China Mobile’s 5G networks, 4K ultra high-definition footages of the Spring Festival Gala Shenzhen parallel session were transmitted to the China Media Group Studio in Beijing in real time without lag and presented to the audience. This is a perfect demonstration of the characteristics of 5G such as high speed and low latency and lays the foundation for the largescale application of ultra-high-definition video technologies in the era of 5G. 36 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Building the Wuxi Internet of Vehicles City-level Demonstration Application Project The Wuxi Internet of Vehicles City-level Demonstration Application Project led by China Mobile is a joint effort between China Mobile and nearly 30 partners and currently the world’s largest city-level Internet of Vehicles. The project opens up over 40 traffic control data items, materializing more than 30 application scenarios including push notifications for traffic light information as well as warnings for vehicle front collisions and pedestrians crossing the street. The project has played an effective role in improving the public’s mobility experience and enhanced the smart traffic management of cities. In 2018, we comprehensively advanced the maturity of 5G technologies with a view to realizing 5G pre-commercial use in 2019 and large-scale 5G commercial use in 2020. Building a new ecosystem in Actively applying new technologies Striking out in new directions concerted efforts Led the setting of 5G network Announced plans for the first Initiated the O-RAN Alliance for framework international standards batch of 5G terminal products in w i re l e ss n e t w o r k a rch i t e ct u re and played a primary role in advanccollaboration with industry players, geared to building “open”, “opening 5G terminal testing and certifiintroduced China Mobile’s first selfsource” and “intelligent” wireless cation standards at the 3GPP (3rd owned brand 5G terminal, and networks with high flexibility and Generation Partnership Project) and published the White Book on 5G low cost. Cementing Leadership in Innovation and AccelGCF (Global Certification Forum). Universal Modules showcasing its Reinforced communication and achievements. Launched the 5G Terminal Pioneers cooperation with international telePlan and rolled out large-scale 5G Set up industry research institutes in communications enterprises in new pilot network construction in full. Xiong’an New Area, Chengdu and technology R&D, new application Shanghai, and incubated realizable expansion, new model exploration Core thesis on large-scale 5G antenand scalable 5G demonstration apand other areas to push towards na won the Fred W. Ellersick Prize plications with a focus on industry, coordinated innovation and shared erating Transformation and Development 2018 Best Paper Award presented agriculture, healthcare, education, growth in the 5G era. by IEEE (Institute of Electrical and transportation, finance, smart cities Electronics Engineers), the first time Upgraded the China Mobile 5G and other verticals to promote the the prize has been independently Innovation Center to an innovation integration between digital econoreceived by a Chinese industry secincubator with 260 partners and 20 my and real economy. tor/R&D organization. open laboratories set up worldwide, representing a concerted effort to accelerate the innovative application of 5G. Deepening Industry Transformation Drawing on its continuously improving independent R&D capabilities, China Mobile actively explores the new “Internet + digital content” operating model and delivers new experiences and new scenarios made possible by technological innovations, thereby actively preparing itself for the new competitive landscape. Enhancing Independent Innovation Capabilities The Company continues to strengthen its R&D organizational system to improve its R&D capabilities in frontier technologies. In 2018, we set up second-tier R&D institutes in 10 specialized services companies and directly affiliated units. We also established an intelligent hardware innovation center to undertake all work related to the Company’s proprietary branded intelligent hardware such as frontier technology research, product design and R&D as well as manufacturing and supply chain management. The center equips us with the core capability to independently develop full-lifecycle intelligent hardware and develop an intelligent hardware ecosystem, thus propelling the large-scale and innovative development of intelligent hardware in China. The Company works to improve its core capabilities for R&D on proprietary branded products on all fronts by comprehensively sorting out its technological capabilities, constructing its R&D capability map and deepening its R&D mechanism reform. In 2018, we completed the first phase of the construction of scientific and technological achievements sharing platform and hosted nine “Scientific and Technological Achievements Day” events, facilitating the promotion of scientific and technological achievements that takes various forms, spans different points in time, and covers multiple fields. In terms of proprietary intellectual property rights, the Company actively fosters a culture where independent innovations are valued and protected. In 2018, we filed 2,222 patent applications and 1,040 patents were newly granted. We also held week-long proprietary property awareness activities, improved our mass entrepreneurship and innovation IP management, and continued to explore IP operations. 37 Innovative applications Proprietary brands Our customer service intelligent answering system “Yiwa” Introduced proprietary branded intelligent hardware prodis currently the world’s biggest intelligent customer service ucts across the four major areas of households, individuals, system. industries and chip modules. Our products, including Business Converged Gateway, With Accelerated deployment in the area of new retail and Seedlings children’s watch, and Find Him/Her Locator, won launched a new independent terminal pilot, effectively a number of awards such as Red Dot, METIS, and IDEA. enhancing the efficiency of existing channels. We launched a range of new AI products such as Witness Completed the preliminary development of image Comparison All-In-One, intelligent loudspeaker, And-MU recognition, voice recognition, user portrait, big data camera, and Penetrating Eyes, based on the application of analysis and other functions, with services like face recnew AI technologies such as intelligent voice and machine ognition and intelligent app recommendation already vision. applied in the end products N5 and N5 pro, our selfowned brand cell phones. Operating Digital Content Ecosystem The increasingly enriched technological means have provided people with a brand-new content consumption experience. With a focus on digital content upgrading, and taking the live broadcast of the 2018 FIFA World Cup as an opportunity, China Mobile thoroughly implements our “Internet + digital content” operations model, providing users with a full-scale immersive experience. Management innovations Business innovations The triangle management model has enabled Created content IP and originally developed digital content-focused collaboration among our diversified content formats. headquarters, specialized services companies and Developed big data-based targeted marketing. provincial subsidiaries, building the coordination matrix encompassing marketing, contact points and content. Service innovations Became the first telecom operator to deliver netEnhanced product experience based on a works that spanned broadcasting and TV companumber of innovative technologies such as nies, Internet companies and telecom operators, cloud editing, split screen and multiple angles. and obtained the IPTV transmission license plate, Created a full-scale immersive experience. starting a new era of China Mobile IPTV. Operating Big Sports IP – World Cup In 2018, Our MIGU brand was selected to be the official partner for CCTV live stream new media and telecommunications transmission of the FIFA World Cup held in Russia. This is the first time that a Chinese telecommunications operator has been given the live streaming rights for a major international competition. We delivered the live broadcast of all 64 matches to 4.3 billion viewers (person-times), utilizing new services and functions to enable a brand-new, high-definition and smooth viewing experience. “Three-dimensional” presentation of the World Cup in true colors “Interactive” experience for a fun World Cup We achieved live broadcast of original images at 50 frames Features such as split screen and multiple angles fully satisfied per second on small screens (handsets); as for big screens viewers’ personalized needs for watching the World Cup; (TV), the real 4K image quality boasted a resolution four times content and activities such as World Cup theme music, audio higher than 1080P; the application of HDR technologies allive streaming and virtual run-to-Russia initiatives offered uslowed viewers to capture the smallest detail on the field. ers the opportunity to be fully “engaged” in the matches. AI Live Stream Editor The Editor tools can accurately capture important scenes such as shots, fouls and penalties before editing and slicing the footages in real time using AI technologies to immediately bring the wonderful clips to viewers. 38 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Reinforcing Compliance Management Honesty and compliance are the cornerstones of a business and the lifeline of its sustainable development. China Mobile commits firmly to honesty in all its operations, operationalizes a culture of rule of law, and complies with relevant laws and regulations. The Company continuously improves its compliance system as well as its management of risks, anti-corruption compliance and supply chains in all respects and makes an all-out effort to progress its culture of compliance, thereby ensuring healthy development. Complying with Laws and Regulations The Company adheres to the governance value and philosophy of “compliance with laws and respect for rules”. Internally, we reinforce all employees’ identification with and faith in rule of law, instill the spirit of integrity and commitment in our employees, and guide our employees to strictly comply with rules, thereby providing rule-based safeguards for the Company’s healthy development. Externally, the Company fulfills its part as a corporate citizen by running law awareness public welfare campaigns. We continued to implement our Compliance Escort Plan in 2018, striving for all-round enhancements in our ability to implement the rule of law and compliance management and ensuring lawful operations and proper management. Cementing Leadership in Innovation and AccelStrengthening compliance management in focal areas Promoted pilot compliance achievements in focal areas such as bidding and procurement and Formulating and optimizing compliance engineering construction, and created complimanagement regulations ance management mechanisms embedded in business to effectively prevent compliance risks; erating Transformation and Development Formulated the China Mobile Compliance Management Measures and set up an institutional published research reports on export control, system centered on compliance management to market competition, etc., and strengthened anCompliance provide guidance for operations and manageEscort Plan ti-monopoly compliance learning. ment. Publicizing a culture of compliance Organized compliance trainings, set up the Compliance Escort section on our Online University website, and organized the group-wide Compliance Escort Micro-video Contest. China Mobile issued ten compliance guidelines regarding market competition, anti-bribery in commerce, cooperation with law enforcement, information security, bidding and procurement, project construction, labor and employment, network security, conflict minerals, and export control, further reinforcing close-loop compliance risk management. With respect to overseas investment, the Company always begins with an in-depth analysis of the macro environment and industry trends of target markets and fully considers the economic, social and environmental impact or value of the projects as a key determinant of investment decisions at all stages such as investment planning, opportunity selection, project implementation and investment decision-making. We live the core corporate value of “Responsibility Makes Perfection”, comply strictly with laws and regulations on human rights protection, and play an active role in protecting the interests of vulnerable groups. Since becoming a member of the UN Global Compact in 2007, we have supported and actively implemented the UNGC Ten Principles, respecting and protecting internationally recognized human rights. For information on our corporate governance and specific financial performance, please refer to our annual report or website www.chinamobileltd.com. Risk Control Our risk evaluation follows a three-tiered management structure comprising the Audit Committee, the departments responsible for functional management, business as well as supervision and evaluation, and the Internal Control and Risk Management Expert Bank at the functional position level, with which we achieve specialized management over planning, decision-making, execution and implementation, thereby ensuring the continuous improvement and effective implementation of our internal control system. Having established regular risk assessment mechanisms and procedures, we conduct major annual risk assessment to evaluate our risk exposures and levels in areas such as strategy, market, finance, operations, legal and compliance as well as information technology, and gradually implement risk control measures and requirements. 39 By further refining our risk prevention and control measures, we continued to strengthen monitoring over all kinds of risks in 2018. For each type of risks, we have developed a task breakdown template setting out specific countermeasures and work plans, embedding requirements for risk management into our daily work. We organized training on internal control and risk management and set up a tiered and categorized training system to enhance the risk management awareness of all employees. In terms of internal audit, an Internal Audit Department is set up both at the Company’s headquarters and its operating subsidiaries. They undertake financial audit, internal control audit, information system audit, risk evaluation and related work to deliver independent internal audit at each affiliated unit and improve the Company’s risk prevention and management capabilities. In 2018, we intensified audit supervision over areas such as Internet channels, information security and asset management to improve risk prevention and control, and also pushed forward information-based audit based on an in-depth application of technologies such as big data and cloud computing, remarkably enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of our audit. Anti-corruption China Mobile’s domestic operating units comply strictly with relevant laws and regulations such as the Supervision Law of the People’s Republic of China, and our overseas operating units all act in full compliance with local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations. We gradually improve our four-in-one anti-corruption work system of “education, prevention and control, punishment, and accountability” to build a corruption free company. In 2018, China Mobile formulated 15 regulations and regulatory documents including the “Guideline on Continuously Deepening Construction of Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and Control Mechanism” and the “Provisions on Implementing the Eight-point Regulation of Improving anti-corruption the Centre and Further Deepening Conduct Construction” to further solidify our anti-corrupmechanism system tion mechanism system construction. We improved integrity risk prevention and control by conducting bottom-up checks and establishing an integrity risk assessment system, exploring a maturity rate evaluation model for embedded prevention and control and compiling an evaluation manual, and setting up an Strengthening integrity risk important node normalized reminder and supervision mechanism. prevention and control We listed “micro corruptions” that harm customer and employee interest as one of our priorities for internal supervision and inspection. We conducted an investigation at our grassroots units and clarified corrective measures for prominent issues to drive effective rectification. We compiled the “Work Guideline on Patrol Inspections 2018” and the related work manual to specify rules on patrol inspections. We established and deepened the embedded integrity risk prevention and control mechanism for the patrol inspection work stream to further stanImproving supervision and dardize the work of patrol inspection at all levels. accountability mechanism We established robust internal and external supervision mechanisms through reporting channels such as email, dedicated phone number, CEO mailbox and on-site reporting during supervision and inspection. In 2018, the Company received 1,263 reports in the form of letters/ visits, 85% of which have been handled and concluded. We actively organized employee anti-corruption education and training programs and gave equal importance to concentrated education and daily education to develop an all-round, three-dimensional anti-corruption and integrity education structure. We held the anti-corruption and integrity awareness month for the eighth consecutive year and provided innovative anti-corruption and integrity trainings complementary to face-toImproving anti-corruption face lectures with online education platforms such as a dedicated learning area in our Online education on all fronts University, MMS classrooms, video conferences and intranet live broadcasts to drive stronger employee engagement. In 2018, the Company held 3,717 anti-corruption and integrity education activities, covering over 90% employees. 40 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Reinforcing Product Responsibility China Mobile pays close attention to end product quality management and ensures product quality through measures such as continuously improving our end product quality evaluation system and standardizing our product labeling and advertising information communication. For our proprietary branded products, we adopt a comprehensive quality management approach and develop corresponding guidance documents targeting product establishment, R&D, production and sales. We conduct product quality checks in four aspects, namely project quality review, company stock entry quality audit, national or industry test and certification, and post-launching spot checks. Pursuant to the guidance documents, we have measures in place to address products that do not pass quality checks, which include upgrade or repair, recall, rework, and the imposition of fines, depending on the severity of the problems. In 2018, we continued to reinforce special testing and evaluation of our personal, home and IoT end products to detect and resolve various problems in a timely manner and implement stringent quality control. We act in strict compliance with the Advertising Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Trademark Law of the People’s Republic of China. We have formulated regulations including the China Mobile Management Measures on Advertising and Publicity, clearly requiring all types of information published for advertising purposes to be true and accurate, forbidding the use of unregulated pictures, terms or texts, and strictly prohibiting the unauthorized use of other people’s portraits, registered trademarks, or works, etc., to ensure that our product information and labeling are faithfully communicated and that we engage in transparent and effective communication with our customers. Pursuant to the requirements of the Ministry of Industry and InforCementing Leadership in Innovation and Accelmation Technology of China, we further regulated tariff marketing management to ensure that our tariff plans are simple, clear, explained in standard terminology, and free from ambiguity. Supply Chain Management China Mobile endorses win-win partnerships with suppliers and works actively to create an open, fair, trustworthy and honest value chain. In 2018, we continued to clearly stipulate our supplier cooperation requirements and improve our test and assesserating Transformation and Development ment processes, thus gradually enhancing our responsible procurement management capabilities, with 100% of our partnering first-level centralized procurement suppliers having received our assessment. Operational guidance to suppliers Supplier risk management We publicly published the China Mobile Suppliers We regard supplier risk management as part of the Cooperation Guidelines, explicitly requiring our Company’s overall risk assessment and perform comsuppliers to fulfill their tax obligations, actively pay prehensive assessments on the economic, environfor social security and obey legal and regulatory mental and social risks of our suppliers by means of rules for legal employment, labor protection, occuon-site inspections, questionnaires, external sustainpational well-being and safety, social responsibility, ability agencies, stakeholder information, external environmental protection, etc. database, public opinion supervision, etc. We devised the China Mobile Supply Chain Policy We use certificates for SA 8000 (Social Accountabilon Conflict Minerals and China Mobile Guidelines ity), OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety on Supply Chain Due Diligence Procedures for ConAssessment Series) and ISO 14000 (environmental flict Minerals, demanding suppliers to investigate management standards) as criteria for assessing into and report the use of conflict minerals in the suppliers’ overall capabilities, and perform on-site supply chain. inspections; we require suppliers without such certificates to provide supplementary explanation as reWe formulated the China Mobile Code of Conduct gards employee safety and well-being, environmental on Professional Integrity for Purchasing Personnel, protection, social contributions and other aspects. requiring supplier managers to sign a Business Integrity Pledge, thereby guaranteeing that the proWe formulated the China Mobile Management curement activities are standardized and fair. Measures on Negative Acts of Tier-1 Centralized Suppliers, specifying punishment standards and work procedures, and helping suppliers rectify negative actions and enhance their integrity. 41 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale The arrival of the 5G era has presented telecommunications operators with new opportunities for developing the next generation of ICT infrastructure and extending their digital service offerings as well as new possibilities for building sustainable cities and communities. In response, China Mobile actively leads the development of 5G technologies and industries, enhances the construction of innovative systems, and strives to facilitate the realization of the SDGs by comprehensively improving its independent innovation capabilities, building an industry cooperation innovation mechanism, and collaborating with stakeholders in the R&D and promotion of 5G intelligent applications and solutions. At Key Performance Indicators the same time, the Company continuously improves its compliance management and endeavors to establish an Indicator 2016 2017 2018 all-encompassing integrity risk prevention and control Financial Performance mechanism to continuously reinforce product responsibility and drive stronger sustainability management Operating revenue 1 7,084 7,405 7,368 in the supply chain so as to promote its own healthy (RMB100 million) development as well as that of the entire industry. Taxation (RMB100 million) 356 337 359 R&D and Innovation Number of patent applica1,684 2,006 2,222 tions (pieces) Our Achievements in 2018 Number of newly regis684 753 1,040 tered patents (pieces) Extended 5G service applications to various fields Compliance and Anti-corruption such as intelligent life and smart transportation, Number of Board Meetaccelerated the maturity of 5G technologies on all ings in the year 4 4 4 fronts, and contributed to an intelligent, beautiful Number of anti-corruption lifestyle in collaboration with partners education activities in the 3,951 3,580 3,717 year Established industry research institutes and second-tiParticipation of anti-corer R&D research agencies in Xiong’an New Area, ruption education and 696,106 722,720 759,810 training (person-times) Chengdu and Shanghai and set up smart hardware Number of corruption casinnovation centers, thereby deepening R&D mechaes disciplined in the year 232 275 321 nism reform, enhancing comprehensive independent Number of employees R&D capabilities, and advancing the Company’s digidismissed and disciplined 302 414 433 for corruption in the year tal transformation and development Supply Chain Management Enhanced our compliance institutional system, continued to promote the Compliance Escort Plan, and Number of suppliers 7,243 8,039 7,216 further intensified risk prevention and control as well Number of first-level as anti-corruption education 553 571 480 suppliers Percentage of first-level local suppliers 2 (%) 100 100 100 Our Goals for 2019 Number of second-level Accelerate 5G scale experimentation and application 7,148 7,468 6,736 suppliers innovation with a view to realizing 5G pre-commerPercentage of second44.29 55.69 80.35 cial use in 2019 and 5G commercial use in 2020 so level local suppliers 3 (%) Number of assessments as to jointly advance the maturity of the 5G industry 2,393 2,417 2,194 on first-level suppliers 4 Work with business partners to develop 5G innovaNote: tion demonstration projects to provide novel infra1. The Company has applied the new revenue standard (IFRS/HKFRS 15) since Janstructure and intelligent applications that support the uary 1st, 2018. construction of sustainable cities and communities 2. Percentage of first-level local suppliers means the proportion of domestic suppliers (registered in Mainland China) in all suppliers for the first-level procurement. Further optimize compliance and anti-corruption We did not conduct any international tendering projects in 2018, thus did not have any international supplier. management, solidify the construction of a culture 3. Percentage of second-level local suppliers means the proportion of suppliers of integrity, and leverage our leading position in the registered in a province for the second-level procurement of that particular China Mobile provincial subsidiary. industry to realize healthy development with higher 4. The number of supplier assessments carried out by our Procurement Shared Serstandards vice Center, covering both winning and non-winning suppliers for the first-level procurement. 42 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report 07 Committing to Green Development and Environmental Protection Committing to Green Development and Environmental Protection Combating Climate Change Greenhouse gas emissions are a major contributor to climate change. Pursuing green, low-carbon development and coping with climate change have become the global consensus. China Mobile has developed a climate strategy centered on energy conservation and emission reduction and has made a positive contribution to showing down global warming by continuously promoting the Green Action Plan since 2007 and enhancing its environmental management capabilities. In 2018, we formulated the “Guideline on China Mobile Green Action Plan 2018”, reinforcing management at source, promoting “whole-process, full-stage, all-employee” energy conservation and emission reduction and making sure that our operations complied with the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution, the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Conserving Energy, and other relevant laws and regulations. Improving Environmental Management System Building a comprehensive risk management system whereby the issue of climate change is incorporated into various stages including the identification, screening, integration, ranking and management of risks and opportunities, and formulating and improving the Environmental Management System. Identifying the departments responsible for energy conservation and emission reduction management, and including indicators such as total energy consumption per unit of telecom business and power usage effectiveness (PUE) into the employee performance appraisal system of subsidiaries, and forming energy conservation and emission reduction working groups to oversee the management of climate change and energy related issues in business, networks and office activities. Improving the Carbon Emissions Management System, demonstrating our climate change strategy, management system, risks and opportunities as well as carbon emissions management performance from the dimensions of disclosure, awareness, management and leadership, and promoting the fulfillment of carbon trading commitments at China Mobile’s headquarters, China Mobile Beijing Company, and CM Tietong’s headquarters and Beijing branch. Creating an energy management system that covers 31 provincial subsidiaries and hiring third-party organizations to perform energy audit and authentication, in order to implement overall monitoring of the Company’s daily energy consumption indicators. Pushing forward ISO 14001/50001 environmental/energy management system certification efforts, with our provincial subsidiaries in Beijing, Guangdong, Zhejiang, Fujian and Shaanxi (as well as their city-level subsidiaries) certified to have demonstrated compliance with international standards for environmental/energy management. Strengthening environmental information disclosure and management and continuously improving environmental management measures through participation in CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and other relevant industry evaluation surveys. 43 Reducing Resource Consumption China Mobile attaches great importance to the reasonable utilization of resources and fulfills its commitment to building a sound ecosystem and environment by intensifying technological innovations, promoting green operations and management both within the Company and in the value chain, and enhancing the environmental awareness of employees and the wider public. Intensifying Energy Reduction Renovations Since 2008, China Mobile earmarks a special budget for energy conservation and emission reduction every year to be used for energy-efficient renovations at base stations, data centers, office buildings and stores. In 2018, we further reinforced energy conservation management at our data centers to minimize costs and enhance efficiency. In terms of management approach, we gradually improved the energy efficiency monitoring and management and control system at our data centers, increasing the ambient temperature in machinery rooms and implementing an intelligent air conditioner group control mechanism. On the technology front, we encouraged the use of more energy-efficient integrated rack servers and multi-node servers and recommended putting servers on dynamic energy-efficient operations mode. We also adopted a range of technological renovations in the machinery room facilities, including airflow organization optimization, natural cold source application, air conditioner cold source transformation, waste heat recycling, etc. to continuously improve the energy efficiency at our data centers. In 2018, China Mobile International Information Port Phase-I Data Center, Southern Base Cloud Data Center, Shanghai Ningqiao Data Center, Guizhou Data Center were included in the first batch of national green data centers. Compared with the previous year, the Company’s overall energy consumption per unit of information flow decreased by 57% and the overall energy consumption per unit of telecom business decreased by 53%. Innovating Environmental Protection Applications China Mobile is actively involved in developing and applying energy-efficient technologies such as 4G base station sleep technology and multi-network coordination energy-saving system as well as innovating and exploiting low-carbon information-based applications and products. At the same time, the Company strives to enhance the proportion of renewable energy sources in areas rich in clean sources of energy such as solar, wind, water and hydrogen but lacking traditional electrical power to drive energy conservation and emission reduction in the whole society. In 2018, we further promoted low-carbon applications such as intelligent charging points and smart meter reading. Income from our low-carbon information-based applications accounted for approximately 7.3% of the Company’s annual revenue. Meanwhile, we intensified R&D of 5G energy-efficient technologies and launched environmental protection guardian products based on frontier “IoT + AI + big data” technologies, realizing 24/7 real-time monitoring over air quality and facilitating the construction of a complete, regionally integrated air pollution monitoring network boasting enhanced effectiveness in environmental protection. Promoting Green Operations China Mobile actively implements green operations by promoting the use of online office software such as Cloud Video System and Conference Assistant as well as paperless office systems such as OA, mail, supply chain management, and the electronic procurement and bidding system. Meanwhile, the Company cultivates its employees’ low-carbon habits by advocating green, healthy and energy-efficient lifestyles. In 2018, 35,774 projects were posted in our electronic procurement and bidding system, and the wholly electronic procurement process resulted in the reduction of about 141,000 paper-based bidding documents. Energy Conservation Awareness Week Featuring Green Connectivity Our Energy Conservation Awareness Week, themed “Green intelligent connectivity; a future creScan to watch ated together”, continued in 2018. Through offline activities such as “Low-Carbon Life Hacks” China Mobile Enand “Count Me in Environmental Protection” and the online annual “Carbon Emissions Test”, ergy Conservation the Company promoted energy conservation and environmental protection measures among its Awareness Week Proposal video. employees and the wider public based on its own business platform and channels like new media. Water Resource Management In strict compliance with related requirements of the Water Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law of the People’s Republic of China, China Mobile continues to intensify management over daily water use, strictly controls the emission of waste water, advocates water conversation, and encourages the recycling and reuse of rainwater and reclaimed water, thereby reducing the consumption of water resources. In 2018, we further reinforced the management of water use in our machinery rooms, management rooms and stores, realizing zero growth in the average water use per person in management rooms. A rainwater collection and utilization system was built in China Mobile (Xixian New Area, Shaanxi) mobile data center phase I. The system collected, processed and stored rainwater, which was then used as a supplementary water source for watering greens and washing roads, thus enhancing the efficiency of water resources use. 44 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Waste Management China Mobile constantly explores and improves the standardized management of waste classification and recycling. Pursuant to the requirements of the Law of The People’s Republic of China on Prevention of Environmental Pollution by Solid Wastes, the Catalogue of Waste Electrical and Electronic Products for Disposal (2014) and other relevant laws and regulations, the Company classifies waste into general waste, electronic waste and hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is processed by technological means or handed over to specialized agencies for treatment, while non-hazardous waste is recycled and reused or disposed of according to relevant laws and regulations. We encourage customers involvement to participate in environmentally friendly recycling initiatives. We organized the Green Box Environmental Protection Campaign in combination with our And Machine Swap service, recycling electronic waste such as scrap mobile phones and mobile phone accessories and offering smart terminal refurbishment services in a number of provinces. In 2018, a total of 39,909 electronic items were recycled via the Company’s Green Box volunteer initiative. Hazardous Waste Management Platform In 2018, China Mobile Zhejiang Company set up an information-based hazardous waste management platform in Huzhou. By electronically recording all stages of waste management encompassing collection, storage, utilization and disposal, the platform ensures the standardization and traceability of hazardous waste management, timeliness of its entry and exit, legality of transfer, Committing to Green Development and and compliance with waste disposal agency qualifications. At present, three types of hazardous waste have been included in the platform. Green Supply Chain China Mobile actively propels suppliers’ full-lifecycle energy conservation and emission reduction encompassing R&D, manufacEnvironmental Protection turing, transportation and recycling of products. By setting energy conservation standards for the telecommunications industry chain, the Company drives suppliers to adopt green designs. By renewing energy efficiency grading standards and procuring energy-efficient products, we are fueling the green transformation of the industry chain. Green Packaging In 2018, we continued to promote the use of green packaging. We replaced the traditional wood packaging with environmentally friendly or recyclable materials such as metal trays, metal circulation racks and environmentally friend cartons. We demanded our suppliers to fulfill their commitment to centralized procurement, ensuring that the green packaging usage ratio of newly added main equipment reached 67%, equivalent to 168,000 m3 of wood saved. We promoted green packaging recycling among our suppliers, achieving effective material recycling and reuse and energy consumption reduction. We also started adopting customized delivery bags for our SIM cards. Green Warehousing Green Transportation With a view to building energy-efficient and environSince June 2017, our pilot zero-emissions “new energy mentally friendly warehouses, we renovated the mode vehicles” have been put into operation in Shanghai, and intensity of lighting in some of our warehouses in Guangxi and other provinces/regions to carry out green 2018. By changing to LED lights, using voice-control transportation. As of December 2018, 14 such vehicles switches and enforcing rules on “one-hour lights off had been put in use. during lunchtime”, we reduced warehouse electricity use by 50%. Electromagnetic Radiation Management We have formulated the China Mobile Electromagnetic Fields Management Methods, combining random inspections by experts with daily monitoring at provincial subsidiaries to safeguard continuous monitoring of our base stations, keeping electromagnetic radiation within regulatory limits and protecting the health and safety of residents. We customized our publicity vans by equipping them with in-vehicle electromagnetic radiation dynamic monitoring systems, professional testing devices and technical personnel and raised the awareness of residents through educational activities such as expert Q&A, educational videos and onsite electromagnetic radiation tests on household appliances, thereby facilitating deep engagement with the community and dispelling public concerns. 45 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale “Lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets.” Economic development and business activities Our Achievements in 2018 should not be pursued at the expense of a sustainable ecosystem. China Mobile pays attention to the continued rise in the energy consumption as a result of its Continued to improve our environmental manageextensive network construction and implements energy ment system and realized the reduction of our overconservation and emission reduction and cost optimizaall energy consumption per unit of information flow tion by improving its environmental management sysby 57% compared to last year through measures tem, promoting energy efficient renovations, innovating like energy-saving renovations, environmentally energy efficient technologies, introducing renewable friendly applications and green operations energy sources, and optimizing waste management. 100% of our bidding projects were handled via our The Company takes areas such as smart cities, smart electronic procurement and bidding system, realizdelivery and intelligent transportation as key scenarios ing fully electronic procurement for 5G application innovation and actively develops energy efficient and environmentally friendly solutions to Gradually explored and improved our waste mancontribute to the construction of ecological civilization. agement and promoted the use of lightweight and green packaging materials, achieving a percentage of 67% in the use of green packaging for newly purchased equipment Reduced our annual energy consumption by 2,660 Key Performance Indicators GWhs, equivalent to a reduction of GHG emission by 1.706 million tonnes Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Energy Consumption Total electricity consumption Our Goals for 2019 (100 GWhs) 197.1 223.3 244.7 Natural gas consumption (mil9.1 7.9 11.2 lion m3) Reduce our overall energy consumption per unit of information flow by 15% compared with 2018 and LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 3.7 3.1 2.7 our overall energy consumption per unit of telecom Coal gas consumption (million 0.20 0.10 0.05 business by 10% m3) Coal consumption (10,000 Continue to promote the use of green packaging, 0.5 0.1 0.2 tonnes) urge suppliers to fulfill their centralized procurement Total gasoline consumption commitment, and keep the percentage of newly 126.9 121.5 112.4 (million liters) purchased equipment that uses green packaging at Total diesel fuel consumption 17.6 19.4 14.8 no lower than 60% (million liters) Purchased heating costs (RMB 150.4 160.9 123.4 million) 46 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Emissions Waste Management CO2 emissions (million tonnes) 14.38 15.98 16.17 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 22,742 35,035 10,165 Direct GHG emissions 0.35 0.33 0.31 Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 29,594 (Scope 1) (million tonnes) Indirect GHG emissions Hazardous waste emission inten14.03 15.65 15.86 0.14 (Scope 2) (million tonnes) sity (kg/RMB10,000) Carbon emission intensity 0.203 0.216 0.219 Non-hazardous waste emission (tCO2e/ RMB10,000) 0.40 intensity (kg/RMB10,000) SO2 emissions (tonnes) 95.22 23.59 35.93 NOx emissions (tonnes) 0 0 0 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Weight of Waste Recycled by Certified Third Parties CH4 emissions (tonnes) 0 0 0 Carbon emissions from comNetwork waste (tonnes) 21,046 32,531 35,559 59.87 37.79 39.45 mute (10,000 tonnes) Carbon emissions from business Acid batteries (tonnes) 13,997 20,219 19,458 9.25 29.44 7.10 travels (10,000 tonnes) Communication equipment 3,366 6,869 10,743 (tonnes) Committing to Green Development and Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Cables (tonnes) 1,088 2,136 2,203 Energy Savings Other waste (tonnes) 2,595 3,307 3,155 Total electricity savings (100 GWhs) 3.8 21.4 26.6 in the year Office waste (tonnes) 1,512 2,367 4,102 Equivalent cost savings (RMB100 5.2 28.9 37.7 Electronic equipment million) in the year 1,234 1,895 2,941 (tonnes) Environmental Protection Equivalent GHG emission reduc26.4 148.5 170.6 tion (10,000 tonnes) in the year Other waste (tonnes) 278 472 1,161 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Devices (tonnes) 184 137 98 Green Operations Total (tonnes) 22,742 35,035 39,759 Number of cross-provincial vid800 882 970 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 eoconferences at headquarters Online sales volume (RMB100 3,934 4,648 4,785 Value of Waste Recycled by Certified Third Parties million) Reduction in overall energy conNetwork waste (RMB10,000) 10,574 21,255 22,898 sumption per unit of informa36 40 57 tion flow (%) Acid batteries (RMB10,000) 7,942 13,220 13,103 Investment in Green Action Plan Communication equipment 1.9 1.4 1.9 1,513 3,727 6,886 (RMB100 million) (RMB10,000) Total amount of resources used for producing terminal devices 3,171 8,847 9,394 Cables (RMB10,000) 386 3,313 1,684 (tonnes) Other waste (RMB10,000) 733 995 1,225 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Office waste (RMB10,000) 712 892 1,717 Water Use Electronic equipment 612 798 1,336 Total amount of water con(RMB10,000) 41.25 42.24 35.12 sumption (million tonnes) Other waste (RMB10,000) 100 94 381 Average amount of water con90 91 76 sumption per employee (tonnes) Devices (RMB10,000) 140 122 297 Total (RMB10,000) 11,426 22,269 24,912 Note: In 2018, the Company classified its waste more finely and disclosed weight and intensity of hazardous/non-hazardous waste emission recycled by certified third parties. 47 08 Facilitating Employee Growth and Fostering Innovative Talents Supporting Employee Development Drawing on continuous improvement to its training system and innovation in its incentive mechanism, China Mobile strives to cultivate the next generation of multi-talented workforce in network, IT system, digital services and other key areas. The Company fosters innovation among all employees, and shares with them the value of sustainable development. Improving Effectiveness of Training China Mobile has formulated and strictly abides by the Training Management Methods and implements the annual training plan in an orderly fashion. The Company develops the caliber of capabilities needed for transformation and development based on its key groups, key capabilities and position characteristics. In 2018, we strengthened the full-process closed-loop management of our training projects, continued to carry out annual training project evaluation, and constantly enhanced the effectiveness of various lines of professional training work. Meanwhile, we worked to enhance our training and teaching abilities on all fronts by actively improving our integrated Group-wide internal trainer development system, organizing a rich variety of teaching and research activities such as course teaching and development and course delivery to grassroots employees, and engaging in a concerted effort to develop and share excellent internal teaching resources. We continuously explored and applied a variety of employee training methods, and designed training programs that matched the subject matter of trainings and characteristics of participants. In 2018, we adopted online and offline community-based learning, guided discussion, online learning, experience distillation, outreach training and other learning methods to improve the pertinence and effectiveness of our trainings. In 2018, we provided training for 1.821 million person-times in total, and the average training time per employee reached 100.8 hours. New employees Management Business elite Technological personnel We held the Mobile Voyage We strengthened leadership We reinforced systematic We formulated the New New Employee Growth training for top management training for our backbone Drivers Capability EnhanceCamp, where participants in the transformation phase personnel by promoting our ment Plan, completed the received learning resources to improve their team mannetwork marketing course development of skill maps on a themed basis and agement strategic thinking system, deepening the imand learning roadmaps, and had their personalized and and ability to discharge work plementation of group client conducted intermediate and varied learning needs met responsibilities, and provided manager learning roadmap advanced network training as through a number of intertargeted training modules for and launching centralized well as business support expert active means of learning. middle management to imaudit capability enhancement advanced IT training to further prove their strategy execution programs for audit managereshape the core competencies capabilities. ment personnel. of our technical personnel. 48 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Online Learning Program Based on our new Online University platform, we provide low-cost, expansive, universal and convenient training programs for employees on a Group-wide basis, featuring an organic combination of online training on PC and mobile phone and offline training. Our online learning program focuses on the 10 major projects under our Big Connectivity strategy. In 2018, the program offered nearly 40 themed learning modules such as intelligent IoT and AI with a viewership of over 1 million person-times, and held 510 job post skills certification exams with a candidature of over 240,000 person-times. In 2018, China Mobile was awarded the “Most Socially Responsible Employer Award” under the China Best Employer Awards. China Mobile University was awarded the “Outstanding Contribution Award” under China’s Best Enterprise University Rankings 2018, the “Excellent Enterprise University Award” and “Enterprise Universities Top 50” under the China Talent Development Elite Awards, as well as the “Advanced Enterprise University Award” and “Advanced Network Academy (Online Platform) Award” by the China Association for Executives Development. China Mobile Hong Kong Company was awarded the “Best Employer Award 2018” by Job Facilitating Employee Growth and Fostering Market. Innovation Incentive Mechanism In 2018, we made an all-out effort to establish a technological innovation reward system. We reformed our rewards for techInnovative Talents nological advancements as well as business and service innovations and formulated the China Mobile Technological Innovation Management Measures, further complementing our innovation incentive mechanism. We rewarded major technological innovations, on-the-job technological innovations, and fruition of technological endeavors. We continued to increase our rewards to incubation-oriented innovation and entrepreneurship efforts and make sure that our employees are incentivized. We provide our employees with an internal mass entrepreneurship and innovation incubation service platform and host the China Mobile Independent Development Competition to unleash our employees’ innovative potential. In 2018, ten teams from nine provincial subsidiaries were shortlisted for the finals of our 4th Independent Development Competition. Smart “Wukong” and Its Penetrating Eyes “Wukong”, a smart image converter developed by a team from China Mobile Chongqing Company, entered the finals of the China Mobile 2018 Independent Development Competition and won an award. Not only can the product be used by the general public to perform such image processing functions as old photo renovation and shake reduction but it can help image processing professionals improve their user interface (UI) design efficiency as well. During its participation in the competition, the team was provided with resource support by China Mobile such as R&D cloud and AI platform. The process of working hard together to solve one tough problem after another helped the team hone their technological competencies and motivated them to undertake more innovation “Wukong” team road show at the finals of the Independent Development Competition R&D to help solve real-life problems. “The competition has helped us establish a technological basis “With the help of the Company and my team, I have overcome my in a new field. In overcoming difficulties along the way, we have fear of public speaking. It took me a lot of courage and also gave achieved progress and growth. We are greatly thankful to the Comme a strong sense of fulfillment. It has made me realize that with pany for providing us with a platform for self-realization.” passion and dreams, one’s possibilities are limitless.” — Cao Xu, Team Leader —Wang Feng, Team Member 49 Since 2013, we have held “The Most Beautiful Mobiler” event every year to recognize the individual value of our employees and develop a role model for growth. In 2018, 21 of our employees (group) were each named “The Most Beautiful Mobiler”. “Gold Digger” in the Big Data Era – Yang Weimin A veteran in mobile telecommunications operations and R&D, Yang Weimin initiated the establishment of the Fujian Mobile Network Maintenance Innovation Studio. He has led his team to overcome technological barriers in 35 fields and successfully implemented their products in more than ten provinces/cities, generating a comprehensive economic return of over RMB450 million and helping save RMB33 million in annual cost. Moreover, Yang Weimin has spent all his bonuses received over the years, totaling hundreds of thousands of RMB, on talent cultivation in an effort to build a strong caliber of technological talents. The “Pathfinder” that Delivers the Mobile Speed – Cen Shuwei As a technological pioneer, Cen Shuwei has led his team to break innumerous barriers to achieve groundbreaking success in large-scale 4G pilot networks and support Hangzhou City in its launch of China’s first 4G-covered bus line. He delivered a multitude of innovations in new technologies, connected cars, Internet of Things and other areas during the G20 Hangzhou Summit, achieving new heights of performance in the network quality and perception of Hangzhou city. Now, Cen Shuwei is leading his team to explore 5G networking models and standards and actively participate in the construction project of the “5G Demonstration Area” thereby making preparations for the imminent arrival of the 5G era. Protecting Employee Rights and Interests China Mobile strictly complies with the laws and regulations on employee rights protection, including the Labor Law and Labor Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Special Provisions on Labor Protection of Female Employees, and the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Rights and Interests of Women, as well as those of overseas jurisdictions where it operates, in order to protect the legitimate rights of its employees by various means. We formulated and strictly abide by the Management Approach on Employee Recruitment and ensure that our hiring process is open, fair and transparent by establishing a scientific, standard and systematic recruitment system. We do not use discriminating recruitment requirements and strictly forbid the use of Recruitment and child labor and forced labor. We optimized our employee career development system and relevant guidpromotion ance to advance the construction of employee promotion and career development channels. We revised and distributed the Labor Management Regulations to further implement standardized labor management as regards job classification, forms of labor, labor contract, work time, rest and vacation, and other aspects. We protect employees’ legitimate rights to remuneration, work time, rest and vacation, insurance and benefits, and other aspects. The average salary of our employees is higher than local minimum wage. We formulated the China Mobile Implementation Plan for Incentive Annuities and built a comprehensive Remuneration employee benefits insurance system. We formulated targeted special incentive and dedicated incentive and benefits plans to improve our employees’ sense of gain. We prioritized and strengthened “four-period protection” (covering menstrual period, pregnancy period, delivery period and breastfeeding period) to cater to female employees’ special needs. We respect and protect our employees’ rights to information and expression and enable robust employee feedback mechanisms by establishing the CEO mailbox, hotlines, employee forums, employee representative conferences and other channels. Moreover, we collect written feedback, hold employee conversation and conduct field surveys to comprehensively review outstanding practices, typical cases and employee demands as regards employee rights protection. We compile those findings into themed research reports and focal problem summaries, which are important tools for improving our ability to protect employee rights and interests. 50 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Female Employee Rights Protection Training In 2018, China Mobile invited professional lawyers to offer lectures to our female employees on the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Rights and Interests of Women, the Special Provisions on Labor Protection of Female Employees, and relevant laws and regulations. We held one-to-one and one-to-many face-to-face communication sessions to collect suggestions and opinions from our female employees, thereby delivering timely solutions to frequently raised issues and improving their ability to safeguard their own legitimate rights and interests. Promoting Employee Well-being China Mobile strictly abides by relevant laws and regulations such as the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Prevention and Treatment of Occupational Diseases in providing a safe work environment and safeguarding employees against occupational hazards. We continued to provide all of our employees with medical examination and health lectures, with a medical examination rate of 97% in 2018. We provide essential assistance to alleviate the pressing needs of sick and troubled employees by offering poverty aid fund, major illness assist fund, medical insurance, employee mutual help fund, etc.. We promoted the physical and mental well-being of our employees and helped them balance their work and life demands by implementing initiatives such as the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), “Five Smalls” (small canteens, small lounges, small bathFacilitating Employee Growth and Fostering rooms, small activity rooms and small libraries) project, and “Happiness 1+1” (engaging in 1 sports activity and developing 1 hobby) program. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) China Mobile continued to fully implement the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Through the program, we provide an allyear-round psychological consultation hotline and managers’ hotline and work with professional units to offer an array of serInnovative Talents vices that cover all our employees including face-to-face psychological consultations, themed sharing sessions, psychological health tests, high depression tendency screening, psychological crisis identification and prevention, etc. to contribute to our employees’ psychological well-being. In 2018, Our EAP activities covered over 320,000 employees from 31 provincial subsidiaries and specialized services companies and directly affiliated units. So far, we have trained 3,093 EAP specialists and set up 120 stress relief rooms and care rooms. “Five Smalls” Employee Care Project In 2018, we continued to promote our “Five Smalls” project (small canteens, small lounges, small bathrooms, small activity rooms and small libraries). We invested RMB557 million and prioritized areas with harsh natural conditions and backward infrastructure, satisfying the basic needs of our grassroots employees for food, water and access to the bathroom and improving their work conditions. ”Happiness 1+1” The China Mobile “Happiness 1+1 program started in 2015 and calls on employees to participate in 1 sports activity and develop 1 hobby. The program is designed to improve employees’ physical and spiritual well-being by encouraging them to take part in activities such as brisk walking, yoga, basketball, mountain climbing, calligraphy and photography. Our “Happiness 1+1” events in 2018 included China Mobile Employee Ping Pong Competition, Happiness 1+1 Parent-child Talent Show, public welfare tree planting and many more, attracting the participation of 332,000 employees. Happiness 1+1 Employees’ Arts Show In terms of employee safety, we revised the China Mobile Responsibility System for Safe Production and compiled publicity materials such as the China Mobile Electrical Safety Manual, the Elevator Safety Management, and the Personal Safety Instructions for Women. Additionally, we organized a variety of training and education activities to raise employees’ safety awareness, including the Safe Production Month, the Fire Control Awareness Month, as well as safety management personnel capability enhancement training and new employee safety orientation. As regards emergency preparedness, we formulated the China Mobile Emergency Response Plan and actively organized emergency drills and improved our emergency preparedness procedures, thereby continuously enhancing our ability to handle emergencies and engage in safe production. By doing so, we strove and prevent emergencies and reduce their negative impact on our operations and to ensure employee safety during production. 51 China Mobile and SDGs Our Sustainable Development Rationale Against the development backdrop of the imminent arrival of an era of intelligent IoT accelerated by the 5G Our Achievements in 2018 technology, it is vitally important for telecom operators to attract and retain cornerstone talents and boost the Improved the incentive mechanism, innovated traintechnological transformation of their employees. In light ing methods and strengthened innovative talent of the critical demand for transformational development cultivation, providing 1.821 million person-times of in order to achieve sustainable development, China Motraining to our employees bile endeavours to promote the cultivation of innovative talents by further increasing investment in its innovaProvided a well-run employee complaint mechanism tion incentives and training resources. Meanwhile, the and intensified protection of employee rights and Company is intent on sharing the value of sustainable interests, with 100% of our headquarters, provincial development with the employees by providing more rosubsidiaries, with and specialized services companies bust career advancement channels, better opportunities signing collective bargaining contract with employfor innovation and entrepreneurship, more complete ees, and 100% of our female employees returning to benefits plans, and a more accommodating work enviwork after maternity leave at headquarters level ronment. Implemented activities such as the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), Five Smalls project and Happiness 1+1 to promote the physical and mental well-being, covering over 320,000 employees Key Performance Indicators Our Goals for 2019 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Promote implementation of the New Drivers CapacTotal number of employees 460,647 464,656 459,152 ity Enhancement Plan and further reshape the core Human Resource Composition competencies of the workforce at the stage of transformation to gradually enhance the comprehensive Percentage of technical 23.34 25.18 capabilities of technical personnel personnel (%) Percentage of marketing Further innovate incentive mechanism and establish 56.56 55.17 personnel (%) more diversified and categorized employee incentives Percentage of manage7.25 7.29 Fully respond to diverse employee demands, continment personnel (%) ue to improve employee rights protection and strive Percentage of general 10.09 10.50 for harmonious labor relations affairs personnel (%) Other personnel (%) 2.76 1.86 52 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Indicators 2016 2017 2018 Diversity Employee Training Percentage of employees Training expense per em35.15 29.62 24.35 1,646 1,717 1,892 under 30 years of age (%) ployee (RMB) Percentage of employees Total number of employees between 30 and 50 years 61.25 65.95 71.13 trained (10,000 per154.9 183.9 182.1 of age (%) son-times) Percentage of employees Number of senior man3.60 4.43 4.52 agement trained (per867 986 1,047 over 50 years of age (%) son-times) Percentage of female emNumber of middle-level 55.54 55.11 53.17 ployees (%) management trained 15,546 28,669 18,744 Percentage of female em(person-times) ployees at senior manage18.00 13.18 16.45 Number of general emment level (%) ployees trained (10,000 153.2 181.0 180.1 Percentage of ethnic miperson-times) 7.16 6.83 7.03 nority employees (%) Average training time per 64.4 88.5 100.8 Percentage of local ememployee (hours) ployees in Hong Kong 91.9 89.4 89.5 Average training time Company (%) per senior management 99.8 106.9 106 (hours) Percentage of local employAverage training time Facilitating Employee Growth and Fostering ees at management level in 70.7 75.0 71.2 per middle-level man79.8 88.1 109.5 Hong Kong Company (%) agement (hours) Employee Turnover Average training time per general employee 64.2 88.6 100.7 Total number of employees (hours) 16,842 27,011 20,259 newly hired in the year Number of Online UniversiNumber of female em39.5 40.5 41.6 9,040 14,194 8,397 ty users (10,000 persons) ployees newly hired Innovative Talents Average Online University Number of male employstudy time per employee 38.2 50 53.6 7,802 12,817 11,862 ees newly hired (hours) Total number of employees Number of Online Univer10,404 14,831 18,217 resigned in the year sity users via mobile phone 27.8 29.1 34.5 Number of resigned (10,000 persons) 5,950 8,242 9,411 female employees Number of resigned Indicators 2016 2017 2018 4,454 6,589 8,806 male employees Total number of employees Respecting and Protecting Human Rights 636 925 1,317 dismissed in the year Number of jobs created Number of female em268 260 288 347 589 888 (10,000) ployees dismissed Percentage of contracted Number of male employemployees who are labor 100 100 100 289 336 429 ees dismissed union members (%) Percentage of employees Percentage of dispatched resigned and dismissed employees who are labor 98 98 98 1.94 2.24 1.55 among employees under union members (%) 30 years of age (%) Percentage of employees Indicators 2016 2017 2018 resigned and dismissed 0.95 1.59 2.56 among employees between Health and Safety Management 30 and 50 years of age (%) Percentage of employees Number of safety emer1,214 1,250 1,225 resigned and dismissed gency drills 0.02 0.21 0.15 among employees over 50 Participation rate in safety years of age (%) 86 86 86 emergency drills (%) Female employee turnover Accident fatality rate per 2.05 0.0065 0.004 0.004 (%) 1,000 employees (%) Male employee turnover Number of fatalities caused 1.92 (%) by production safety inci— — 2 Note: The indicators under Diversity and Employee Turnover are based on the dents number of on-post employees at the end of 2018. 53 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Analysis China Mobile has various communication channels in place to help us maintain regular and close communication with six stakeholder groups, including customers, employees, shareholders and investors, governments and regulators, value chain partners, and community and environmental representatives. When preparing this report, we used questionnaires to identify sustainability issues that concerned different stakeholder groups and determined areas to be disclosed in the report based on a materiality analysis. Stakeholders Key Issues of Concern (Top 5) * Engagement Approaches 1.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 1.Customer Reception Day 5.Customer Satisfaction Surveys 2.Information Security and Privacy Protection 2.10086 Hotline 6.Mobile App 3.Network Quality 3.Weibo and WeChat 7.CEO Mailbox 4.R&D and Innovation Interactions Customers 5.Offshore Compliance of Corporate Social 4.Online and Mobile Customer Responsibilities Service Platforms 1.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 1.Employee Representative 5.Employee Recognition Conferences Mechanism 2.Information Security and Privacy Protection 2.Regular Trainings 6.Employee Complaint 3.Network Quality Mechanism 3.Performance Communication Employees 4.Workplace Health and Safety Mechanism 7.CEO Mailbox 5.Human Resources Development 4.MMS Magazine Mobile Weekly 1.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 2.Information Security and Privacy Protection 1.Annual Reports, Interim Reports and Announcements Shareholders and 3.Financial Performance and Tax Payment 2.General Meetings Investors 4.Corporate Governance and Risk Management 3.Investor Briefings and Conferences 5.Network Quality 1.Information Security and Privacy Protection 1.Regular Reports and Communications 2.Network Quality 2.Specific Investigations and Meetings Governments and 3.Anti-corruption and Compliance 3.Relevant Forums Regulators 4.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 4.CEO Mailbox 5.Corporate Governance and Risk Management 1.Information Security and Privacy Protection 1.Procurement 2.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 2.Supplier Web Portal, Service Station and Supplier Hotline 3.Corporate Governance and Risk Management 3.Training and Assessment 4.Network Quality Value Chain Partners 4.Forums and Meetings 5.Offshore Compliance of Corporate Social 5.CEO Mailbox Responsibilities 1.Information Security and Privacy Protection 1.Community Activities 2.Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 2.Mass Media Community and 3.Network Quality 3.New Media (Weibo, WeChat) Environmental 4.Reducing Carbon Emissions 4.Charity Platform Representatives 5.Reducing Environmental Resource Use 5.CEO Mailbox *Note: The top 5 key issues of concern of each stakeholder group come from the results of the stakeholder survey. Please refer to the materiality analysis on P55. CSR Communication Day On July 19, 2018, we held the CSR Communication Day event Indicators 2016 2017 2018 in our sales channels which, together with our General ManCSR training participaager Customer Reception Day, aimed to collect opinions and 353,958 471,669 447,006 tion (person-times) suggestions from our stakeholders regarding our corporate Number of emails resocial responsibility practices. 4,763 self-owned sales channels 1,033 1,279 1,315 ceived in CEO Mailbox participated in these events and organized a variety of activNumber of customer ities with local characteristics. 1,921 China Mobile represenvisits on Customer Day 105,076 102,060 138,301 tatives, including general managers of branch companies and (person-times) department directors of provincial subsidiaries, were present Number of complaints to communicate with 78,000 customers (person-times). and inquiries handled 106,020 91,960 118,304 on Customer Day 54 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report In 2018, based on the materiality analysis of the various sustainability issues, we evaluated the degree of impact being brought on stakeholders by economic, environmental and social issues, and China Mobile’s impact on these issues, and identified issues of high materiality to be highlighted in this report. Identification Evaluation Report Preparation International Standard Benchmarking Using online questionnaires, we A materiality matrix was formed (see carried out the key stakeholder the figure below) to highlight issues HKEx ESG Reporting Guide survey with respect to the degree to be prioritized in the report. GRI Standards of impact of sustainability issues on stakeholders, collecting 3,302 valid UN SDGs questionnaires in total. UNGC Ten Principles With reference to industry practices, we teamed up internal and external Analysis of key sustainability issues experts to evaluate the impact of Chiand key industry issues na Mobile’s operations on different Corporate strategy analysis sustainability issues. High 1 Issues Pages Reporting scope 3 2 Information Stakeholder Engagement and Customers, government and security High 13-17 regulators, community and environThe Degree of the Issue’s Impact on the Stakeholders and privacy protection mental representatives Customers, government and Materiality Issues Network quality 8-12 regulators, community and environ15 7 mental representatives Materiality Analysis Service quality Customers, value chain partners, 14 9 and customer 13-24 community and environmental 8 5 13 10 rights protection representatives 4 17 6 R&D and 18-24，Customers, government and reguinnovation 36-42 lators, value chain partners 12 Corporate 11 governance 36-42 Employees, shareholders and invesand risk tors, government and regulators management Human resources 48-53 Employees, shareholders and Moderate development investors 16 Anti-corruption 39-42 Employees, government and regulators, shareholders and investors and compliance Materiality Issues Financial performance and tax 39,42 Shareholders and investors, government and regulators payment The Degree of China Mobile’s Impact on the Issue High Workplace health 50-53 Employees, value chain partners and safety Fair employment and non-discrimi50-53 Employees, value chain partners nation 1 Information security and privacy 11 Public welfare Public welfare 25-34 Customers, community and environmental representatives protection 12 Supply chain manageSupply chain 2 Network quality ment 41-42 Value chain partners, community and environmental representatives management Reducing carbon Customers, employees, govern3 Service quality and customer 13 Reducing carbon emis43-47 ment and regulators, value chain rights protection sions emissions partners Reducing Customers, employees, govern4 R&D and innovations 14 Reducing environmental environmental 43-47 ment and regulators, value chain resource use partners 5 Corporate governance and risk resource use management 15 Offshore compliance of Offshore complicorporate social responance of corporate 6 Human resources development 9,39 Customers, value chain partners sibilities social responsibilities 7 Anti-corruption and compliance 16 Stakeholder engagement Customers, employees, shareholdLow 8 Financial performance and tax Stakeholder ers and investors, government and 17 Waste management 54-55 regulators, value chain partners, payment engagement community and environmental representatives Materiality Issues 9 Workplace health and safety Waste manage10 Fair employment and non-dis45-47 Customers, employees, value chain partners ment crimination 55 Independent Assurance Report To the Board of China Mobile Limited: I. Scope of Our Engagement The 2018 Sustainability Report (the “Sustainability Report”) The limited assurance procedures were performed over the of China Mobile Limited (the “Company”) has been prepared following key performance indicators in the Sustainability Reby the Company. Management of the Company (the “Manport for the year ended 31 December 2018: agement”) is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the GRI Standards issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB), and for maintaining Economic indicators adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting process. Number of first-level suppliers Our responsibility is to carry out limited assurance procedures Number of second-level suppliers in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (“ISAE3000”): “Assurance Engagements Percentage of first-level local suppliers Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial InformaPercentage of second-level local suppliers tion” issued by the International Federation of Accountants and issue the assurance statement for the year ended 31 DeNumber of assessments on first-level suppliers cember 2018 in accordance with the Management’s instrucNumber of administrative villages with broadband sertions. vice launched in the “Telecommunications Universal Our work was limited to these stated above and our report is Service Project” made solely to you, as a body, and for no other purpose. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any Number of Rural Information Service customers other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Sustainability Number of sales channels in township-level areas Report is entirely as its own risk. Environmental indicators II. Work Performed Total electricity consumption Our review has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000. In order to form our conclusions, we carried Natural gas consumption out the following procedures: LPG consumption According to the Managements instructions, we performed limited assurance procedures in: Coal gas consumption Coal consumption China Mobile Limited Head Office Gasoline consumption China Mobile Liaoning Company Limited Diesel fuel consumption China Mobile Shaanxi Company Limited CO2 emissions China Mobile Guangxi Company Limited Carbon emission from business travel Carbon emission from commute We did not perform limited assurance procedures on other sites. Number of video conferences usage at group level 56 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Social indicators IV. Level of Assurance Number of spam messages report handled Our evidence gathering procedures have been designed to Number of emergency support obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which to base our conclusion. The procedures conducted do Number of emergency support vehicles deployed not provide all the evidence that would be required in a reaNumber of emergency support equipment installed sonable assurance engagement and accordingly, we do not Number of person-times involved in emergency support express a reasonable assurance opinion or an audit opinion. While we considered the effectiveness of the Management’s Number of principals of rural primary and secondary internal controls when determining the nature and extent of schools trained newly added our procedures, our review was not designed to provide asNumber of assisted children in poverty who suffered from surance on internal controls. congenital heart disease newly added V. Our Conclusions Number of person-times trained Subject to the limitations of scope and based on the procePercentage of female employees dures specified above for this limited assurance engagement, Independent Assurance Report Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees we provided the following conclusions: Total number of newly hired employees Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe Total number of resigned employees that the selected indicators were not presented fairly in all Total number of dismissed employees material respects in the 2018 Sustainability Report of China Mobile Limited. Number of Anti-Corruption Education programme organized Attendance of anti-corruption education and trainings VI. Our Independence The limited assurance procedures we carried out are followWe are in compliance with the Ernst & Young Global Indeing: pendence Policy which was designed to comply with the requirements of the IFAC Codes of Ethics for Professional Interviewing the Company’s management and staffs reAccountants (the IFAC Code). We believe that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our sponsible for the selected key performance information; independence. Performing analytical review procedures; Performing sample inspection on the selected key perforVII. Our Assurance Team mance information; Our assurance team has been drawn from our sustainability Performing recalculation procedures on the selected key assurance service network, which undertakes similar engageperformance information; ments to this with a number of domestic or international Other procedures we considered necessary. businesses. Our assurance team has met the requirements of competence and work experience of this engagement. III. Limitations of Our Scope Our scope of work did not include: Assessing the accuracy or fairness of information (including financial information) other than the selected key performance information. Reviewing the forward-looking statements made by the Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP Management. Beijing, PRC Reviewing and consequently providing assurance on histori26 March, 2019 cal data. 57 About this Report This report is the 13th Sustainability Report of China Mobile Reporting Scope Limited. The report discloses relevant information about our Unless otherwise stated, all the cases and data in this report economic, social, and environmental sustainability perforwere collected from China Mobile Limited and our subsidiarmance. Unless otherwise stated, the time span of this report ies (See Page 4 in this report for detailed information about is from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. our subsidiaries.) Reporting Form Data and Information Disclosure This report is published in both Chinese and English and presented in both printing and online edition. (Read and downThe main channels for the collection of data and inforload the report at www.chinamobileltd.com) mation in 2018 Report include: Reporting Standards Relevant data collection systems and statistical statements inside our company; The report has been prepared to comply with globally recognized benchmarks for disclosure of sustainability information Cases about corporate social responsibility practice subwhile highlighting the industry background and China Momitted by provincial subsidiaries every quarter; bile’s unique characteristics. The standards as key references China Mobile 2018 Best CSR Practices Selection; used for developing this report include: Questionnaires developed to collect qualitative and quanHong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEX) Environmental, Social titative information based on the reporting framework. and Governance Reporting Guide Currency GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards by the Global SusUnless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this tainability Standards Board (GSSB) report are expressed in RMB (yuan). United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable DevelopReport Assurance ment In 2018, China Mobile hired Ernst & Young (special general Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact partnership) to provide independent third-party assurance ISO Guideline on Social Responsibilities (ISO 26000) report (see P56-57). The Company’s 2018 Annual Report contains details regarding audited financial statements and other Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 4.0) financial performance and operating performance for the issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences year ended December 31, 2018 and can be downloaded from China Mobile has complied with the “comply or explain” prothe Company’s website at www.chinamobileltd.com. visions set forth in the HKEx Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide, and this report has been prepared in accordance with the core option of the GRI Standards. Reporting Content and Boundary In accordance with the principles of “stakeholder engagement, sustainability context, materiality, and completeness”, China Mobile determined materiality issues and their boundary through a materiality analysis (See P54-55 in this report for the process and result of materiality analysis.) 58 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report Report Disclosure Indexes GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards No. Pages/Omissions No. Pages/Omissions No. Pages/Omissions ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE We plan to establish 102-55 59-60 102-28 such process in the future 102-1 4 102-56 56-57 102-29 54-55 102-2 4 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH We plan to establish 102-3 4 102-30 such process in the 103-1 5-55 future 102-4 4 102-31 5-6, 39 103-2 5-55 102-5 4 102-32 6 103-3 5-55 102-6 4 102-33 6, 54 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 4, 42, 53 Management 39-40 102-7 102-34 6, 54-55 Approach 52-53 102-35 201-1 34, 42 Report Disclosure Indexes 102-8 Annual Report 102-9 41-42, 45 102-36 Annual Report 201-2 43-46 102-10 4, 41-42 102-37 Annual Report We participate in 201-3 Social Insurance 102-11 13-16, 39-41 102-38 Confidential Information System in accordance with Chinese Law 102-12 39, 55, 58 102-39 Confidential Information 201-4 Annual Report 18-19, 37, 39 102-13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE STRATEGY Management 48-52 102-40 54 Approach 102-14 2-3 102-41 52 202-1 50 102-15 2-3 102-42 54-55 202-2 52 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-43 6, 54-55 GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 102-16 5-6 Management 102-44 54-55 Approach 8-38, 42 102-17 39-40 REPORTING PRACTICE 203-1 8-38 GOVERNANCE 102-45 4 203-2 8-38 102-18 Annual Report 102-46 58 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 102-19 6 Management 102-47 55 Approach 41-42 102-20 6 102-48 58 204-1 42 102-21 54-55 102-49 55 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 102-22 Annual Report Management 102-50 58 39-40, 42 Approach 102-23 Annual Report 102-51 58 205-1 39-40 102-24 Annual Report 102-52 58 205-2 40, 42 102-25 Annual Report 102-53 64 205-3 40, 42 102-26 5-6 102-54 56-57 102-27 5-6 59 No. Pages/Omissions No. Pages/Omissions No. Pages/Omissions GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES ASSESSMENT Management Management Management Approach 39 Approach 41, 45-46 Approach 25-34, 41, 45 206-1 39 308-1 45-46 413-1 25-34, 41, 45 GRI 302: ENERGY 308-2 41-42, 45-46 413-2 41 Management 43-46 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT Approach 302-1 Management Management 46-47 Approach 50-52 Approach 41-42 Currently we do not 401-1 52-53 414-1 41-42 have in place an ex302-2 ternal energy statistic system; we plan to 401-2 50-51 414-2 41-42 establish such a system GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND in the future 401-3 50, 52 SAFETY 302-3 46-47 GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT Management RELATIONS Approach 10-17, 32, 41, 45 302-4 44, 46-47 Management Approach 50-52 416-1 10-17, 32, 41, 45 302-5 44, 46-47 402-1 50-52 416-2 15, 17 GRI 305: EMISSIONS GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING Management Management Management Approach 43-46 Approach 48-50 Approach 41 305-1 46 404-1 53 417-1 41 305-2 46 404-2 48-49 417-2 41 305-3 46 404-3 48-50 417-3 41 305-4 46 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY OPPORTUNITY 305-5 46 Management Management Approach 50-52 Approach 13-17 ODS is not one of our 305-6 major emission sub405-1 52-53 418-1 13-14, 17 stances Our major emission 405-2 50 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 305-7 substances do not inManagement clude such emissions GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION Approach 15-17, 39-42 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Management Approach 50-52 419-1 15, 39-42 Management Approach 43-46 406-1 50-52 306-1 47 GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 306-2 45, 47 Management Approach 50, 52 No significant spills oc306-3 407-1 50, 52 curred during the year 306-4 45 306-5 44 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Management 43-46 Approach 307-1 43-46 60 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles No. Index Pages Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 13-17, 20, 25-34, Principle 1 rights 39, 41, 50, 53 13-17, 20, 25-34, Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 39, 41, 50, 53 Labor Standards Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 3 50, 52 collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 50 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 50 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 50 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 43-46 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 43-46 Report Disclosure Indexes Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 43-44 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 39-42 ISO 26000 Core Core Index Pages Index Pages Issues Issues Organizational Governance 4, 39 1. Anti-corruption 40 1. Due diligence 41 2. Responsible political involve— Fair ment 13-17, 20, 252. Human rights risk situations Operating 3. Fair competition 39 34, 39, 41, 50 Practices 4. Promoting social responsibility 3. Avoidance of complicity 39-40 41-42, 45-46 in the value chain 4. Resolving grievances 40, 50 5. Respect for property rights 37 Human 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 20, 25-34, 39, 1. Fair marketing, factual and Rights groups 50 unbiased information and fair 13-15, 41 13-17, 20, 25contractual practices 6. Civil and political rights 34, 39, 41, 50 2. Protecting consumers’ health 10-11, 15-17, 7. Economic, social and cultural 8-9, 20, 25and safety 32, 45 rights 34, 48-49, 53 8. Fundamental principles and 3. Sustainable consumption 44-45 48-52 Consumer rights at work Issues 4. Consumer service, support, and 13-17 1. Employment and employment compliant and dispute resolution 50, 52-53 relationships 5. Consumer data protection and 13-17 2. Conditions of work and social privacy 50-51 protection 6. Access to essential services 8-9, 15-17, 25 Labor Practices 3. Social dialogue 50-51, 54 7. Education and awareness 21, 27, 31-34 4. Health and safety at work 51-52 1. Community involvement 25-34 5. Human development and train48-50 ing in the workplace 2. Education and culture 25, 27, 31-32 1. Prevention of pollution 43-46 Communi3. Employment creation and skills 25-27, 53 2. Sustainable resource use 44-45 ty Involvedevelopment The ment and 4. Technology development and 21-22, 26-28, 3. Climate change mitigation and access 32 Environ43-46 Developadaptation 5. Wealth and income creation 42 ment ment 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of 43-46 6. Health 28, 30 natural habitats 7. Social investment 25-34 61 HKEx ESG Reporting Guide Subject Areas Indicators Pages A. Environmental A1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions data. 46-47 A1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per 46-47 unit of production volume, per facility). A1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per 47 unit of production volume, per facility). A1: Emissions A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. 47 per unit of production volume, per facility). A1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved. 43-47 A1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initia45, 47 tives and results achieved. A2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kWh 44, 46-47 in ’000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facili47 ty). A2: Use of A2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved. 43-47 Resources A2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water 44, 47 efficiency initiatives and results achieved. A2.5 Total packaging material used for finished products (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with 45, 47 reference to per unit produced. A3: The Environment and A3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and natural re43-46 Natural Resources and the actions taken to manage them. sources B.Social B1: EmployB1.1 Total workforce by gender, employment type, age group and geographical region. 52-53 ment B1.2 Employee turnover rate by gender, age group and geographical region. 53 B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. 53 Data not B2: Health and B2.2 Lost days due to work injury. collected Safety B2.3 Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, how they are imple51-52 mented and monitored B3: DevelB3.1 The percentage of employees trained by gender and employee category (e.g. senior man53 opment and agement, middle management). Training B3.2 The average training hours completed per employee by gender and employee category. 53 B4: Labor B4.1 Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labour. 50 Standards B4.2 Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. 50 B5: Supply B5.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region. 42 Chain ManageB5.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the ment 41-42 practices are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. B6.1 Percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and health rea41 sons. B6.2 Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with. 13-14, 17 B6: Product B6.3 Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights. 37, 42 Responsibility B6.4 Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. 41, 45 B6.5 Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented 15-17 and monitored. B7.1 Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer 40, 42 B7: Anti-coror its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases. ruption B7.2 Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, how they are imple39-40 mented and monitored. B8.1 Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labour needs, B8: Community 25-34 health, culture, sport). Investment B8.2 Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area. 25-34 62 China Mobile Limited 2018 Sustainability Report UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Our Practices Pages Promoting work in partner assistance and targeted poverty alleviation, introducing poverty-alleviation preferential tariff policies, undertaking poverty alleviation programs in indus25-27, Goal 1: No poverty try support, education improvement, healthcare, and other areas, and rallying all possible social forces to participate in poverty alleviation donations to help impoverished house30-32 holds gradually get out of poverty and lead a decent life. Providing information products and innovative solutions based on new technologies such as IoT, big data, and cloud computing to facilitate agricultural development, thereby helpGoal 2: Zero hunger 25-29 ing farmers increase their production and income and boosting local economic development. Providing free screening and treatment for impoverished children diagnosed with congenGoal 3: Good health ital heart disease, accelerating the deployment and upgrading of hospital information system in impoverished regions to realize the interconnection of medical resources; offering 30, 50-52 and well-being medical check-ups to all employees and promoting their physical and mental well-being by organizing activities such as the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Happiness 1+1. Conducting the Blue Dream Educational Aid Plan to provide training for rural primary and secondary school principals in central and western China, donating teaching facilities to Goal 4: Quality educaprimary and secondary schools in impoverished regions; encouraging employee volunteers 30-32, tion to participate in poverty alleviation education assistance activities, and improving school 48-49 education in impoverished regions by offering access to a richer selection of education and teaching resources. Goal 5: Gender equalProviding employees with equal employment and training opportunities and a fair work Report Disclosure Indexes environment; strengthening “four-period” rights protection for female employees and of48-51 ity fering them educational lectures on legal rights protection. Advocating water conservation and the recycling and reuse of rainwater and reclaimed Goal 6: Clean water water to reduce water use; all wastewater produced from company operations over the 44 and sanitation year was discharged into the sewage network, and there was no incident of significant impact due to water withdrawal within the Company. Goal 7: Affordable Continuously increasing the proportion of new energy use, piloting the zero-emissions “renewable energy vehicles”, advocating whole-lifecycle energy conservation and emission 44-46 and clean energy reduction in supply chain, and contributing to enhancing industry-wide green operations. Providing employees with a robust platform for career advancement and a well-designed Goal 8: Decent work vocational training system; encouraging employee engagement in mass entrepreneurship 18-20， and innovation activities, and fostering innovative talents; creating an openness and coand economic growth operation platform for partner businesses, and supporting the development of SMEs by 48-50 providing information solutions and premium services. Goal 9: Industry, innoImplementing the Telecommunication Universal Service Project to advance network infrastructure construction and information-driven development in rural areas; intensifying 5G 8-9, 19-25, vation and infrastructechnology R&D and comprehensively enhancing the construction of new types of infra32, 36-38 ture structure to boost the digital transformation and upgrading of industries. Goal 10: Reduced inContinuously expanding 4G coverage in administrative villages and minimizing urban-rural 25-29, digital divide; pushing society forward with the Company’s own development and sharing equalities the development achievements with all stakeholders. 48-52 Goal 11: Sustainable Developing and promoting information applications to contribute to an intelligent urban life, and serving national strategies for regional development; continuously expanding the 8-11, 21-23, cities and communiapplication scenarios for 5G technologies to facilitate intelligent city management and de30-33, 36-38 ties liver a more intelligent user experience. Strengthening customer privacy protection and preventing telecommunications frauds to Goal 12: Responsible ensure secure consumption; continuing to optimize the product and service quality evalu13-17, consumption and proation system to improve customer satisfaction; carrying out the Green Box Environmental duction Protection Campaign to recycle electronic waste such as scrap mobile phones and mobile 41-46 phone accessories so as to reduce environmental footprint. Conducting the Green Action Plan, and gradually improving the Environmental ManageGoal 13: Climate acment System to oversee all the environmental impacts of the Company; reinforcing R&D of energy conservation technologies and low-carbon applications, and hosting environmental 43-47 tion protection awareness campaigns to drive energy conservation and emission reduction in the wider society. Goal 14: Life below No relevant practice. — water Assessing local biodiversity before building a base station and taking measures to protect Goal 15: Life on land the local natural environment; no species was found significantly impacted by the Compa39, 44-45 ny’s operations. Goal 16: Peace, justice Promoting the Compliance Escort Plan, solidifying compliance management on all fronts, and gradually improving the four-in-one anti-corruption work system of “education, pre39-40 and strong institutions vention and control, punishment, and accountability”. Goal 17: Partnerships Actively participating in international initiatives and actions for sustainable development 18-19, and propelling the sound and sustainable development of industry ecosystem in collaborafor the goals tion with international telecom operators and relevant industry players. 30-32, 37 63 Feedback Dear readers, Thank you very much for taking the time to read China Mobile’s “2018 Sustainability Report”. In order to constantly improve the sustainability performance of China Mobile and the quality of our reporting, we shall very much appreciate your comments and suggestions. China Mobile Report Team March, 2019 Please rate the report on a scale of 1 to 5 (1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest) about the following aspects. 1. Your overall opinion on China Mobile Sustainability Report 2. Your opinion on whether this report reflects significant economic, social and environmental impacts of China Mobile 3. Your overall opinion on our communication with stakeholders 4. Your overall opinion on information disclosure in this report 5. Your overall opinion on the format and design of this report You are welcome to give more opinions and suggestions: Contact Information: Name: Company: Telephone: E-mail: You may send an email to China Mobile 2018 Sustainability Report Team at CR@chinamobile.com or fax the form to +86-10-52616167. We will take your comments seriously and promise not to disclose your information to any unauthorized third Scan the QR code to send your party. feedback.
