Explorative architecture that challenges and inpires A N N UA L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 1 W H I T E 2 018 Content ABOUT WH ITE S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N Architecture creates What’s old is new again 34 long-term values 3 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T Y 2018 in short 4 Diversity within the city 38 The world challenges 6 A home is a human right 44 Strong, independent E C O LO G I CA L D I V E R S I T Y and diverse 8 Nature enriches Sustainability, our driver urban life 46 and guide 12 H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G Three strategies for success 16 Architecture that Ethics, democracy and makes us feel good 50 risk management 18 E F F O R T S B R I N G I N G R E S U LT S Influence and Architecture satisfaction bring success 20 across borders 52 An engaging and Awards and achievements 54 exploratory culture 24 Our actions C L I M AT E ACT I O N impact the world 56 The climate can’t wait 26 High energy The attraction of wood 30 despite slowdown 61 The Sustainability Report consists of the White Group and its subsidiaries, except subsidiaries Koggensgrand AB, White Tengbom Team (50 percent ownership) or dormant companies. If indicators, metrics or routines do not match this demarcation, it has been noted. The report is based on the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, which means that it contains information on sustainability needed for understanding the company’s development, position, results, and consequences of the operations. The report includes information on the environment, social conditions, labour, respect for human rights, and anti-corruption. The report relates to the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2018. The report refers to our commitment under the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. It also constitutes our annual report on Communication on Progress and will be published on the UN Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.com. The report is also published on the White website, www.whitearkitekter.com. Images: Måns Berg, Anders Bobert, Stephan Bozic, Peter Brinch, Ivan Brodey, Bert Leandersson, Luxigon, Ken Pils, Studio E, Thomas Zaar, White view and White arkitekter. Contact: Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability, anna.graaf@white.se. © 2019 / White Arkitekter 2 ABOUT WHITE Architecture creates long-term values To us, architecture is about creating long-term values. Buildings for various functions, parks where nature can flourish and beautiful environments where people feel good strengthen the identity of a city. With architecture as our tool, we can contribute to sustainable societies and a living planet. Our strategy is to explore, challenge and inspire with evocative architecture. The built environment constitutes the we can create something new, regardless framework where human life can prosper. if it is an interior design concept or an This became especially clear when urban development project. White’s largest commission to date Our strong position in sustainable was inaugurated in May 2018: the New architecture and urban planning is Karolinska Solna project, Stockholm. Over essential for our continued progress one hundred of our co-workers have been internationally. We have expanded our involved in this project over the last 15 studios in Oslo and London and been years. The result is a setting for care, healawarded some very prestigious commising, and research, that affect thousands of sions: Moorfields Eye Hospital and the people every day. residential development Gasciogne East 2018 brought about an economic in London; the new psychiatric clinic in slowdown, which resulted in a lower Nuuk on Greenland; and the Nobel peace financial outcome. Despite this, we prize laureate Denis Mukwege’s women’s sustained our investments in R&D, hospital in DR Kongo. sustainability and digitalisation. 2019 has started off as a somewhat We are convinced that our focus on financially challenging year, but sustainpractice-based research enable us to ability will need to be a top priority for remain a cutting-edge player within our businesses in the coming years; it will be field. Many of our projects start with an crucial to stand up for quality, sustainability idea that needs to be further explored; and our values even in the face of market White Research Lab supports a wide change. We are dedicated to continuing range of studies, from digital design, high our work towards a more sustainable future, rise timber constructions, eco-system based on Agenda 2030 and our commitservices to design for daylight and health. ment to the principles of Global Compact. However, development requires that We hope that we, through this report, we dare to challenge ourselves. Our will inspire you to take on new challenges efforts in steering our projects towards for a more sustainable future! zero carbon is progressing and we are thrilled over our engagement in the Swedish building industry’s plan for Alexandra Hagen, CEO a fossil free building sector by 2045. One key issue is a shift towards a more circular economy. By re-using the existing, Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability 3 2018 in short 871 000 000 SE K projects aiming for zero carbon total revenue 842 Percentage of women on the Board 45 55 64% Ratio of Employees, of which male to female 96 are newly employed 15 % 84 % of projects of our stakeholders CONSIDER WHITE TO BE A DRIVING have wood structure F O R C E F O R A S U S TA I N A B L E S O C I E T Y. around t s 49 Lap globe he 14 7) 201 IN train S In 2018, P LA by (42 we worked in different countries Canada, Denmark (incl. Greenland), DR Congo, Finland, Iceland, Italy, Kenya, The Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Austria, Germany, UK and Sweden 1,77 88 % tonnes of CO²e/annual employee of our travels are by train (1, 5 4 T O N N E S I N 2 017 ) W I T H I N S W E D E N ( 8 4 % I N 2 017 ) Percentage of environmentally certified 35 000 000 SE K projects 44% (41% F O R 2 017 ) allocated to research & development W H I T E 2 018 The world challenges The world around us creates the prerequisites and rules and, without a pre-warning, changes them. Changes in our society, innovations and increased environmental impact trigger our business into constantly developing in order to adapt to new challenges. It takes perceptiveness, insight and courage to change and plenty of new opportunities can result through challenges. F R O M T H R E AT T O A C T I O N THE NEW CIRCUL AR ECONOMY Climate change is devastating and To limit climate change and retain our actions over the next few years resources, a circular economy are crucial to avoid a full-scale needs to be the new ideology. disaster. Greta Thunberg, a 16-year There exists an enormous potential old Swede, has become the global for using existing resources better, voice for youth who are tired of and for increasing cross-industry empty words and demand action. cooperation which can generate To achieve Agenda 2030 and the great business opportunities. Paris Agreement, massive efforts Sharingand rental services are are required. Real estate investors rapidly developing and there is an have indicated climate change as almost untapped resource in the a significant financial risk that will form of massive amounts of reusable hold consequences for where and waste. Buildings can be viewed how we build in the future. In 2018 as libraries for materials, filled with the Swedish building industry took valuable resources. Methods for an important step towards change design and construction will be by signing an action plan for a fossil affected and developed, creating free building sector by the year 2045; opportunities for new services. however, actionable measures are necessary already today. 6 EM A T E M P O R A R Y, K A P I TO UB L RW HR I TI K E CIRCULAR BUILDING With its strong, clear design, our winning proposal for Archasms competition for a non-permanent pavilion in Amboseli, Kenya’s national park is temporary in more than one sense. The pavilion consists of three circular walls, made of compressed soil from its surroundings. Sun and wind will cause the walls to erode over time, eventually bringing the material back to where it once belonged. Project: Amboseli National Park, Kenya A MARKET SLOWDOWN T H E R E A L I T Y I S D I G I TA L A SOCIETY IN CHANGE The architecture industry in Sweden The constant evolvement of digiPolitical, financial and social gaps has seen many good years, but talisation causes various conditions are increasing within, as well as the growth is now slowing down. and outcomes. The rapid growth in between, countries. The enormous The uncertainty of the market has on-line businesses and autonomous financial inequalities and polarisation resulted in a halt in residential mobility solutions are changing our are a threat to the global economy, building, despite 242 out of the 290 cities. New digital design tools are to open borders and eventually to municipalities in Sweden suffering enabling more complex construcdemocracy. Cities are predicted to from a housing shortage. This decline tions and better sustainability have a more important role when it is, however, outweighed by increased solutions. These digital tools may comes to strengthening human rights investments in infrastructure, offices also serve to involve citizens in planand by taking the lead in actions for and urban development projects. ning. The endless amounts of data the climate. The population in cities At the same time, there is a rising that may be used for planning can will increase drastically, which gives number of players offering architechowever pose a threat to personal a chance to share facilities; but it tureand design services, which has integrity. Development is ultra-fast, also demands many more resources, resulted in increased competition. unpredictable and unstoppable, such as housing, food and water. therefore it is important to be able to It is necessary that development change and adapt quickly. is limited within the planetary boundaries. 7 W H I T E 2 018 Strong, independent and diverse A strong social commitment and care for humanity has characterised our corporate culture since White was founded in 1951 in Gothenburg, Sweden. Our co-ownership business model allows us to invest long-term in what we really believe in. As a modern collective, many different competencies are working together to create emotive architecture which inspires people. ONE OF THE LARGEST what investments we want to make, what Today, White is one of Europe’s largest percentage of profits to reinvest in the architectural practices with 13 offices company and how much is paid out to in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the shareholders. United Kingdom. Our work encompasses both public and private sectors with STRENGTH IN DIVERSITY projects ranging from housing, offices, Our goal is to be the leading, sustainable hospitals and schools to commissions and innovative Scandinavian architecture within urban planning, landscape design, practice on the international market. interior design, project management and Archi­tecture is about design – form sustainability. On the Scandinavian market, and function – and even more so today “ there is a relatively even distribution about creating sustainable societies between different market sectors with and contributing to an improved, more a diverse client base. In 2018, our sustainable, world. To meet today’s operations abroad gained momentum in societal challenges, we are convinced 14 countries, from Canada in the north and stretching as far south as Kenya. that we need to be a diverse group. Over the years, we have built up our collective We create of individuals contributing from numerous architecture CO -OWNERSHIP White is a company owned by its disciplines and different experiences. Architects and engineers work together with people employees, thus we view ourselves as with social anthropologists, environmental in focus, a large and cohesive modern collective: out of 842 employees, there are 650 specialists, project managers, lighting designers, energy experts, economists inspiring a shareholders, including 125 partners. and product developers. We see this not sustainable Our business model allows us to conduct the practice with a long-term perspective, only as a competitive advantage, but also a prerequisite for maintaining our strong way of life. affording us the power to determine position in the market. WHITE’S VISION 8 OM WHITE Katsan, White's office in Stockholm 9 W H I T E 2 018 T H E T E N P R I N C I P L E S O F T H E U N G L O B A L C O M PAC T HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 P R I N C I P L E 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold the Businesses should support Businesses should work against and respect the protection of freedom of association and the a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, incluinternationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right environmental challenges; ding extortion and bribery. rights; and to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 undertake initiatives to promote make sure that they are not comthe elimination of all forms of greater environmental responsiplicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; bility; and PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 9 the effective abolition of child encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. S T R O N G VA L U E S WHITEWORK Since its inception, White has had a strong All our procedures and tools for both sense of responsibility and commitment our operations and assignments are to society. Responsibility, respect and documented in our digital business an ethical, democratic ethos are the core system, WhiteWork, which is certified values ​​permeating the company. according to EN-ISO 9001 and White’s Code of Conduct for Corpo­ EN-ISO 14001. rate Sustainability is our guide for how we “ as a company, along with our employees, take responsibility. The Code also helps us determine what expectations we have on ourselves and our partners. It is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, White should explore, take environment and anti-corruption, as well responsibility, contribute to as our three policies: White Employee Policy, White Quality Policy and White participation and act respectfully. Sustainability Policy. F R O M W H I T E ´S O W N E R D I R E C T I V E 10 OM WHITE Whitedagen 2018, White's annual company event, was held at Folkets Hus, Stockholm 11 W H I T E 2 018 Sustainability, our driver and guide There is no other development than a sustainable one. For us, sustainability is a driving force for change, both for the architecture we create and for our business. Sustainability creates long-term values for ​​ our customers, for us, for society and for the planet. GLOBAL CHALLENGES G LOBAL GOAL S IN ALL PROJ EC TS BECOME LOCAL ONES White is involved in community developClimate change, reduced resources and ment at different scales. Thus, most of increased inequality are just a few of the the Sustainable Development Goals are enormous global changes the world faces. relevant in every project to a greater or Sustainability has long been a point of lesser extent, directly or indirectly. departure for White’s architecture and We have defined eight of the Global we are convinced that we can contribute Goals particularly pertinent to our work; daily to a better society. The UN Climate through our assignments or through Agreement, the Sustainable Development the firm’s activities, we can push them Goals and our commitment to the UN forward every day. Global Compact are the starting point for our business goals, strategic initiatives S U S TA I N A B L E U N D E R TA K I N G S “ and prioritised sustainability issues. As every project is unique, the aim is to always commence our work with a S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y F O R U S sustainability analysis in accordance with We have defined sustainable architecture our Model for Sustainable Architecture. and development as the following: The goal is to create buildings and An assessment is based on the following: Global Goals, project-specific conditions White inspire environments with people in focus, which and targets, regulations, national or local with emotive support health and social wellbeing. A prerequisite is that we do not further environmental goals, client requirements and White’s own level of ambition. architecture, and develop society at the expense of the We have the will and the way to drive sustainability earth’s resources, nature and climate. Through economic means, investsustainability issues forward every day, but to make a significant difference, is a driver for ments and conscious choices, society we are dependent on the work we do creativity in all can bring about necessary change. Only when social, ecological and economic together. By performing an early-stage analysis with the client and other our projects. values harmonise, can we realistically stakeholders, we can create a common FROM OUR discuss sustainable development. project strategy and target. ­ S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y P O L I C Y 12 ABOUT WHITE S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S F O R W H I T E GOAL OU R AC TIONS HÅLLBAR ENERGI C L I M AT E A C T I O N Our goal for 2019 is to create 30 zero carbon projects. FÖR ALLA Take action to combat climate change and its impact. We focus on climate calculations, energy efficient Create energy efficient buildings and increase the use buildings and increasing the use of PV. We develop of renewable energy. Ensure implementation of climate services and competence for climate adaptation, BEKÄMPA KLIMATaction and adaptation in the planning and increase the ecosystem services, and energyand climate FÖRÄNDRINGARNA capacity for recovery. calculations. Read more on page 26. In our operations, we will reduce the climate impact by at least 30 % (compared to 2014) by the end of 2019. Our offices use only renewable electricity. Read more on page 56. HÅLLBAR S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N Promote and develop concepts for circular architecture. KONSUMTION OCH PRODUKTION Contribute to efficient use of natural resources, reduce We are well advanced, having expertise on reuse in emissions of pollutants and waste to air, water and soil. interior design projects and are driving the development Reduce waste by preventing, reducing, reusing and of architecture. Read more on page 34. recycling materials. JÄMSTÄLLDHET S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T I E S Consideration of human needs forms the basis of our Create inclusive and equitable societies, with safe work. Continually develop new ways to involve people in environments, housing for all and safe, sustainable planning and drive norm-creative and equitable planning. means of transportation. Create access to green areas Explore new types of accommodations and implement and public space, especially for women, children, ecosystem services in urban planning. Social impact HÅLLBARA STÄDER OCH SAMHÄLLEN elderly and disabled. Promote social and environmental analysis and strategic development plans comprise our connections between urban districts and rural areas. offer. Read more on page 38. Act toward a participatory-based planning. ECOLOGICAL DIVERSIT Y Always take inventory in existing values and implement Strengthen the values of ecosystems and biological ecosystem services in planning. Elucidate benefits of diversity in planning. ecosystem services based on health, climate, environment and social aspects. Read more on page 46. GOD HÄLSA OCH H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G Extensive research in healthcare architecture. International VÄLBEFINNANDE Ensure healthy lifestyles, access to healthcare and projects that strengthen and improve access to healthcare. promote wellbeing for all ages. Design of environments that stimulate health and wellbeing. Read more on page 50. I N N O VAT I O N A N D C O M M I T M E N T White Research Lab runs research and development, in The global goals can only be met by working together. collaboration with both academia and industry. We support Strengthen partnership to exchange knowledge, experinternational research collaborations, commitments and tise, technology and financial resources to contribute projects, e.g. in Kenya and DR Congo among others. Read to a sustainable development in all countries. more on pages 24 and 52. 13 W H I T E 2 018 MATERIALS, CLIMATE HAZARDOUS ADAPTATION SUBSTANCES & WASTE HEALTH & ECOSYSTEMS WELLBEING & WATER MODEL FOR SUSTAINABLE ARCHITECTURE ENERGY EQUITY & CLIMATE & PARTICIPATION LONG-TERM ECONOMY White’s analysis model for sustainable architecture. © White Arkitekter “ By weighing investments against longcharacteristics which distinguish us from term social and ecological values and ​​ our competitors are our years of branch profits, we not only achieve a sustainexperience, breadth of competencies able project but a sustainable business (which include specialists in the field of – for our clients, for us, for society and for sustainability) and ability to manage a In 65 % of our the planet. project all through the different phases of commissions, the design process. We also conducted S TA K E H O L D E R S a sustainability survey amongst our social wellbeing By understanding and considering our base of more sizeable clients, to get an is a prioritised stakeholders’ interests and opinions, we indication of what aspects are the most can enhance our own development and important to focus on and develop. aspect. take responsibility within our sphere of influence. Our stakeholders are endE N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T users, developers, real estate owners, Our commissions give rise to the comconsultants, contractors, municipalipany’s greatest environmental impact. ties, local communities, organisations, Because of this, we monitor energy academia, media and our employees. performance, certifications and the most Our potential for improvement and significant sustainability issues annually stakeholder opinion is captured via postin the work we do. In 2018, 55 % had project follow-ups, customer surveys, better energy targets than the Swedish performance reviews and employee building regulation and 44 % of our surveys. Through social media, reaching projects were performed according our stakeholders for quick feedback is to some certification system; the most relatively easy. common certification is the Swedish In 2018, we conducted a brand survey “Miljöbyggnad”, followed by the Swan and and the results demonstrate that the then BREEAM and LEED. 14 ABOUT WHITE C L I E N T S U R V E Y, S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Sustainability aspects prioritised Sustainability aspects that our Development areas for White, by our clients in projects clients consider most important according to clients for White Energy efficiency Actively influence the industry for a Demonstrate how White takes social sustainable development responsibility Indoor climate – air, sound, temperature Reduce and present our own climate impact Reuse building materials at a larger scale Sound materials (healthand environmental aspects) Environmental and social requirements on Secure high quality and performance suppliers/subconsultants Daylight Increased sustainability knowledge for Offer environmental specialist expertise architects Social wellbeing Show profitability in sustainability investments T H E M O S T C O M M O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I S S U E S I N O U R P R O J E C T S D U R I N G 2 018 Social wellbeing (meeting places, Energy efficiency activities, safety) Sustainable lifestyle Attractive outdoor environments Involvement and participation Daylight Climate impact Sound materials (healthand Ecosystem services environmental aspects) Reuse and recycling of materials Indoor climate P E R C E N TA G E O F P R O J E C T S D E S I G N E D A C C O R D I N G T O C E R T I F I C AT I O N S Y S T E M S 2 015 – 2 018 No certification system Certification system 100 % 53 % 64 % 59 % 56 % The most common certification systems are the Swedish Miljöbyggnad (70 %) and the Swan (13 %), followed by LEED (6 %) 47 % 36 % 41 % 44 % and BREEAM (5 %). Other certifications 0% include WELL and Cequal. 2015 2016 2017 2018 15 W H I T E 2 018 Three strategies for success Our aim is to be the leading sustainable and innovative Scandinavian architecture practice on the international market. Our investments are based on three strategies that will lead us and our customers to successful results. Our current Strategic Business Plan E XPLORE extends from 2017 to 2019 and is We explore through practice-based research based on three strategies, with 12 and knowledge exchange in our projects. goals. Follow-up of some of these are presented in the table below. The followCHALLENGE ing pages demonstrate how both our We challenge with new perspectives, business operations and projects have leading our clients into new sustainable contributed to achieving the goals and solutions. the advancements we have we made in the past year. INSPIRE We inspire with an evocative architecture The three business strategies are: based on each unique context. 16 ABOUT WHITE FOLLOW U P OF B US I N E S S G OAL S OVE R ALL GOAL S INTE R IM GOAL S U N T I L 2 019 U N D E R 2 018 R E S U LT 2 018 S TAT U S RESEARCH The majority of our research is 33 internal R&D projects AND incorporated into our projects 23 with external cofinancing, DEVELOPMENT and is strengthened through including ARQ. See page 24. external collaborations. Our research is available and Increase dissemination 14 internationel conferences spreads externally through seminars, website, conferences. E M P L OY E E S Our employees have 1,5 % mentors and 1,5 % Objective achieved. See page 20. undergone White's mentoring mentees. program, 5 % as mentors and 5 % as mentees. We have further developed Develop E-learning and film. E-learning has begun. new methods for sharing Seminars are filmed and shared knowledge internally. on the internet. ENVIRONMENT We have participated in 30 Minimum 15 projects since 2 built projects and 7 in progress. A N D C L I M AT E zero carbon projects. 2017. Internal education completed. See pages 26 and 56. Education with a focus on Seminars for external zero carbon buildings. stakeholders. Drive the Swedish definition Leading a taskforce for a new of net zero buildings. certification system for ZeroCO2 (Sweden Green Building Council). We have reduced carbon Climate compensation for all A total of 54 % lower CO2e per dioxide emissions for energy, carbon dioxide emissions. annual employee compared with travel, purchases and waste 2014. by an average of 30 % for each All emissions are climate comcategory compared with 2014. pensated. MARKET AND We win 10 important Win 10 competitions. Won 12 competitions. ECONOMY competitions a year. See page 54. New business models Develop models for circular Several projects with reuse. contribute 5 % to our turnover. material flows. Started a collaborative product Develop at least one product development. from recycled material. Research project Would Wood. Concept for a “Sustainability Business Agreement” Objective has been achieved. Objective is not yet reached. 17 W H I T E 2 018 Ethics, democracy and risk management We live in a time that places ever higher demands on ethics, democracy and risk management. Our Code of Conduct supports us in minimising risks in daily operations and simultaneously establishes core values that enable us to influence the world around us. “ ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION RISK ASSESSMENT Our Code of Conduct for Sustainable The company’s comprehensive risk Business works as a guide for how analysis is reviewed annually. Primary we act and take responsibility – as risks identified are those associated with individual employees and the company our employees, economic development White takes in its entirety.It also serves to define and assignments. Therefore, we perform limited and what expectations we have on ourselves continuous follow-ups of, for example, and our partners in relation to the Ethical employee health, economical ratios and controlled Rules of the Swedish Construction assignment results. economic and Sector, the ethical standards stipulated Risk assessment, regarding sustainby Sweden’s union for architects, ability and prevention of risk exposure, are operational Architects Sweden. Fun­damental to presented in the table on page 19. risks. these ethical guidelines, we oppose A risk analysis for assignments is all forms of corruption, strive for carried out in conjunction with tender and FROM WHITE’S competition on equal terms, promote contract and is an overall assessment RISK POLICY social responsibility and ensure that as to whether the assignment aligns slavery and human trafficking is not with our business goals, Code of taking place in our supply chains or in Conduct, sustainability objectives, and any part of our business in the value financial conditions. For assignments chain. outside Sweden, Norway and Denmark, To ensure that the partners we a country risk analysis is always collaborate with act in accordance with performed, based on the aspects of our values, we have a Code of Conduct democracy, human rights, corruption for Clients and Suppliers. When signing and business risks associated with the a contract, the partner must certify that specific country. The analysis is based they have read the Code of Conduct on evaluations conducted by Freedom and understood its contents. Up to House, EKN Export Credit Board SE and now, follow-up takes place through Transparency International. interviews with our major suppliers or According to our assessment, there is random checks with various partners and a low risk that our business will contribute collaborators, but an evaluating tool is to a direct negative impact from a sustainunder development. ability perspective. The best opportunity Deviations from the Code of Conduct for us to prevent negative sustainability can be reported to the Director of risks, is through our projects. Therefore, Sustainability or Director of Human a sustainability analysis must always Resources. During the past year, we be carried out to identify possible risks have not identified any deviations or been and prioritised sustainability issues. See involved in any form of corruption. model on page 14. 18 OM WHITE Water tower “Våga” in Varberg, Sweden. Competition win 2018. R I S K A N A LYS I S RISK ASPECT CONSEQUENCE RISK ASSESSMENT INFRINGEMENT ON HUMAN RIGHTS We should not cause, contribute to or be Harm to brand and diminished trust. Code of Conduct and ethical guidelines. connected to infringement on human rights. Reduced competitiveness. Code of Conduct for clients and suppliers. Financial and legal consequences. Country risk analysis. S U P P LY C H A I N R I S K S Our suppliers and business partners Harm to brand and diminished trust. Tender-, projectand sustainability analysis. should not cause or contribute to Reduced competitiveness. Code of Conduct for clients and suppliers. infringement of human rights or negative Financial and legal consequences. environmental impact. E Q U A L T R E AT M E N T Everyone within the company, as well as Harm to brand and diminished trust. Code of Conduct. our business partners, should be treated Reduced competitiveness. Code of Conduct for clients and suppliers. equally and with respect. Financial and legal consequences. Employee Policy. Negative health impact. Plan for Equal Rights and Opportunities. SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE To have the best employees is crucial Harm to brand and diminished trust. White Research Lab. for the development of the company. Reduced competitiveness. White Academy and Mentor Program. Preventing errors and deficiencies. Financial and legal consequences. Performance Review and Survey. STRESS AND ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS Our work environment shall prevent stress Harm to brand and diminished trust. Company healthcare service. and absence due to illness. Employees Reduced competitiveness. Staff foundation. should experience a balance between work Financial consequences. Leadership training. and leisure. Negative health impact. Performance Review and Survey. C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T We should actively work on preventing Harm to brand and diminished trust. Environmental criteria for travels and negative environmental impact, both within Financial and legal consequences. purchases. our company and in our projects. Negative environmental impact. Evaluation of suppliers. Sustainability analysis in projects. White Academy. White Research Lab. Environmental specialist expertise. 19 W H I T E 2 018 Influence and satisfaction bring success An attractive employer is often a successful one. At White, the employees’ knowledge, commitment and job satisfaction are the company’s most important asset, therefore, we work actively to offer both professional and personal development. It is a simple equation: when the individual thrives and feels good, the company does as well. STRONGER TOGETHER A S T R O N G C U LT U R E White is a company owned by its employCompany culture and values go hand in ees, which makes it unique. 77 % of all hand. New employees are invited to attend employees are co-owners: becoming an intro-day for an opportunity to network a co-owner is possible after the first with other new colleagues and to learn more year of employment. We are convinced about White. “Whitedagen” is our yearly that our collective ownership creates a 24-hour event for all employees to attend. sense of responsibility and empowerment On this day, our company’s annual general which has been crucial in developing our meeting is followed by a day of inspiring practice and is an important reason for talks, workshops and a fun-filled evening. the company’s many years of success. An important part of both personal and professional development is our annual DIVERSITY Study Tours. In 2018, we travelled in “ Diversity is a strength and we cherish groups to either Switzerland, Austria, the employees with different skills as well as Netherlands, England, Italy, Portugal or ethnic backgrounds. To create sustainFinland. This is a possibility to be inspired able architecture, we are convinced that and educated through architecture and working in multidisciplinary teams, is the culture, while sharing experiences with way to success. At White, architects and colleagues from other offices. Our ambition engineers, work together with environshall be to attract mental specialists, social anthropologists and economists, and we endeavour to be PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT and develop the an equal workplace, free from all forms of Good benefits and influence over one’s best employees discrimination. This is consolidated in our work situation are securities provided to Plan of Equal Rights and Opportunities, each employee. We follow the industry’s in the industry. which complies with current legislation collective agreement and have local union FROM WHITE’S and our Employee Policy. representatives. E M P L OY E E P O L I C Y 20 OM WHITE 21 W H I T E 2 018 G E N D E R E Q U A L I T Y 2 018 E M P L OY E E S M ANAG E M E NT BOAR D OF D I R EC TORS 55 % 45 50 % 50 64 % 36 women men Number of employees: 842 Senior management: 10 persons Board of Directors: 11 persons “ Managers conduct annual employee WH ITE ACAD E MY performance evaluations for setting goals The aim is for every employee to be able for education or personal development. to evolve, based on his / her potential Every two years, an employee survey is for professional and personal developcarried out, focusing on equality, work ment. Within White Academy, we have 50 % of environment, development opportunian extensive range of internal training all senior ties, leadership and company culture. It programs comprising mandatory further results in action plans for each office with education as well as elective courses of management reporting to management and the Board. varying lengths. One of the most popular positions The health of our employees is, educational programs offered is White’s naturally, extremely important. We work Sustainability School, as well as more are held by continuously to counteract stress and in-depth courses on subjects like zerowomen. to provide an environment and culture carbon buildings and wood construction. where employees can establish a healthy To strengthen the knowledge balance between work and leisure. exchange between younger and more Results of these efforts demonstrate experienced employees, we established that sick leave related to stress has a mentoring program that extends decreased during 2018. over 18 months. The goal is for 5 % of Through White’s Staff Foundation, the employees to have carried out this all employees are eligible for grants for between 2017–2019. In 2018, we had personal development which can be 30 mentors and adepts, corresponding utilised for training, courses or other to 1.5 % of the employees. activities. Employees are also offered Additionally, we have extensive access to health consultations and research and educational activities via primary care services. the White Research Lab. See page 24. 22 OM WHITE 23 W H I T E 2 018 An engaging and exploratory culture An exploratory culture has long been an integral and important part of the company’s success. Engaged employees who want to test new ideas are a strength that contributes to the company’s development. In 2018, we invested 35 million SEK in development and exploring new avenues with external partners. WHITE RESEARCH LAB LE ARNING FROM ONE ANOTHER White Research Lab (WRL) is our Our 15 internal networks in different R&D organisation. For us, it is obvious areas of expertise are an important part to support the evolution of knowledge of the dissemination of knowledge and within architecture and urban planning, the exploratory culture. Through them, as it affects people’s everyday life and the there is the opportunity to exchange betterment of society. Through WRL, all experiences and knowledge between employees can partake in the development both employees and the world around of cutting-edge knowledge and share their us. We organise internal network days as expertise through networking. It can take well as external seminars for clients and the form of anything from testing an idea in other collaborative partnerships. a project to being part of major European During 2018, we also participated at research collaborations. 14 international conferences where we shared our competence and research FROM IDE A TO BUSINESS on daylight, digital design, zero carbon The aim of our research is to share it and buildings, wood construction and put it into practice. Our advantage is that healthcare architecture. we can harness and apply new knowledge We also published 3 research directly into our assignments. In this way, publications and a well-received book our R&D efforts become an important part about White 1951–2018. Not only of our business development and a prereq­ does the book detail the company’s uisite for contributing with qualitative archi­ almost 70 years in existence, but it tecture that supports society’s challenges. also is a well-documented timeline On the following pages, we demonstrate paralleling architecture with the how our investments contribute to positive develop­ment of the Swedish society development for us as well as society. during this period. 24 A V I R T U A L PAV I L I O N OM WHITE During the summer of 2018, we presented our proposal for the new Halland Art Museum in the form of booth a threedimensional and a virtual model using Augmented Reality. The exhibition was held in Norre Katts Park in Halmstad and the physical pavilion was a structure reused from a previous year’s exhibition. The pavilion demonstrates how temporary architecture, in a simple way, can create meeting places for involvement and dialogue during the typical process of urban development. White Research Lab has supported the digital tools and AR as part of the exhibition. Project: Hallands Art Museum Client: Halmstad, Sweden 25 W H I T E 2 018 The climate can’t wait The IPCC states that we must immediately change course to be able to slow down global warming. The consumption and use of the earth’s resources must be drastically reduced to fall within the framework of what both the planet and humanity can withstand. It is a challenge not only for us but for the entire industry. We want to be the trailblazers. ZERO CARBON BUILDINGS FIVE STEPS TO REDUCE Buildings and construction account C L I M AT E I M PA C T: for nearly 40 % of the global CO2 1. Plan for a sustainable lifestyle. emissions*, related to energy for build2. Preserve what already exists and can ings, manufacturing of materials and be reused. transports. The same figure for Sweden 3. Reduce the need for energy and is 21 %, but if emissions from imported materials. building materials are included, the figure 4. Reduce the climate impact of materials. is similar**. Furthermore, urban planning 5. Use renewable energy. also has a significant impact in reducing carbon emissions, as it can influence the C L I M AT E I N I T I AT I V E conditions for implementing sustainable White has a continued engagement in mobility, waste management and renewthe government’s initiative Fossil-free able energy. Sweden. Another important commitment As architects, we are involved early in during 2018 has been our involvement in the design process, so we have an importhe Roadmap for a zero carbon building tant role and opportunity to drive change: and construction sector until 2045 from planning and design to creating (Färdplan för klimatneutral byggsektor till conditions for a sustainable lifestyle. 2045), which is an important statement “ Our goal is to create 30 net zero for moving the industry forward. White carbon projects by 2019, including has also been developing Sweden emissions from energy and materials. It Green Building Council’s work on a is a lofty challenge, but currently we have new certification system for buildings: several projects that are moving in the “NollCO2” (Zero CO2). By 2019, we will right direction to meet this goal. We have built-up a top-level expertise, developed have initiated 30 calculation tools and completed training net zero carbon courses, and we notice that our clients are slowly defining goals in alignment * Global Footprint Network ** Swedish National Board of Housing, projects. with ours. Building and Planning WHITE ’S BUSINE S S GOAL 26 C L I M AT E A C T I O N F R O M B A R N T O C L I M AT E P O S I T I V E H O T E L Ekoladan, the “eco-barn” is a unique solar energy and a biological water soil. This makes the dwelling climate project. A 100-year-old barn has been purification system. Heating comes positive (equally carbon negative). transformed into a climate positive, from a pyrolysis process where wood The hotel’s surroundings flourish with ecological hotel and retreat with its chips are used to produce heat and diverse gardens featuring meadows, own farm and vegetable production. biochar. The carbon dioxide absorbed insect hotels and butterfly restaurants. During the refurbishment, wood from by the trees will remain in the biochar Project: Ekoladan, Lindeborgs Eco their own forest was used. The buildwhich then becomes a carbon storage Retreat, Nyköping, Sweden ing is supported by natural ventilation, integrated into the farm’s organic Client: Carl and Julia Lindeborg WHITE RESE ARCH L AB – BE-SMART BE-SMART is a European project developing a new type of building-integrated solar cells (BIPV), consisting of energy positive glass panels. They will have a high design quality and be significantly less expensive than those currently available on the market. The advantage is that the BIPV’s can replace standard construction materials. The panels will contribute to an increased use of renewable energy and support the shift towards nearly zero energy buildings. Funding from Horizon 2020. Project led by Centre Suisse d’Electronique et de Microtechnique. Project due to conclude in 2022. 27 W H I T E 2 018 L O W C L I M AT E I M PA C T The Climate Innovation District is the annual need of electricity for the UK’s largest development in wood site. Residents will be able to control construction. Residents living here and monitor their energy consumpwill significantly reduce their climate tion via an app. An estimation by impact. In the first phase, White has the developer is that each wood designed 68 residential units out of house will store 23 tonnes of CO2 the 314 homes being constructed and generate 88 tonnes less of CO2 in the whole area. The houses emissions than an equivalent house meet passive house standards and built with concrete. feature MVHR systems, green roofs, Project: Climate Innovation District, rainwater reuse and solar energy. Leeds, UK The PV-system is jointly owned by Client: CITU residents and is expected to generate Completion for the entire district: 2022 “ Each wood house will generate 88 tonnes less of CO2 emissions than an equivalent house built with concrete. C I T U A B O U T C L I M AT E I N N O V AT I O N D I S T R I C T 28 C L I M AT E A C T I O N A VISION OF ZERO THE FIRST “ZERO CO2” BUILDING CARBON EMISSONS Citadellsfogen will be Sweden’s first small, compact homes and collective Magasin X and its 13,500 square residential buildings to be assessed housing, as well as a car pool, workmetres will be Sweden’s largest in compliance with Sweden Green shop, a party room, laundry facilities office building in wood. The goal is to Building Council’s new certification and areas for growing vegetables. achieve nearly zero carbon emissystem NollCO2 (ZeroCO2). The sions in terms of energy, materials goal is net zero emissions of greenProject: Citadellsfogen, Malmö, Sweden and construction. Various wood house gases during the buildings’ Client: Wästbygg construction methods have been lifecycles. The two blocks will offer Completion: 2021 carefully examined and optimised. The wood structural frame is visible on the interior as well as the exterior. Achieving good levels of daylight is prioritised. The façade consists of glass and slate (with a low carbon footprint). PVs will be located on the roof, as well as integrated into the façade and in rotatable thin panels that also offer sun shading. A sedum roof will help to retain rainwater. The possibility for hydrogen storage and fuel cells will be investigated, as well as energy storage in the ground. The goal is to achieve LEED Platinum. Project: Magasin X, Uppsala, Sweden Client: Vasakronan Completion: 2022 29 W H I T E 2 018 The attraction of wood Wood is the most ingenious material in the world. We consider it a key material for the transition to zero carbon developments. It is the only renewable building material, has low climate impact and the ability to capture carbon dioxide. Modern building techniques also make it possible to build high-rises. Foremost, wood is simply beautiful. A U N I Q U E M AT E R I A L AT T R A C T I V E E N V I R O N M E N T S In Scandinavia, the supply of wood is Wood also contributes to attractive and extensive and with a combination of high healthy indoor environments. Studies strength and low weight, wood is a truly show that people feel better and unique material. experience less stress when exposed Wood construction in Sweden is on to wood in their surroundings*. This the increase and in 2018 it accounted for is a strong argument for exposing 13.3 % of all residential buildings. One structural systems in wood and featuring positive aspect is that modular building wood surfaces in the interior of offices, in wood can produce housing units in a schools and care environments as well short time span. as in homes. In 2018, 15 % of White's projects use wood as the primary building material. I N I T I AT I V E S F O R W O O D In 2018, White continued to invest in B U I L D I N G TA L L wood construction. We introduced “The With updated building regulations along Wood School” and organised several with improved fire protection, taller than seminars on the theme of wood. Together ever wood buildings are a rapidly growing with the Swedish Wood Construction trend. This creates new opportunities for Council and AIX architects, we started constructing in wood even in dense urban the network “TränätverkA”, which will spur environments. Previously considered a the industry to consider designing more material mainly for housing, the tendency buildings using wood construction. to use wood construction techniques is spreading to all typologies including offices, warehouses and parking garages. * Research project: Wood2New W H ITE R E S E A RCH L AB – WOU LDWOOD: A D D ITIV E M A N U FAC TU R I N G I N WOOD WouldWood is a venture in additive manufacturing of cellulose-based materials. The project aims to repurpose waste from both agriculture and the timber industry and transform it into a versatile building material. 3D printing of cellulose materials into construction products is a new international innovation. The goal is to bring at least three building elements into production and realise them in full scale. Project WouldWood is funded by Vinnova. White is working in collaboration with RISE, Chalmers University of Technology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stora Enso, Ragn-Sells, and Phenotype Studio. 30 KAPITELRUBRIK TA L L P I O N E E R White’s new cultural centre and hotel in Skellefteå demonstrates that it is possible to construct tall buildings in wood. When completed in 2020, the 19-storey building will be one of the world’s tallest buildings using wood construction techniques. The project was awarded the Architectural Review / Mipim Future Project Award 2018. Project: Skellefteå Cultural Centre and Hotel, Skellefteå, Sweden Client: Municipality of Skellefteå Completion: 2020 31 W H I T E 2 018 32 C L I M AT E A C T I O N A NEW KIND OF WORKSHOP Is it possible to create a warm and Instead, the building has a public inviting workshop facility? This entrance at the front, providing question was the starting point for greater flexibility and allowing the WuddHouse1. The building not only ground floor to function as both meets passive house standards, warehouse and showroom. Thus, the but is also built using solid wood building can be more easily situated components that create an attractive in a dense urban space. environment. Additionally, the White Research Lab provided project had an efficient construction support with in-depth studies in process; raising the entire frame only wood construction. took three weeks. Typically, this building typology Project: WuddHouse1, Sigtuna, Sweden has both the entrance and loading Client: Wudd fastigheter areas located on the same side. Completion: 2018 AT T R A C T I V E A C C O M M O D AT I O N S I N W O O D Frostaliden is one of the largest comprises 52 residential units. The A home built in wood can offer a wood construction developments construction is primarily in wood, comfortable indoor climate and a in Sweden. The neighbourhood except the foundation, basement and sense of wellbeing. This has been boasts a total of 369 apartments. staircases, which are in concrete. proven to be very attractive – the White was commissioned to Both beams and walls are built using apartments constructed in wood create space-efficient, low carbon CLT technology: cross-laminated were the first to sell out in the area. apartments where wood has the boards form large, massive, wood Project: Frostaliden, Skövde, Sweden leading role. Our design solution, elements. They contain few joints Client: Brunnen Bostad AB in the form of 8-storey high-rises, and offer a short assembly time. Completion: 2018 33 W H I T E 2 018 What’s old is new again It is a fact that there is a severe overconsumption of the world’s resources. At a global level, we would need 1.7 Earths to meet the demands.* The same figure for Sweden is 4.2 Earths, but at the same time the amount of unused resources wasted in Sweden on a yearly basis is valued to 42 billion SEK.** Recycling and reusing instead of producing new is one of the most effective ways to save the resources and to reduce climate impact on our only planet. A N E W AT T I T U D E flexible floor plans to enable co-utilisation Increased reuse and recycling of materials of premises during the span of a day. This will not only save the planet’s resources, shift in mindset entails reconsidering all WHITE these are also efficient methods with existing materials as raw material that can RESEARCH LAB which we can reduce climate impact. be reutilised. Thus, new environments – R E U S E AT A N For this reason, White is determined to and products can be created and what’s INDUSTRIAL SCALE push the development towards a more old is new again. circular economy. Through design of the In the Vinnova project built environment, we can inspire a more CIRCULAR ARCHITECTURE CC Build, White is efficient use of raw materials and reuse. Quite obviously, knowledge and multiple participating alongside We can also encourage a more sustainsupply chain collaboration is required for major operators in able lifestyle by creating environments realisation. White have already come a the building industry that stimulate co-utilisation and shared long way in terms of our interior design to enable reuse of economy, and by urban planning for more projects, but for building design, the construction materials circular flows for energy, water and waste. evolution is much slower. on a large scale. New This is what we call circular architecture. In recent years, White has participated business models are A major shift is required – both in terms in several research projects to strengthen required to make reuse of attitude and lifestyle. We, as architects, our own expertise and to establish colprofitable. Since reuse builders and material manufacturers laborations within and between different is – to a large extent – a always need to ask ourselves: Is there any industries. We hope that our new White matter of design, archimaterial we can retain or reuse? Research Lab network, Circular Architects have an important Simply put, it’s about the tecture, will inspire and show the way to a role. The project has reconsideration of consuming or building: more circular and sustainable future! developed a website for make use of existing buildings, develop construction materials, demountable construction elements, * Global Footprint Network see www.ccbuild.se. reduce left-over material, create smart, ** Återvinningsindustrierna (The recycling industries) 34 S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N ONE HUNDRED PERCENT REUSE IN LARGE SCALE Selma Cultural Centre is an apt on activity; at one moment theatre In this project the carpentry firm will demonstration by our interior design rehearsals can occupy a space and have the additional responsibility for team that it is possible to transition awhile later, a political meeting. storing the interior elements. towards a more circular economy. The design concept is based on The building itself, also designed When you need to fill 6,200 square reused furniture, most of which is preby White, has raw concrete surfaces, metres with 100 % recycled furniture owned by the city. Furniture elements so the interior can blossom in terms of and materials, it challenges both the will be refurbished and re-designed colour, style and materials. There will way of working and your creativity. into compositions incorporating be a great deal of variation, but with An important meeting place for all several different types of material. a tight concept, offering an exciting ages, the building will house offices Reuse is expanding the interior visual experience for the end-users. for the local municipality, a library, a designer’s role to include process cultural school, daily activities and management. It requires a great Project: Selma Local Municipality and a leisure centre. The spaces will be level of coordination from the initial Cultural Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden multi-functional with the ability to design through to completion. One Client: City of Gothenburg rearrange furnishings depending challenge with reuse is the logistics. Completion: 2019/20 “ Reuse requires a more creative way of working. 35 W H I T E 2 018 36 S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N A PRESCHOOL FOR THE CURIOUS In the new district of Nobelberget, The stairwell is an experience in and White will transform an old historic of itself and the large entrance port of power plant into a preschool. The the dining hall can easily be opened huge chimney is preserved and up, transforming an ordinary lunch becomes part of theme of play: a into a picnic in warm weather. totem pole, a fairy tale castle, a space rocket. A building extension that terProject: Preschool Nobelberget, races up the mountain complements Stockholm, Sweden the existing old brick building while Client: Atrium Ljungberg/Jensen förskola creating many playful environments. Completion: 2020 Production SO METHAN IL E Fertile soil Methane Bamboo Bricks Electricity Sorted biological waste will be Methane is monitored and captured The planted bamboo can be Clay will be transformed into clay Combustible fraction will be used to composted to, and sold as fertile soil. from the landfill. Converted and packaged processed in the Waste Handling Center bricks by using the excess heat from the produce electricity and heat for a renewable fuel. and used as building material on site. combined heat and power plant. the site and the community. PEOPLE BEFORE AN ARENA White received an honourable would develop slowly over time. bricks form the material for a meeting mention in an open architectural With sustainability as a starting place in the heart of the area. idea’s competition for the design of a point, we take advantage of the We have proposed a gentle, multifunctional arena at Olusosun’s resources in the dump and thereby non-invasive process which includes dump in Lagos, Nigeria. Designing an create a circular economy. The plan participation from the people who arena with capacity for 40,000 people features the planting of bamboo trees currently live in the dump and the suris complex with many urban planning to purify the contaminated leachate; rounding area. We consider them to issues at stake. For the majority of purified soil can be sold and provide be entrepreneurs who can maintain people in Lagos, rubbish is a source people with an income. The bamboo and develop Olusosun in a sustainof income and in some cases their can later be used to create building able way, for a long time to come. only livelihood. Our proposal is not for modules for the arena grandstand. a traditional arena; instead we took Waste can be burned for generating Project: Square One, Lagos, Nigeria the approach of creating a place for energy used to make bricks out of Client: Open competition, Arch out loud. the people in the area – a place which earth from the site. The bamboo and Competition completed: 2018 37 W H I T E 2 018 Diversity within the city In thirty years, more than two-thirds of the world’s population will live in cities. It will be an enormous global challenge to create cities which are equitable, secure and can offer housing and meeting places for everyone, regardless of background. Through architecture, we can create democratic and attractive cities that contribute to a sustainable life – for both people and the planet. TRANSFORMING CITIES people together on the path to underIn the coming years, cities will massively standing one another. expand and by 2050, nearly 70 % of the world’s population is expected to live in C R E AT I N G VA L U E S urban areas*. This will require a considerA major challenge is the regeneration able amount of resources for buildings and densification of cities. Taking into and infrastructure and, additionally, higher consideration the existing qualities ​​such demands on how we design public spaces as culture, businesses, infrastructure and to accommodate the influx of urban social capital can contribute to positive dwellers. Not only are increased urban economic, social and environmental inequalities and a shortage of housing benefits – both short and long term. Subalready evident, but also an increasingly sisting attributes cannot be recreated and rapid need exists to secure cities against a careful appraisal of the physical environthe consequences of climate change. ment as well as the experiential qualities (those that can’t be easily defined) can be PA R T I C I PAT I O N B U I L D S T R U S T important for a city’s attractiveness. Global goal 11 states that cities and communities shall be equitable, safe and A SMART CITY “ inclusive. By involving people of different Digitalisation provides new opportunities ages, backgrounds and needs, places and affects both human behaviour and can be created for and by those who will the physical environment in which we live. use them. How should a space intended Technology can support in the efforts to for young people be designed? What live more sustainably, but it can also steer Taking does urban planning mean for girls? What difficulties do elderly experience towards a completely opposite direction. Altered buying habits can affect the city’s advantage of in an urban environment? Digital tools functional use of space, while new mobility existing values provide new opportunities to reach out to and better include people in planning. solutions can release areas that were originally designated for streets and parking. contributes Along with broad community participation, Digital development moves at a quick to positive comes trust, understanding and pride. Whether it’s a park, a square or a pace, but we believe that it is necessary to continue to develop cities from a human economic, library, everyone should feel welcome; a perspective and always in a sustainable social and sense of belonging strengthens democracy. Public places have an important role direction. For us, a smart city is a city that listens to its citizens. environmental in contributing to wellbeing and bringing * www.un.org gains. 38 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T Y S U S TA I N A B L E H O U S I N G I N L O N D O N White has won the competition to hood is inspired by Scandinavian design phase two of Gascoigne planning with a focus on green East, one of London’s largest courtyards and shared spaces. To urban development projects in serve as an excellent example of Barking. The first phase in the area modern, sustainable living is the encompassed more than 400 flats ambition for Gascoigne Estate. and a school. White’s assignment consists of designing approximately Project: Gascoigne East, Barking, 500 flats for families, students and London, UK the elderly, as well as some smaller Client: Be First, Barking Council and houses. The residential neighbourDagenham Council WHITE RESEARCH LAB – HAI HAI (Sustainable return on investment) is a model for evaluating social and environmental values along with more traditional economic ones. The goal is to develop a standardised valuation model for urban development in Sweden and other countries, as well as to understand which business models can support this. The project is funded by Vinnova, and has a team composed of municipalities, businesses, academia and organisations. White’s participation includes providing specialists in the fields of urban planning, social and economic sustainability. 39 W H I T E 2 018 40 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T Y Stadsdelsatlas Sofielund White Arkitekter Kartläggning av lokalt näringsliv, sociala nätverk Fastighetsägare och strukturella förutsättningar för långsiktigt Sofielund hållbar stadsutveckling på Sofielund C STADSDELSATLAS Tillverkning E SOFIELUNDVattenförsörjning; Avloppsrening, avfallshantering och sanering F Byggverksamhet Handel; Reparation av motorfordonoch G motorcyklar H Transport och magasinering I Hotelloch restaurangverksamhet J Informationoch kommunikationsverksamhet K Finansoch försäkringsverksamhet L Fastighetsverksamhet Verksamhet inom juridik, ekonomi, M vetenskap och teknik N Uthyrning, fastighetsservice, resetjänster och andra stödtjänster P Utbildning Q Vård och omsorg; Sociala tjänster R Kultur, nöje och fritid S Annan serviceverksamhet Övriga bolagsformer F-skatt Byggnader Fastigheter L O N G -T E R M VA L U E S “How can Malmö transform the businesses often are forced to relodistrict of Sofielund from an unsafe cate; to counteract this, Urban Atlas neighbourhood into an attractive clearly demonstrated the importance area for visitors and businesses?” of including more perspectives than This question was the starting point those typically included in the urban for Stadsdelsatlas (Urban Atlas) planning process. In conclusion, the Sofielund, a mapping exercise which term ’value’ needs to have a broader investigated the area’s local busidefinition, beyond real estate prices, nesses and social networks. including cultural, social and socioA city is often much more than we economic values. first experience. Sofielund turned Project: Stadsdelsatlas Sofielund, Malmö, out to have 1,200 businesses and a Sweden, www.fastighetsagaresofielund.se. plethora of positive values. Nowadays Client: City of Malmö and Fastighets­ when cities are densified, existing ägarna Sofielund A TA B L E W I T H R O O M F O R E V E R YO N E Långbord, “The Long Table”, is a of security in the Söder district of from interviews with residents as S sociable piece of furniture and a meetHelsingborg, Sweden. Serendipitous proudly stands for Söder. ing place with room for everyone. The meetings contribute to an enhanced The project is a partnership between the project is one of three social instalsense of community and belonging. City of Helsingborg, White, the artist Ebba lations aimed at improving the sense The idea for the S-shaped table came Matz, Kulturhotellet and Nola. 41 W H I T E 2 018 A TOWN SQUARE FOR ALL Located in the heart of Uppsala, Forumtorget has long been a wellestablished meeting point. However, it lacked seating and character. The shopping street has now been developed into a city plaza with a 65-metres-long inviting sofa fostering engagement, activity, or place to take a pause. The refurbishment has further established the location’s existing identity as a spot to meet. Comprising 6,726 unique components made from glass-quartz composite, the sofa offers an infinite variety of seating positions and allows everyone to sit or lounge – tall or short, young and old alike. The complex design was coordinated by Dsearch, our digital design and development team. Project: Forumtorget, Uppsala, Sweden Client: Municipality of Uppsala 42 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T Y A home is a human right “ By 1948, the UN had already determined that having a place to live is a human right. There are, however, different types of homes for different needs. Designing homes and their The design environments with care and consideration can enhance a of housing, person’s quality of life and encourage a sustainable lifestyle. along with the surrounding N E W W AY S O F L I V I N G continue to live alone in their own homes The housing shortage in Sweden contin­ for lack of a suitable alternative. New environments, ues at a high, as does the lack of good types of living accommodations, such can greatly quality housing at reasonable prices; we as senior living with common spaces, notice as well similar challenges in other combine the need for extra support and impact how countries. A solution is the development security with a social life and proximity to sustainable of varied types of housing, for different service and communication. target groups. Interest in collective you can live housing is increasing and the benefits S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E S T Y L E your life. of living together are many beyond The design of residential buildings and being less expensive. Not only does their surrounding areas can greatly cohabitation decrease loneliness, while impact the quality of life and the posincreasing security, but it also reduces sibility to achieve a sustainable lifestyle. the environmental impact through better Many factors facilitate a sustainable utilisation of common resources. everyday life, such as proximity to public transport, services, greenery and sharA N A G E I N G P O P U L AT I O N ing items with your neighbours. Being All over the world there is a rapidly close to greenery and gardening has increasing aging population. This generbeen determined to reduce stress and ates new demands for housing for special to be overall good for your health as well needs. Many elderly people are active as provide desirable meeting places for and desire social interaction, however, people of all ages. 43 W H I T E 2 018 HOUSING FOR UNDER­ U T I L I S E D L O C AT I O N S As part of London’s Affordable Housing Challenge, our ’Hedge House’ proposal offers affordable homes which could fit in between existing buildings, and in particular, those built during the 60’s and 70’s. The building is space efficient with a small footprint and is designed to be constructed with a light wood frame suited for modular prefabrication. Project: Hedge House, London, UK Competition proposal The proposal was awarded the BB Green Award for most sustainable project in the competition. IVY AND BIKES The Islaggen neighbourhood consists of 57 rental and ownership apartments, like ’garden villas’, with large balconies providing space for growing and green façades. Nature is right on the doorstep and the neighbourhood is a cavalcade of biological diversity with varying types of plants, bird feeders and insect hotels. Solar panels provide heat and electricity and the energy surplus is utilised to charge electric cars and bicycles. There is also a workshop where you can borrow bikes and tools. Project: Kv Islaggen, Helsingborg, Sweden Client: Tornet Completion: 2021 WHITE RESE ARCH L AB – THE SÖDERTÖRN MODEL To create inclusive, sustainable cities, we need innovative planning, governance and an understanding of people’s needs. This is the starting point for the Södertörn Model. Business, academia and the local municipalities in the south of Stockholm have worked together to develop methods for knowledge-driven, co-created and value-based urban development. The model is intended to be adopted by other municipalities as well as internationally. The project is funded by Vinnova. Read more: sodertornsmodellen.com. 44 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T Y A G ALLE RY FOR THE SE NSE S Health Centre Lindesberg offers healthcare services as well as attractive apartments. Two buildings are linked by a glass gallery, which becomes a green living room. The accommodation offers a sheltered park environment and security both indoors and outdoors. Aimed at residents with special needs regardless of age, the homes can also be converted into nursing units. Nordic woods dominate the design and a green roof covering the buildings creates a link to the surrounding landscape. Project: Health Centre, Lindesberg, Sweden Client: Lindesbergs bostads AB, Landstinget Örebro Län (Örebro County Council) Due for completion in 2019. SOLO LIVING BUT NOT ALONE The 190 student apartments have Tenants moving in are requested and waste as well as allotments for been designed based on a survey to sign a contract committing to a growing vegetables. showing that students prefer having sustainable lifestyle; to help facilitate Project: Kv Regnbågen/Campus their own bedroom and bathroom this, cargo bikes, furniture and tools Björkhagen, Stockholm, Sweden but are happy to share other spaces. are all available for loaning. The Client: Stiftelsen Stockholms Taking this cue, the entrance site offers solar energy, bee hives, Studentbostäder balconies form a social node. local management of stormwater Completion: 2020 45 W H I T E 2 018 Nature enriches urban life Climate change increases the risk of drastic downpours and extreme drought. Both are threats to buildings, infrastructure and access to clean drinking water. Nature and architecture, together, can play a key role in solving the problems and simultaneously enriching the urban experience. “ ECOSYS TE M S E RVICE S E N R ICH MAJOR INVESTMENTS Rainfall, flooding, water scarcity and poor In 2011, Copenhagen was hit hard by water quality require new approaches heavy rains. Two hours of intense rainfall for cities to continue to be economically attractive, desirable places to live. At the resulted in damages worth 7 billion DKK *. Subsequently, the city has been investing Ecosystem same time, the depletion of biodiversity purposefully in building preventative services not threatens human survival. As cities expand, so do the hard-paved surfaces, measures against extreme weather which has simultaneously enhanced the only make which is a devastating development for quality of the public spaces. In the next cities more ecological diversity, infiltration of water and temperature regulations. few years, many cities will need to follow Copenhagen’s lead and majorly invest beautiful. They By enriching the city with ecosystem serto prevent or cope with the effects of also contribute vices, many other problems can be resolved. Parks or wetlands strengthen the existing climate change. By managing the investments in the best way, many other values ​​ positively ecosystems, urban cultivation provides can be created for both the environment to social, locally produced food and stretches of land designated for exercise and recreation and inhabitants – ecological, social and economic values and ​​ profits usually work ecological facilitate good health. Greenery and water in harmony. and economic usually contribute to the most attractive and social meeting places in the city. * svt.se/nyheter, January 23, 2017 values. W H I T E R E S E A R C H L A B – C /O C I T Y For many years White has been a participant in the c/o City research project. Its purpose was to highlight the value of nature in cities, with the goal of making ecosystem services into an integrated part of urban planning. Several handbooks and specific solutions have been developed. The project is now completed and c/o City has been transformed into a non-profit association including White as one of its initiators. Read more: www.cocity.se 46 EC O LOG I CA L D I VERS I T Y A R O O F T O P PA R K The new school and sports hall in the roof can be transformed into a Halden will contribute to a vibrant green, attractive, public place for all place where people can meet the locals. regardless of age or time of the The school will be be constructed day – a sports facility, a café and an in massive timber and the goal is to outdoor activity park. achieve BREEAM-NO Very Good. A major challenge is accomProject: Halden School, Norway modating the outdoor environments Client: Halden kommune at the small site. By designing a Team: White, Dronninga Landskap, ÅF partially subterranean sports hall, Completion: 2021 AT T R A C T I V E S T O R M W AT E R During the planning stages of the new neighbourhood of Vallastaden in Linköping, the area’s stream played a vital role in consideration of the fact that water levels can vary significantly. A much-loved park and attractive urban space, the park doubles as an open stormwater system filled with many valuable ecosystem services. Project: Broparken, Linköping, Sweden Client: Municipality of Linköping 47 W H I T E 2 018 WHITE RESEARCH LAB – STED The three-year long Nordic research project, STED (Sustainable Transformation and Environmental Design), highlights the importance of the architectural design process for driving forward sustainable transformation of building projects. The project has investigated how new digital information and communication tools (ICT) can be utilised to enable sustainable decisions in the early design phases, e.g. lifecycle analyses, climate and energy simulations. Four research institutions (DTU, Chalmers, KADK, NTNU) and five architectural practices (White, Vandkunsten, Oopeaa, Studio Granda and Helen&Hard) have participated. The project received support from the Nordic Built Foundation and ARQ and concluded in 2018. 48 E KO L O G I S K M Å N G F A L D F R O M I D E A T O C L I M AT E A D A P T E D N E I G H B O U R H O O D EcoCanopy started as an idea to The concept is based on a transdeveloped by Dsearch, White’s create a sheltered public space in the parent membrane spanning between digital design team. EcoCanopy can gap between buildings, particularly two existing buildings, which set a new standard for developing in residential areas from the 60's creates a unique climate providing sustainable, climate-adapted neighand 70's where public spaces are opportunities for greenery, cultivabourhoods, whether it’s a matter of poor or non-existing. The idea turned tion, social activities and places densification, for new production or a into several research projects and to meet all year round. Ecosystem renovation project. The concept will eventually a full-scale concept. This services are implemented in several be further development at two sites is planned to be built in the Ebbe ways, such as water purification and in Stockholm. Park neighbourhood of Linköping, management. Sustainable features an older, centrally located industrial like natural ventilation, reuse of Project: EcoCanopy/Ebbe Park, Linköping, Sweden area. White invited the inhabitants energy, waste management as well Client: St Kors to express, through digital platforms, as cutting edge lighting technology Research funding from the Swedish Energy what it would take to make the area will be implemented. The lightweight Agency, Nordic Innovation, ARQ, the Sweinto their dream location. tree-shaped structure has been dish Environmental Protection Agency, et al. 49 W H I T E 2 018 Architecture that makes us feel good The design of buildings and cities effects people’s quality of life. Daylight, materials, greenery, calming and stimulating environments are elements of great importance for health, wellbeing and recuperation. Architecture can make us feel good. A HUMAN RIGHT Daylight and air quality affect concentraGood health is fundamental for people to tion and alertness, while vegetation is be able to develop and it is a human right shown to have a calming effect. Places to have access to care. Unfortunately, and environments for physical activities the tendency is an increased health for children as well as adults is of longinequality in societies all over the world. term importance for public health. In urban areas, life expectancy can vary Within healthcare, White’s research as much as 10 years from one city district has shown that by designing psychiatric to another. Poor health is often strongly clinics from a human, biophilic perspeclinked to socio-economic conditions tive, medication and care needs can be such as education, work and sense of drastically reduced. belonging. An escalation of supporting evidence demonstrates the costs and conseD E S I G N I N G F O R H E A LT H quences of increased poor health on sociPoor health can also be a result of a ety. In response, the design community sedentary job, poor air quality, stress and is progressively taking a holistic-health lack of physical activity. The design of perspective to urban design, healthcare both indoor and outdoor environments environments, offices, schools and can greatly affect health and wellbeing as residential areas. Architecture can actually well as stimulate a change of behaviour. make us feel better! WHITE RESEARCH LAB – ARCHITECTURE AS MEDICINE Does healing architecture really exist? That is the question posed by a licentiate thesis based on studies of several of White’s psychiatric clinics. It shows that medical restraint, threats, violence and medication are all dramatically reduced when the architecture is designed from a human perspective. The needs for feeling safe, daylight and a connection to nature are particularly important design features. From Healing Architecture: Evidence, Intuition, Dialogue by Stefan Lundin, White/Chalmers University of Technology. . 50 H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G D E S I G N W I T H C O M PA S S I O N Panzi Hospital near Bukavu in DR Congo is known for its work with women who have been subjected to sexual violence. The hospital is run by human rights advocate Dr Denis Mukwege, recipient of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize. A new mother and baby unit is now being established to reduce mortality rates, provide a positive birth experience and better working conditions for staff. We know that a welcoming environment, daylight, greenery and a private setting can support the healing process. Client: Panzi Hospital, DR Congo Collaboration: White, University of Gothenburg, WSP, Art of Life and Birth and Chalmers University of Technology “ H E A L I N G A R C H I T E C T U R E I N A D R A M AT I C L O C AT I O N The new psychiatric clinic in Nuuk, in light to all rooms and offer patients Focus on health Greenland, is based on White’s research on healing architecture. a view of the mountains or across the fjord. There is a high visibility of internal and wellbeing is Common spaces have a strong spaces creating a secure, calm and increasingly taking connection to nature and the boundary between interior and exterior melts into safe atmosphere for patients and staff. place in the planning one. Because of its calming properProject: Nuuk Psychiatric Clinic, Greenland and design of cities ties, wood is chosen as the dominant material for both the structural frame Client: Sundhedsvaesendet (Public Health Service), Greenland and buildings. and interior finishes. Large windows let Completion: 2022 51 W H I T E 2 018 Architecture across borders White’s international business ventures provide the opportunity to share experiences, build new knowledge and create architecture from new perspectives. We focus on countries and regions where sustainability issues are highly prioritised and where we can create business relationships that, in the long term, build a new market for us. S T R O N G C O L L A B O R AT I O N S in 2019 and will be Africa’s first LEED In 2018, we strengthened our inter­ Gold certified project. national operations. Our offices in Oslo and London are now well-established M E LT I N G P E R M A F R O S T and have won the commissions for The consequences of climate change are several new, exciting projects. Our becoming increasingly evident. In Canada, focus has also been directed towards melting of the permafrost is a major issue Canada, Germany and East Africa which presents new challenges when where there is a significant potential to planning cities and buildings. One such develop sustainable architecture and example is our project, Nordic Centre for where actions for decreasing global Sustainability in Yellowknife, Canada. warming are prioritised.* Our strategy is to strengthen relationships with local SHARING EXPERIENCE partners to build important networks During 2018, White participated in and to gain new knowledge and a better several international conferences and understanding for the global challenges. exhibitions. Our project “Places for girls” was presented at the World Urban Forum AT T R A C T I V E C O M P E T E N C E under the category of Equality in Urban Scandinavian architecture and our long Planning, and at a London street theatre it experience in wood construction, suswas presented as a play under the same tainable urban planning and healthcare theme. Our knowledge in wood architecarchitecture is particularly sought after ture and low carbon construction was internationally, as well as our broad presented at the Woodland Exhibition in competence in creating energy efficient Germany and at Greenbuild in Montreal, and zero carbon architecture. Canada. Additionally, in collaboration Our collaboration with the GoDown with Climate-Kic, we participated Arts Centre in Nairobi continues and in Urban Innovation Lab in Hamilton, is an example of how culture can be a Canada. driving force in both democratic and urban development. The new Leadership *Pew Research Center Feb 10 2019, “Climate Centre in Nairobi will be completed Change Still Seen as the Top Global Threat” 52 KAPITELRUBRIK H E A LT H Y, S C A N D I N AV I A N A R C H I T E C T U R E White won the international competition for a new eye clinic at Kings Cross in central London, which will gather care, research and education in modern and flexible environments. White is providing services to design interior and exterior public environments, based on Scandinavian architecture and our research in healthcare architecture. Project: Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK Client: UCL Institute of Ophthalmology and Moorfields Eye Hospital. Team: White, AECOM and Penoyre & Prasad Completion: 2025–2026 53 W H I T E 2 018 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 54 10 . 11. 12 . E F F O R T S B R I N G I N G R E S U LT S Awards and achievements Competing has always been a factor which determines success. Both in Sweden and internationally, competition is a way to receive the most rewarding assignments, but also an opportunity to test new ideas and exercise our creativity. The prize pool for 2018 shows the breadth of offering: from housing projects, hospitals, schools and hotels, a water tower and a viewing point in a national park in Africa. COMPETITIONS WON AWAR DS 1. Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK 10. Skellefteå Cultural Centre, Sweden 2. Halden school, Halden, Norway Architectural Review/Mipim Future Ornäs harbour, residential 3.  Project Award 2018. development, Borlänge, Sweden 11. Bråtejordet school, Norway. Wildlife Pavilion, Amboseli National 4.  Skedsmo municipality’s architecturePark, Kenya and urban development award. 5. Österskans hotel, Halmstad, Sweden 12. Humanistic Theatre, Uppsala, Residential block G Årsta, 6.  Sweden. Steel prize and Aluminium Stockholm, Sweden prize. Centre for local municipality, 7.  Botkyrka, Sweden Gascoigne East, residential 8.  development, London, UK Water tower “Våga”, Varberg, Sweden 9.  Town square, Piteå, Sweden  Commercial development, Nacka, Sweden  Cirkusgränd, commercial development, Stockholm, Sweden 55 W H I T E 2 018 Our actions impact the world With the long term in mind, we work actively to minimise the environmental and climate impact of our operations. Since 2014, we have reduced our climate impact by 56 % per employee. As a company, we have an important role to motivate both employees and those in our sphere of influence to live sustainable lifestyles. We want to inspire people to work for a better world. C L I M AT E R E P O R T around the globe. This caused just over In 2018, total CO2e emissions amounted 5 kg CO2e emissions. If we had chosen to 1285 tonnes, which corresponds to to go by plane at these routes instead, it 1.77 tonnes of CO2e per employee. This would have caused as much as 200,500 is an increase of 11 % since 2017 (15 % kg CO2e.* per annual employee), but in comparison International air travel has decreased to 2014, it is, in fact, a reduction of 40 % in 2018, however has increased in the (56 % per employee). The reason for the Nordic region. One reason is that we increase in 2018 is primarily due to new have had several projects in northern emission factors, an increase in domestic Sweden and Norway. air travel, as well as the fact that emissions To decrease the need for travelling, we from fights at high altitude have been have well developed equipment for video calculated more accurately. Compared and telephone conferences. In 2018 we with 2014, emissions per employee have made a sizable investment in “Our New “ decreased by 59 % for travel, 13 % for Digital Office”, which has further improved purchases (including food, IT/Tele and the ability to work remotely, both between paper), 40 % for energy and 71 % for waste. White’s offices and with our clients. For the first time, emissions from cloud services and hotels have been calculated. Taking these into consideration, the total 9 8 P E R C E N T V E G E TA R I A N We have a policy to only serve vegetarian Our goal for CO2e emissions amounted to 1395 tonnes, meals at activities arranged by the com2019 is to which corresponds to 1.92 tonnes of CO2e per full-time employee. Our carbon pany. We’ve almost reached it: in 2018, 98 % of the meals were vegetarian.** This reduce the offsetting is based on these figures. saves 428 tonnes of CO2e compared to CO2e emissions 88 PE RCE NT BY TR AI N non-vegetarian choices. We also aim to avoid palm oil. To by 30 % each Our travel policy states that train shall reach this goal, it is important to make for travel, be the first choice if possible. 88 % of our business travels within Sweden demands on our suppliers. It is a learning process, for us and them, but it is slowly purchasing, were made by train in 2018. Train travel progressing. energy, and has increased in 2018 compared with previous year; we travelled 1,980,000 km * Figures from SJ waste, compared by train, which is equivalent to 49 laps ** Figures from South Pole to 2014. 56 E F F O R T S B R I N G I N G R E S U LT S D I S T R I B U T I O N O F C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 017 A N D 2 018 1% Energy (heating and cooling) 1% 8% 10 % Flights, Nordic countries 1% 14 % Flights, International 23 % 8% 11 % Flights, study tours 9% Car and taxi 2 017 13 % 2 018 6% Waste 11 % 21 % IT/Tele 1% 5% Food 28 % 29 % Paper Electricity C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 014 – 2 018 ( K G P E R A N N U A L E M P L OY E E ) 1000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 500 0 Energy Flights Flights Other Purchases Waste (heating, cooling, business travel study tours business trips (IT/Tele, paper, food) electricity) (train, car, taxi) T O TA L C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 014 – 2 018 tonne CO2e total 2 126 FIGURES kg CO2e / annual employee Data to the calculations have been provided by property owners, energy 1 536 suppliers, travel companies and compilation from our finance department. 1 285 Climate calculations are conducted by the 1 085 1 162 (1 395)* South Pole Group in accordance with the 4 053 Green House Gas Protocol (GHG). The result applies to our offices in Sweden. 2 441 1 770 * Figures in parentheses including 1 592 1 539 (1 920)* emissions from cloud services and hotel stays. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 57 W H I T E 2 018 “ CLOUD SERVICES SOCIAL E NG AG E M E NT R E ACH 8 PE RCE NT Social engagement has always been an For several years, IT and mobile phones important part of White's culture. Over have been the third largest source the years we have had a major focus on for our CO2e emissions. For the first commissions in healthcare, school and We want to time, we have calculated the impact housing. People's needs are always the inspire both of the cloud services we use and they starting point of our assignments. Our accounted for 8 % of the company's social commitment is also expressed employees CO2e emissions. in several development projects within and others to White Research Lab, such as “Light Lab R E N E WAB LE E LEC TR ICIT Y for Children” and “Places for Girls”. adopt a more IN ALL OFFICES During 2018, we have worked prosustainable We have renewable electricity in all offices bono on some major commissions. They and have high standards for energy include the PanziHospital, Bukavu, DR lifestyle. efficient equipment and lighting. Electricity Congo: new Women’s clinic at Nobel and energy use are at similar levels as the laureate DR Mukweges Hospital (read previous year. In 2019, an energy survey more on page 51) and the GoDown Arts will be conducted at all offices to identify Center, Nairobi, Kenya: A cultural centre any potential energy savings. that will be the home of artists and other creators, a stage for the free speech and a C L I M AT E N E U T R A L C O M PA N Y democratic meeting place for the citizens. The climate calculations have been carried out by the South Pole Group in C O M M I T M E N T T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y accordance with the Green House Gas We have a membership in many Protocol (GHG). White carbon offsets all organisations and associations within emissions (including the new aspects of sustainable development. The primary cloud services and hotels), which makes ones include: Fossil free Sweden, the us a climate neutral company. By doing Governments initiative; the independent this, we can contribute to places like the think tank Global Utmaning (Global Kariba Forest Foundation in Kenya. challenge); Sweden Green Building Council; Sustainable Innovation; NMC S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E S T Y L E Network for Sustainable Business; CSR As a company, we want to inspire both West Sweden; co-founder of c/o City, employees and others to adopt a more association for ecosystem services; and sustainable lifestyle. Our offices take co-founder of Byggvarubedömningen, different initiatives, adapted to local the largest building material assessment challenges: public transport cards and database in Sweden. bicycles can be borrowed and swap markets, film screenings and lectures WE SUPPORT on healthy and climate-smart food A selection of the associations and are organised. To reduce the use of organizations that we financially support disposable items, there are lunch boxes are the following: Médecins Sans to borrow when you bring food to the Frontières (MSF), BRIS-Children´s office, eg salad or sushi. It is important to Rights in Society, CancerRehabFonden, encourage initiatives and to work actively Giving People, Aktiv skola (Active school) for a more sustainable and enjoyable and Noll Tolerans mot mobbning (Zero workplace. Tolerance to Bullying). 58 S AT S N I N G A R KOAC PH ITE R LERSU UBLTAT RIK Urban farming on the rooftop of White’s office in Stockholm under arbete 59 W PATH IITEEN2T018 S FIRST The New Karolinska Solna project, a hospital of 330,000 square metres, is one of Sweden's largest new construction projects of all time. Included are environments for both healthcare and R&D. The architecture is based on research revolving around the importance of the healthcare environment for wellbeing for both staff and patients, with daylight, exterior views and only single-patient rooms. The project has been carried out by White Tengbom Team and is certified LEED Gold and Miljöbyggnad Guld. Project: New Karolinska Solna, Sweden Client: Swedish Hospital Partners Completed: 2018 60 E F F O R T S B R I N G I N G R E S U LT S High energy despite slowdown A slowdown in the Swedish market was noticeable in 2018. Nevertheless, we experienced an increase in number of commissions. We invested greatly in digitalisation and launched “Our digital office”. The 300,000 sqm New Karolinska Solna hospital project, which has been White’s largest assignment ever, was festively inaugurated in May. R E S U LT S A N D F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N provisions, amounts to 35.9 million SEK The 2018 results were lower than in recent and 27.9 million SEK, respectively. This years. A slowdown in economic activity corresponds to an operating margin of 4 % and the fact that a large portion of our and 3 %, respectively. The concern’s equity large-scale projects were completed at the was 39.3 % and liquidity was satisfactory beginning of the year resulted in the reducwith a cash flow of 194 %. tion of invoicing. Despite lower incomes, During the year, 2,352 new assigna high level of internal investments was ments were registered (compared to maintained, such as competitions, digitali1,533 in 2017). Commercial premises sation and R&D. The operating profit for comprise the highest proportion, followed the concern, before and after foundation by housing and healthcare. M A R K E T A R E A S O F N E W C O M M I S S I O N S I N 2 018 (percentage of new orders) 12 % 22 % Housing Healthcare Schools 35 % Commerical 23 % Urban Development 8% 61 W H I T E 2 018 F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N 2 018 2 017 2 016 2 015 2 014 F R O M T H E I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T * Operating revenues 870 675 964 010 892 156 824 278 759 466 Operating profit 27 868 38 909 60 280 42 605 64 354 Profit after financial items 27 641 40 003 60 307 47 020 63 693 Tax on profit for the year -15 176 -8 075 -13 583 -11 147 -15 922 Profit for the year 12 465 31 928 46 724 35 873 47 771 Minority share of profit for the year 1 8 -272 -83 -65 Profit for the year 12 466 31 936 46 452 35 790 47 706 F R O M T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T * Intangible fixed assets 0 29 141 666 2 094 Tangible fixed assets 3 881 5 473 9 558 20 901 30 500 Financial fixed assets 161 728 985 1 190 2 394 Current receivables 284 204 402 295 303 560 271 188 284 688 Cash and bank balances 49 915 36 586 57 076 40 400 37 927 Total assets 338 161 445 111 371 320 334 345 357 603 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 13 2 8 7 3 151 010 15 8 7 7 9 141 6 70 14 3 4 2 6 Minority share of equity 6 978 6 979 6 987 6 715 6 632 Provisions 25 941 25 154 23 957 19 973 20 819 Current liabilities 172 369 261 968 181 597 165 987 186 726 Total sum of shareholders’ equity and liability 338 161 445 111 371 320 334 345 357 603 K E Y F I G U R E S Return on shareholder’s equity (%) 8,8 20,6 31,0 25,1 36,3 Profit margin (%) 3,2 4,1 6,8 5,7 8,4 Revenues per employee (KSEK) 1 294 1 322 1 308 1 304 1 303 Equity / assets ratio (%) 39,3 33,9 42,8 42,4 40,1 Average number of employees 673 729 682 632 583 * KSEK Definitions Return on shareholders’ equity (%): Profit for the year after minority share as a percentage of benchmark equity excluding minority share. Profit margin (%): Profit after financial items as a percentage of operating revenues. The equity/assets ratio (%): Shareholders’ equity excluding minority share as a percentage of total assets. WHITE INTRESSENTER AB Organisation number 556598-8499 62 KAPITELRUBRIK 63 Cover image: Nuuk Psychiatric Clinic, Greenland W H I T E 2 018 TALK TO U S! whitearkitekter.com 64 white.se @whitearkitekter
