CSR RAPPORT 2018 F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S F. UHRENHOLT HOLDING A/S WELCOME to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2018 CSR report 2018 The Uhrenholt CSR report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Welcome to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2018 3 Statement Act § 99 a. Message from the CEO 4 Uhrenholt is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact meaning that our About Uhrenholt 6 CSR work is structured along with the Global Compact set of values and principles Our Business model 15 regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. CSR Focus Areas 16 Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more Labor/Human rights 20 than 12,000 voluntary business and non-business participants in 170 countries. 24 For more information about Global Compact visit: www.unglobalcompact.org Environment and Climate Business Ethics 32 March 2018 Supplier Management 34 Charity 36 Progress 2018 39 Thanks 40 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Reader After a year filled with Brexit, trade war threats, droughts and El Nino alerts, it would be easy for a dairy company to say: Enough. We don’t have spare time and energy to focus on anything else but driving the company safely through the everchanging business landscape. But that wouldn´t work long term. We are obliged and committed also to keep an eye on the unbuilt road further ahead – the one that only has a red flag s tanding in the horizon reminding us that we may run into the ditch if we ignore it. I’m talking about the climate issue and the challenges to the consumer habits of our generation. Should we all switch to the vegan lifestyle asap not to be blamed by our descendants, after we have left the building? The most extremist voices would say so – but in fact that may not be the right answer to a responsible food company. Sustainability is more complex. A very comprehensive report, prepared by international scientists in the EAT Lancet Commission recently, concludes that a sustainable human diet in the future requires a shift towards more plant-based dietary patterns with much less meat and sugar. However, it also stresses that milk and dairy products will still have an important role to play because of its important content of important nutrients primarily calcium, vitamin B12 and vitamin B2. In Uhrenholt we have taken our first steps into the vegan world by launching a range of non-dairy products. But we feel fully confident by having a pragmatic approach, that allows us to let us guide by the market and its well informed and conscious consumers on how fast and how far we should move. Enjoy reading our 2018 report 4 5 ABOUT UHRENHOLT FACTS Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company supplying dairy products and frozen vegetables to a broad range of retail, Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers in more than 80 countries around the world. Number of employees: 415 While our head office is situated in Denmark, we have offices and representatives in more than 20 countries and Ownership: F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S is a 100% family owned business employ more than 400 dedicated people on a global scale. CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Our products are sold under the brand names Emborg™, Friendship™ and Amigo™ or as commodities and indusLocation Denmark: Head office in Middelfart trial sales Uhrenholt was founded April 1 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was internaLocation worldwide: Represented in more than 20 countries tional trading of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest private Sales: Selling products in more than 80 countries across the world owned dairy companies in Denmark. In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies were merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. In 2007 Frank´s son, Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. Frank Uhrenholt created the original ship logo in 1978 by folding a paper ship from a newspaper page and painting it red and white. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, who went to conquer the world in a ship of paper. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualizes that Uhrenholt is a modern food company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. 6 7 CEO Commercial Structure Corporate GLOBAL ORGANISATION Uhrenholts commercial organization is structured in four regions: Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia and Russia and CIS Asia and Oceania Human Resource IT Europe (including Oceania and Americas). Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales are integrated in the Europe Division. Middle East Logistics and Europe Risk Management and Africa Transportation All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure Americas Global Marketing Finance Business Excellence that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. Procurement Quality Assurance The commercial organization is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. 8 9 AB ILIT Y N SUSTAI HE W ITH T O M P ACT LOB ALC UN G 10 11 BUSINESS AREAS AND DAIRY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO We supply a full range of dairy products sourced from around the world. To obtain the best quality, we aim to source cheese from local origin. All products are packaged in various shapes and sizes according to consumer and market needs. Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, At our Grøndal Dairy we produce approx. 5,000 tons per year of cheeses like Fontina, Havarti and Kefalotyri. tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners and customers The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains whey products, lactose, butter, yogurt, UHT-milk and cream. has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our partners and customers benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. FRUITS AND VEGETABLES Uhrenholt is a proud supplier of delicious fruits and vegetables. In keeping with our focus on healthy-living, we are offering a range of fruit and berry products. This also includes smoothies and dairy-based products. We offer a range of classic vegetables individually quick-frozen, for example peas, peas & carrots, sweet corn, beans and mixed vegetables. In addition, we have an exciting range of different vegetable mixes, grilled vegetables and breaded onion rings. In dairy as well as in fruits and vegetables we have introduced a range of organic products and this year we have added a number of non-dairy vegan products to our portfolio. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit uhrenholt.com. 12 13 OUR VISION OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND VALUES Uhrenholt is a solutions provider, more than a manufacturer, offering food solutions based purely on market needs and demands. Our market-driven food solutions are available to our customers thanks to our strong, Being part of a worldwide food industry, global network of partners and suppliers within the food industry. we touch many lives in one way or another on a daily basis. As a result, our common Value Proposition is defined as “Market-Driven Food Solutions”. We want to continuously improve our business and the way we navigate in the MARKET-DRIVEN FOOD SOLUTIONS global market place. We operate in an ever-changing market place. Demands may change suddenly and our extensive global production network enables us to scale production up or down. Our ability to identify and meet current market We firmly believe that our shared corporate and consumer demands with quick responses and ﬂexible set-ups is key in developing values serve as a compass and lead the way attractive food solutions. That is why we are able to offer “Market-Driven Food Solutions” with an impresfor our actions and daily work. We strive to sive product range and strong brands coupled with excellent service, which few competitors are able to follow them in everything we do to the benmatch. efit of our customers, our employees, our business and society as a whole. PARTNERSHIP FOR GROWTH We team up with the best players in the market in order to collectively add value and growth to our mutual businesses. We call it “Partnership for Growth”. Through these partnerships, we make it easy, fast and efficient to provide affordable and attractive food solutions. Our promise “Growing Your Business” signals our intent to grow together with partners and our partners and customers can expect: THIS IS OUR PARTNERSHIP PROMISE ATTRACTIVE PRODUCTS AND TAILORED SOLUTIONS We aim to grow our partners’ businesses by identifying consumer needs, providing attractive food products and flexible solutions according to market demand. ATTRACTIVE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES We help to grow our partners’ businesses by developing attractive market opportunities and making the route-to-market more efficient. 14 15 CSR FOCUS AREAS HUMAN RIGHTS We face our Corporate Social Responsibility in many ways. PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Having the role as the link between producers and customers/end users our ambition is to invent sustainable food solutions manufactured in accordance with the Global Compact principles and with the highest food safety standards. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. First of all, by the way we act ourselves with regards to human resource policies, environment/climate issues and business ethics when we produce, buy and sell our products. Chapter 6-8 LABOR Secondly but equally important we strive to commit our partners to walk along with us by fulfilling our standards and demands as a Global Compact member in the way they act on the same topics. Chapter 9 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BUSINESS ETHICS PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. 16 17 We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected and empowered 18 19 LABOR / HUMAN RIGHTS AN INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSE CULTURE As Uhrenholt offers marked-driven food solutions and only has a relatively small production, our assets are immaIn Uhrenholt we harness our people’s diverse experiences and backgrounds to better understand the needs of terial. It is fully essential to Uhrenholt to leverage the human resources in order to give Uhrenholt a competitive global customers, drive innovation, and enhance employee engagement. We work to create a culture where advantage. everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered. Consequently, an ambitious HR strategy, focusing on organizational and managerial development over the coming Diversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 countries years, became part of the overall strategy for Uhrenholt globally. The starting point for developing an even strongand have 25 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinker organization is to make strategic priorities for both leaders and employees. ing. The first priorities concern Leadership development and performance management At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT service whoever they address. In order to define Uhrenholt's leadership culture and what behavior we want from our leaders, the global leadership team and HR prepared a set of leadership principles based on Uhrenholt's values; Winning, Partnering, In Uhrenholt we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. In 2015 we reached our Excellence and Passion. The leadership principles will be a part of a global leadership training started out in 2018. goal to increase the proportion of female managers to at least 40% and we are close to reaching our goal of 25% The essence of good leadership at Uhrenholt is to create value by working with and through others. The leaders female directors. are assessed on their performance and how to achieve results. The Leadership training was first introduced for the Global Leadership team and afterwards conducted and implemented for 5 teams of managers/directors globWe continuously focus on upgrading the competences among the sales force. Internal and external people within ally. The first steps of the leadership training run over a period of 7-8 months where a variety of leadership tools is commercial sale have been through our internal Uhrenholt sales training course – these costs are not part of the implemented in the daily work with to aim to develop both leaders and their employees. figures invested in education and training. The outcome of the training set up is to strengthen the leadership foundation and create a common leadership mindset across countries, nationalities and management levels in respect for the individual. After finishing the course, the skills are maintained through consistent and structured follow-up by the trainer and the board of directors. Generally, our technologies promote flexible working that can enhance health and well-being by enabling people PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT to better balance work and personal commitments. In addition, flexible work practices also help us meet our enviA new process for appraisal interviews and evaluation of leaders and employees has been prepared with focus on ronmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. goals based on Uhrenholt’s strategy, budget targets and leadership principles/values. In general, the purpose of appraisal interviews in Uhrenholt is to clarify job expectations, provide some clear direction for the future, agree on development activities and evaluate work performance. Leader and employee in cooperation set up a variety of KPI’s for each year both on the professional and personal level. As part of securing a good working environment at Uhrenholt the company conducted in 2018 for the first time a 2016 2017 2018 global employee engagement survey. Total employees 479 469 415 Female 44% 47% 48% The background for the survey is to increase the general job satisfaction and pride in working at Uhrenholt. Questions asked included general job satisfaction, communication, strategy and management/leadership. The result of Male 56% 53% 52% the engagement survey will be followed up by workshops and action plan with the managers as front runners. Average age 41,2 40,6 41,6 Average seniority 6,3 5,5 6,3 Sick leave percentage 2,5% 2,9% 2,2% Number of promotions (next level promotions) 20 10 19 Female managers 49% 49% 50% Male managers 51% 51% 50% Female directors 23% 26% 24% Male directors 77% 74% 76% Investment in education and training (external) € per, employee 227 86 225 Number of nationalities 23 25 24 20 21 FLEXIBLE WORKING We respect and care for each other through an open environ¬ment that offers our employees opportunities to learn and grow. Open communication, within offices and across coun¬tries, helps us work well together and always strive to do the right thing. Collaboration is at the heart of our culture. Uhrenholts technologies enable people to collaborate with colleagues around the world. Employees share ideas, brainstorm solutions, and recognize achievements to help us succeed together. Our Global Brand Team is just one example. It was estab¬lished cross regional to collaborate on new initiatives and ensure knowledge sharing globally, thereby creating a level playing field regarding new product introductions, sales and marketing. By conduction monthly conference calls the team ensures dissemination of information and alignment on joint decisions going forward aiming to achieve greater focus, synergy and added value to each employee, our company and our partners. Generally, our technologies promote flexible working that can enhance health and well-being by enabling people to better balance work and personal commitments. In addition, flexible work practices also help us meet our environmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. STUDENT WORK AND INTERNSHIPS In Uhrenholt we have had great success in taking more young people into our organization. For many years, we have been training, and continuing to train, students primarily within trade (sales and purchasing), but also within economics and media graphics design. In addition, we have regular agreements with students from higher education and we have during the past few years participated in events at universities and business schools, where dialogue and collaboration between companies and students is created. In this way, Uhrenholt gets more new knowledge into the company and at the same time created increased focus on the students about what opportunities lie in working in an international trading company. The students will get some work experience and get possibility of writing thesis during their stay and the company get a new set of eyes on our way of working and approaching subjects. 22 23 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE HEALTHY LIVING na turally grow n At Uhrenholt we want to minimize our impact on the environment which means that we always are looking for MINDFUL CHOICES sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions and routes-to-market. Emborg is focusing on innovation and fulfilling the growing trend for “Mindful Choises” At Uhrenholt, we understand that there is a growing demand for healthy products. 10 Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protection of our nature including 0% c biological diversity on earth is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. Consumers are paying more attention to the ingredients and expect premium quality. o r g a ni We are committed to fulfilling the goals of our consumers worldwide to live a healthy We comply with the environmental legislation in the countries we are placed, but acknowledge that our responsiand mindful lifestyle. bility includes our global business and a commitment for further improvement. Our company structure leads to different areas on which we can influence the environment. These include our A WIDER ORGANIC RANGE FROM EMBORG offices around the world, our cooperation with food producers & suppliers worldwide and of course our own Since we became members of Denmark’s two leading trade organizations, Økologisk dairy plant Grøndal. Landsforening (Organic Denmark) and Bio aus Dänemark, back in 2015, we have experienced continuous growth in sales of our organic products. We have launched Emborg organic vegetable products worldwide to meet the rising demand. SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL EMBORG IS NOW SELLING PLANT-BASED PRODUCTS The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) unites stakeholders from the palm oil industry: Oil palm producers, The plant-based trend has been flourishing due to the growing consumer interest in health, ethics and sustainability. processors or traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors, and environmental and social Consumers are today more conscious than ever about the environment. They are making responsible food choices non-governmental organizations (NGOs), to develop and implement global standards for sustainable palm oil. and expect to have a wide range of products to choose from when shopping for groceries. Whether our consumers The RSPO has developed a set of environmental and social criteria which companies must comply with in order to want to cut down on animal-based products or live a vegan lifestyle, our new plant-based range is right for them. produce Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). When they are properly applied, these criteria can help to minimize the negative impact of palm oil cultivation on the environment and communities in palm oil-producing regions. In 2018, Emborg launched a sliced and shredded range that was developed to satisfy the demand for plant-based The RSPO has more than 1,700 members worldwide who represent all links along the palm oil supply chain. They alternatives, without compromising on ingredients, on nutrients or, most importantly, on taste. All our new planthave committed to produce, source and/or use sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. Totally 20% of palm oil based vegan products are free from lactose and gluten as well as being soy and nut free. globally is certified by RSPO (2015). Palm oil is used in some Uhrenholt products mainly because of excellent technical functionalities of palm oil in many food applications. We have in 2018 been mapping Uhrenholts use of palm oil in our products, and whether the used palm oil is RSPO or not. The work continues in 2019 where we will be working closely with our suppliers as our aim is to use Certified Sustainable Palm oil wherever possible. 24 25 TRANSPORT PREVENTING FOOD WASTE Uhrenholt has a huge focus on optimizing the transportation need and aim for using the most direct way to the Our Uhrenholt Industrial cheese department has for 40 years been specialized in supplying raw material for the customer, which gives the lowest impact on the environment with less CO2 emission. There is an increased processed cheese industry. This activity has developed from just a niche to a business area in which profitability focus on developing more environmental trucks, and the trucking companies we use must comply with the CO2 and sustainability go hand in hand. norm valid for the involved countries. We purchase cheeses packed for consumption or in blocks, that from one reason or the other have been downA big part of our volumes is shipped in containers by sea, and the vessel operators have a big focus on using fuel graded and prepare them for recirculation into the food product chain rather than being scraped for just minor dewith less climate impact, and further developing vessels which have a very low fuel consumption. fects. Heat treatment and all precautionary food safety actions are taken care of before it ends up as new cheese In a still increasing number of countries, the authorities are implementing rules demanding for the use of low powder or processed cheese products. sulphur fuel, with a lower climate impact. This makes the use of transport by sea even more environmentally friendly. 26 27 We believe in close partnerships and networks 28 29 GRØNDAL DAIRY Since 2012, Grøndal Dairy has maintained certification in concordance with FSSC 22.000. As a result of the certification and the work with continuous improvement of quality and food safety, the dairy has had success in: • Upgrading the whole organisation with knowledge and awareness on food safety • Signal that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date • Ensuring ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements The work continues towards improvements to maintain the highest food safety and quality of the products. We are constantly developing our cheese production facilities at Grøndal Dairy. Cheese production in 2018 increased with 10%. The Total CO2 increased with 3,2% because of the higher production, but a decrease of 6,5% pr. kg cheese, equals about 100 tons CO2. Waste is reduced with 20% (14 ton) and the recycled part has raised with 11%. Our greatest achievement in 2018 is our water consu mption, after 5 years of increase amount every year, we have reduced the total with about 5% RESULTS 2018 Production 2017 Production 2018 Cheese 4,331 m.t 4,769 m.t +10,1% Whey concentrate 6,997 m.t 7,993 m.t +14,2% Total use Total use Use 2018 vs. 2017 pr 2017 2018 kg cheese produced CO2 1,348 Mt 1,392 Mt 6,5% Electricity 2,983 Mwh 3,214 Mwh 1,6 % Gas 573,478 Nm3 562,008 Nm3 12,3 % Water 115,112 m3 109,356 m3 15,6% Waste 77,010 kg 60.260 kg 34,1% 30 31 BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS UHRENHOLT A/S IS AN PRINCIPLES AEO CERTIFIED COMPANY The core competence of Uhrenholt is the ability to source, sell, In December 2012, Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorized distribute and market food products in a way that respect all the Economic Operator (AEO). In 2017 our compliance has been reviewed and sustained by the Danish Tax Authorities. regulations and red tape that follows international food business. It is our promise to our stakeholders, partners, consumers and the The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all societies in which we operate, that we continuously develop our economic, custom and safety related operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all procedures to maintain this status. the common criteria regarding: Uhrenholt • security and safety standards Business The traditional skills required of the individual trader remain • record of compliance with customs requirements Principles – but every day the surrounding commercial world changes and • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, 2017 / 2018 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES FOR BUSINESS CONDUCT the administrative burden is increasing. To cope with this we our which allows appropriate customs controls WITHIN UHRENHOLT GROUP Uhrenholt Business Principles for internal use serves to frame • proven financial solvency and codify our key commercial rules and habits. To the benefit of our partners, the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in All together the Uhrenholt Business Principles concerns the way we care about our image, brands, employees, certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level, but in the long term it compliance, documents and not least our money. As new colleagues join our company across our global market will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with USA, China, Japan, Norway and Switzerthe Uhrenholt Business Principles also clearly define how we expect employees to behave, act and work together land. internally and externally. It is reviewed regularly and employees are urged to familiarize with those parts that are relevant in their specific position. Uhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in due time to face the future. Companies with AEO status are recognized as safe, secure and compliant business partners in international trade. CODE OF CONDUCT FRAUD FIGHTING As we operate in more than 80 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our business Unfortunately attempts of fraud and scam have become part of daily life in the international food sector trading. ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in daily deciTo combat these crimes and protect members and their partners against identity theft and fake companies sion making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have signed the Code of Conduct. Eucolait – the European organisation of trading companies in the dairy sector – has initiated a warning system. All members are strongly encouraged to share any information about fraud cases as quickly as possible with the Being a global trading company we inevitably also operate in a number of countries, that according to the corruption Eucolait secretariat for further distribution among the members. index developed by Transparency International, are high risk areas. However we care about choosing business partIn Uhrenholt we fully support these efforts. ners, whose business standards and ethics match ours and Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. There is a close link between the Uhrenholt Business Principles, our Code of Conduct and our Supplier Management 32 33 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT UHRENHOLT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS COVERS THE FOLLOWING ELEMENTS: FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE: • Compliance with laws and regulations UHRENHOLT COOPERATES WITH A GLOBAL NETWORK OF SUPPLIERS • Food safety management system It is crucial that our suppliers demonstrate professional care for our interests ensuring that products delivered to • Product specification Uhrenholt are safe and produced under secure and responsible conditions in all aspects. • Food contact packaging materials Therefore, our suppliers undergo critical risk assessment regarding food safety, quality assurance and corporate • Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) social responsibility including elements which are part of our AEO approval. • Irradiation • Allergens Risk assessment of suppliers is based on the following criteria: • Chemical, physical and microbiological contamination • Certificate of Conformance COC / Certificate of Analysis COA • Duly signed ”Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements” • Handling of claims • Level of food safety and quality assurance management at the supplier • Crisis management and recall/withdrawal of products • Food safety risk profile of the products to be produced by the supplier • Country of production CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: • Brands to be produced at the supplier / overall commercial impact for Uhrenholt • Human rights • Labour standards Based on risk assessment, onsite audit at the supplier’s production and storage facilities can take place by Uhren• Environment holt to ensure compliance with our requirements. • Workplace environment • Anti-corruption AUTHORISED ECONOMIC OPERATORS (AEO): • Secure premises and conditions • Reliable staff • Protection against unauthorised interference Uhrenholt prefers suppliers holding a food safety certificate approved by GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) like BRC Global Standard, IFS Food Standard, FSSC 22000, SQF 2000 level 2 and others. Suppliers not holding a food safety certificate approved by GFSI are required to answer the Uhrenholt Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire which could very well be followed by an onsite audit. The Uhrenholt supplier network is continuously developing and consequently the supplier risk assessment and approval process is ongoing. In 2019 our goal is to increase further the number of suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: Suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and 2016 2017 2018 passed our supplier risk assessment % of total number of suppliers measured on purchase value 75% 90% 92% % of the 100 suppliers measured on purchase value 86% 92% 95% % of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM 96% 97% 97% 34 35 CHARITY By tradition, Uhrenholt at Christmas time donate the money that otherwise would have been spent on presents to customers and business partners for a humanitarian purpose. The 2018 donation of 100.000 dkr went to Childrens Ark a relatively small nonprofit charity organization focusing on the needs of marginalized and vulnerable children in Trinidad & Tobago. Childrens Ark was founded in 2014 but is already well regarded in the Caribbean region, not least for its efforts against trafficking. 36 37 PROGRESS 2018 FOCUS AREA ACTIVITY AND GOAL 2017 RESULT 2017 Labor/Human rights Define and begin implementation incl. leadership Global HR-strategy development, competence development, talent management and succession planning Allowing university students and recent graduInternships ates the possibility for shorter or longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices Environment/Climate Reduced Co2 Review the 2020 environment goals and action emissions, water Grøndal Dairy plan after the implementation of our whey conuse and waste centration plant production pr kg cheese Further develop our organic assortment in dairy Organic and frozen vegetables. Vegan Launch our assortment of dairy free alternatives Business Ethics Written catalogue evaluated and maintained Uhrenholt Business Principles annually AEO certificate Recertification and audition accomplished Partnership Development 92% of the total number of suppliers (75% in 2016) 95% of the top 100 suppliers measured Further improve the score of suppliers who have on purchase value Supplier Management signed and perform in accordance with the Uhr(92% in 2016) enholt Supplier requirements 97% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM (96% in 2016) The annual Christmas donation was given to ChilDonation drens Ark, Trinidad & Tobago 38 39 C00152 CSR 2018, English, Print and layout 03/2019 THANKS The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2018 CSR report. Special thanks to Christa Desberg for again giving assistance to complete the report THE CSR TEAM 2018: Kate Bonne Larsen (Group HR), Mette Møller Sørensen (Quality Assurance), Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading), Anette Gjørtsvang Kock (Legal and Risk Management), Edgar Marchl (Procurement), Jørgen Jeppe Hansen (Transport), Malene Kjær (Marketing) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading, editor). Uhrenholt A/S | Teglgårdsparken 106 | DK-5500 Middelfart | Denmark +45 64 41 40 41 | Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 | info@uhrenholt.com | uhrenholt.com
