ABOUT THE REPORT Our yearly Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report serves as an all-inclusive instrument to disclose a balanced overview of sustainability matters related to our business; describing our progress toward sustainability and corporate governance topics which are of increasing interest to our stakeholders. Our reporting reflects the requirements set by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. It constitutes Fransabank’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) reporting on the progress we have made in implementing the ten principles of the UNGC and disclosing facts and figures within our commitment and pledge to the six selected Sustainable Development Goals with their corresponding targets. Moreover, we have enriched our 2018 Report with additional key performance indicators; some of them spanning over a period of three years for an improved measurement of progress. We aim to provide the most relevant sustainability information to all concerned parties, and are committed to continually improving our reporting and disclosure. We welcome and value your feedback and suggestions, which help All recording and performance data are improve our reporting. restricted to information on Fransabank SAL – the parent company of Fransabank Group, unless stated otherwise. Likewise, all data included in this Report is for the 2018 Contact calendar year unless otherwise specified. Mrs. May Jabbour Rihan The report adds up to Fransabank’s yearly Head of CSR reports, along with Fransabank Annual Report 2018 which provides detailed information Ms. Camille Saadé related to our financial results and risk Senior CSR officer management practices. In addition, we encourage stakeholders to visit our CSR Email: csr@fransabank.com. microsite http://csr.fransabank.com/ to keep up with our sustainability achievements. Fransabank Center, Hamra Str. Beirut, Lebanon FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 0-1 Contents 2 Message from the Chairmen 4 Fransabank at a Glance 7 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 7 Our CSR Strategy 8 Contributing to the SDGs 9 Involvement in Sustainable Initiatives 10 Engaging with Stakeholders 12 Assessing Materiality 14 2018... In a Nutshell Our Responsibility in Banking 20 Commitment to Good Corporate Governance 22 Managing Risk 24 Business Ethics 27 Protecting our Bank’s and Customers’ Information Our Responsibility for the Economy 30 Responsible Lending 31 Financial Inclusion 38 Customer Experience 41 Suppliers’ Management Our Responsibility for the Environment 44 Sustainable Financing 53 Championing SDG 13 – Climate Action 54 Our Approach to Minimizing our Impact Our Responsibility as an Employer 60 Equal Employment Opportunities 61 Diversity & Inclusion 64 Learning & Development 66 Enriching our Employees’ Loyalty 67 Employees’ Engagement Our Responsibility towards the Communities 75 Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 80 A Culture on the Go 82 An Aspiring Society Supplementary Information 86 Select Awards & Recognitions 88 Our Contribution to the Selected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 91 Linking the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards with the SDGs & UNGC 10 Principles 98 Corporate Code of Conduct & Professional Ethics 99 Information Security Message from the Chairmen Given our Bank’s solid shared, as stakeholders believe strategic partnerships, financial performance and regulated in our role in developing an support, and contributions to framework, we, at Fransabank, impact based business with cultural and social development. consider ourselves responsible a focus on inclusion and Furthermore, we strongly believe to reproduce our achievement sustainability. that our employees’ engagement and momentum across the is vital for greater impact and Lebanese economy by means As such, our microfinance and first-class performance. of what banks do best: lend and small and medium enterprises invest. It was in this context that financing approach are set Believing in the unique our commitment to Corporate to drive inclusive growth and opportunity to connect Social Responsibility grew help people advance in their purposeful capital with and turned to be an explicit society. Our sustainable energy impactful projects, we work choice seeking to generate finance initiative limits the on creating further value opportunities for all. impacts on climate change for our clients, society and by the investments we make ourselves. Therefore, we are Our plans and approaches are and the credits we grant. Our keen to include sustainability the result of the continuous support to youth financial as a value proposition in every involvement with our various education and inclusion helps relevant business line. In 2018, stakeholders, including empower the future generation we renewed our commitment customers, shareholders, to achieve their full potential, to spreading financial inclusion regulators, non-profits as well and reduce socioeconomic in Lebanon by signing two as employees. In fact, many disparities. Moreover, our additional credit lines; the priorities are unanimously social commitments include first one being an EBRD FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 2-3 Adnan Kassar | Chairman Adel Kassar | Deputy Chairman Trade Facilitation Programme international agreements. We, at Fransabank, have worth USD 50 million to fund We continuously oversee our always been ready to contribute international and intra-regional core activities to be aligned and offer our resources and trade in Lebanon, and a with the ten principles of the expertise, believing that true second USD 18 million credit United Nations Global Compact progress can only be conceived line extended by PROPARCO and help advance the UN 17 through collaboration. We to support companies in Sustainable Development Goals. are profoundly grateful to the difficult economic context. On Yet, our focus goes further as support of Fransabank family; the environmental level, our we have chosen to capitalize on it is thanks to their dedication, Sustainable Energy Finance our know-how and contribute in diligence and expertise that we strategy was further developed specific to six SDGs targeting: are making a real difference for by introducing, for the first time SDG 4 Quality Education, our societies. in the Levant region, Green SDG 5 Gender Equality, SDG 8 Bonds exclusively dedicated to Decent Work and Economic In this report, we provide you finance climate projects with Growth, Industry, SDG 9 with a comprehensive review of positive environmental impact. Innovation and Infrastructure, our CSR progress, its implication The latter was assessed by SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and within and beyond our business, Moody’s and was given an Communities, and of course and how it is creating long-term “Excellent” rating. SDG 13 Climate Action. values for our clients and society. Furthermore, in 2018, we have Our commitment to a been selected as a national goal responsible business also leader for SDG 13 by the Global includes endorsing strategic Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL). Sincerely, Adel Kassar Adnan Kassar Deputy Chairman Chairman Fransabank at a Glance A customer-focused banking model At Fransabank Group, we have a broad understanding of our duties as a financial services provider, member of society and employer. We believe that our responsible approach to business and the dedication and expertise of our 3,381 employees are key factors in determining our long-term success. We serve more than 422,588 customers, with a clear customer focused approach, accountability and community care. We work on building strong and durable partnerships with our clienteles, business partners, as well as social associates. We contribute to society as a financial intermediary, taxpayer, and through our social initiatives, which makes us a responsible player in our communities. Our essense Vision Mission We aspire to be the leading We are determined to be a leading financial institution within both banking group, the trusted the local and regional markets, while providing quality services to our partner and the responsible customers, through innovative, cutting edge, and value added banking contributor in the communities services and financial solutions. To achieve our mission, we are we serve. committed to: • C  onsolidating and expanding our presence in selective regional and international markets • A  dopting and implementing the highest international banking and finance norms, standards, corporate governance, and diligent compliance practices • E  xceeding our customers’ expectations, and fulfilling their needs and demands • S  triving for a distinguished quality service to our existing and potential customers • P  romoting within our Group, professional development, quality performance, decision-making and teamwork • G  enerating increasing value for our shareholders in a dynamic manner and on solid sustainable grounds • A  ligning responsible business practices and social investments, in order to create long-term value and sustainability for our Group along with its respective communities. Values Integrity Loyalty Credibility Accountability Transparency Gaining the trust Showing devotion Demonstrating Taking Providing our of our customers, and faithfulness high level of responsibility for customers with colleagues to our institution trustworthiness all our actions. all relevant and other and our and expertise in information stakeholders customers. all what we do. regarding their by embracing rights and duties. moral and ethical principles. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 4-5 Shareholders Main Holders of Common Shares as at March, 2019 PERCENT (1) Adnan Kassar 39.81 Adel Kassar 39.81 Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) (2) 5.00 Al-Fadl Holdings Limited 2.70 The Public Institution for Social Security – Kuwait 2.00 Others (3) 10.68 TOTAL SHAREHOLDING 100 (1) Percent of total share capital consisting of 21,925,000 Common Shares as at 31.03.2019 (2) DEG is one of Germany’s top development and investment banks. DEG is owned by Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau KfW, which, in turn, is owned by the German Government. (3) Each with less than 2% Our global presence Founded in 1921, Fransabank Group has, today, the largest branch network in Lebanon, with 126 branches spread across the country; in PRODUCTS & SERVICES addition to a total of 17 banking and non-banking subsidiaries and associates in the same market. With strong local roots, the Group’s operations extend to reach seven foreign countries, namely France, RETAIL BANKING Algeria, Belarus, Sudan, Iraq, the UAE, and the Ivory Coast. These • SME Financing bridges to the world exemplify our customer-focused banking model as • Payment Cards we always try to reach our customers wherever established. • Accounts • Loans • Saving & Insurance • Micro Credits Our aspiration Fransabank Group • E-services • Special Services Financial Highlights Through a close cooperation at the end of between all our specialized core December 31, 2018 CORPORATE BANKING business lines, we reaffirmed • Working Capital Financing our aspiration to helping • Medium & Long Term Loans customers achieve all their Total Assets • Structured Finance USD 23.61 personal and business potentials • Syndicated Loans – as stated in our brand • Trade Finance • Overdrafts signature “Tomorrow Starts billion • Leasing Services “Lebanese Now”. We do so by offering Leasing Company SAL” wide-ranging services involving • Real Estate “Société Générale day-to-day banking, loans, Net Profit Foncière SAL” savings products, insurance, corporate and investment banking, USD 174 private banking and asset million INVESTMENT BANKING management, leasing services, in 2018 Financial Advisory as well as correspondence • Mergers & Acquisitions banking. Moreover, we strongly • Equity Capital Markets believe in our employees’ ability Total Customers’ • Private Investments Deposits • Corporate Equity/Debt to drive customer loyalty and business growth by bringing in personalized customer USD 17.02 Advisory • Re-Organization experiences. billion • Balance Sheet Re-Structuring Equity & Debt Financing Our CSR commitment, which is • Corporate & Project Financing Net Loans and Advances • Syndicated Financing based on five focus areas, is a to Customers • Feasibility Studies key factor contributing to overall performance and innovation USD 6.74 • Legal & Financial Due Diligence • Debt/Equity Structuring driver. We trust the necessity of billion • Equity Placements a well-integrated CSR strategy • Debt Settlement Arrangement to create shareholder value and build a stronger impact in our community. PRIVATE BANKING / ASSET MANAGEMENT • Advisory • Wealth Management • Capital Market/Brokerage • Structured Products • Research FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 6-7 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Approach A chosen commitment to our society For Fransabank, Corporate Social Responsibility is about setting the directions for how to build greater financial confidence, improve access to financial services and integrate sustainability in our core business while creating sustainable values for all stakeholders. Consequently, our CSR strategy is being applied through a holistic approach by: 1 CONCENTRATING 2 BUILDING A DEEP 3 FINDING OUR UNDERSTANDING THE CSR EFFORTS OF THE BENEFITS RIGHT PARTNERS Greatest opportunities lie Beside selecting the areas When selecting partners, we where our business of opportunities, the key aim for a win-win scenario significantly interacts, which remains in finding and a long-term relationship, generates the greatest symmetries between our which would lead to greater impact. Thus, we address the Bank and community and opportunities of success and core long-term needs of our having open and objective sustainability. stakeholders and the critical views on issues, from both areas of our business having our business and social an added-value impact on perspectives. society. Our CSR strategy Our essence FRANSABANK VISION, VALUES, STRATEGIC MISSION Our aim NATIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH AND FINANCIAL STABILITY Corporate Economic Human Social CSR 5 main pillars Governance Development Environment Capital Commitment Manage the Financial Support Promote diversity Secure youth business risks Inclusion within responsible and inclusion in financial a responsible investment in the workplace education and Provide an ethical framework the transition inclusion business to a low-carbon Advance career environment Support financial economy development Endorse cultural investment and continuous and social Protect with a positive Reduce the education initiatives customers’ socio-economic environmental information impact impact of our Responsible Reduce social internal employment inequalities via Ethical relations operations management and corporate with customers, staff engagement philanthropy build long-term Spread awareness relationships to the general public and share best practices The effective implementation implicated and interested society and align our activities of our five CSR pillars is, first, stakeholders. It follows that, we with international commitments. the concern of all our Bank’s depict our actions’ effects and We recognize the importance of divisions, departments and measure their impacts, whenever international allegiances that branches as they are expected possible, strongly believing in assist businesses in operating to engage, on common grounds, our investments enduring socioresponsibly, thus we endorse: to achieve a higher level of environmental and economic the United Nations Global accountability and engagement. power. Compact 10 principles and the Thenceforth, a systematic UN 17 Sustainable Development follow-up and monitoring Equally, the integration of these Goals to challenge poverty, process is necessary as we strategic pillars in our core inequality, climate change and constantly report to our top business is key in ensuring other societal issues that affect management as well as to that we manage our impact on us and our planet. Contributing to the SDGs Being aware of the impact of Moreover, as much as we and Infrastructure, our core activities as well as our contribute to a variety of SDGs Goal 11 Sustainable Cities role as a financial institution through our CSR approach, we and Communities, and that connects businesses, civil have chosen to advance and Goal 13 Climate Action. A society, capital markets, and focus on specific six SDGs, which broader description of authorities, we acknowledge our we believe are directly related to Fransabank’s contribution to responsibility in advancing the our strategy: Goal 4 Quality the six chosen SDGs is reflected UN 17 Sustainable Development Education, Goal 5 Gender on page 88; specifying each Goals (SDGs). Equality, Goal 8 Decent Work goal’s targets we have been and Economic Growth, addressing through our policies Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and initiatives. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 8-9 Involvement in Sustainable Initiatives UN Global Compact (UNGC) Fransabank became an active participant in the UN Global Compact in 2013, the first Bank in Lebanon to adhere to the UNGC, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. It supports companies do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with 10 principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption; and take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation. Business for Peace (B4P) Fransabank became a signatory of the Business for Peace (a platform launched by the UN Global Compact), in 2014, believing in its aim to expand and deepen private sector action in support of peace in the workplace, marketplace and local communities. B4P assists companies in implementing responsible business practices aligned with the Global Compact 10 principles in conflict-affected and high-risk areas and catalyze action to advance peace. UN Global Compact (UNGC) Network Lebanon Fransabank joined the Steering Committee of the Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) in 2017, which is composed of leading organizations spanning various industries and sectors across Lebanon. Acting as the Lebanese national chapter of the UNGC, it encourages participants to mainstream the Global Compact’s 10 principles in their daily activities and report on their implementation; while also mobilizing businesses, civil society organizations, and local authorities to work together towards the achievement of the SDGs and the UN 2030 Agenda. Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) Fransabank is a signatory to Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) initiative; attending their annual Business Knowledge Platform. In 2017, we received a token of appreciation for our active engagement in supporting Lebanon’s overall reduction of carbon emissions and pollution. LCA aims at generating economic growth by dealing with climate change challenges, and catalyzing the involvement of the private sector in the wider climate change community. Engaging with Stakeholders Generating long-term values for our shareholders, employees, customers, and the society at large, requires us, as a Bank, to continuously engage with stakeholders through focused dialogues; welcoming their diverse views. As such, we are keen on updating our talks on a yearly basis, directing them each and every time on different aspects and through different communication means. Our efforts are described in this report. Below, we provide a comprehensive listing of our stakeholders’ main interests and engagement tools. SHAREHOLDERS Main areas of interest • Corporate governance and risk management • Financial performance • Compliance • Customer satisfaction • Responsible marketing CUSTOMERS Forms of communication • General meetings Main areas of interest • Regulatory announcements • Customer satisfaction and service • Financial disclosures quality • Presentation of the CSR • Customer value proposition/ achievements to the Board of long-term benefits of dealing with Directors Fransabank • Annual & CSR Reports • Responsible marketing Forms of communication EMPLOYEES • Satisfaction surveys • One-to-one meetings • Workshops and conferences • Financial consumer protection Main areas of interest • Delivery channels (branches, call REGULATORY • Diversity & equal opportunity center, e-banking, mobile banking, AUTHORITIES • Training & development social media, email…) • Employee engagement • Reward expertise and commitment Main areas of interest • Employee well-being • Governance and risk management • Financial performance Forms of communication • Compliance • One-to-one meeting • Consumer protection and responsible • Focus groups marketing • Regular communication campaigns • Customer privacy/data security via intranet, e-mails, e-newsletters • Surveys Forms of communication • Publications • Systematic reporting • Trainings & workshops • Meetings and conferences • Performance reviews • Lobbying activities • Industry associations • Periodic audits • Economic bulletin & market index • Annual & CSR Reports FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 10-11 THE MEDIA, INTEREST GROUPS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES Main areas of interest • Responsible marketing • Community investment and impact on society • Environmental/Social criteria included in lending activities SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Forms of communication • Strategic collaborations • In-person meetings Main areas of interest • Financial support & collaboration • Community investment and impact • Employee volunteering on society • Social events & conferences • Environmental/Social criteria • Social media BUSINESS PARTNERS included in lending activities • Internal environmental impact • Publications, press releases, media AND SUPPLIERS monitoring management Main areas of interest Forms of communication • Environmental and social impact • Meetings of partnerships • Annual conferences • Fair procurement practices • Events • Labour practices/rights • Social media • Anti-competitive behavior • CSR reports Forms of communication • Meetings • Business feedback • Project meetings • Quality controls of products and services • E-mail communication Assessing Materiality Following our stakeholder feedback and industry trends and As part of this process, anonymous engagement approach, we come reports, while also monitoring interviews were conducted with up with a materiality matrix developments through stakeholders’ 161 corporate clients, a CSR offering a snapshot of the surveys, dialogues and market survey engaged 133 Lebanese corporate responsibility issues researches. This helps us students and a Strengths, that are considered to be of the understand the issues that Weaknesses, Opportunities, highest importance and therefore matter the most to our stakeholders and Threats (SWOT) study was are included in this year’s report. and to our business. considered with 162 staff These are issues that influence feedback (all three projects are our stakeholders’ opinions and In 2018, we assumed three further discussed in the relevant decisions about Fransabank as different surveys and research chapters). One of the main well as issues that represent a targeting selected internal objectives of these surveys was significant business risk or stakeholders (employees) and to depict the topics of highest opportunity for us. Beyond external stakeholders (clients importance and determine which considering economic and social and youth) to reevaluate the previous material issues are still developments and impact, we issues that are material to us. the most relevant to both external regularly analyze stakeholders’ and internal stakeholders. We followed our three-step process that involves the identification, prioritization and review of material topics to come up with the most relevant issues that should be further tackled in this report: IDENTIFICATION We identify aspects for each stakeholder group. We evaluate each issue according We group and prioritize the PRIORITIZATION to its more general social, issues according to relevance for environmental and economic impact. both stakeholders and the Bank. We adjust the materiality matrix We share the matrix with our REVIEW using the the engagement tools senior management for outcomes. approval. It is important to note that all issues on the matrix — regardless of where they fall — are significant to Fransabank. These issues were drawn from a broader set of potential areas, many of which were judged of lesser importance to be tackled in the short-term. We grouped topics into five aspects: Governance, Economy, Environment, Human Resources and Communities. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 12-13 MATERIALITY MATRIX While our 2018 materiality • Transparency, governance & issues that have impact inside assessment revealed relatively compliance and outside Fransabank. It is similar issues and priorities as • Data security & privacy clear that CSR activities address in 2017 and 2016, the wording of • Ethical conduct a number of social issues with some indicators has been edited • Financial inclusion different targets and objectives. following the outcome of the • Responsible lending It is worth noting that the material previously mentioned surveys. • Economic growth aspects discussed throughout We believe the updated • Customer satisfaction the report are relevant for terminologies are clearer and • Climate change financing Fransabank SAL operations, more precise. Meanwhile, two • Sustainable investments whereas, Fransabank Group aspects have been removed from • Diversity & equal opportunity local and overseas subsidiaries the matrix, as per our stakeholders’ • Employees training & activities are not discussed. feedback, which are the ‘child development labour’ and ‘regulations’. The • Youth financial education & Finally, our materiality assessment ‘child labour’ was removed as inclusion exercise is being updated and it was deemed not applicable fine-tuned every year as we to the banking industry; Knowing that each stakeholder constantly engage with our ‘regulations’ was merged with is differently affected depending stakeholders to come up with the ‘transparency, governance on the material issue, we had to the solutions that best serve & compliance’ issues. Thus, the draw boundaries for each issue. them while still benefiting the most material issues are: Boundaries helped identify the business. 2018… In a Nutshell Corporate Governance Spreading Financial Inclusion across Lebanon Sound corporate governance Microfinance practices implemented for Supporting microenterprises since 2007, we invested more than maintaining governance structures, policies and processes that best serve USD 49.1 million in the changing needs of employees, clients and the community over 23,758 micro entrepreneurs by end-2018 Our Integrity, Fairness, Women entrepreneurs constitute 41% of our portfolio with an investment of Transparency, and around USD 2.78 million in 2018 Accountability contribute to solid long-term relationships with Young entrepreneurs aged between 18 and 30 years old constitute 33% all stakeholders of our portfolio with an investment of around Risk management framework seeks to ensure that there is an USD 2.31 million in 2018 35.4% of micro finance are directed to the commerce sector effective process in place to manage risks across the Bank and that emphasizes the importance of integrity, maintaining high quality 1,562 jobs were created in 2018 staff and public accountability 5,347 jobs were sustained at end 2018 Ethical Business Non-performing microcredits ratio in 2018 PAR > 90 days 1.45% We operate in accordance with the SMEs highest ethical standards and in Fransabank became the first issuing bank in Lebanon under full compliance with all applicable the EBRD’s Trade Facilitation Programme (TFP) with a anti-money laundering, financing of terrorism and corruption laws and USD 50 million trade finance line; supporting international and intra-regional trade in Lebanon regulations In 2018, USD 18 million credit line was extended by PROPARCO with the purpose of backing companies that are operating in a difficult local 1,006 employees economic context completed The total outstanding amount of SME loans reached more than 3,289 compliance USD 615.45 million as end-2018 training hours Equity Participation Our workforce abide by a wellFransabank & Fransa Invest Bank are committed to 6 Venture Capital (VC) funds developed Code of Business Conduct and Professional Accessible Homeownership Ethics 10,290 housing loans granted for a total value of We are committed to respect human rights in line with the USD 850.23 million as end-2018 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Lebanese Labour Law, Customer Service and the Collective Labour Agreement Security standards and customers’ We scored 8/10 on the corporate customer satisfaction survey; with a information protection are a top sector average satisfaction rate of 7.2 priority 92% of corporate clients did not face problems when dealing with Fransabank We are keen on supporting customers facing difficulties in loan payments by the use of continuous counseling and adapted options FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 14-15 Leading Bank in Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) 1st Bank to Introduce Green Bonds in Lebanon Total SEF projects reached USD 120 million for a total and the Levant Region of 175 projects subdivided into: Green Bonds are instrumental in > Energy efficiency projects, further developing climate > Green building projects, financing. They are exclusively > Renewable energy projects. allocated to projects with positive environmental impact We employ an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in our lending process Moody’s assessed the operation and has given it an “Excellent” We act as the national Goal Leader of SDG 13 – Climate Action in rating (the highest rating possible Lebanon in 2018 on this type of transaction) We adopted the Lebanese Water Stewardship, a USAID funded program, The IFC and EBRD invested creating awareness on the importance of water management and treatment respectively Ongoing Partnerships USD 45 million and USD 15 million in Fransabank Green Bonds – series 1, giving a vote of confidence to Green Finance at Fransabank and in Lebanon 43 projects for more than USD 38.2 million were financed via our Green Bonds Minimizing Environmental Impact Energy saved reached 7,231,995 (kWhe/year) 25.67 tons annual reduction of CO2 emissions at the Headquarters Greenhouse gas emissions reduction totaled Energy consumption was reduced 30% to 40% 4,707.3 tons of CO2 Water intake was reduced by 3 million Liters Award 2019 Green Bond Pioneer 12% annual increase in e-banking users, reaching 64,301 users Award from the Climate Bonds Initiative 76 tons of paper were recycled in 2018 1.4 tons of plastics were recycled in 2018 Certificate of Acknowledgement for our Headquarters greenhouse gas emissions reporting as well as our leadership in climate change awareness, granted by the Ministry of Environment Valuing the Human Capital Gender Inclusion Internship Program 47% of employees are women 202 students 45% of new recruits are women were welcomed in the 2018 Internship Summer Program; benefiting from 55% of senior management position are women 240 hours of 53% of middle management position are women practical experience Employees’ Loyalty Employees’ Engagement 2.23% Turnover rate 568 47.7% employees’ seniority with over 10 years of service employees donated to the Children 100% return to work rate after parental leave Cancer Center of Lebanon a total amount of 100% of senior managers are hired from the local community USD 399,609 at end-2018 Training & Development 40 1,113 employees received specialized trainings in 2018; being 64% of employees from branches and departments were involved in a the workforce; an average of bonding activity (enriching team58.5 hours/employee work spirit, drive responsibility and creative thinking) in 2018 Fransabank Lebanese financial regulation exam coverage ratio reached 700 62.5% at the end-2018 employees are enrolled in Fransabank Amicale Club at end-2018 Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats Survey 320 employees , with 5 to 8 years of service at Fransabank, took part 205 mothers of children aged up to 12 years old, in the SWOT survey; with a 51% response rate benefited from a special working schedule Respondent acknowledged Fransabank’s sound reputation, legacy and wide-ranging presence, conservative approach to risk management, customer oriented approach, and CSR strategy; while, pointing out the need for less centralization of procedures and further tech-oriented products 1,344 employees’ children benefited from the support of schooling fees reaching over USD 2.9million in 2018 FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 16-17 Committed to Youth Financial Education Community Investment 558 teens were financially informed, in 2018, via We invested more than Fransabank Big Bank Challenge game a financial literacy cards game targeting adolescences wishing to develop USD 855 basic understanding of banking products and services thousands to over 80 selected organizations 250 students from 6 Lebanese schools participated in covering education, art & culture, and social & health initiatives Global Money Week 2018 an annual financial awareness movement built to educate the youth about money matters Engage with communities through partnerships or corporate We engaged with all participating students to come up with a CSR survey; philanthropy, in such fields as focusing on what matters most to the Lebanese youth; response rate culture, social entrepreneurship, reached 60% education, integration, as well as preservation of natural and In collaboration with INJAZ, the “I Camp Business Challenge” was held historical heritage helping attending USJ students gain insights into the complexities and rewards of entrepreneurship while being assisted by Fransabank corporate banking employees. The best team was granted a job shadow day at Fransabank 1st Lebanese Bank to introduce the Practical Banking Course as a one credit course at the Lebanese American University (LAU) Educational loans total outstanding amount reached around the c/v of USD 20.01 million as end-2018 OUR RESPONSIBILITY IN BANKING Sound governance, comprehensive risk management and operational excellence are the fundamental seeds to corporate success and continuity. Acting as our starting points, these principals have turned Fransabank into a committed financial partner with best-in-class governance practices, transparent policies and regulations, as well as accountable mechanisms and standards; thus delivering self-assurance to all its stakeholders. Commitment to Good Corporate Governance Fransabank is committed to Our aim is to standardize the implement sound corporate governance practices across governance practices by all entities and to strengthen maintaining governance structures, governance and control culture to policies and processes that best ensure that the implementation serve the changing needs of its of good corporate governance employees, clients and the is embedded at the Group level, community, with the goals to thus promoting a culture of deliver sustainable values to integrity, diversity and ethical shareholders, enhance its conduct across the Bank. relationship with stakeholders and increase public confidence. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 20-21 Corporate Governance level of transparency, integrity, Board of Directors Framework fairness and accountability and helps in disseminating a strong Fransabank’s Board of Directors Our corporate governance governance culture within the comprises twelve members, framework is set out in the Bank by setting the ‘tone at the elected by the Ordinary General corporate governance code. top’. Assembly in accordance with the The code delineates a corporate stipulations of the Bank’s by-laws governance framework in line Governance Structure and the Lebanese Code of with the regulatory requirements Commerce. They are appointed and international best practices Our governance structure, aims for a period of 3 years and can and sets the grounds for other to provide an efficient framework be re-elected. governance policies and charters for the assignment of responsibility which are therefrom periodically and accountability and is designed The nomination and selection updated to cope with the evolution in a way that facilitates a clearly process of Board members is of the regulatory framework and defined decision-making process. governed by certain criteria and to best serve the changing needs It includes the General Assembly conditions, as stipulated in the of our stakeholders. of shareholders; the Board of ‘Board Members Succession Directors; the Chairman; the Plan’. Fransabank’s corporate Deputy Chairman; the various governance framework promotes committees, control functions; a commitment to the highest the external auditors; general and senior management and the business and support functions. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board consists in its majority Management other. Such conflicts may arise of non-executive members and between: is supported, in carrying out General and senior management (i) the interests of customers on its oversight duties, by Board execute their responsibilities, the one hand and the interests of committees that are chaired by supported by specialized the Bank or its related parties or independent members, namely management committees, to its employees on the other, the Corporate Governance ensure a proper segregation of (ii) the interests of a customer on Committee, the Board Risk duties and separation of functions, the one hand and the interest of Committee, the Audit Committee, promoting an effective internal another customer on the other. the Remuneration Committee control framework and ensuring and the Anti-Money Laundering/ a proper management of any The Bank will always strive to Combating the Financing of potential conflict of interest, have in place (i) preventive Terrorism (AML/CFT) Board including transactions with measures to avoid operations Committee. Additional information related parties. that would create material related to Board members and Board conflicts of interest as well as committees are published on the Bank’s (ii) an effective organizational website and in its Annual Report. Managing Conflicts and administrative framework, covering all hierarchical levels, of Interest The Board of Directors elects for dealing with conflicts of the Chairman from among its interest. Fransabank has a policy for members. As per the Lebanese managing conflicts of interest laws, the Chairman is also the that sets the ‘Tone at the Top’ in General Manager, who provides terms of the principles to abide Managing Risk leadership to the Board and by to prevent and manage is responsible for the Board’s Fransabank is charged with conflicts of interest. effective overall functioning. carrying out the duties of a commercial bank in the interests A conflict of interest is a situation of stakeholders, all the more where different parties have emphasized by being one of the interests that conflict with each largest banking groups in the country and contributing to the financial stability. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 22-23 The Board of Directors Key components of risk governance In that respect, Fransabank acknowledges that one of its include risk culture and risk faces a broad range of risks primary objectives is to explicitly appetite. The risk management including those resulting from enforce the collective oversight framework seeks to ensure that its core activities, mainly and risk governance responsibilities there is an effective process in customers’ deposit taking, lending in line with the adopted risk place to manage risks across and running of complex payment management framework. the Bank and that emphasizes and IT systems to support its the importance of integrity, day-to-day operational activities. maintaining high quality staff and public accountability. Fransabank operates in full compliance with all relevant local laws and regulations. We value highly our reputation as a responsible and ethical operator in the financial industry. RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk Management Processes Include Business Ethics Anti-Corruption, • Making sure that appropriate Anti-Money Laundering, Know Your Customer (KYC) due Being an integrated element in diligence procedures are applied Countering Financing our core values, compliance is at the onset of the relationship of Terrorism, and Tax with the customer and renewed a shared responsibility amongst all Fransabank employees. Our Information Exchange at every material change in sound corporate governance (FATCA and CRS) related data. structure was at the origin of • Undertaking a close monitoring building up an effective compliance Fransabank’s Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Financing on accounts’ movements and culture; believing in its necessity of Terrorism Policy includes daily executed transactions to to ensure a substantial customer procedures for customer due ensure their consistency with the experience. diligence, reporting, record customers’ net-worth status and keeping, internal controls, risk their economic activity reflected Fransabank has a great management and communications in the KYC form; and accordingly responsibility and a substantial that are intended to prevent handling system-generated role to play in combating illegal activities and crimes. alerts showing any deviation financial crime, thus the continued Such illegal activities and crimes between mentioned and actual development of a strong have been expanded by the Law account activity. In this context, compliance culture will remain No. 44 which was promulgated in Fransabank has acquired ORACLE’s a priority for us. Accordingly, November 2015, to cover crimes state-of-the-art software for we manage our business activities like human trafficking, tax Financial Crime Compliance based on internationally evasion, extortion, bribes, and Management to be at the forefront recognized principles of corporate corruption. Over and above the of compliance with local and responsibility. As an accountable duty of the AML/CFT Compliance International standards, rules Bank, the way in which we Department to monitor and and regulations, and be a conduct our business is as report these activities, it is the market leader in managing and important as our financial duty of every bank manager to eradicating the risks of money performance. We go all-out to take organizational measures to laundering, financing of terrorism, maintain a rigorous compliance, ensure the compliance requirement fraud and corruption. a culture of ethics and integrity, and secured information in order is respected within his area of • Performing a daily screening of to inspire trust in our business. responsibility. Adequate training the customers’ names against and coaching is thus provided, to local watch and sanctions lists enhance the compliance culture published by the Special Investigation across the Bank. Preventing Money Commission as well as those Laundering, Financing published by international bodies Furthermore, specific policies on including UN, OFAC, EU, HM of Terrorism, and dealing with corruption and Treasury, and Interpol. Corruption bribery are applied, as well as a complete sanctions program • Applying strict control measures While, the financial sector fights aiming at being in full compliance on wire transfers prior to processing financial crime in close dialogue with international standards and them to make sure that the payment with the relevant authorities, we, requirements. As such, all our is not directly or indirectly in at Fransabank, collaborate with employees are constantly called relation with sanctioned countries, them on potential and actual to strictly comply with Anti-Money individuals, entities, goods, vessels money laundering cases as we Laundering (AML), Combatting and ports. are committed to conducting Financing of Terrorism (CFT), business in accordance with the • Conducting an Enhanced Due Sanctions, Tax Information highest ethical standards and in Diligence (EDD) on high risk Exchange (FATCA & CRS) and full compliance with all applicable customers, such as: General Data Protection Regulation anti-money laundering, financing (GDPR) procedures in force as Politically Exposed Persons of terrorism and corruption laws for: (PEP) and regulations. To that effect, Off-shore companies Fransabank has in place written • Conducting a periodic review of Non-profits organizations policies, procedures and internal the AML/CFT, sanctions, antiPrecious stone dealers controls reasonably designed to bribery and corruption, FATCA, Embassies comply with local and international Common Reporting Standard, Casinos rules and regulations. and the EU’s GDPR policies and High cash income professions. procedures to ensure compliance with the updated related requirements. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 24-25 Compliance Training Corporate Banking Division Our Corporate Code of Conduct Quality Service Unit and Professional Ethics reinforces Common Reporting Standards International Banking Division the message that adherence to (CRS), fraud prevention, antiInspection Department our core values and principles is money laundering and terrorist Compliance Department every employee’s responsibility financing, professional secrecy, and that we each have an conflicts of interest and ethics, Keeping our employees well obligation to: anti-bribery and corruption, and updated about changes in laws Apply the values and principles sanctions requirements as well and regulations related to expressed in our Code in as customer protection and business is therefore crucial everything we do and where we satisfaction are the topics for an increase in transparency, operate tackled during our compliance uniformity and standardization Conduct business in a transparent, training sessions. across the Bank, whether in prudent and dependable manner work methods or in the quality of Take responsibility and hold To keep up with regular changes the services offered. each other accountable and help our employees stay R aise concerns and ask informed about the latest questions. regulations and international Valuing our Bank’s requirements, frequent trainings Corporate Code Certainly, we take a zeroare to be completed by our workforce. of Conduct & tolerance approach to bribery In 2018, 1,006 employees (from Professional Ethics and corruption; thus, protecting Fransabank SAL, Fransa Invest our reputation, and safeguarding Bank SAL – the investment arm A corporate code of conduct is shareholders’ trust, reducing of Fransabank and the Lebanese essential for any organization, risks, and securing our assets. Leasing Company SAL – the not only because it provides a leasing arm of Fransabank) framework for what is expected completed 3,289 compliance from employees but because it training hours. also promotes ethics, honesty and professionalism within our Bank and among our employees. In 2018, our Corporate Code of Conduct and Professional Ethics was coupled with the releasing of 1,006 our new Human Rights Policy. employees completed The main objectives of Fransabank Corporate Code of Conduct and 3,289 Professional Ethics are: compliance training hours -T  o establish a common in 2018 understanding of the standards of behavior expected of all employees Compliance training sessions To provide a clear framework are mandatory to Fransabank within which employees are branches’ employees (customer expected to conduct themselves service representatives, tellers, To maintain a work environment deputy branch managers and in which honesty, integrity and branch managers), as well respect for fellow employees, as employees from selected and customers/clients departments / divisions as for the: constantly reflect in personal behavior and standards of Internal Audit Department conduct Retail Banking Division To remind employees of what is Risk Management Division expected from them as for their Loan Recovery Department appearance and work ethics. Security and Business Continuity Department Our Human Rights Policy At Fransabank, we are committed any risk of accidents and handling Fransabank’s website, Fransabank to respect and promote human any on-the-job injury and health online banking, complaints boxes rights in accordance with the issues. placed at all branches and call Universal Declaration of Human center services available 24/7. Rights, the Lebanese Labour We have already set a policy Law, and the Collective Labour guiding our employees on how to As for the community at large, we Agreement. This quadratic act in cases of natural disaster engaged in several initiatives with equation represents an integral or any life-threatening situation. selected civic partners to ensure a part of our core values which Parallel to this, employees are more inclusive society, advancing are the main drivers behind our also provided with awareness financial education and inclusion, success, growth, expansion and sessions on safety measures and promoting art and culture, and family culture. precautions. endorsing social awareness programs ranging from health Our internal and fundamental Our employees have also the right issues, to safety topics, and guidelines, including the to join any NGO or union of banks’ sports programs. corporate Code of Conduct and employees without retribution Professional Ethics, policies from the management. Our accountability with our and procedures as well as the suppliers employee handbook, reflect our A grievance policy accessible to strong conviction in advocating all our employees has been We carefully choose our suppliers, human rights and promoting it drafted; allowing them to raise based on their compliance with in our culture, corporate social any complaint/concern related to local labour laws, respect for responsibility and activities the work environment and the environment, and concern towards our employees, clients guaranteeing that such grievances towards providing a safe and and suppliers. are handled fairly, impartially and healthy environment for their confidentially. employees. Our accountability with our employees Our accountability with our clients We are committed to having a Fransabank is compliant harassment and discrimination We are governed by a set of internal with: free work environment and to policies along with laws and treating employees with respect regulations that act as mandatory • The Lebanese Labour Law and dignity, prohibiting child labour prerequisites when dealing with • The Collective Labour and any form of disrespectful our clients. These laws and Agreement attitude. This would also include regulations mandate that the • The Universal Declaration equal employment opportunities Bank be knowledgeable about of Human Rights as well as ensuring a career path clients businesses’ activities to • The International Labour with a growth potential. prevent money-laundering Organization (ILO) activities, which could lead to Declaration on Fundamental Furthermore, we are responsible human rights violations. Principles and Rights at for providing a healthy environment Work free of harassment and intimidating We ensure that we remain • The United Nations Global acts with a freedom of opinion transparent and fair with our Compact (UNGC), principle and expression keeping politics, clients. In line with our on Human Rights religion or any sensitive topic transparency policy, our clients • The IFC Performance outside the workplace; in addition can raise any complaint through Standards II to a safe environment by detecting our different channels such as FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 26-27 Protecting our Bank’s and Customers’ Information With the emerging and evermeasures in this respect. This will enable us to be proactive evolving cyber-attacks and Abreast in this field, we started in combating cybercrime by threats coupled with the quick to implement new policies and promoting proper monitoring development of banking services measures in order to cope with on our technological platforms, over electronic channels, we, at the new challenges. in order to react swiftly to any Fransabank, have made it a top malicious activity and to adjust priority and a strategic objective Thus, we are currently working our security strategies according to elevate its cyber-security on two main strategies; on to coming threats. standards in order to better one hand, to enhance internal protect our customers’ controls/measures, and, on the As far as the current business information confidentiality/ other hand to understand more continuity site is concerned, new privacy and boost the resilience the external cybercrime actors processes were added to of our technological platform. and endeavors. Practically, many complete the set of services new security systems are in the provided to our customer base. Concurrently, international pipeline for implementation, in The objective is always to better regulations, namely General order to complete the Security serve our customers and to Data Protection Regulation Operation Center (SOC), after the ensure seamless shifting of the (GDPR) and local laws are stabilization of the SIEM solution services from our headquarters enforcing the protection of the in place, in addition to a recent to the disaster recovery site. privacy of personal information contract signed with an and imposing new security internationally renowned company intended for threat intelligence. OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ECONOMY Given our history and size, our ultimate objective is to contribute through our funding to a sustainable national economic growth. Thus, our role is to bring commercially viable and scalable tools, solutions, and products that can help us all work towards greater financial inclusion and development. Responsible Lending When we grant a loan to a We do this to ensure that our customer, whether an individual customers’ conduct is in or a company, we enter into a accordance with our credit long-term commitment. approach, sustainability vision Therefore, we carefully evaluate and the international principles customers’ financial situation which we endorse. Advisory to make sure that we offer loans services round out our lending that are suited to their needs and activity and form an integral part capacity. We also consider the of our customer lending, inclusion purpose for which the funds will and advisory approach. We make be used and check for possible financial expertise available to Environmental, Social and our clients to develop and Ethical (ESE) risks. implement investment projects and programs. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 30-31 Financial Inclusion Microfinance When discussing financial One of the major challenges for customers through their inclusion, we, at Fransabank, responsibly-minded banks microfinance work; while we work to come up with solutions is providing reasonable and offered the necessary financial to satisfy diverse segments from adequate advances for lowresources, know-how and micro businesses to Small and income clients. Microfinance has assistance. Medium Enterprises (SMEs) a significant role in bridging the and start-ups, despite a difficult gap between financial institutions Our accomplishments in this environment characterized by a and rural poor households. Yet, field benefited over 23,758 micro slowing economy. Fully securing grants to unbanked entrepreneurs at the end of 2018, understanding the correlation people is not a cheap business. with more than USD 49.1 million between socioeconomic It requires specialized labour as assets used for the financing of development and financial well as a widespread physical microcredits. In 2018 alone, the inclusion, in collaboration network especially when dealing total number of microcredit with various stakeholders, we with remote areas based clients. beneficiaries reached 3,011 try to bring more people into the clients. Similarly, the outstanding financial stream raising their Since 2007, we have been value of microcredits reached overall standard of living and partnering with Vitas – one of the around USD 7.36 million in 2018, well-being. By acting as a largest microfinance institutions compared with around USD 5.86 catalyst, we believe we can in Lebanon. This partnership million in 2017, a yearly increase achieve higher economic growth has made it much easier for us of 25.6%. especially in rural or remote to reach marginalized areas and areas. This has become a priority minority owned businesses. With which is well aligned with our aligned visions, Vitas helped us commitment and pledge connect with clients across to SDG 8 Decent Work and Lebanon having the advantage Economic Growth. of a gained trust among rural MICROCREDITS HIGHPOINTS OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS (2016-2017-2018) Total number of microcredit Total amount of microcredits Microcredits beneficiaries’ beneficiaries (USD MILLION) sectors distribution 4,000 8 3,500 7 7.36 3,564 2.9% 0.1% 3,000 6 4.1% 3,011 5.97 2,500 2,829 5 5.86 14.0% 41.5% 2,000 4 1,500 3 1,000 2 2016 500 1 14.2% 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 23.2% Gender distribution among active loans 60% 40% 59% 41% 58.6% 41.4% 5.4% 2.5% 4.4% 2016 2017 2018 (out of 4,050 active clients 41.4% as end of 2018) 12.1% Amount disbursed per age brackets 2017 11.1% AGE 2016 2017 2018 Between 18 to 35 USD 2,404,429 USD 2,526,299 USD 3,375,149 23.1% Between 36 to 50 USD 2,283,127 USD 2,125,683 USD 2,605,881 Above 50 USD 1,281,605 USD 1,206,313 USD 1,377,443 Percentage of beneficiaries per age brackets 21.6% AGE 2016 2017 2018 35.4% Between 18 to 35 42.5% 43.3% 46.5% 2.3% Between 36 to 50 37.5% 35.6% 33.7% 4.3% 2018 Above 50 20.0% 21.1% 19.8% 10.2% 8% Number of jobs created 18.2% 2016 2017 2018 460* 1,473** 1,562** COMMERCE SERVICES PRODUCTION *The number of jobs was calculated based on data gathered from the clients. **The number of jobs was calculated based on the difference in the number of employees between the old loan and the new loan for retained CONTRACTING & BUILDINGS AGRICULTURE clients and fresh employments for new clients. TRANSPORTATION HOME IMPROVEMENT Number of jobs sustained 2016 2017 2018 5,096 5,258 5,347 Non-performing loan ratio 2016 2017 2018 PAR > 90 days 2.62% 1.95% 1.45% PAR > 180 days 1.35% 0.31% 0.23% FRANSABANK FRANSABANK | CORPORATE | Corporate SOCIAL Social RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility 2016 | 32-33 2018| 28-29 YOUTH & WOMEN MICROCREDIT BENEFICIARIES (YOUTH BENEFICIARIES AGES: FROM 18 TO 30 YEARS) YOUTH BENEFICIARIES BY SECTOR | 2018 TRANSPORTATION 1.0% AGRICULTURE 3.5% PRODUCTION 5.5% CONSTRUCTION 12.0% SERVICES 25.3% HOUSE IMPROVEMENT 25.6% COMMERCE 27.2% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% YOUTH BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION BY REGION 2.7% 2.2% Annual growth rate 1,322 20.0% 27.7% Youth clients’ youth clients 2018 portfolio grew benefited from the by 19% microcredits program for a total value of 20.6% Total loans value USD 2.31 26.8% increased million in 2018 by 33.5% SOUTH BEKAA NABATIYEH MOUNT LEBANON BEIRUT NORTH WOMEN BENEFICIARIES BY SECTOR | 2018 TRANSPORTATION 0.1% CONSTRUCTION 0.1% AGRICULTURE 1.7% PRODUCTION 6.2% HOUSE IMPROVEMENT 23.0% SERVICES 28.6% COMMERCE 40.3% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% WOMEN BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION BY REGION 2% 4.8% Annual growth rate 16.2% 29.9% Women clients’ 1,676 portfolio grew women 2018 entrepreneurs by 10.3% benefited from the microcredits program Total loans value for a total value of 22.3% increased USD 2.78 million in 2018 24.9% by 25% MOUNT LEBANON BEKAA SOUTH NABATIYEH BEIRUT NORTH Rewarding microcredit clients Thus, we came up with a top ten during which a total of In 2018, and as customary, specific clients’ list whom performances USD 10,000 were distributed. key performance indicators, were deemed worthy of a financial Besides, a short film was played such as revenues and profits, reward that would indeed during the event and on our growth and sustainability, loan encourage them to invest more social media channels, including payments regularity, as well as in their business. Accordingly, testimonials from the winners. It age and gender, were assessed a donation ceremony was held at revealed how microcredits helped across our active clients portfolio our Headquarters in the presence them improve their lives, not to evaluate their performances of the selected winners and only on the financial level, but on and businesses development. representatives from Vitas, the social side too; in addition to creating a small sustainable business that could benefit their children in the future. Established in 1999, Vitas is a pioneering microcredit institution in Lebanon with regional and international outreach. It focuses on women, youth, and rural-based businesses. The majority of Vitas clients are located in rural areas. It is the first microfinance institution to receive a license from the Central Bank of Lebanon. Vitas became part of the Vitas Group in 2011, a global network of microfinance institutions operating in Lebanon, Jordan, and Romania, among others. Financing Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) are a vital element of the Lebanese economy, contributing to more than half of the population’s employment and representing almost 97% of the total formal enterprises. In view of that, we lend and provide investments for clients of all sizes to support sustainable national growth and jobs creation. At end of 2018, our total financial support for SMEs and Mid-caps reached USD 615.45 million for 9,232 SME loans; noting that and Development (EBRD) to help careful execution. Therefore, we Lebanon is witnessing a precarious expand international trade in are keen on developing economic situation. Lebanon. With a USD 50 million pioneering products, services, and partnerships for businesses trade finance line, we became Seeing this positive impact on the first issuing bank in Lebanon at all stages of their expansion. our society, access to funding for under the EBRD’s Trade Facilitation SMEs and Mid-caps is a priority Programme (TFP). The later Signing the first EBRD trade for us. However, In order to create aims to promote foreign trade to, finance line in Lebanon a healthy SME lending business, it from and within the economies In this context, we received a needs years of experience, good where we invest, including financial support from the market knowledge, and very Lebanon. Through the trade European Bank for Reconstruction FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 34-35 “We greatly value our facility, the EBRD will support activities in a difficult local partnership with our international and intraeconomic context, and to which Fransabank, a market regional trade in Lebanon by we are committed to provide the leader in trade finance providing guarantees and cash necessary support so they can in Lebanon. This trade advances for the import, export, overcome more confidently their and local distribution of imported crucial challenges. PROPARCO line will further foster goods. thus would be fulfilling its role as trade integration in the a development bank by supporting region and will contribute Consolidating relations in favor the Lebanese economy while to the resilience of the of the Lebanese private sector concentrating on key sectors of Lebanese financial system, With the difficult general economic development such as infrastructure thus promoting the condition in Lebanon, we thought with a focus on renewable energies, country’s overall economic about alleviating the situation’s agro-industry, financial growth.” impact on existing Lebanese institutions, health, education... private companies facing Its interventions would inevitably Suma Chakrabarti, EBRD President complications in meeting their strengthen the contribution of financial commitments. Therefore, private actors to the achievement a USD 18 million credit line was of the SDGs by sustaining and extended by PROPARCO to our creating jobs, securing decent Group, with the main incomes for households, and purpose of backing these encouraging actions against companies that are currently climate change. USD 615.45 operating their business and million were invested in 9,232 “Fransabank is a historical client of PROPARCO since 15 years. We are proud to accompany, for the third SME loans at end2018 time, Fransabank, following two facilities extended in 2004 and 2010.” Gregory Clemente, CEO of PROPARCO Lebanon Start-Ups Entrepreneurs and innovative most efficient use by investing in: To support innovative businesses are vital to a healthy creative young entrepreneurs entrepreneurship in fulfilling productive economic environment. with innovative ideas, their potential, our team In view of that, we, at Fransabank, ready-to-scale start-ups, know-how is made available have faith in our Lebanese young accelerators, through guidance, access to entrepreneurs’ capabilities, incubators, funds, and entrepreneurshipand so try to make it easier for venture capital funds with solid focused training. While setting them to grow their start-ups management team. a proper corporate governance and accelerate their expansion. framework is believed to be a In parallel, the Central Bank of Our motivation is to help new major challenge, we also try to Lebanon has been supporting born Lebanese companies nurture help entrepreneurs expand to Lebanese start-ups in their journey while, of course, understanding regional and international markets. to success and calling banks their needs, evaluating their Our efforts are aligned with our to allocate equity funding to its potential, and serving them. strategic focus on SDG 8 for decent work and economic growth. Our commitments to the sector through Venture Capital (VC) funds: LEBANON SEED BROADGATE Y CEDAR MUNDI IMPACT LEAP BERYTECH FUND SAL HOLDING VENTURES PARTNERS FUND FUND VENTURES FUND II OBJECTIVE Targets seed and early Targets the current Targets the different Focuses on consumer Invests in growth stage, Capitalizes in early stage investments in gap in the Lebanese stages of the technology products well established and formative stage Lebanon, providing eco-system by aiming ecosystem and and services, companies that are start-ups with proven basically a Launchpad at seed and early providing access to consumer retail products ready to scale, inter innovation levels and to help develop viable stages startups in a club of renowned and services and alia, in the field of technology disruptions companies in a short Lebanon and abroad. professionals in the enterprise software. renewable energies, covering the Information period of time through industries invested in. fintech, online retail, and Communication seed funding, strategic education, and cyber Technologies (ICT) mentorship, and security. sector as well as other business training. knowledge based and creative industries (such as energy, creative and fashion design). 2018 INVESTMENTS USD 5 millionwere USD 24.8 million USD 21 million Circa USD 49 million USD 42 million Circa USD 35 million invested in 18 companies were invested in 37 were invested in were invested in were invested in were invested in mainly in fintech, companies mainly in ecommerce consumer companies, mainly in companies, mainly digital media, Digital media, ICT logistics, cybersecurity products the sectors of online in the field of energy industrial design, and electronics, and healthcare image telecommunications, payments, travel softmanagement, mobile fashion, banking heathtec recognition, artificial augmented reality, ware, gaming, mobile vas, fintech, cyber solutions and ICT. intelligence, music healthcare and and web infrastructure. security and artificial and fintech. education. Data management intelligence. OUR COMMITMENT Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: USD 750,000 USD 2,000,000 USD 3,500,000 USD 5,000,000 USD 6,000,000 USD 3,000,000 Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: USD 250,000 USD 300,000 USD 500,000 USD 500,000 USD 1,000,000 TOTAL FUND SIZE USD 13.5 million USD 46 million USD 40 million USD 70 million USD 79.1 million USD 51.5 million FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 36-37 Accessible Homeownership Access to proper housing has Therefore, we work on updating long been viewed as a basic our housing loan products on human right and is believed to be a yearly basis offering applicants an important factor in the enjoyment a number of incentives and of other economic, social and benefits. In 2018, despite the cultural rights. Homeownership bestows people with a sense sector’s high competitiveness and the relatively stagnant 10,290 of security and safety, while real estate sector, we took the housing loans granted for also increasing engagement in initiative of launching a housing a total value of community life, as they develop loan spring campaign whereby a financial incentive to improve approved applicants benefited USD 850.23 their local area especially that from up to 100% pay back for million as end of 2018 they are more likely to stay in the the registration fees. As a result, same community for a relatively Fransabank total housing loans long period of time. portfolio counted in 10,290 loans granted for an aggregate value of USD 850.23 million as end of 2018. Supporting Sino-Lebanese Bilateral Relations Building on our historic and for Chinese firms, and identifying We trust our expansion strategy strong relations dating back to mainland partners for its local towards East Asia, China in the early 1950s and led by our clientele. particular, and are confident in Chairmen, Fransabank Group its constructive power on our is managing a dedicated China In 2018, Chairman Adnan Kassar, local economy. Therefore, we will Desk; which offers a platform to was chosen as one of just five continue on elaborating further promote and facilitate exchanges founding members of the projects and closer networking between Lebanese and Chinese China-Arab Countries Interbank between Lebanese and Chinese businesses and entities while Association, a multilateral group companies that have the size aiming to assist Chinese companies created by China Development and interest to trade or partner in in their activities where our Bank, which aims to channel up beneficial business opportunities. Group is present. to USD 3 billion into development deals. We were also the first We are actively using our Lebanese lender to join the Asian international and strong relations Financial Cooperation Association, with key investment institutions a China-led non-profit organization and countries, to promote Lebanon that encourages cooperation and improve its macroeconomic and communication between performance. In fact, our China financial institutions from 30 Desk plays an integral role in countries. finding viable inbound projects Customer Experience Treating all our customers As part of our accountability that our corporate team puts properly and fairly while delivering towards our clients, we also rely high efforts when dealing with responsible advisory services are on our complaints mechanism their clients’ files which is greatly requirements and standards that to enable customers raise their appreciated; in parallel, the are embedded in our policies and concerns; which in turn helps us clients believed that a low effort practices. Our employees must handle and resolve complaints is needed from their side when act in the best interest of the via a dedicated financial consumer dealing with our Bank which client and propose the products protection department. makes the relationship smooth and assistance deemed suitable and comfortable. for his/her request. Communication, Several means are put at our irrespective of the channel and customers’ disposal. Whether However, undeniably some the customer, should be open, through our email that is complaints were communicated straight and explicit. In view of displayed on all our customer such as the branches limited that, we make sure to fully facing channels, call center entitlements and the high fees abide by “The Principles of agents, or complaint boxes & charges. Clients have also Banking and Financial Operations placed in all our branches, advised to work harder on with Customers” as regulated whereby we have conferred to innovation in terms of products by the Central Bank of Lebanon customers the opportunity to and services, and improve paper Circular No 134. raise their concerns and inquire work processes to decrease the about any necessary clarification. time taken to approve the facilities. Making sure our customers are Accordingly, we were able to For issue solving, 92% of our aware of their rights and duties, assess and address 100% of corporate clients reported they should be able to: acknowledged complaints facing no problems with our a) have full information concerning received during the year 2018. Bank during the past year; while the provided product or service, We believe that well-tackled 8% faced problems and were b) request all necessary concerns are opportunities efficiently solved. explanations to be able to stand for Fransabank to re-evaluate by our requirements, and provide greater customer We acknowledge the importance c) obtain a clear and complete service. of improving our problem solving explanation about the risks of skills and capabilities when it any financial product, comes to our branches as it is an d) are acquainted with the direct Corporate Customers essential touchpoint. Therefore, and indirect fees of the product Satisfaction Survey we will continue our efforts on or service, constantly improving customers’ e) receive a periodic detailed 230 corporate clients were experience as well as selfstatement of account for each targeted through a one-to-one assessing our performance. product, in depth customer satisfaction f) refuse to sign a blank or survey. Our objective is to receive incomplete form and make sure our customers’ feedback on our all required fields and figures to products and services and be signed are correct. measure their level of satisfaction. The survey was conducted by a In this respect, 360 branch specialized research firm, keeping employees (21% of the workforce), all answers anonymous. from all regions, benefited from a specialized training aimed at With a 70% response rate, increasing and refreshing their Fransabank scored eight over knowledge regarding the Bank’s ten on the overall satisfaction; core values and ethical principles while the sector’s average in banking practices mainly satisfaction rate is 7.2. sales. Hence, ethical values in sales practices focused upon In terms of perceptions, Fransabank transparency and disclosure, was seen as both credible and suitability, awareness and highly reputable. Almost half of education, confidentiality, the clients expressed a delight complaints’ handling, and service, as it was widely agreed financial inclusion. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 38-39 Accessibility Digitalization is transforming the Furthermore, accessibility financial infrastructure, therefore, solutions were customized for our focus is to manage this seniors and customers with special transition responsibly; making needs readjusting at selected sure our services and products branches the ATMs levels with 230 are safe and easy to use as well a lower chassis, providing, thus, corporate clients as manageable by all customers. more user-friendly machines. were targeted through the satisfaction survey With more people indicating a In parallel, our online platforms preference for using biometric have been very active tools to 70% information to further security keep in touch with our clientele; response rate measures, the roll out of an especially the younger segment. innovative biometric payment Sharing financial highlights, card was thought; reflecting our achievements, initiatives and commitment to fulfilling products and services promotions customers’ needs, and on our social media reached: underlining our leading role in 8/10 driving change throughout the payments system. Accordingly, -7  ,290 followers on LinkedIn account, an increase of 57% Fransabank overall we partnered with Mastercard to from 2017, satisfaction score launch the first biometric card in -2 ,908 followers on Instagram the Levant region; supplying our page, an increase of 43% from 92% of customers new cards with an embedded fingerprint sensor. This -8 2017,  58 followers on Twitter account, corporate clients did not face problems when move is set to bring increased an increase of 17% from 2017, dealing with Fransabank security and convenience while and providing the same functionality 133,884 fans on Facebook page, as a traditional chip card, minus almost unchanged from 2017. the need to rely on a pin code or signature to complete a payment. We see in the new emerging technologies and consumer habits Our accessibility efforts also shifts, first-hand opportunities that focus on an easy access to push us to challenge ourselves products and services around while safeguarding the interest the clock, whether by contacting of our customers. us by phone via our 24/7 operational call center, online using our e-banking, mobile banking, and mobile payment solution, or in person through Fransabank Group’s local branch network which consists of 126 branches spread from Rahbé in the North of Lebanon to Naqoura in the South or our 116 ATMs placed at strategic premises and off-premises locations. We have also placed at all our branches smart ATMs providing the cash and deposit service. Thus, our customers can manage their banking transactions at their convenience regardless of time and place, in a practical and secure way. Rewarding our FACTS AND FIGURES | 2018 Customers Our loyalty program and reward campaigns have been essential in improving our brand perception, increasing growth and strengthening the relation between our Bank and our 64,301 total number of 56,305 total number of customers. Accordingly, in 2018 e-banking users e-banking transactions Fransabank directed several promotions covering the widest with a with a possible array of customers. The 12% annual increase 42% annual increase offers covered credit and debits cards and involved spending campaigns combined with cash rewards, free wellness USERS OF E-BANKING BY AGE USERS OF E-BANKING BY GENDER experiences, travel packages, multiplied cashback, valuable 4.6% UNDER 18 draws, and special discounts at 19.6% BETWEEN 18 AND 30 local and international outlets 43% 69.6% 30.4% BETWEEN 31 AND 45 resorts… BETWEEN 46 AND 60 24% ABOVE 60 8.8% Furthermore, Fransabank 2018 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% end of year gifts for its clients included, among other corporate presents, a blend of the Lebanese Northern Zejd extra virgin olive oil bottled in a traditional sarafand blown glass from South of Lebanon; all enclosed in an artisanal box, 20% 12% thus bringing to our clients’ a annual increase in call center outbound & inbound calls annual increase in ATM transactions fusion of local flavor, beauty and taste. This symbolic gift brought together a wide array of traditional craftsmanship in a strategic approach to empower Lebanese entrepreneurs’ brands and products. Responsible Marketing As we cling to our customers’ satisfaction, they expect honesty and accountability in return when it comes to our communications. So, we believe that a clear focus on integrity and responsibility in our communications and marketing tools is a must in maintaining and protecting our reputation. We strive to market our products and services in a transparent, consistent and responsible manner to maintain FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 40-41 trust. Fransabank marketing In parallel, the publication of our local suppliers. For instance, on materials are periodically reviewed Economic Bulletin, four times the hardware side ATMs, to ensure that products are clear, per year, was sustained; reporting computers, servers, security fair and comply with applicable on Lebanon’s macro economy equipment purchase and laws as per the Central Bank of performance, monetary news installation are all done through Lebanon Circular 134 regulations update, and including our “Beirut local suppliers that are and Fransabank’s policies. Traders Association (BTA) – authorized resellers of the Fransabank Retail Index”. The international vendors, on the latter points toward the retail software side, as well, all the Researches, Studies, trade sector performance contracts are signed with local and Publications in Lebanon; while providing partners. Only very minor cases valuable input to the traders’ representing <1% of our Our periodic researches tackled, decision-making, especially in budget are signed directly with in 2018, four emerging topics the course of tough economic international vendors such as that were relentlessly brought circumstances and a highly the tool for managing the Bank’s to light by Lebanese concerned competitive market. authorized signatures, and some parties. Accordingly, we shared security certificates and basic with our stakeholders, on a solutions purchased directly quarterly basis, the following Suppliers’ on-line. The same principle studies: Management applies to other purchases “Invest In Lebanon: The PPP achieved by our Bank. Guide for Private Companies”, Fransabank procurement is a guide for companies to better managed in a way to ensure understand how a company can optimal sourcing processes, propose, bid for, and underwhile selecting responsible take to design, build, operate, suppliers. We base our selection manage or invest in a Public on a competitive model, through Private Partnership (PPP) project tendering and negotiation plans. in Lebanon. It was prepared Yet, when we opt for a specific by Fransabank, Fransa Invest supplier, he/she follows an Bank, and the High Council for overall assessment of price Privatization and PPP (HCP). versus quality and its capacity to This publication resulted from meet our responsibility standards. the advisory note issued in 2017 Consequently, suppliers’ following the parliamentary requirements are defined in the approval of the Lebanon PPP suppliers’ course of action Law. guidelines to which specific “Lebanon: CEDRE Reforms vs. environmental demands and Economic Imbalances”, a study labour rights points were that sheds light on the results complemented. Nevertheless, of CEDRE Conference, specifying our continuous efforts to select its requirements, analyzing the the most responsible suppliers existing economic imbalances, face several challenges especially and presenting some policy when dealing with a broad range of recommendations. sectors and number of suppliers. “The Policies and Actions Trying our best, we rely on Needed to Face the Growing awareness as a tool to help Water Security Challenges consolidate the process for in Lebanon”, another study screening and on promoting prepared by our Center for ethical and environmental Economic Studies pointing standards. out the major problems facing Lebanon’s water sector, and To note that, the large majority potential development projects of our spending is done through for the supply and demand for water. OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Fransabank has been working to counteract climate change repercussions; believing that, over time, the negative effects on our ecosystem can be slowed and potentially reversed. Thus, being equally a responsibility and an opportunity, we have been stressing on the importance of long-term finance to deal with climate change while, in parallel, adopting sustainable practices within our business. Sustainable Financing Sustainable finance is a cornerstone 2A well-developed Environmental in our vision. We believe that and Social Management System the integration of environmental emphasizing on assessing and perspectives in our lending mitigating environmental and decisions is key to creating social risks in corporate lending, long-term value for businesses, investors and societies. 3Resource conservation and Therefore, we focus on four management, by further essentials: integrating internal green habits and processes, and 1A “Go Green” strategy, with an all-inclusive Sustainable 4Comprehensive awareness Energy Finance program and a and support campaigns growing eco-products portfolio, targeting all stakeholders. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 44-45 Sustainable Energy the Paris Agreement in 2016 Finance (SEF) has committed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The The Paris Agreement resulting 2020 objective is to have 12% of from the 21st Conference of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, thus reducing Parties (COP) was historic in significantly the greenhouse gas More than 175 its achievement. It marked the emissions. sustainable beginning of a new era with projects the focus on “making finance Consequently, throughout the financed with a total of flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas past years, Fransabank has been USD 120 emissions and climate-resilient the leading commercial bank million in Lebanon in financing energy development” (Article 2-c of the efficiency and renewable energy Paris Agreement). This requires projects through its Sustainable a significant increase in funding – Energy Finance (SEF) initiative with new instruments and with more than 175 projects Fransabank was recognized approaches needed to mobilize financed amounting to USD 120 in Lebanon and internationally a broad range of investors to million; giving rise to a separate as a leader in Green Business, achieve scalability in financing core business line within the not only in terms of green climate action. Yet, financing the Bank. loans in its portfolio but also global energy transition is one for the strong diversification key building block because of SEF covers projects which use in sectors (industry, restaurants, demographic change, increasing efficiently limited resources, or hospitals, universities and natural resource demands, projects generating clean or schools...) and of project urbanization and the growing renewable energy, including types (renewable, energy significance of environmental hydropower, wind, solar, efficiency, water projects, aspects that are creating a environmental, solid photovoltaic, biomass, and growing need for investments waste...). geothermal. in all types of infrastructure. In view of that, Lebanon, by signing Either the eligible projects hydropower, biomass/biogas, standards (LEED, BREAM, represent future green projects geothermal HQE, Edge…) to be financed or green projects •P rojects with high energy • Waste water treatment already financed but need efficiency levels with demonstrated refinancing, and can fall into • Waste to energy/biomass/ energy savings equal or superior several categories among which: biogas than 20% • Renewable energy projects • Other projects that prove a •G reen buildings if certified by including but not limited to significant environmental impact: international assessors and solar photovoltaic, wind farms, climate change projects, pollution abiding by international abatement projects... Shifting to a more sustainable business while convincing clients to become responsible in turn, requires a high level of commitment from our management, a change in organization to rely on transversal activities as well as innovative approaches. Therefore, a comprehensive strategic plan has been developed defining Fransabank’s strategic orientations and setting very ambitious targets towards promoting SEF: be the first bank in Lebanon in terms of green portfolio by 2020. Our strategic plan includes the following key steps: Changing Convincing the Business the culture customers objectives To transform the traditional way Our business teams were able to Targeting various economic of doing business, SEF initiative demonstrate to customers the sectors (factories, restaurants, has successfully imbedded a importance of energy efficiency petrol stations, green buildings, new culture within the Bank. measures and renewable energy agriculture, and construction…) Our employees’ knowledge in projects in terms of increasing as well as universities and sustainable energy fields was production or capacity and schools, many success stories developed through extensive reducing energy costs. have been achieved. The Bank training sessions, sharing and Additionally, we offer some has already financed a significant exchanging best practices with customers energy assessments number of energy projects for international development banks to help them identify areas of individuals, corporates and thus positioning Fransabank concern and analyze the best SMEs. As for retail business, it as a pioneer in addressing this ways to improve the productivity cooperated with municipalities segment. and efficiency of their business. to create awareness and provide eco-friendly personal loans. Sound Series ecosystem of MoUs Environment In order to provide customers Several Memorandums of An Environmental and Social with the most complete and Understanding were signed Management System (ESMS) global offer, we had to close the with various parties for has been implemented within loop for this market and apprehend extensive cooperation to fight the Bank and its credit approval the different players and their climate change, create general process that resulted in the roles and responsibilities. In the awareness and finance energy incorporation of an past couple of years, we projects; these include: Environmental and Social impact developed a sound ecosystem assessment for each project and created partnerships with all •A group of petrol stations to be financed. Today, we are players in the sustainable energy (2015) implementing the ESMS on the field, whether in Lebanon or the •A prominent university (2016) whole Bank’s credit portfolio region, including: equipment • A Chamber of Commerce, supporting our customers in suppliers, energy and environment Industry and Agriculture (2016) their journey to responsibility consultants, main official actors •G reen School Certification and sustainability. of this market such as the Program (2016) Ministry of Energy and Water as •T he Association of Lebanese well as Environment, the Central Industrialists (2017) Bank of Lebanon and the Lebanese •L ebanon Water Project funded Center for Energy Conservation by the USAID (2018) (LCEC), non-governmental •T he Ministry of Industry (2018) organizations, development banks, and specialized funds. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 46-47 In order to attain our objective and centralize actions transversally, a team was created comprising a Green Manager, a SEF officer and an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) officer. The team’s objective is to consolidate the information, coordinate between departments and partners, create synergies in sectors, identify potential projects, define eligibility criteria, perform a close follow-up on each action, and create an adequate reporting as well as a network of suppliers, consultants, and auditors. Green Bonds Pioneer “Excellent” rating (the highest Bonds program will help reduce rating possible on this type of these emissions by at least 6,000 In April 2018, a distinguished transaction). This operation tons per year by 2022. The green achievement was realized by is part of a larger three years bonds issuance builds on IFC’s being the first bank in Lebanon USD 150 million green bonds multi-year sustainable energy and the Levant region to launch program. This investment from finance advisory work with Green Bonds, which are prime international financial Fransabank and is part of our exclusively allocated to projects institution is a vote of confidence “Go Green” strategy that falls with positive environmental for Lebanon and Fransabank within our commitment to the impact. International finance in particular. It sends a strong United Nations Sustainable institutions such as the IFC and signal with regards the Development Goal (SDG 13) on EBRD invested respectively development of the green market Climate Action. USD 45 million and USD 15 million in Lebanon and specifically our in Fransabank Green Bonds – role in maturing this field. series 1. As a front-runner act Lebanon’s greenhouse gas Green Bonds Challenges being, Moody’s assessed the emissions have increased by operation and has given it an 28% since 1994. The Green We had to overcome three main obstacles for this agreement to standout: • The legal framework for Green Bonds did not exist in Lebanon; so, we had to build expertise together with the Central Bank of Lebanon and the Capital Markets Authority in order to 1st Bank finalize all required documentation. in Lebanon While it was time consuming, and the through our dedication, we successfully reached our objective Levant region being the first to introduce such to issue Green Bonds bonds to the market. • The Green Bonds Principles Fransabank Green revolve around best practices; Bonds issuance therefore, we had to modify some was given an of Fransabank’s procedures and “Excellent” business orientations in order to take the sustainability path. rating by Moody’s “We expect this project to be instrumental in further developing climate financing, not only in Lebanon but also “Fransabank is an ideal partner for us as it has in the broader region; already demonstrated its clear commitment to the encouraging more private environment through its strong green lending program”. sector investments.” Janet Heckman, Mouayed Makhlouf, EBRD’s Managing Director for the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean region IFC Director for the Middle East and North Africa • Then of course, changing the and challenging at first, we are GREEN BONDS HIGHPOINTS culture within the Bank and confident that the idea of a green gaining the full support and fixed-income product will gain commitment of the upper further traction as environmental management took a while as we issues are increasingly becoming 29.73% were also working on spreading crucial. 37.84% the culture and raising awareness by number among our clients, pushing them In fact, as a pioneer in introducing of projects to become citizens that are more Green Bonds in the region, we responsible in order to create were proud to receive the 2019 a snowball effect in the society. Green Bond Pioneer Award from 32.43% Despite the fact that all businesses the Climate Bonds Initiative, in agree on the importance of partnership with the London Corporate SME Retail climate change, however none Stock Exchange Group. Once is spontaneously willing to go again, we were acknowledged a step further and admittedly for our ongoing commitment to change its business model. We sustainable finance and awareness had to explain to our clients the making to environmental 6.15% 0.89% rationale as well as the financial challenges, thus helping the and environmental benefits of transition to a low-carbon and going green stressing on the climate resilient economy. double saving that it would In less than a year, we have by projects induce in both energy bills and financed 43 projects for more size environmental bills (CO2 than USD 38.2 million (out of the emissions). USD 60 million) with a pipeline of projects exceeding USD 35 million 92.96% Green Bonds issuance will help (project being assessed or us support the transformation to waiting for clients’ disbursement). Corporate SME Retail a greener Lebanese economy in several sectors, including industry, manufacturing, universities and schools, among 1.64% 0.43% others; providing financing to a 15.70% spectrum of eco-friendly projects in commercial energy efficiency, renewable energy and green buildings. Knowing that demand 43 projects 15.87% by sector for green bonds will be limited for more than USD 38.2 66.36% million were financed via our Green Bonds Health & Education Industries Construction Retail Agriculture Fransabank received the 2019 Green 1.76% Bond Pioneer Energy saved 15.88% Award reached 7,231,995 from the Climate (kWhe/year) Bonds Initiative in by energy partnership with 17.47% field the London Stock Greenhouse gas Exchange Group emissions 64.90% reduction totaled 4,707.3 (Tons CO2) Green buildings Energy efficiency Renewables Special climate FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 48-49 We expect that this project will be instrumental in further developing climate financing, not only in Lebanon but also in the broader region, encouraging more private sector investments in long-term energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and paving the way for more sustainable economic development and growth. For this first issuance of Green Bonds, we have targeted institutional subscription (international finance institutions) in order to help us build expertise, benefit from lessons learned, be best in class and use international standards. The next step would be to issue an additional green bonds series and to have, among others, local corporates as subscribers. Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) Fransabank was among the first The implementation of an ESMS Environmental and Social (E&S) banks in Lebanon to adopt involves building a framework risks of financed projects into sustainability as a core value that allows us to make sure that the decision-making process, at in its development strategy, access to financial resources is all stages of the credit cycle: integrating for this purpose an paralleled with environmental Environmental and Social stewardship and social justice management System (ESMS) in Lebanon, by integrating into its lending process. the assessment of the Identification of excluded Risk industries not Categorization to be financed A High based on B Medium available C Low exclusion list The due diligence will allow us to assign a risk category to each project at hand: CATEGORY A CATEGORY B CATEGORY C (HIGH RISK) (MEDIUM RISK) (LOW RISK) Corrective action plan Follow-up and corrective required measures required Minimal or no impact Sample projects Sample projects Sample projects • Oil and gas projects • Breweries • Retailers • Large infrastructure • Dairy operations • Software development • Major irrigation • Food processing • Financial services • Mining • General manufacturing plants • Service industries • Manufacture, storage and • Small scale mining • Consulting firms transport of hazardous • Metal plating • Residential projects below chemicals • Pulp and paper mills 15 floors • Queries • Textile plants • Forestry operations • Hotels/tourism • Hospitals • R  esidential projects above 15 floors The objective of an ESMS is to support us in: 1. Assessing and evaluating the environmental and social risks in our portfolio 2. Mitigating and monitoring these risks on a structural basis 3. Helping clients comply with national and applicable international standards 4. Maintaining a good reputation among clients, investors and other stakeholders. An Environmental & Social Due to substantially reduce or stop of ESMS to the whole Bank’s Diligence (ESDD) is conducted the exposure to excluded sectors credit portfolio to make sure all to evaluate the compliance of and activities. our clients are environmentally clients’ operations with and socially compliant. international environmental best We firmly believe that an ESMS practices and applicable local will positively influence businesses laws. Based on the assessment in all economic sectors, inciting Lebanese Water of E&S practices in place (waste them to adopt sound environmental Stewardship management, labor-working and social practices leading conditions, pollution prevention, eventually to minimize their In 2018, we adopted the Lebanese community health safety, environmental impact and abide Water Stewardship, in coordination conservation of biodiversity…) we by international standards. with Lebanon Water Project, a establish a corrective action plan USAID funded program. It aims for clients when needed. This The ESMS procedure was to create awareness on the would urge clients to identify developed, approved by senior importance of water, water practices hindering environmental management and adopted at the savings, development of water and social sustainability, and beginning of 2016. Its treatment projects, etc. Accordingly, take actions towards reforming implementation was segregated we work on integrating these practices, embracing clean into phases, whereby our green water management criteria in production and sound environmental portfolio has been categorized our credit assessments, thus management, for overall into projects at 63% medium risk creating awareness among our improvement of environmental and 37% low risk. corporate and SME clients. stewardship across the country. Meanwhile, our Center for Our ESMS officer reports regularly Economic Studies conducted Additionally, we abide by the to the senior management on a study on the water sector in IFC and EBRD exclusion lists sustainability, and is fully Lebanon entitled “The Policies whereby Fransabank commits dedicated to the implementation and Actions Needed to Face the FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 50-51 Growing Water Security to tackle this field: partnerships resulting from adopting green Challenges in Lebanon”. It shed with international finance financing. In total, around 220 light on Lebanon’s water wealth, institutions, memorandums of individuals including 110 the major problems facing understanding with various sectors industrialists, 50 consultants and the sector, and future projects of the economy, cooperation suppliers in the green market as developments for the supply with municipalities, creation of well as speakers from our team, and demand for water. It also an ecosystem, with suppliers, the Ministry of Industry, suggested policies and actions consultants and energy auditors, Chambers of Commerce and the needed to ensure a sound and among others. Subsequently, we Association of Lebanese effective management of the water were requested for a live interview Industrialists, attended the resources and their development on IFC Facebook account to workshops. Best practices and in order to ensure a proper water discuss our role in climate case studies were shared security in Lebanon. The study finance and our latest issuance providing a better understating was shared on our corporate of green bonds and its best of the progressive impact of website and published in our green bond assessment rating opting for efficient and clean quarterly economic bulletin. from Moody’s, which according energy systems. to IFC “represents a tremendous testimony to Fransabank’s On a national level, with the leadership in green finance”. national energy plan, the PPP Signature of a law (ratified in September 2017) Global MoU with the and the CEDRE Conference for Ministry of Industry the modernization of Lebanon’s Spreading our infrastructure, we entered a new We have signed a MoU with the Experience Locally phase that will hopefully lead to Lebanese Ministry of Industry Furthermore, and as customary several developments in the with one of the main objectives during previous years, we Lebanese infrastructure and being to promote the recourse to conducted in 2018 periodic more specifically in the sustainable energy and workshops and seminars in various electricity and water sectors. In environmental projects for all Lebanese regions such as in the Capital Investment Program, industrials in Lebanon, thus Saida, south Lebanon and Tripoli, projects are expected for USD 4 supporting the shift to cleaner north Lebanon. Attendees from billion in electricity, USD 2 billion and more efficient productions. the Association of Lebanese in water treatment and USD 1.4 Industrialists in Saida and the billion in waste treatment – this Order of Physicians in Tripoli represents around one third of Taking our the program (USD 22 billion). For Experience Overseas were introduced to sustainable energy investments to help that reason, it is very important them reduce their businesses’ that we use liquidity to finance This year as well, Fransabank expenses and to understand the green projects, accompany and was invited by the IFC to challenges and opportunities support developmental agendas. participate as speaker in their panel at the Innovate 4 Climate conference in Frankfurt. The session entitled “National Climate Pledges: A TrillionDollar Business Opportunity for Financial Institutions in Emerging Economies”, aimed at inspiring greater ambition to the financial sector to help address the climate challenge, and discussing conditions to create opportunities for climate related investments to grow and showcase IFC partners’ leadership actions in enabling and financing climate business. Thus, we presented Fransabank’s SEF initiative stressing on our exhaustive methodology chosen In addition, and as part of our with e-EcoSolutions, the Ministry green measures can actually help strategy to support investments of Education and Higher Education schools reduce yearly costs while in the fields of sustainable in Lebanon, we organized a serving the planet. Different energy, Fransabank sponsored conference entitled “Solutions energy, environmental or water the 9th edition of the International to Reduce your Costs” gathering projects that can be developed Beirut Energy Forum; being the over 200 attendees including at schools were detailed as well, largest forum in Lebanon to around 100 school directors highlighting the benefits, costs attract key energy people from and representatives from all and return on investments. It Lebanon, the Arab world, and over Lebanon. The conference featured technical and practical the international community. It intended to show, through actual sessions led by key experts in discussed imminent topics case studies, testimonials, and the field, and came along the related to renewable energy, success stories how implementing green networking platform. energy efficiency, and green buildings and many more. Targeting the Future Generation Having green schools in Lebanon is no longer a luxury, but an essential need to help Lebanon reduce its environmental impacts while nurturing a new generation of sustainable investing leaders. Hence, during the World Environment Week 2018, along FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 52-53 Championing SDG 13 – Climate Action In view of that, we gradually work businesses and organizations, on mainstreaming the SDG 13 went on and highlighted the in the private sector in Lebanon, latest developments and practices focusing on raising awareness of sustainability, emphasizing on about climate change and the important role the private transforming it into national sector plays in inspiring innovation policies while strengthening and leadership, especially the ability of the country to among young entrepreneurs, deal with the results of climate and bringing the country closer change through mitigation and of the UN 2030 agenda. Mr. Kassar adaptation measures. The job is reiterated Fransabank’s achieved through periodic accomplishments with respect meetings that would: to climate change focusing on Would it be surprising to see a SEF as a separate credit line, •p rovide strategic direction in the Bank’s latest cooperation bank leading on a national level relation to making progress agreements, and the urgent the SDG 13 – Climate Action and towards the goal attainment, need for the private sector to heading a focus group on climate capitalizing on private sector work closely with the public sector change? Actually, we strongly leadership, engagement and in order to advance Lebanon’s believe in the key role financial involvement, and international commitments to institutions play in advancing this •h elp mobilize resources and fight global warming. goal’s targets, and this of course, forge the necessary national in collaboration with the public and international partnerships and private sectors. and stewardship to keep all Joining Forces to progress and activities on track Through our well-recognized Advance SDG 13 in relation to SDG 13. Sustainable Energy Finance strategy, our Chairman Mr. Adnan Fransabank co-organized, with Kassar, was selected to represent the GCNL, the SDG 13 focus A National CEOs group inviting institutions from SDG 13 Climate Action by Businessworthy.org. In line with Roundtable on various sectors (financial, this international acknowledgment, Sustainability educational, industries, ministries, Fransabank pledges to further engineers…) involved in Thirteen national CEOs from the environmental projects. The incorporate concerns for climate private sector were gathered by meeting had a rich content with and environmental changes in its the Global Compact Network vivid discussions about former, products, services and procedures, Lebanon* (GCNL) to discuss the ongoing and potential projects creating awareness and actions adaption of innovative and practical aiming to protect our ecosystem among its employees, clients business practices needed to and help reach the targets of the (existing and potential) and so build a sustainable Lebanon. 2030 agenda. bringing into line its vision with Mr. Nadim Kassar, Fransabank the SDG 13 targets as the Goal General Manager, was representing The discussion included an Leader of SDG 13 – Climate the Bank at the roundtable. In introduction on Fransabank Action in Lebanon, represented their discussion, CEOs, from top Sustainable Energy Finance by Mr. Nadim Kassar Fransabank General Manager. (SEF) initiative, which was supported by best practices and live testimonies from attending “Within the priorities for Lebanon defined in the partners. We then also shared Capital Investment Program and the CEDRE conference, the process of incorporation of the power and energy sector represent around 1/3 of environmental criteria in our the total program. We are and remain the ambassador products, services, procedures, of sustainability and climate finance and with the and of course staff trainings; support of the government, we wish to materialize our thus creating awareness among efforts by supporting the upcoming wind and solar concerned parties. farms developments and many other projects.” Nadim Kassar, Fransabank’s General Manager *The Global Compact Network Lebanon is a multi-stakeholder initiative that promotes the UN Global Compact 10 principles and the 17 SDGs, provides signatories with a forum to solve issues of mutual interest, and supports participants to report on their progress in sustainability and social responsibility. It is composed of leading organizations spanning various industries and sectors across Lebanon. Unanimously agreeing on one •C ombating climate change in S  trengthening human capital of the most important aspects Lebanon requires stronger through improved education of SDG 13, attendees confirmed political leadership and and awareness the importance of creating technical capacities. Conserving natural capital and awareness at all levels including •F urther coordination among resources households, schools, hospitals, the line ministries with respect Reducing vulnerability of industries, companies, and the to the integration of climate physical capital by withdrawing public sector at large. Definitely, change action into national development from high-risk awareness is crucial and should development planning. areas and building resilience be coupled with solid partnerships •T he delay in the Paris into industries’ assets and between the public and the Agreement ratification entails supply chains private sectors in order to have the adjournment of the needed Improving access to information, the most extensive impact. legal decrees to operationalize finance and technology/technical the Nationally Determined know-how for implementing The SDG 13 focus group Contribution (NDC) implementation, energy efficiency/renewable recommendations included: the transparency provisions energy/resource efficiency and the long-term low emission projects • Raising awareness regarding development strategy. Improving understanding environmental practices. •V arious approaches can be of climate risk to culturally • Sealing partnerships between assessed to target and reduce important resources and the public and the private these potential costs imposed activities. sectors to implement strategies on the Lebanese economy and on a national level. society. These approaches include: Our Approach to Minimizing Our Impact As a financial services provider, green technologies and mostly International Finance Corporation our carbon emissions are low reinforcing a responsible culture (IFC) on our Headquarters, it compared to other industries. among our staff. was concluded that a series However, we constantly strive green refurbishments should to improve our environmental Internal Green Audit be executed. Energy efficiency management setup in order solutions were studied resulting to reduce our environmental Following to the comprehensive in appropriate solutions. footprint in general by opting for green audit conducted by the FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 54-55 As a result, our internal engineering team has achieved the following: Replaced all Old air conditioning Increasing demand Implementing a full Solar radiant heat conventional lighting, chiller system was control: lighting, A/C, energy management barriers for windows with LED lighting replaced by the VRV escalators, and program with clear were replaced by in all Fransabank air conditioning ventilation. targets. mirror reflective films local network of 75 system at the decreasing our energy branches. Headquarters thus: Lighting control was The monitoring and consumption. finished for the new targeting program for Replacing Reducing energy Data Center area. energy management progressively consumption by 30% has been completed conventional lighting to 40%. Night consumption for the VRV system. with LED lighting in control was completed parallel with Reducing water for parking lighting renovations at the intake by 3,054 m3 or and ventilation. Floors Headquarters. 3 million Liters. night control is being The project was done by our night completed for guards. parking and floors common areas. Escalators speed reduction is hard to All decorative implement on old lightning were escalators. Until a removed from the replacement project is management offices. implemented, we have installed motion sensors that turned off the escalators when not in use. As for our Headquarters’ carbon Furthermore, we updated our 3,086.72 tons. Thus, the yearly footprint, emissions’ evaluation CO2 emissions for the year 2016 reduction, from 2016 to 2017, for the year 2017 was in accordance and 2017 by measuring the recorded 25.67 tons of CO2. with the CO2 calculator received diesel oil consumption. As a Accordingly, we can deduct from from the Lebanese Ministry of result, CO2 emissions based on the above numbers that the Environment* of 0.65 KgCO2/KWh. 2016 Diesel oil consumption current Headquarters footprint Consequently, our yearly were 242.83 tons of CO2 with a per employee (including all IT average of CO2 emissions, after total CO2 emissions for the year services: servers, systems…) is the implementation of the 2016 of 3,112.39 tons. around 4.4 tons of CO2 emission. infrastructure projects, reached 2,870 tons of CO2 per year, while In 2017, CO2 emissions based on Of course, further energy the total annual CO2 yearly diesel oil consumption totaled efficiency upgrade projects are reduction averaged 684 tons of CO2. 652.48 tons of CO2 whereas the still under study. total CO2 emissions registered *in our CSR Report 2017, we had done a first study based on the Electricité du Liban (EDL) grid emission assumptions of 0.833KgCO2/KWh (as per LCEC and World Bank reports in 2009); in 2018, a different measurement grid was adopted. This explains the variance in the reporting results. FRANSABANK’S REPORT TO THE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT | 2017 Indirect emissions from purchased electricity CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions Emission Carbon Consumption factor CO2 Working emission CO2 (KWh) (t CO2 emissions Current hours Voltage factor emissions /MWh) (t CO2) (A) (hours) (V) (t CO2/MWh) (t CO2) Shared generator EDL bill 3,744,989 0.65 2,434.24 Single phase 0 0 220 1.3 0.00 Shared generator Triple phase 0 0 380 1.3 0.00 Direct emissions from stationary fuel combustion CO2 Emissions CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions Carbon CH4 CH4 Conversion emission CO2 emission CH4 CO2 emission CH4 CO2 Consumption Consumption factor factor emissions factor emissions equivalent factor emissions equivalent (l) (t) (TJ/1000t) (t C/TJ) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) Gas/Diesel oil for electricity 247,423 205.36109 43.33 20.2 652.48 0.002 0.02 0.37 0.0006 0.01 1.66 Gas/Diesel oil for space heating 0 0 43.33 20.2 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Gas/Diesel oil for water heating 0 0 43.33 20.2 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Heavy fuel oil for boilers 0 0 40.19 21.1 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Gas for cooking 7,506 4.05324 47.31 17.2 11.97 0.005 0.00 0.02 0.0001 0.00 0.01 Lubricants 1000 0.88 40.19 20 1.28 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.01 TOTAL 665.73 0.02 0.40 0.01 1.67 Business related transport CO2 Emissions CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions Carbon CH4 CH4 Conversion emission CO2 emission CH4 CO2 emission CH4 CO2 Consumption Consumption factor factor emissions factor emissions equivalent factor emissions equivalent (l) (t) (TJ/1000t) (t C/TJ) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) Gasoline 6,273.1 4.642094 44.8 18.9 14.27 0.02 0.00 0.09 0.0006 0.00 0.04 Gas/Diesel oil 5,385.91 4.4703053 43.33 20.2 14.20 0.005 0.00 0.02 0.0006 0.00 0.04 TOTAL 28.47 0.01 0.11 0.00 0.07 In effect, following our reporting on the Headquarters greenhouse gas emissions for the year 2017 to the Ministry of Environment, we received a certificate of acknowledgement for our reporting as well as our leadership in climate change awareness. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 56-57 Waste Management documents and our constant • Paper consumption shrunk focus on minimizing paper as well, with only 76 tons of We follow a waste management consumption in our offices, as such: papers recycled in 2018, this approach to minimize our gas reflects our growing paperless emissions and manage our •F  ransabank e-banking services environment. environmental impact as recorded 64,301 users at the end • Plastic waste decreased too effectively as possible. Thus, of 2018, compared to 57,455 at since the use of plastic water we assess the environmental the end of 2017. bottles was progressively risks of our business activities • The replacement of individual replaced by water dispensers, and monitor our paper, plastic, printers by shared printers refill bottles, and cartoon energy, tech equipment across the Bank was finalized, cups. This change in habit consumption and use. pushing employees to rethink result from a wider national their printing habits and awareness regarding plastic The reduction in paper consumption facilitating the shift to a waste consumption. Accordingly, across our Bank continued its double-sided printing practice, 1.4 tons of recyclable plastics downward pace, as quantities with a more widespread use were sent for recycling in 2018; recycled decreased by 64% in of certified FSC paper for our a decrease of 12% as compared 2018. This decline was the result publications. to 2017. of our ongoing digitalization of RECYCLED PAPERS (IN TONS) RECYCLED PLASTICS (IN TONS) 2018 76 2018 1.4 2017 209 2017 1.6 2016 135 2016 3.4 0 50 100 150 200 250 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 We are keen on reducing, re-using, and recycling waste where and when possible. Energy Efficiency Reuse Awareness on Social Reduce Computers that are broken or redundant are Media delivered to the ICT Department to examine Employees are responsible for managing their potential scope for re-use. Computers consumption of papers, plastics, not in need are donated to schools or NGOs. An energy efficiency and ecological electricity, or other resources Furniture that is in usable state is kept at the habits awareness campaign was warehouse for servicing and future need. In addition, furniture that is no longer needed is introduced in 2018 via our social donated to institutions in need. media platforms. Topics covered responsible habits and steps that can be easily applied in our daily life, such as tips on how to minimize energy consumption Recycle Accumulated paper and plastic waste are being sent to recycling. while being cost efficient, waste reduction and management, as * unfortunetaly, we could not find a local association that well as mindful consumption. handles ink cartridges recycling. We were told that their These straightforward small recycling process was costly and unpractical. videos aimed at sensitizing the community on the importance Meanwhile, we also care for the debris left during branch openings and/or of small gesture changes in our renewal, premises construction/rehabilitation sites; so, the excavated daily routine and their greater impact waste is sent to disposal areas as designated by the municipality. on the future of our planet. OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN EMPLOYER As much as our employees’ efficiency and capacities define our pace and progress, we also aspire to be the preferred workplace for dedicated persons and act on delivering an impactful working experience. Thus, we, at Fransabank, accept as true our responsibility for finding such talented individuals, placing them in the right positions, while also securing a righteous work environment. Equal Employment Opportunities Acting on the principle of making to knowingly and willingly the best use out of our human discriminate on the basis of capital, we take care of observing anything other than skills, equal employment opportunity knowledge and abilities in the in our recruitment, career workplace. For our management, development (or promotion), and “Equal Opportunity Employment” compensation policies and is a way of life and an integral practices. It is strictly prohibited part of our corporate practice and culture. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 60-61 Diversity & Inclusion We take a broad perspective on employees (Fransabank SAL) in manager, & deputy branch cultivating a workforce with 2018, women represented 47% of manager), and occupy 53% of diverse talents and new perceptions, our total population; which was our middle management positions believing in the power of a varied coupled with an almost equal (being operational/commercial and outstanding employee base share in our new recruits being controller, deputy head of in shaping and strengthening our 45% female. department/head & deputy head Bank’s performance and adding of section/unit). value for customers. Yet, our true aim is the inclusion of women in the decision making, We consider gender, age, ways of by considering their shrewdness Workforce diversity by gender thinking, seniority as important and gratifying their competences. | 2018 as education and experience. For instance, to underline However, we have chosen to gender equality, we focus on focus initially on gender balance, keeping up a fair distribution of in line with our commitment to women, particularly, in higher SDG 5 Gender Equality, since managerial positions. Accordingly, 53% 47% we see in it a stepping stone women represent 55% of our needed to unlock other facets senior managers (namely head of diversity. Consequently, out of division/department, regional of a total population of 1,752 manager/deputy/area, branch Female employees 2016 2017 2018 8% 8% 8% Board of Directors female proportion Proportion of women in senior positions 40% 45% 55% 53% are between 30 and 50 years old* 47% are above 50 years old* Proportion of women in middle management positions 4.4% are below 30 years* 44% 37% 53% 68% are between 30 and 50 years old* 27.6% are above 50 years old* *for the year 2018 Hence, what we target is an inclusive work environment that brings up enriching team dynamics, diverse backgrounds, develops complementary competencies and unlocks individual motivation to constructively stimulate decision-making, business outcomes and managerial diversity. Workforce diversity by region Another major aspect of diversity Certainly, new comers are and inclusion is our workforce integrated in a smooth manner age distribution. As we aim to as we connect them to the tools 7% target all society’s age groups, needed to succeed and cultivate 9% we need to attune our Bank a productive employers-employees 8% to their lifestyle and needs by, relationship. Similarly, older first of all, securing a customer customers attach more importance 2016 approach they would relate to. As to their long-term relationship 14% such, our young employees have with our loyal employees. Thus, 62% an added-value when it comes to the Bank’s workforce average dealing with millennial clients as age is 38.3 years, younger by they would be more familiar with 1.8% from the 2017 workforce’s their needs and expectations. average age. 7% 8% Workforce average age 8% 2017 15% 2018 38.3 62% 2017 39 2016 37.1 6% 36 36.5 37 37.5 38 38.5 39 39.5 9% 8% 2018 Workforce diversity by age 15% 62% 2016 2017 2018 < 30 years 23% 23% 25% 30-50 years 53% 56% 53% Beirut (including employees @ Headquarters) Mount Lebanon North South Bekaa > 50 years 24% 21% 22% The regional workforce diversity is proportional to our branch network distribution across Lebanon. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 62-63 New recruits facts & figures New recruits by age Number of new recruits 2016 2018 84 < 30 years 83% 2017 114 30-50 years 13% 2016 105 > 50 years 4% 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 2017 New recruits by gender < 30 years 79% 30-50 years 18% 45% > 50 years 3% 2018 55% 46% 2017 54% 2018 49% 2016 51% < 30 years 81% 30-50 years 13% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% > 50 years 6% Female Male Turnover facts & figures In view of that, we are pleased with the 2.23% turnover rate disclosed in 2018; pointing out employees’ loyalty and devotion to the Bank, balanced by our ability to retain talents. In fact, it is the lowest for the past five years, and is a very satisfactory rate as compared to the overall local sector. Turnover rate evolution Employees’ turnover by gender | 2018 2018 2.23% 2017 3.69% 58% 42% 2016 3.44% 0.00% 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50% 4.00% Employees’ turnover by region 5% 6% 6% 6% 12% 12% 8% 3% 3% 2% 3% 2016 2017 10% 2018 78% 76% 70% Beirut (including employees @ Headquarters) South Bekaa Mount Lebanon North Employees’ seniority | 2018 100% of our senior > 10 years 47.7% managers are 5-10 years hired from the 28.3% local community < 5 years 24% 1.48 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% ratio of standard entry level wage Our employees work contracts are defined by regulatory requirements and ruled by the Collective Labour Agreement. Freedom of association is granted to all of them, as we ensure continuous compliance with policies, regulations and universal commitments. Fransabank employees’ distribution by contract type Full-Time rate 2016 2017 2018 53% 54% 53% Full-time male employees 47% 46% 47% Full-time female employees Contractual rate 2016 2017 2018 80% 85% 69% Contractual male employees 20% 15% 31% Contractual female employees Collective agreement rate of Fransabank employees (including full-time and contractual employees) are part of the collective 97% agreement Learning & Development To achieve further diversity, we Fransabank’s Orientation The Training Program invest in our employees’ existing Program is divided into two 1. Induction Program and acquired talents. Thus, we categories: All new recruits, whether encourage them to stay wellconfirmed or on probation, follow informed in their areas of • The Training Program: an Induction Program. expertise and to complement Induction Program and On-TheIt is intended to smoothly their skills by ensuring Job Training integrate new hires through professional development a corporate culture-briefing opportunities through trainings, • The Development Program: package and efficiently introduce internal mobility and merit-based Potentials Development, Talents them to their assigned tasks and career growth. Management and Polyvalence responsibilities. Enhancement. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 64-65 2. On-The-Job Training (OTJ) from this training gaining all the The OJT program allows our tools and expert knowledge to employees to acquire new lead and influence their teams 62.5% abilities that can be divided into effectively. Attendees included Fransabank two main skill sets: general regional and area managers, coverage ratio for skills transferable from one job branch and deputy branch Lebanese financial to another and specific skills managers coming from all that are unique to a particular regions: 32% from Beirut, 25% regulation exams function. from Mount Lebanon, 16% from North Lebanon, 14% from The Development Program the South of Lebanon, and 7% Certainly, we do encourage Our in-house Development from the Bekaa region; while determined employees to Program includes talent, potentials, the remaining 6% were part of achieve higher educational and polyvalence programs; Fransabank support team and degrees to pursue their quest; each one dealing with specific potentials. and in view of that, our educational proficiencies. loan is available for all employees In 2018, the training seminars looking to grow their potentials 1. Potentials Development totaled 102,623 hours of training, and is offered with exclusive This program selects competent an average of 58.5 hours per conditions. Eligible employees employees with a proven record, staff compared to 39.1 hours of are granted financial facilities and prepares them to hold training per staff in 2017. Training equivalent to 40 salaries, higher positions in the short programs were split into 13,415 reimbursed over 10 years, and and medium terms through hours of external training (13%) exempted from any interest. competencies enhancement and and 14,334 hours of internal multitasking skills development. seminars (14%) and 74,874 hours of orientation programs (73%). 2. Talents Management This program selects mainly new Furthermore, 98 employees recruits or recently hired high successfully passed the Lebanese profile employees, and put them Financial Regulations exam through a Fast Track Program in 2018. Thus, a total of 534 to determine whether they can undergo vertical or horizontal Fransabank employees from the overall Bank’s population have 6 new continuous development, or both. been certified as per the Central Bank of Lebanon Circular education 3. Polyvalence Enhancement No. 103 requisite. accounts for full-time employees This program is based on the were opened in 2018 idea that an employee can assume multiple functions within the branch/department to which he/she is assigned. This on-the-job training eventually facilitates On another note, we have employee promotions to entrychanged the caterer for our level management positions. seminars, training sessions, and internal events; collaborating 1,113 now with local organizations Leadership style and techniques, employees such as St. Vincent DePaul people connection and received training in 2018, Association or Tickles supporting representing communication, setting their mission to serve disadvantaged S.M.A.R.T. goals as well as 64% people. Their focus is to secure of the Bank’s population prioritizing, planning, and for a total of jobs for talented cooks, while offering quality food and increasing managing life and not time, effective delegation and 102,623 local productivity. In fact, the leadership impact were among hours shift was highly supported and of training, an average of the topics tackled during our quality of food provided was 2018 Leadership Development 58.5 hours praised by the attendees. of training per employee workshop. 76 employees benefited Performance Assessment and Remunerations Our performance, remuneration and promotion methods are all intended to boost and strengthen Fransabank’s shared culture and values. When evaluating employees at year-end, we request a comprehensive feedback from managers covering each person’s global performance. Equally, we acknowledge the importance of valuing and rewarding our staff for their accomplishments in order to preserve their motivation and interest, which inevitably affect our customer satisfaction. In Investing In the New We strongly believe that one of fact, our Performance Appraisal the best methods to train today’s Generation Review (PAR) system facilitates undergraduates for success is the evaluation process while through internships that deliver Aligned with our human resources also helping identify employees’ hands-on learning experiences strategy, and in order to cultivate potentials or opportunities. 1,964 and insights into the work diversity in the new generation, employees have been evaluated environment. Thus, 202 we make sure our presence at through the PAR system in 2018. appealing students from various major universities’ job fairs is This annual evaluation allows Lebanese universities had the carried annually. Through our us to determine and directly link opportunity to complete our presence, we try to communicate merit and bonus to both 240 hours Summer Internship with young people to better inform individual and team productivity. Program individually designed them on the market needed skills and qualifications so they as per their courses requisites. would adjust their career towards Accordingly, at the end of the greater job opportunities. In summer program, candidates 2018, we joined the American were short-listed to go through University of Beirut (AUB), the hiring process once they Lebanese American University graduate. The decision was (LAU), Université Saint-Joseph based on those who outshined 1,964 (USJ), Ecole Supérieure des Affaires (ESA), and Antonine in performance as well as in behavior and showed eagerness employees’ to learn and assist. Consequently, University, in their respective job performance fairs. five candidates were selected have been reviewed and hired in 2018. in 2018 Enriching our Employees’ Loyalty Compensation plans are aligned with our commitment to human rights and employees’ value. Besides, their merit-based salaries, Fransabank employees are endowed with fair compensation, benefits and working conditions synchronized with their professional goals and work-life balance, and is in accordance with all collective labor agreement allowances. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 66-67 Employees’ Health and Parental Leave Safety FULL-TIME We take specific working EMPLOYEES’ BENEFITS We work to ensure a workplace preferences, lifestyles and life that is healthy and safe, both stages into account, providing 4 Medical coverage physically and mentally. Health flexible working conditions to 4 Paid annual leaves and safety measures have been our employees. Thus, in 2018, 4 Transportation allowance at the top of our priorities. Thus, 88 employees were entitled to a 4 Food allowance internal policies and improvement parental leave with 60% being 4 Preferential loans measures are ongoing to women and a 100% return to 4 Cost of living adjustment safeguard our employment work rate for both fathers and 4 Dental care loan at zero conditions and meet the required mothers. Similarly, 205 mothers interest standards. of children aged up to 12 years 4 Wedding gift old, benefited from a particular 4 delivery gift For instance, we offer working schedule that help them 4 Special discount for comprehensive health benefits accomplish their professional and tuition fees at LAU to assist our employees and their personal responsibilities. 4 Retirement plan families. In 2018, we partnered 4 College tuition fees for with a health and family-care Support to Employees’ employees’ children carrier to facilitate employees 4 Family allowance Children and their dependent relatives’ 4 Among others… access to the best-possible care Our support also extends to our providing further coverage. employees’ children, whereby, in 2018, USD 2.9 million were On the other hand, in case of any consecrated to their schooling natural or human catastrophe fees, with 1,344 children receiving related to fire, flooding and/ a contribution to their tuition or tsunami, earthquakes, civil fees. An agreement was also unrest, war and terrorism, reached between the Lebanese employees were handed a detailed procedure on emergency American University (LAU) and USD 2.9 Fransabank to provide our million evacuation informing them on employees coveting to enroll were provided for how to react in such situations. their children or dependents at 1,344 LAU with a fixed discount of 35% employees’ children of the tuition fees. schooling fees in 2018 Employees’ Engagement Strengths, Weaknesses, helps identify and understand 55% of our sample aged in their Opportunities, and real strengths and weaknesses, thirties, and were subdivided Threats (SWOT) Survey uncover opportunities that are equally between men and women. well-placed to exploit, as well as The sample covered all of our We believe that a strong business manage and eliminate threats national regional network with management starts from the from the perspective of our 54% of participants working at inside and is to be shared internal stakeholders. the Headquarters and 46% at amongst the Bank’s total local branches. Thus, response resources by harmonizing 320 employees from departments rate was 51%. visions and speaking one common and branches with different business language. Thus, in 2018, job titles and with five to eight The majority of respondents we invited employees to share years of service were targeted acknowledged Fransabank’s feedback through an anonymous in our study sample. We chose sound reputation, legacy and SWOT survey covering questions this segment in particular, as wide-ranging presence. Our related to Fransabank’s we believe that this selected conservative approach to risk Strengths, Weaknesses, years of experience reflects a management was also depicted Opportunities, and Threats. deeper sense of belonging than as a strong point, aligned with new comers but they can still a customer oriented approach What makes such a study see things from a more critical which translates into a loyal particularly influential, is that it perspective than the deep-rooted clientele base. The Bank’s CSR employees. strategy through its strong commitment to sustainable energy finance and youth financial education were also marked as strength points. As for the main areas which would require further improvement, the centralization of procedures was a controversy as well as the need to introduce further • Sound reputation tech-oriented products, develop • Strong corporate governance a stronger loyalty program, and • Conservative risk management approach mostly arrange more advanced • Customer loyalty trainings intended for employees’ • Large branch network career development. Of course, • Quality of service and customer satisfaction the highly competitive market is • Workforce training and development the main threat for any financial • Employees engagement in the community group; which justifies our high • Employees satisfaction concern with customer satisfaction. • Reduction of environmental impact Lastly, they acknowledged the • Youth financial products real opportunities of digitalization • Centralization of procedures and green finance. • More tech-oriented products • Stronger loyalty program • Highly competitive market • Grab opportunities for digitalization 320 employees were included in the SWOT survey Targeting employees with 5 to 8 years of service at Fransabank Male and female were equally represented 51% was the response rate Employees’ Social • A volunteerism day was Involvement organized in support of the children of AFEL*, on May 1st, It has become increasingly which matched with the important for us, to develop our international Labour Day. 14 staff’s sense of purpose which volunteers helped run the day in goes beyond just doing the job, a fun and interactive spirit earning money and growing the considering themselves blessed business. That’s why, we decided to have taken part in such a to improve our employees’ positive day. At the same time, engagement by time contribution, the 39 children at AFEL lived an donations and pro bono activities experience of joy in a very to society through different entertaining environment, ranging initiatives and services. As such, from recreational activities, 2018 resulted with the following to sharing lunch, singing, and deeds: dancing, to gifts distribution. *About AFEL (Association Du Foyer De l’Enfant Libanais): Founded in 1976, AFEL is a non-political and non-confessional organization recognized by the Lebanese State by virtue of the 1977 Decree No. 97 AD, and declared of public utility as of 1987. AFEL has since taken under its wing more than 5,000 children, enhancing the daily lives of countless people and giving entire generations the means to become autonomous and responsible adults through a unique holistic approach which incorporates the family in the child’s rehabilitation process. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 68-69 • Our staff has been contributing, on a voluntary basis, to the treatment Fransabank acknowledges staff’s private commitments and of children fighting cancer. This responsibilities towards their families, friends, community and individual commitment to the professional development activities. We, encourage employees’ “Partner in Life Employee Giving involvement in activities as long as such activities are not in conflict Program” with the Children Cancer with their work related duties. Staff members may not engage in Center of Lebanon (CCCL) activities that interfere with fully performing their position duties comes out from the employee’s and responsibilities at the Bank and are expected to avoid situations own sense of responsibility and in which their judgment in making decisions or taking actions on his/her wish to help make a behalf of the Bank may be adversely affected by personal consideration difference on the social level. In or situations where their performance or loyalty may be compromised. 2018, 31 new adherents, helped This requirement is intended to help ensure that we receive from raise USD 48,830; resulting in our staff the amount and quality of effort, judgment and loyalty the collection of USD 399,609 that are necessary for us to achieve our objectives in ways that are from 568 Fransabank’s employees consistent with our standard of excellence. since 2005 till end of 2018 to the benefit of the CCCL. • Likewise, 17 employees chose to Bonding Activity departments. Employees extend their financial support to connected through team activities Epsilon, a medico-social We also aim to reduce work and inspirational workshops reveal association assisting patients related stress by encouraging a stronger fellowship among the with epilepsy in paying their open dialogue between staff, while pushing their creativity bills and medications, especially employees and managers and and well-being. children, while also shedding strengthen employee-employee light on this chronic disorder and relations. As such, our bonding After-work socializing activities causes. Thus, our employees’ activities were sustained in among colleagues have been contribution resulted in a total of 2018, by engaging 40 employees increasing as well. Nowadays, USD 2,898 in 2018. from various branches and employees would enjoy a drink or coffee to de-stress after a Fransabank also supports sports long day at work. But, for others, activities among its employees it could also mean a friendly and competitive banks. For the sports game or a full-day outing. third year in a row, Fransabank Fransabank’s subsidized social Blue Knights Basketball team club, the “Amicale Club”, is a won the “BDL Banks Basketball way of bringing employees League”. Fransabank Team was together for a better engagement also rewarded with the Best and teamwork spirit. Amicale Coach Award, Best Defender members totaled 700 members Award, and the Most Valuable at the end of 2018, representing Player (MVP) Award. In addition, almost 40% of our Bank’s our team won the finals of the population. Tickets to concerts, Syndicate of Employees of theater, dinners, social activities Banks in Lebanon (SEBL) Banks and invitations for cultural and Basketball League 2018 and the sports events sponsored by the Super Cup 2018; while it made Bank, are offered to employees, it to the semi-final of the Dubai while we also subsidize activities Banks Basketball tournament such as night outs and full day 2018. outings on weekends, in addition to special deals from sports Similarly, Fransabank Mini centers, shops, and diet centers, Football Team achieved the first among others. place in the Ban-Co League, which involved competing 40% of our population is part of the Amicale Club FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 70-71 companies from different Our teams have the full support sectors. As a result, they were of the Bank’s top management invited to compete with regional as we strongly believe that banks and companies as part sports activities positively affect of the Ban-Co Dubai League. co-workers relationship, giving Fransabank Team made it to the them lessons on teamwork, semi-finals and was also how to overcome differences for rewarded with the Best Team better productivity, and to Spirit and Best Team Manager collaborate effectively by trusting Award. As for the BDL Mini one another. Football League 2018, our team reached the semi-finals as well. OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE COMMUNITIES A key part of Fransabank’s strategy is to provide seed money to support community groups and projects in their capacity building and help them reach the resources that facilitate social development and welfare. In 2018, Fransabank has invested more than USD 855,000 in around 80 organizations strategically selected through measurable outcomes; thus, improving their financial well-being, whether through partnerships, sponsorships, or donations. Total investments in the community 2018 855,560 2017 1,105,163 920,000 2016 $0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 Education Art & Culture Social & Health Over the years, our investment contributions to schools and in educational initiatives has universities’ activities in Lebanon. increased reflecting our strategic pledge to advance SDG 4 – As for the social & health Quality Education; which has category, our contribution taken over part of our art and witnessed a decrease due to a culture financial support. rigorous selection of the initiatives to support; choosing the The investment put into financial organizations that fit best our education and inclusion reached selection criteria. For instance, 45% out of the total community the cause we choose to support support in 2018, compared to should have a measurable 35% in 2017, and 23% in 2016. impact that lead to a sustainable This notable increase of share program and drive positive also includes our numerous long-term social returns. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 74-75 Youth Financial Education & Inclusion Youth as Partners for the Implementation of the Whether it is opening a bank Fransabank’s major role in these Sustainable Development account, applying for a loan, or financial inclusion initiatives lies Goals (SDGs) managing money, dealing with a within raising awareness among 65 out of the 169 SDGs targets bank needs to be learned – the young people on financial inclusion, reference young people earlier, the better. To help young budgeting and saving skills, explicitly or implicitly, with a people acquire sound financial financial planning, financial focus on empowerment, skills, we go by SDG 17 – management, e-payment and to participation and/or well-being. Partnerships for the Goals, and prepare them with respect to the There are 20 youth-specific partner with strategic third parties world of banking and finance. targets spread over six key to offer practical banking as well SDGs: hunger, education, as financial knowledge to school gender equality, decent and college students thru strategic work, inequality and climate change. In order to achieve financial literacy programs “participation, inclusion, that fall under our pledge for accountability and revitalized SDG 4 – Quality Education, global engagement embedded coupled with our employees’ in Goals 16 (peaceful, just and engagement. inclusive societies) and 17 (partnerships and implementation), young people’s involvement is key. Source: The United Nations Development Program fast facts Fransabank Youth Day Fransabank Global Money Week (GMW), a for 250 school students as part Big Bank Challenge© Children Youth Finance International of GMW 2018. Students from (CYFI) initiative, in collaboration Collège Protestant Français, with the United Nations Greenfield College, International Development Program (UNDP) College, Lycée Verdun and and the Higher Council for Melkart College, were involved Childhood under the Lebanese in interactive discussions with Ministry of Social Affairs, is an our management and staffs, who annual financial awareness presented key banking facts and movement built to inspire children figures, an overview of Fransabank’s and young people to learn about CSR strategic scope and initiatives, money matters, livelihoods and as well as products and services entrepreneurship. This initiative targeting the youth. helps today’s children and youth become empowered economic Discussions with students were citizens, capable of understanding closed with a one question survey the importance of saving, and requesting their suggestions managing their money wisely. By on new ideas/projects that we empowering the youth, we create can accomplish to better serve Fransabank Big Bank Challenge a positive wave that will expand the community. In total, 150 is an educational game through to the public at large creating a students answered the opened which kids aged 15+ can gain a generation of change makers. ended question (a response basic understanding of banking rate of 60%); out of which 133 products and services. In view of that, we, at Fransabank, answers were categorized and Players are challenged to earn organized a Youth Day with an 17 disregarded due to irrelevant and save money by opening a integrated training program reply. bank account. The winner is the first player who ends up saving 100 million Lebanese pounds. Players face challenging situations and dilemmas, thus Students tackled the following subjects in their answers acquiring better knowledge of clients’ rights and duties, types of banking transactions, and • Environment (recycling, reforestation, beach cleaning…) 29% simple understanding of banking products’ benefits or • Social support (donations, NGO support, caring for the 13% disadvantage to achieve a financial most deprived people, more quality, animal rescue) target. The game stimulates •E ducation (support public schools, scholarships, internships) 11% their capacities to reach their • Youth projects 5% financial targets. • Entrepreneurship/Microcredits 4% • Employment 4% • Encourage people to save 4% The participating students in • Public sector support 4% Fransabank Youth Day were also • Awareness campaigns 3% introduced to our financial literacy • Youth products 3% game, Fransabank Big Bank Challenge, which we designed • Poverty reduction 2% in 2017 in cooperation with • Sports 2% the Institut des Finances Basil • Infrastructure 2% Fuleihan* combining interactive • Refugees 1% entertainment and learning to • Agriculture 1% improve youth financial knowledge. • Marketing 1% In GMW 2018, 250 students played our educational financial • Others 3% game and received one as a gift to appreciate it with their family and friends. *Institut des Finances Basil Fuleihan, a civil service learning center contributing to national capacity development in public financial management through training, networking, research and publications. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 76-77 This global week celebration and innovation for young people, ideas. The network of seven brings the world one step closer Fransabank, in collaboration dedicated advisers and 27 to prepare and empower future with INJAZ**, held the “I Camp university students shared a generations, who are tomorrow’s Business Challenge” also as passion for start-ups. Our leaders, and equip them with the part of the GMW 2018 program, mentors were carefully chosen to necessary financial tools and at Université Saint Joseph (USJ) be specialized in understanding education. campus. The workshop aimed at the start-ups and their business helping students gain insight into models, they also carried out Not to forget our 10 employees the complexities and rewards of training sessions with INJAZ to who voluntarily were trained as entrepreneurship and business better guide the young in their youth ambassadors to teach the in today’s interdependent market business challenge by giving game’s rules and accordingly economy. It covered topics such them access to financial insights, play with the students; giving as investments, personal growth, services, and understandings. them further insights about the and money management. After a full day workshop, the team banking world. We consider with the best entrepreneurship Fransabank Big Bank Challenge Vivid discussions and exercises project selected by the jury was a useful starting tool for took place to enhance students’ granted a job shadow day at effective conversations about financial knowledge, marketing Fransabank; while Fransabank the value of money and the strategy and teamwork skills in Big Bank Challenge game was importance of saving, the a thriving and knowledge-based distributed to all participants. different banking products and economy. In view of that, 18 to services... 21-year-old students were The winning team was also dispatched in six challenging selected by USJ to represent the Supporting teams. Each group was assisted university in the Agence entrepreneurship and by a Fransabank employee. Universitaire de la Francophonie innovation for young (AUF) competition, « Développement Thus, seven employees shared de l’entrepreneuriat étudiant au people with INJAZ their knowledge and expertise Liban”, and won third place. creating a hub of excellence for As part of our commitment to new start-ups and innovative supporting entrepreneurship **INJAZ Lebanon, a non-profit organization, aims to educate Lebanon’s youth to become qualified and successful employees and entrepreneurs in a growing regional and global economy. They engage in the business community through a volunteer based model that allows independent professionals and corporate volunteers, to share their experiences through the implementation of their varied educational programs that focus on entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial literacy. Introducing the Practical Banking course As part of our collaboration with the Lebanese American University (LAU), we were the first Lebanese bank to introduce the Practical Banking course (FIN 310) as a one credit course offered to LAU students regardless of their major, once per week during the semester. The objective of the course is to explain to students the basics of banking, including: organizational chart of a bank and its different divisions and departments’ roles Following to this study, we partnerships, especially between and functions, the different supported the Institute in its banking and educational institutions. types of banking products and dictation event which was services, online banking, the organized, in cooperation with difference between commercial Le Salon du Livre the French Embassy. This dictation banking and investment banking, Francophone de focused on how Lebanese calculations of interests on loans manage their budgets and the Beyrouth and savings accounts, bank fees differences between women and & commissions, compliance men vis-à-vis expenses. It was For the second year in a row, issues (FATCA, KYC etc.), finance a fun way to bring awareness we were present at Le Salon du and budgeting, etc. During the to citizens on the importance of Livre Francophone de Beyrouth, 2018 spring semester, our Head managing income. The audience introducing students to our Big of Compliance gave sessions consisted of government officials, Bank Challenge game. Two sharing his experience and individuals and students who are employees from the Bank know-how at the Adnan Kassar passionate about words and the volunteered to participate, School of Business (AKSOB). French language. and present the game to 101 Our employee’s involvement is students from seven different part of our financial literacy and schools. For three days, employees Talents for Lebanon employee volunteerism program; called on students to inform as we believe it is very helpful to them on the importance of dealing Our educationalist role is not have experts support educators with a bank, the facilities it can only focused on banking matters; in handling financial issues in offer at all stages of life, and we also encourage academic their course work. Pairing financial most importantly the rights and education in general. Therefore, literacy efforts and tangible duties of customers. Fransabank has renewed, in experience has a greater impact 2018, its cooperation protocol on money management. signed with the General Secretariat of the Catholic Schools. Thus, When banking and an academic contest entitled grammar come together “Talents for Lebanon” was held in partnership with Waznat A national survey was conducted Institution, which provides career by the Institute of Finance Basil counseling and professional Fuleihan across all Lebanese orientation in Lebanon. Students regions on a representative coming from different Lebanese sample of 1,200 individuals, to regions and schools competed on understand how Lebanese six academic subjects: dictation manage their money and cover in Arabic, dictation in French, their expenses. This kind of study mathematics, physics, chemistry is quite unusual in Lebanon. The and biology. Subsequently, 22 results pointed out that almost students out of 180 participants half of Lebanese do not plan received cash rewards, while their expenses; while Lebanese Fransabank Big Bank Challenge women seem more inclined than game was distributed to all men to set up budgets (58% of contestants. This initiative, again, women, as against 46% of men). sheds light on the significance of FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 78-79 250 students played and received the game Fransabank Youth Day 5 schools were targeted I Camp 27 students received Business Challenge the game FRANSABANK BIG BANK CHALLENGE GAME Talents for Lebanon 180 students received the game 101 students played and received the game Salon du Livre Francophone de Beyrouth 7 schools participated Serving our young first, Fransabank LEAD Account A total of clients is constantly updated with 558 features targeting 16 and 25 students years old individuals. Aware All people, regardless of their were financially informed via our background, should have access of this age group financial to resources that would push capabilities, the account is Big Bank offered free of charge coupled them forward in life to achieve Challenge their full potential. Accordingly, with preferential interest rates, in 2018, we rely on and support education and appealing benefits which thus a total of for more inclusive societies, are all listed on our dedicated 1,439 mutual acceptance, and communal microsite http://fransabankleadaccount.com/. students advancement. in 2017 and 2018 Hence, Fransabank’s educational Besides, our Education Saving & loans, introduced back in 2009, Insurance Plan “Fransajeunesse”, reached a total of 1,669 loans for has been also offering the an outstanding amount of around chance for parents to secure the c/v of USD 20.01 million as their children’s education with end of 2018. The loan helps all a savings plan that provides the qualified students pursue their best return on investment. The education either in Lebanon or success of the plan resides in its abroad at very competitive rates flexibility. Premium payments and flexible repayment periods. can start with as low as USD 25 per month with the possibility of As we help secure our youth modifying the payments. At contract education, we also see in them maturity, the children can choose future potential customers; yet to receive the amount saved as we have to work on building a lump sum amount or as an a relation based on trust and annual income. transparency with the young generation to secure a double edge relation. Therefore, putting their satisfaction and interests A Culture on the Go Cultural places, events or festivals are deliberated to be the source of a culture’s shared memory. In this sense, we continuously support culture preservation and advancement; as it allows people from different places and backgrounds to communicate; giving voice to some forgotten heritage, stories, and memories. Ecotourism for rural development For its third edition, Fransabank confirmed again its support for “Le Village Préféré des Libanais” the much-anticipated annual event in support of rural tourism, organized in collaboration with L’Orient-Le Jour newspaper, and welcoming one more batch of 10 villages spread all over Lebanon. When it was first launched, the “Le Village Préféré des Libanais” initiative came from a pressing and justified need to support the tourism sector, which had suffered a lot in past years, and to encourage local tourism especially rural tourism, then still in its early stages, but with very high potential. At the end of the day, we have foreseen right. The cottages and guest houses have since developed at a rapid pace and are reaching full capacity all year round. The Lebanese residents have never been so much enthusiastic to discover their heritage and their terroir, while tourists come back in large numbers. Rejoicing the outcome of this partnership, this initiative was well anchored in our commitment to advance SDG 11 – Sustainable In 2018, Lebanese from home or (Bekaa), Kfour (Keserouan), Cities and Communities, along from abroad were called to vote Marjeyoun (Marjeyoun) and with its strategic interest in for the #‎VillagePreferedesLibanais. Qartaba (Jbeil). devoting efforts to the principles This year, the 10 new Lebanese of sustainable development, villages included: Ain Dara Alongside this voting process, we consolidating the Lebanese (Aley), Baakline (Chouf), Bkassine had a photo competition in which people’s love and sense of (Jezzine), Broumana (Metn), Enfé Instagramers were requested belonging to the homeland. (Koura), Jouaya (Tyr), Jeb Jannine to capture the beauty of the FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 80-81 selected villages using Reaching people availability of quality music #FransabankVPL and tagging through cultural education to the local communities; @Fransabankgroup for a chance events as LeBAM’s aim is to teach to win valuable prizes. music for free to 10 through 18 Aligned with our equitable year-old youth, providing them More than 900 visitors gathered community development idea, with free wind and percussion to discover unique features of we have been supporting, for instruments and organizing the participating villages, at the years, regional summer festivals them in harmonic bands to inaugural event. Each village had believing in their socio-economic perform concerts and events at a dedicated area to introduce potential. Our diversified branch national and community levels guests to their specialties and network has been an important throughout Lebanon. favored cuisines, various link facilitating our reach and entertainment shows by local aim to foster cultural events; Other concerts were, as well, talents took place throughout which are seen as heritage supported by Fransabank, such the evening, as well as dedicated guardians and social encounters as the concert of the Lebanese activities for kids. for people from diverse Philharmonic Orchestra which backgrounds. was organized by the Rotary Club After the vote of nearly 50,000 of Beirut, and the Beirut Cultural individuals, Bkassine won the Consequently, Fransabank has Festivals which has become contest with an impressive gap partnered, in 2018, with several a platform for diverse events attracting 43% of the votes, musical and cultural festivals and activities. These cultural followed by Qartaba with 22.9%. across Lebanon, from Beiteddine, programs found also their way So, Following Akkar el-Atika in to Baalbeck, Al Bustan, Batroun, among our selected initiatives 2016 and Sir el-Denniyé in 2017, Zahlé, Bikfaya, Jezzine, Bourj el since their vision of preserving Bkassine located in the heart of Moukouk, Amchit, Mzaar, Tripoli, Beirut as a cultural incubator of the caza of Jezzine, became the Tyr, Ain Ebel, Rmeich, among major events in Lebanon and the most beautiful village in Lebanon others. Arab World is very much what for 2018. we, at Fransabank, hope for. Moreover, we heartened classical music through The Lebanese Band Association for the Promotion of Music LeBAM’s concert. Our patronage of this cultural opportunity enriched the An Aspiring Society We bring together social contribution, philanthropy and donation to create lasting change for the better in communities across Lebanon. Our efforts focus on providing nonprofit organizations with the necessary support to serve the most vulnerable populations and come up with new models to help low-income citizens, children, seniors, and people with special needs improve their living standards. Road safety hospitals. Since 2011, more than 600 ER Doctors across Lebanon According to the latest World have been trained; and Health Organization (WHO) data subsequently obtained certificates published in 2017 Road Traffic in collaboration with the American Accidents Deaths in Lebanon University of Beirut Medical Center reached 1,129 or 3.34% of total (AUBMC). These achievements Since 2011, deaths. In view of that, we, at will play a key role in making ATLS Roads Fransabank, believe in the mandatory for the accreditation for life necessity to extend road safety of Hospital ER rooms that is certified more than awareness and optimize the currently being planned by the 600 chances of survival for victims of Ministry of Health. ER doctors road accidents. in collaboration with Additionally, Roads for Life the AUBMC As such, Roads for Life, in its succeeded, in 2018, in completing, mission to provide Post Trauma with our partnership, four Care services through its ATLS® rounds of the Tactical Combat courses to doctors in emergency Casualty Care Course (TCCC). rooms, has been receiving our After two years in the making, annual financial support since Roads for Life has embarked on 2011. Their program to the a journey to begin the capacity “Golden Period of Trauma” or building program for the Lebanese 100 the timeframe in which a life can Army. TCCC is the premiere Special Forces be saved, has been widely spread accredited rescue course for Instructors across all Lebanese regions civilian and military rescue in received Roads for Life’s covering ER doctors from both for battlefield scenarios, and has TCCC the public and private sectors. resulted in the certification of 100 Special Forces Instructors, and certification in 2018 The courses for the year 2018 given them the knowledge, skills have reached 73 ER doctors and equipment to save a life in trained from ten different as little as 30 seconds when under fire. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 82-83 Food for all Bringing life, health claim their lives by providing & hope a nonjudgmental and caring Among the most vulnerable environment of client-centered segments of our society, are Fransabank has been continuously treatment and counseling. children and senior people. supporting a wide range of Fransabank aims with these Being at the opposite ends of life non-governmental organizations, initiatives to serve individuals spectrum, they, in fact, are very from those assisting children through empowering them to comparable in their needs for with special health needs, to make healthy choices and helping care and affection. Therefore, we, those providing financial support them reintegrate in society. at Fransabank, have been devoting to reduce poverty in Lebanon. To special time for children and wrap up our 2018 donations and Al Younbouh; a rehabilitation elderly mainly in times of assistance, we list the subsequent center for mentally challenged celebrations and family gatherings. main organizations: young adults. OpenMinds; a fund supporting Auxilia; an organization which Thus, in 2018, 200 kids coming the AUB Medical Center’s aims at maintaining the family from Dar Al Aytam Al Islamiya Special Kids Clinic (ASKC) in unity after the death of its were invited to two Iftars with conducting research, empowering breadwinner, banish the idea of Fransabank Family members to the community through education the orphanage, and so training share the beautiful spirit of and awareness, providing early and rehabilitating mothers to Ramadan. The Iftars were hosted detection, and coordinating total help them find a convenient job. at our Headquarters and included fun shows and interactive games care for developmentally and Al-Makassed Philanthropic with our employees. Additionally, neurologically impaired children. Islamic Association; a nonwe support, on a yearly basis, an governmental association elderly iftar organized by Dar Al The Brave Heart Fund; a fund aiding to cover the cost of providing education, social and Ajaza Al Islamia for its residents. health care services to the Such initiatives’ outcomes are surgeries and hospitalization for needy children suffering from disadvantaged community. seen right away with seniors and children’s smiling faces and coronary heart disease. Lebanese Food Bank; a noninvolvement in activities and Skoun & Oum el Nour; are profit organization which fights talks. both Lebanese not-for-profit hunger by developing effective associations working on helping feeding programs to eliminate people with addiction problems hunger. Select Awards and Recognitions H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar and Fransabank received select awards and recognitions. Green Bond ‘Excellent’ rating from Award from the former Executive Moody’s Director of the UN Global Compact Moody’s assigned GB1 (Excellent) Green Bond Mr. Kassar received an award from the former Executive Assessment to Fransabank SAL’s Series 1 Green Director of the UN Global Compact, Mr. Georg Kell Bonds, which is the highest possible rating for its for his role, as president of the International Chamber outstanding framework in full compliance with the of Commerce, in the founding of the UN Global Compact Green Bond Principles. with then Secretary General of the UN, the late Mr. Kofi Annan, in 2000 at the CSR Conference that was held in Beirut, Lebanon in 2013. 2019 Green Bond Pioneer Award Fransabank received the 2019 Green Bond Pioneer Honorary Chairman of the United Award from the Climate Bonds Initiative, in Nations Maritime Continental Silk Road partnership with the London Stock Exchange Group; Cities Alliances acknowledging its leadership in introducing Green Bonds in the region and ongoing commitment to Mr. Kassar was named Honorary Chairman of the sustainable finance and awareness making to United Nations Maritime Continental Silk Road Cities environmental challenges. Alliances in the Kingdom of Bahrain at the World Entrepreneurs Conference as a recognition for his contributions and continuous efforts for Lebanon’s Best Bank for Asia for 2019 strengthening the Arab and international private economic sectors, as a prominent player in advancing Fransabank won Lebanon’s Best Bank for Asia in the Arab-Chinese and international-Chinese 2019 by Asiamoney, during its Middle East Best economic relations, and actively supporting the Banks for Asia Awards ceremony held in Hong Kong. launch of the Silk Road. Fransabank was selected for its number of impressive firsts in Asia, as stated by Asiamoney. Honorary Chairman of the SRCIC Oslo Business for Peace Honourees Mr. Kassar was elected as Honorary Chairman of the 2014 Silk Road Chamber of International Commerce (SRCIC) in 2017; aiming to promote the renaissance of Mr. Kassar has been named a Business for Peace the Silk Road trade and culture, founded to develop Honourees by the Business for Peace Foundation’s the “Silk Road Economic Belt” and a “21st Century independent Award Committee consisting of Nobel Maritime Silk Road” (the Belt and Road). Prize winners in Peace and Economics. He was selected amongst over 120 nominations from over 50 countries, as an Honouree for being, as described Founding member of the China – Arab by Per L. Saxegaard, chairman, Business for Peace Countries Interbank Association Foundation, a businessperson “who, through his own actions and commitments, promote socially Fransabank was chosen as founding member of responsible and ethical business practices in an the China – Arab Countries Interbank Association, outstanding way, and stand out as examples to the announced by Chinese President XI Jinping and led world”. by China Development Bank. United Nations Industrial Development UAB Gold Medal of Achievement Award Organization (UNIDO) Award Chairmen Messrs. Adnan and Adel Kassar received Mr. Kassar was awarded by UNIDO Director General, the 2018 UAB Gold Medal of Achievement during the Mr. Li Yong, for his role in empowering women and annual International Arab Banking Summit (IABS) youth celebrating UNIDO’s 50th anniversary in held in Paris, in recognition of their sixdecade Vienna, Austria in 2016. notable achievements, distinguished career and enduring contribution in safeguarding the Lebanese banking, trade and economic sector. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 86-87 ICC Merchant of Peace Award 2018 Elite Quality Recognition Award for U.S. Dollar Clearing MT103 at a rate Mr. Kassar received the ICC Merchant of Peace of 99.52% Award from the former ICC Chairman Mr. Gerard Worms in Doha in 2013, on the occasion of ICC’s Fransabank received JP Morgan Chase Bank’s “2018 World Chambers Congress, for his devotion and calls Elite Quality Recognition Award for U.S. Dollar for global peace through partnerships in business. Clearing MT103 at a rate of 99.52%”, which indicates the high quality of payment transactions processed by Fransabank. JP Morgan singled out Fransabank Certificate of Appreciation for the exceptionally high quality of its payment transactions, attaining one of the highest percentages Mr. Kassar received a certificate of appreciation for among banks. To note, Fransabank had also received his distinguished contribution to the 2013 Beirut JP Morgan Chase’s “2015 Elite Quality Recognition Conference entitled “Economy for Mankind”, which Award for Outstanding Achievement of (Next Line) gathered more than 500 Muslim and Christian Best-in-Class MT103 STP” at a rate of 99.67%”. business leaders that shared ideas for progress based on Corporate Social Responsibility and opened the way for new perspectives for global economic 2018 Most Active Issuing Bank in Lebanon and social development respectful of human dignity. Fransabank was granted the 2018 Most Active Issuing Bank in Lebanon by EBRD, recognizing our Bank as Trade Award 2017 for Excellent one of its most successful financial partners who Partnership in the Year 2016-2017 are providing the financial means and support that allow companies to identify, explore and conquer new Chairmen Kassar received the Trade Award 2017 markets. for Excellent Partnership in the year 2016-2017. The ceremony was held in presence of Mr. Hans-Georg Pirner, Senior Representative – Commerzbank 2017 Best Issuing Bank Partner in Beirut Office. Middle East & North Africa Fransabank received IFC’s “Best issuing bank partner Quality Recognition Award 2016 in Middle East & North Africa” for the year 2017 as symbol of success and commitment especially in the Fransabank received the Commerzbank Straight trade finance business. The Bank was recognized through Processing (STP) Award, in recognition of its during the 8th IFC Trade Awards which targeted IFC excellence in the delivery of commercial payments partners with ‘leadership in providing trade finance and financial institution transfers drawn on the in emerging markets’. Bank’s EURO account with Commerzbank AG. Mastercard Champion Partner Bank Green Recognitions during the Award 7th Edition of the International Beirut Energy Forum 2016. Fransabank won Mastercard Champion Partner Bank Award in the first “Mastercard Forum for Mr. Kassar was named the Energy Ambassador of Innovation 2016” in Eastern Europe. the Year 2016 as an acknowledgement to the efforts exerted by the Bank to finance energy projects and create general awareness in Lebanon. Fransabank received the Energy Awareness Award – the category of Pioneers of Sustainability for the launch of its Eco-Business Loans. Our Contribution to the Selected Sustainable Developments Goals (SDGs) SDGs OBJECTIVES & OUR CONTRIBUTION CROSS-REFERENCE PAGES Goal 4: Learning 64 to 66 & Development Quality Education ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong Youth Financial 75 to 79 learning opportunities for all Education & Inclusion Covered targets 4.3 Equal access to affordable 4.5 Eliminate all discrimination technical, vocational and higher in education education 4.4 Increase the number of 4.6 Universal literacy and people with relevant skills for numeracy financial success Fransabank has been actively supporting an inclusive quality education for all focusing mainly on financial education programs and initiatives; such as: • Supporting the youth by launching educational and training initiatives for school students during the Global Money Week • Adopting volunteerism initiatives for promoting financial education among universities and schools • Developing Fransabank Big Bank Challenge game, a financial educational cards game • Launching pedagogical competitions among students • Offering educational loans and scholarships • Welcoming students at Fransabank Summer Internship Program • Conducting internal and external trainings for employees as well as supporting their education progress. Goal 5: Commitment to 20 to 22 Gender Equality Good Corporate achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Governance Financial 31 to 37 Inclusion Covered targets Diversity 61 to 64 & Inclusion 5.1 End discrimination 5.5 Ensure full participation in against women and girls leadership and decision-making Learning 64 to 66 & Development 5.4 Value unpaid care and promote shared domestic Enriching our 66-67 responsibilities Employees’ Loyalty Fransabank is keen on providing an equal opportunities work environment for all its employees, by: • Securing gender equality and diverse age distribution • Supporting women empowerment through financial inclusion programs (micro loans, SME loans and equity funds participation) • Promoting, recruiting, and evaluating performances based on competencies and merit • Providing additional benefits to employees. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 88-89 SDGs OBJECTIVES & OUR CONTRIBUTION CROSS-REFERENCE PAGES Goal 8: Our Human Rights 26 Decent Work and Economic Growth Policy promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and Responsible 30 productive employment and decent work for all Lending Financial 31 to 37 Covered targets Inclusion 8.1 Sustainable economic 8.6 Promote youth growth employment, education and Customer 38 to 41 training Experience 8.2 Diversify, innovate and 8.8 Protect labour rights Suppliers’ 41 upgrade for economic and promote safe working Management productivity environments 8.3 Promote policies to 8.9 Promote beneficial and Our Approach to 54 to 57 support job creation and sustainable tourism Minimizing growing enterprises our Impact 8.4 Improve resource 8.10 Universal access to banking, insurance and financial Diversity 61 to 64 efficiency in consumption and services & Inclusion production 8.5 Full employment and Learning 64 to 66 decent work with equal pay & Development Enriching our 66-67 Fransabank is a responsible financial institution whose objective is to share its success with the Employees’ Loyalty communities it serves, by: Youth Financial 75 to 79 • Implementing responsible lending criteria Education • Advancing targeted financial schemes (microcredits, SMEs, start-ups and corporations) & Inclusion • Assisting companies in their growth process • Financing young entrepreneurs businesses and/or innovative ideas • Participating in several financial education and inclusion initiatives among which the Global Money Week, Fransabank internship program, lectures at universities and schools… • Running youth competitions that derive innovation and tackle today’s challenges, • Providing educational loans and scholarships • Encouraging advancement education program for our employees • Supporting local educational institutions in collaboration with partner organizations • Adopting volunteerism initiatives for financial education initiatives at universities and schools • Creating new employment opportunities across Lebanon • Providing progressive working conditions to all employees • Launching our human rights policies • Reducing our waste consumption. Goal 9: Responsible 30 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Lending build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable Financial 31 to 37 industrialization and foster innovation Inclusion Covered targets Sustainable 44 to 52 9.1 Develop sustainable, 9.3 Increase access to financial Financing resilient and inclusive services and markets infrastructures 9.2 Promote inclusive and 9.4 Upgrade all industries and sustainable industrialization infrastructures for sustainability Fransabank has been shifting its product development to more sustainable, innovative and responsible products and services, by: • Signing several new credit lines with international financial institutions in order to further increase the access of SMEs and midcaps to financial services, especially those operating in the fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency • Supporting start-ups through financial support extended via both Fransabank and Fransa Invest Bank (the investment banking subsidiary of Fransabank Group); while targeting mainly start-ups engaged in innovation and technology • Constantly reviewing Environmental and Social management risks in the lending processes. SDGs OBJECTIVES & OUR CONTRIBUTION CROSS-REFERENCE PAGES Goal 11: Responsible 30 Sustainable Cities and Communities Lending make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and Financial 31 to 37 sustainable Inclusion Customer 38 to 41 Covered targets Experience 11.1 Safe and affordable 11.4 Protect the world’s housing cultural and natural heritage Accessible 37 Homeownership 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable Sustainable 44 to 52 urbanization Financing A Culture 80-81 Fransabank, along with selected local and international partners, invest in developing on the Go eco-friendly projects that meet sustainability criteria; while: • Providing affordable housing loans with suitable conditions • Abiding by the environmental and Social Management System that has been adopted, while also assisting through counselling, auditing, and follow-ups in customers’ greening efforts • Providing accommodating products and services to all • Making sure to reach all the communities through a well-developed branch network and electronic services • Preserving Lebanon’s cultural and natural heritage, thus, supporting positive economic, social, and environmental development with a special focus on rural areas. Goal 13: Sustainable 44 to 52 Climate Action Financing take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Championing 53 SDG 13 Climate Action Covered targets Our Approach 54 to 57 13.2 Integrate climate change 13.3 Build knowledge and to Minimizing measures into policies and capacity to meet climate change our Impact planning Fransabank is committed to combating climate change through operations with customers as well as it employees’ engagement; by: • Offering a range of sustainable products and services through a standalone business line targeting both individuals and businesses • Developing strong partnerships with local and international institutions from both the public and private sectors thus covering a wide range of sectors, industries, and businesses • Putting in place sector-specific policies and guidelines to meet all clients’ requirements • Launching the first Green Bonds in the region, to support eco-friendly project financing • Applying the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in all credit processes; while also offering clients counselling, auditing, and follow-up services all through their green efforts • Mainstreaming SDG 13 in the Lebanese private sector as part of being the national Goal Leader • Working on decreasing the environmental impact of operations through various internal initiatives, while sticking to the IFC green audit on the Headquarters. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 90-91 Linking the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards with the SDGs & UNGC 10 Principles DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization. Fransabank 102-2 Primary activities, brands, products, and services. Fransabank at a Glance 4-5 102-3 Location of headquarters. Fransabank headquarters is located on Hamra Main Street, Beirut, Lebanon. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization Fransabank at a Glance 4-5 operates, and the names of countries where it has Fransabank Annual Report 2018 significant operations and/or that are relevant to the report’s topics. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 102-6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization (including total number of employees, total number of operations, net sales or net revenues, total capitalization, quantity of products and services provided). 102-8 a. Total number of employees by employment SDG 8 Principle 6 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. target 8.5 b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, SDG 12 Suppliers’ Management 41 including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, Fransabank Annual Report 2018 structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the Principle 7 Managing Risk 22-23 Precautionary Principle or approach. Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 Environmental & Social Management 49-50 System (ESMS) 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, Principle 1 Fransabank is a signatory to the United environmental and social charters, principles, or Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the other initiatives to which the organization Business for Peace initiative, and subscribes, or which it endorses. Lebanon Climate Act. 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other SDG 17 Principle 3 Fransabank is active in many organizations associations, and national or international advocacy and associations, particularly those organizations. that focus our core business. Some of our significant and strategic memberships include the Association of Banks in Lebanon (ABL), Union of Arab Banks, Chambers of Commerce Industry and Agriculture, UNGC, the GCNL, LCEC World Energy council Lebanon Committee, Lebanon Climate Act as well as other strategic alliances. DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker Message from the Chairmen 2-3 of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 A description of the organization’s values, SDG 16 Principle 1 Vision, Mission and Values 4 principles, standards, and norms of behavior. Principle 10 Business Ethics 24-25 Governance 102-18 a. Governance structure of the organization, including SDG 5 Commitment to Good Corporate 20 to 22 committees of the highest governance body. target 5.5 Governance Fransabank Annual Report 2018 102-19 Process for delegating authority for economic, Environmental & Social Management 49-50 environmental, and social topics from the highest System (ESMS) governance body to senior executives and other employees. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, SDG 16 Engaging with Stakeholders 10-11 environmental, and social topics. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its SDG 5 Commitment to Good Corporate 20 to 22 committees. target 5.5 Governance SDG 16 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 Fransabank Annual Report 2018 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance SDG 5 Commitment to Good Corporate 20 to 22 body and its committees. target 5.5 Governance SDG 16 Fransabank Annual Report 2018 102-26 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ Fransabank Annual Report 2018 roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics. 102-29 Highest governance body’s role in identifying and SDG 16 Environmental & Social Management 49-50 managing economic, environmental, and social System (ESMS) topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities Fransabank Annual Report 2018 – including its role in the implementation of due diligence processes. 102-30 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. 102-32 The highest governance body’s role in sustainability Our Corporate Social Responsibility 7-8 reporting. Approach Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. SDG 17 Engaging with Stakeholders 10-11 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective SDG 8 Principle 3 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 bargaining agreements. targets 8.3, 8.5 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders SDG 17 Engaging with Stakeholders 10-11 with whom to engage. 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder SDG 17 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised SDG 17 through stakeholder engagement, including: i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 92-93 DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES Reporting Practice 102-45 aA list of all entities included in the organization’s Fransabank at a Glance 4-5 consolidated financial statements or equivalent Fransabank Annual Report 2018 documents. bWhether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. 102-46 aAn explanation of the process for defining the Assessing Materiality 12-13 report content and the topic Boundaries. bAn explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. 102-48 Report the effect of any restatements of information In our CSR Report 2017, we had given in previous reports, and the reasons for such evaluated our Headquarters’ carbon restatements. footprint emissions’ based on the Electricité du Liban grid emission; in our CSR Report 2018, a different measurement grid was adopted, in accordance with the CO2 calculator received from the Lebanese Ministry of Environment. This explains the variance in the reporting results. 102-49 Report significant changes from previous reporting Assessing Materiality 12-13 periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. About the Report 0 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report. Our last CSR report was for the fiscal year 2017, issued in July 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle. We publish a comprehensive report on a yearly basis. 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report About the Report 0 or its contents. 102-54 The claim made by the organization, if it has This report has been prepared in prepared a report in accordance with the GRI accordance with the GRI Standards: Standards, either: Core option. i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. 102-55 aThe GRI content index, which specifies each of Linking the Global Reporting 91 to 97 the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures is Initiative (GRI) Standards with the included in the report. SDGs & UNGC 10 principles b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. 102-56 External Assurance Fransabank did not seek external A description of the organization’s policy and assurance for the report. current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 For each material topic, the reporting organization Our Corporate Social Responsibility 7-8 shall report the following information: Approach a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. 103-2 The management approach and its components Assessing Materiality 12-13 a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Information unavailable due to confidentiality constraints. Topic Specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Standards GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SDG 2 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 SDG 7 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 SDG 8 Learning & Development 64 to 66 targets 8.1, Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 75 to 79 8.2, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6, A Culture on the Go 80-81 8.9, 8.10 As Aspiring Society 82-83 SDG 9 Fransabank Annual Report 2018 targets 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4 SDG 11 target 11.1 GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender SDG 1 Principle 6 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 compared to local minimum wage. SDG 5 targets 5.1, 5.5 SDG 8 target 8.5 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the SDG 8 local community. target 8.5 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impact 203-1 a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure SDG 2 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 investments and services supported. SDG 5 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 b. Current or expected impacts on communities and target 5.4 Accessible Homeownership 37 local economies, including positive and negative SDG 7 Learning & Development 64 to 66 SDG 9 impacts where relevant. Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 75 to 79 targets 9.1, c. Whether these investments and services are A Culture on the Go 80-81 9.2, 9.3, 9.4 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. SDG 11 As Aspiring Society 82-83 targets 11.1, 11.4 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. SDG 1 SDG 2 SDG 3 SDG 8 targets 8.2, 8.5, 8.6, 8.9, 8.10 SDG 10 SDG 17 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. SDG 8 Suppliers’ Management 41 target 8.3 SDG 12 FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 94-95 DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption. SDG 16 Business Ethics 24-25 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption SDG 16 Principle 10 policies and procedures. GRI 300: Environmental Standards GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. SDG 7 Principle 7 Our Approach to Minimizing Our 54 to 57 SDG 8 Principle 8 Impact 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. target 8.4 Principle 9 SDG 12 SDG 13 target 13.3 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste SDG 13 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. SDG 3 Principle 8 Our Approach to Minimizing Our 54 to 57 SDG 6 Impact SDG 12 GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 a. Total number and rate of new employee hires SDG 5 Principle 6 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 during the reporting period, by age group, gender targets 5.1, and region. 5.5 SDG 8 b. Total number and rate of employee turnover targets 8.5, during the reporting period, by age group, gender 8.6 and region. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are SDG 5 Principle 6 Enriching our Employees’ Loyalty 66-67 not provided to temporary or part-time employees. target 5.4 SDG 8 target 8.5 401-3 a. Total number of employees that were entitled to SDG 5 Principle 6 parental leave, by gender. targets 5.1, b. Total number of employees that took parental 5.4, 5.5 leave, by gender. SDG 8 target 8.5 c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. d. Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal SDG 3 Principle 1 Enriching our Employees’ Loyalty 66-67 agreements with trade unions. SDG 8 targets 8.5, 8.8 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training that employees have SDG 4 Principle 6 Learning & Development 64 to 66 undertaken during the reporting period, by gender targets 4.3, and employee category. 4.4, 4.5 SDG 5 targets 5.1, 5.5 SDG 8 targets 8.2, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6 404-2 a. Type of programs implemented and assistance SDG 8 Principle 6 provided to upgrade employee skills. targets 8.2, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6, 8.10 404-3 Percentage of total employees by gender and by SDG 5 Principle 6 employee category who received a regular targets performance and career development review during 5.1,5.5 SDG 8 the reporting period. targets 8.3, 8.5, 8.6 DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Percentage of individuals within the organization’s SDG 5 Principle 6 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 governance bodies in each of the following diversity targets 5.1, Fransabank Annual Report 2018 categories: 5.5 i. Gender; SDG 8 targets 8.3, ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, 8.5, 8.10 over 50 years old. 405-2 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of SDG 5 Principle 6 Diversity & Inclusion 61 to 64 women to men for each employee category. targets 5.1, 5.5 SDG 8 target 8.5 SDG 10 GRI 408: Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to SDG 8 Our Human Rights Policy 26 freedom of association and collective bargaining target 8.3 may be at risk. SDG 16 GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Report on the percentage of operations with SDG 4 Engaging with Stakeholders 10-11 implemented local community engagement, impact target 4.6 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 SDG 11 assessments, and/or development programs. Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 75 to 79 targets 11.3, 11.4 As Aspiring Society 82-83 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information SDG 12 Customer Experience 38 to 41 and labeling. SDG 16 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Report on the total number of substantiated SDG 16 Protecting our Bank’s and Customers’ 27 complaints received concerning breaches of Information customer privacy. If the organization has not Customer Experience 38 to 41 identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 96-97 DISCLOSURE TARGETED UNGC CROSS-REFERENCE/ NUMBER DESCRIPTION SDG PRINCIPLES DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES Financial Sector Supplement Aspect: Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by SDG 1 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by SDG 8 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 target 8.10 sector. Fransabank Annual Report 2018 SDG 9 targets 9.3, 9.4 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed SDG 1 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 to deliver a specific social benefit for each business SDG 8 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 target 8.10 line broken down by purpose. Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 75 to 79 SDG 9 targets 9.1, 9.3, 9.4 SDG 10 SDG 11 targets 11.1, 11.3, 11.4 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed SDG 11 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each targets Fransabank Annual Report 2018 11.3, 11.4 business line broken down by purpose. Aspect: Active Ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the SDG 10 Principle 2 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 institution’s portfolio with which the reporting Principle 7 Sustainable Financing 44 to 52 organization has interacted on environmental or Environmental & Social Management 49-50 social issues. System (ESMS) Youth Financial Education & Inclusion 75 to 79 An Aspiring Society 82-83 Aspect: local Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically SDG 1 Principle 2 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 disadvantaged areas by type. SDG 8 Customer Experience 38 to 41 targets 8.3, Fransabank Annual Report 2018 8.9, 8.10 SDG 10 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for SDG 1 Principle 2 Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 disadvantaged people. SDG 8 Customer Experience 38 to 41 targets 8.3, 8.9, 8.10 SDG 10 Corporate Code of Conduct & Professional Ethics Corporate Code of Conduct Professional Ethics Employee Behavior Customer Relations General employee conduct Clarity of information Non-smoking rule Confidential information and banking secrecy Non-smoking areas Service quality Implementation of the non-smoking rule Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Physical appearance and employee attire Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) Dress code policy for women Civic and political activities Dress code policy for men Working hours, attendance and punctuality Employee Relations Bank properties Social media and bank image Relations with Others Banks Personal social media Exchange of information Professional social media Competition Conflict of interest Announcements and advertisements Conflict of interest Reporting about inappropriate activities Reporting Violations, Illegal and/or Fraudulent and/or illegal acts Unethical Behavior (Whistleblower) Loans from other banks FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 98-99 Information Security The Information Security Section reviews periodically the “End User Security Guide”, the set of security policies that addresses risks directly related to the users’ work environment, in order to integrate newly emerging threats. All employees should make sure to read and abide by its content. Below is a brief summary of that guide. Email Usage Computer Security Email is a communication tool and is allowed for business All computer devices should be properly protected by purposes only. Everyone is held responsible for his/her restricting access to it. Similar devices include sensitive email account. information that must be restricted to authorized personnel only. Employees using Fransabank computers shall consider the sensitivity of the information and use them responsibly. Clean Desk Fransabank employees should protect paper documents, Removable Media mass storage devices, and optical media by locking them away while leaving for prolonged period of time. Only Fransabank owned removable media devices are allowed for usage and that to prevent the transfer of any virus to Fransabank network. Media Destruction Proper media disposal is necessary to prevent unauthorized Software Installation use after removal from service. Hard copy materials should be shredded on daily basis while electronic devices Software installation is the sole responsibility of the should be destructed as per Fransabank Electronic Media Information and Communication Technology Division. Destruction Procedure. Laptop Acceptable Use Internet Usage Portable devices should be properly protected while in use. Fransabank restricts internet access usage for employees Those devices should not be left unattended. who need it in their daily operations. Non-work related websites are blocked by default. User Password Management Policy User ID and password is granted to employees for accessing systems owned by Fransabank. It is expected to properly protect credentials and keep them away from unauthorized individuals. Complex passwords should be used and changed as per Bank policy. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 | 100-101 The environmentally friendly paper used in this report is from sustainable sources and adheres to strict international guidelines for the preservation of the world’s forests and ecosystems. This page was intentionally left blank © 2019 All rights reserved.
