T h e G R I S G RO U P c o m m i t m e n t the Global Compact GRIS GROUP, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components, engineered washers and die-cut engineered parts. GRIS GROUP signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS GROUP had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. For this new Communication on Progress, the two companies constituting GRIS GROUP, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE (France) and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH (Germany) are joining forces to make this joint communication about their 2019 actions. GRIS GROUP is part of the process of continuous improvement undertaken for many years, in industrial , quality and management fields, confirmed by the ISO 9001, IATF 16949 and ISO 14001 certifications. GRIS GROUP is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2019. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Céline GRIS CEO GRIS GROUP Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2019 For 2019, the GRIS GROUP chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Progress update from Global Compact participant 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2019  Human rights/Working conditions As every year, there has been investment in the workshops of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH. Some of these investments have been dedicated to improving working conditions and safety. At GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, Management has also been seeking to strengthen the safety culture. It is within this framework that the safety TOP was created. This is a body with in the field positioning, enabling exchanges between operators, sector managers, the HSE coordinator, the compliance/maintenance improvement officer and the production manager. Since there is an ever-increasing number of documents (job descriptions, standards, procedures), a decision has been made to computerize them in a database called work station documentation so that each employee has quick access to them from their workstation. GRIS GROUP gives great importance to the motivation and well-being of its staff. Many events and activities have taken place over the year for the employees on our two sites. As well as this, and due to the heat wave of the summer of 2019, a range of actions were implemented at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE for our workshop operators. A new communication tool has also been developed: the GRIS GROUP page on the LinkedIn professional social media site. As well as externally promoting our Group, the aim of this resource is to unite the company's employees. Various actions have also been launched with regard to human resources and staff training. At GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, a new staff representative body has been set up: the Social and Economic Committee. It aims to be more representative of employees. In order to improve the management of professional elections, Electronic voting has been introduced. Finally, new internal regulations and an IT charter have been drawn up and will be distributed very soon to all employees. As it is every year, GRIS GROUP is committed to promoting industry trades and welcoming young people into the world of work. Our two Group companies have therefore taken part in several events during the year. Finally, a number of GRIS GROUP employees have benefited from training courses in 2019. These included the areas of Quality, Safety and the Environment.  Environment In order to contribute to the development of renewable energies, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE has signed up to a certified electricity contract of renewable origin. In addition, action has been taken in 2019 with regard to waste. So, for each category of hazardous waste, we have been considering how best to achieve waste recovery. In order to be able to identify any shortcomings concerning internal waste sorting, bi-monthly audits have been in place since October 2019. At GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH, one main action has been implemented for the benefit of the environment. This is the installation of a new cooling system within the grinding workshop that no longer requires a filter change.  Anti-corruption As part of the implementation of the IATF standard 16 949 on the French and German sites in 2018, two documents integrating the fight against corruption issue have been created and distributed to all staff. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Investments in safety and working conditions: GRIS DÉCOUPAGE In 2019, pedestrian walkways were marked out in the workshops and protective barriers were installed in the different sectors. These changes made pedestrian traffic safer and improved the space-sharing with forklifts in the workshops. New actions of this type are planned for 2020. Following the construction of a new industrial building in 2018, consideration was given to the flow of parts between the different sectors of the workshop. Also, in order to avoid crossovers of flows, some sectors have been moved. This is particularly true of the deburring and sectors and the warehouse that have been moved to a more spacious and well-lit environment. The sorting sector has moved to a new, pedestrian walkways larger, better lit and quieter building. New warehouse Finally, the tool manufacturing sector is being reorganised: some machines have been moved to a larger area and the installation of a partition has provided noise insulation. In addition, an overhead crane is now available to make load handling easier in this area. Oil mist suction units have also been installed. New partition at the tool manufacturing sector and protective barriers GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH In 2019, a workshop dedicated to the Grinding activity was built. This location, equipped with an overhead crane for each machine, provides more space and therefore increases the safety of the employees. In addition, the building is equipped with large windows that let in more natural light. A new Warehouse sector also came into existence with a more harmonious product storage organisation, more light, more space and direct access to the loading bay. The Tool manufacturing sector has been reorganised to provide more space and increase safety for the Tool manufacturing sector operators. New grinding workshop Conversion of a dedicated area for recovery and manual follow-up activities has taken place. In particular, it provides employees with protection from noise therefore giving them a healthier working environment. In addition, a testing laboratory with optimal lighting has been built as well as an additional office for the Quality Manager. The aim is to increase the space for the other employees in the department. A sectional door with automatic opening has been provided in the deburring sector. This installation provides employees with protection from draughts. With regard to the equipment section, new steel plates with flanges have been installed on the New warehouse tool carts so that tool units cannot fall off. Motivation and team cohesion GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  Implementation of SAFETY TOPS At the beginning of the year 2019, the Management of the Company expressed a desire to improve our safety culture. This has led to a certain number of mandatory safety rules for all to be implemented both internally and for our visitors to the workshop. Since this summer, the safety culture has strengthened a little more, thanks to the Safety Top taking place. The Safety Top provides a time for on the ground discussion between sector managers and operators to highlight new areas of improvement relating to safety. It takes place with the production manager, the production, rectification and packaging/shipping sector managers, the compliance/improvement maintenance manager and the HSE facilitator. The group presents the sector chosen for the day's Safety Top and invites the operators in attendance to take part in the observations. Since the start of the action in July 2019, 15 different sectors or zones have been visited, which enabled discussions with 33 field operators. The 15 Safety Tops provided an opportunity for immediate cleaning operations, storage and small maintenance work to take place. Following their implementation, each Safety Top has initiated discussions on the issue of Personal Protective Equipment, both reminding employees that it is compulsory to wear certain items and improving the availability of certain other items (gloves, glasses, ear defenders, etc.). The observations made have led to more than 50 long-term actions to reduce dangerous or non-compliant situations. All these actions have helped to reduce risks of jamming or collision, exposure to chemicals, falling materials, coactivity, falling from height or level, electric shock. In addition, the visibility or accessibility of 9 fire fighting methods (extinguishers, hose reels, etc.) has been improved. Finally, risk situations were observed and have led to improvement actions. Most of these actions are now being monitored in the SAFETY TOP report which is part of the Company's Action Plan (PACTE).  Paperless workstation documentation The increase in the number of existing documents and workstations at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE has led our company to make the decision to completely computerise documents at the work station (Workstation instructions, standards, procedures). Until the end of 2018, workstation documentation was available in ring-binders at the workstations. Among other things, it explained the operating procedures to be followed in terms of production, quality, safety and the environment. From now on, all of these files can be accessed from one computer database organised by department/sector. One of the goals of going paperless is to make it easier for employees to read documents at the workstation, access documentation from other workstations from their computer and even facilitate Homepage from the new database the updating of documents.  Heat wave actions during the hot summer temperatures To cope with the high temperatures in the summer of 2019, Management undertook various actions to benefit workshop employees. In addition to water sprays distributed every year, fresh drinks as well as ice lolly sticks were made available to them so that everyone can keep hydrated. To complete this initiative, special additional breaks were granted by Management for workshop employees as well as the option to take a break for a few minutes in an air-conditioned room whenever needed.  Pancake and chocolate basket events To mark Candlemas, and as part of the quality of life at work, the employees of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE enjoyed a pancake tasting put on by Management on 15 February. Pancake buffets were set up in different areas of the company for everyone to enjoy, on their day or night shift. A few months later, it was chocolates that made their appearance to mark Easter. Baskets were dotted around the workshop and offices as a treat for employees.  Collaborative charity sporting events for a good cause 14 employees of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE met on 28 April in Metz for the 8th edition of “La Messine”. This race brings together thousands of women every year to support breast cancer research in partnership with the League Against Cancer.  New communication tool: GRIS GROUP on LinkedIn Last March, a GRIS GROUP page was launched on the LinkedIn professional social media site. In addition to promoting our brand image and our expertise, this tool will also help us to communicate with our employees about our latest news. In the long run, thanks to their involvement, employees become true ambassadors of our employer brand by sharing our content/commenting on the posts. GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH  A Franco-German team for the Lüdenscheid inter-company race Once again this year, the employees of GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH invited their French colleagues from Lesmenils to join them at the Lüdenscheid inter-company race. In total, 30 employees of GRIS GROUP met on 5 July last year for a run and social event. This event confirmed the cohesion and harmony that prevails between our French and German collaborators despite the language barrier.  GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK turns 60 years old Created in 1959 under the name of L. SCHULTE , the company now named GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH, was acquired in 2012 by GRIS DÉCOUPAGE with whom it now forms GRIS GROUP. To mark its 60th birthday, an event was organised on 20 September. 300 guests including many employees accompanied by their families but also customers, suppliers, partners and elected officials came along. A delegation from the head office of GRIS GROUP Lesménils, including Céline GRIS, its President, were also on hand to celebrate this jubilee. On the line up were speeches, visits to the workshop, buffet dinners and music giving employees the chance to socialise together and introduce the company to their family and friends.  Partnership with a fitness centre In order to make health prevention a reality for its employees, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH has set up a partnership with the fitness centre in Herscheid. Thanks to the financial support of the company, 16 employees regularly go there to stay physically fit. This action also helps to strengthen their team spirit. Update on Human Resources GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  New staff representative body to improve social dialogue: the Social and Economic Committee (CSE) Set up on 29 May 2019, the CSE is becoming more representative since the 6 regular members and 6 deputy members who made up the works council until now have given way to a new representation with an improved gender diversity. The CSE brings together the former works council and the CHSCT (health and safety committee). It has greater resources for a credit of delegation hours with the allocation of a 167-hour quota. Alongside this, the CSE also has a health, safety and working conditions commission which meets at least four times a year to exercise all or part of the CSE's responsibilities relating to health and safety at work. As every year between December and January, mandatory annual negotiations were held with the members of the CSE and the General Direction.  Digitization of Human Resources: Establishment of online professional elections In 2019, during the professional elections, electronic voting was set up at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. This tool provides better election management (from the preparation to the announcement of the results) but also gives voters more flexibility. Each employee was able to vote from their computer, mobile phone or tablet at a time that suited them best. Computer stations have also been made available to workshop staff in a room provided for this purpose.  New internal regulations and IT charter New internal regulations have been created. Drawn up by the Management of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, it was submitted for opinion to the CSE before validation. A new IT charter has been added to this document. Its purpose is to define the framework of use of the Company's IT tools by employees. These two documents come into effect on 1 January 2020 and will be available to staff in our Workstation documentation tool (see earlier in the document).  Promotion and explanation of the industry trades to the professionals of the future In order to link their courses to an actual application in the field, students from the UIMM Training Centre Maxéville (54) came to GRIS DÉCOUPAGE on 11 April. Training to obtain a Certificate of Qualification in Metallurgy with a Quality-Safety-Environment specialism, the group was hosted by the QHSE Manager and the Communication Officers, and given a company presentation. The Product Quality Manager then joined the meeting for a visit of the workshops and an explanation of production inspection as well as the different methods of analysis (8D, Ishikawa and 5 why). A few days later, the 4th edition of the Job Dating event was held at the CFAI Maxéville. Organised by of UIMM Lorraine's Training Centre, it aims to link up the Region's industrial companies by offering work-study contracts for the autumn of 2019 and future apprentices. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE's Human Resources Assistant went on site to represent the company, which at that time was looking for apprentices on the “Professional Baccalaureate” or “Brevet de Technicien Supérieur” in Maintenance and Production Line Control. GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH  Stöber Tag : a discovery day at GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK for Herscheid schoolchildren On 21 May, two students from the Herscheid primary school came to visit GRIS UMFORTECHNIK GmbH to find out about the company, its trades but also take part in its work. The Stöber Tag, or Exploration Day, aims to raise awareness about children becoming more and more involved in the daily life of adults.  Participation at Berufsparcours, the professional journey GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK took part in the Berufsparcours day on 21 May at the Phänomenta Science Centre in Lüdenscheid. This event, taking the form of multiple workshops led by companies from different sectors, allows the students present to try out the trades themselves and maybe find their vocation. This year GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH offered a chance for people to have a go at being a toolmaker. On site, our tooling manufacturing manager, two apprentices in this sector and a staff employee gave students the chance to assemble and disassemble a tool block.  Participation at the Plettenberg Apprenticeship Fair On 6 June last year, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH took part in the Apprenticeship Fair which takes place every year in Plettenberg. During this day, visitors and future apprentices were able to learn about our company's trades and expertise but also the apprentice positions that are waiting to be filled. This event is beneficial for our Company because it helps us find new talent. Employee training: GRIS DÉCOUPAGE At GRIS DECOUPAGE, 27 employees, or 17.5% of the staff, received training in 2019 worth an amount of €73,625. Most of the training carried given related to the Quality section (CQPM Quality Technician training). Other training sessions have punctuated the employee year, such as those related to safety, social news or training of elected staff. Breakdown of training Breakdown by Breakdown by theme by gender socio-professional category GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH In 2019, at GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH, the total amount of training granted to employees totalled €16,424. More than half of the training courses related to safety and especially the training of operators, dangerous substances, tooling and the safety of tools. Breakdown of training Breakdown by Breakdown by theme by gender socio-professional category 2. ENVIRONMENT GRIS DÉCOUPAGE Recovering our waste (grinding sludge recovered since May 2019) In 2019, the HSE Department carried out a study of the treatment sectors of the main hazardous waste generated by the activity of GRIS DECOUPAGE. Since May 2019, grinding sludge is no longer sent to Landfill but rather compacted and reused as fuels in steel mills. The compaction of the sludge also means the cutting fluid can be extracted and reused. On the other hand, a study is underway regarding the possibility of recycling used grinding wheels produced by the grinding sector. In general, the HSE department is taking stock of each type of waste and seeing whether the current processing system is most appropriate or if it is possible to look for another waste recovery solution. Energy transition: GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is committed to green energy As part of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and to go further in its sustainable development policy GRIS DÉCOUPAGE signed up a Green energy contract with the electricity supplier EDF in 2019. Thanks to this contract, for each MWh of electricity consumed by our company, EDF Entreprises is injecting an equivalent quantity of electricity of renewable origin into the electricity grid. This quantity is certified by means of original guarantee certificates sent quarterly to GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. Guarantees of origin can then be assessed as part of our ISO 14001 (Environment) certification. The purpose of this system is to support the development of renewable energies in order to play a bigger part in environmental protection and the fight against global warming. Bi-monthly waste monitoring audits Bi-monthly waste audits were set up in October 2019 in order to find any anomalies in the workshops (waste sorting errors, for example). Since this type of audit was undertaken, several improvement actions have been put in place. In addition, these audits enable the filling rate of each waste container to be assessed so that waste removal, if necessary, can be planned. GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH New cooling system in the grinding sector Thanks to the acquisition of a new cooling system in the grinding workshop, the filter consumption could be reduced to zero. This system has reduced the volume discarded by 25% or 11,220 kg. Direct sludge removal by conveyor belt, at the cooling system, saved 500 working hours. Since there is no transport at all across this whole operation, we can eliminate about 62 km/year of electric forklift transport here and, therefore, reduce wear and tear and consumption of electrical energy. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE & GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH Certified ISO 14001, the two GRIS GROUP entities are committed to respecting applicable environmental regulations and limiting the impact of their activity on the environment. In a process of continuous improvement, performance indicators are monitored and their objectives reviewed each year. 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION GRIS DÉCOUPAGE & GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH Establishment of a Code of Conduct and Ethics anti-corruption policy An Anti-Corruption/Responsibility Policy was introduced as part of the IATF 16 949 Certification of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH. Each site has therefore drawn up its own document and distributed it to its employees. Through this communication, GRIS GROUP intends to formally declare its values and its business practices, that it now wishes to expand to its suppliers and subcontractors. Every manager and every employee must be exemplary in all situations and has the responsibility to behave in accordance with this Responsibility Policy. In particular, it includes: the rights and responsibilities to report irregularities, the UN Global Compact, the code of conduct and ethics, the anti-corruption policy (mentioning, among other things, conflicts of interest and corruption), the violation of the responsibility policy.
