GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 “TBSP Public Company Limited (TBSP) has been in the security printing business for more than forty years. The Company has strongly supported CSR programs and joined the UN Global Compact since year 2002. The Company has realized the importance of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and will continue to support and ensure all the staffs and related third parties will understand and always follow all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact”. Vision “Being a world class service provider for innovation products, and being a security solutions provider in terms of qualities, services and productivities with high technology for sustainability”. Mission 1. To expand new businesses to meet future market trends. 2. To develop high value added products & services beyond customer’s expectation. 3. To expand products to overseas market. 4. To strengthen overall supply chain management. 5. To focus on people development to fit with Your sincerely, TBSP’s strategy and direction. 6. To support social and environmental Mr. Natapong Pinitpongskul responsibilities Managing Director TBSP Public Company Limited, Thailand, COP for 2019 Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well-being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP has received National Safety Awards for the year 2018 from Minister of Labour for seven consecutive years since 2011. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, Furthermore, the Company tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP annually arranges the activity with its shareholders for the social support propose. In 2019, TBSP invited shareholders to visit the area for the construction of a new factory and join the merit making offering to the monks and pay homage to the Father Buddha Sothon. LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. With the effort and determination to become an ASEAN non-counterfeit printing manufacturer, the Company has continuously improved and developed innovative products and services to meet the needs of customers as much as possible. It also supports and encourages all departments to participate in product development, improve workflow, as well as control the production process for maximum efficiency. Due to these activities, all employees become more creative through activities of Small Group; for example: On “Innovative RFID Automatic Labeling Machine” from the invention of RFID labeling machines instead of manual process of employees, the program and mechanism of the machine are developed to control the operation for accurate labeling and maximum efficiency with a 50 percent higher production capacity and further development in 2018, resulting in a 90 percent increase in the production capacity. The Company can reduce work time, labor, and waste, and be able to deliver work on customers’schedule. It also helps to reduce the cost of ordering new machines and labor costs, which accounted for the benefits worth 0.7 million baht/year. In addition, the Company was selected to be a representative to the Thailand Kaizen Award 2018, where the Company has passed into the evaluation round at the actual workplace to give a presentation. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff is selected based on their suitability for the work and education. In the same way, staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff has a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. And staff keeps their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Our Human Resources Department will check applicant’s ID prior to employment. The Company keep supporting scholarships for thirty six students in the community who have good academic performance, pleasant behavior, volunteer spirit, and lack of funds, with a capital of 4,000 baht each, totaling 144,000 baht The Company has started the scholarship program from the year 2010-2018. There are 6 schools, amount 840,000 Baht and 240 students In addition, it also grants twenty scholarships to staff children from 2013 to present by considering employees with good behavior and good performance. The scholarships are 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employed staffs based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupied positions at the board and at senior management level. Miss Sutida Mongkolsuthree Mrs. Boosakorn Radomsuttigul Director and Chairman of the Chief of Financial Officer Executive Committee Miss Nasarun Salinchan Miss Piyanan Siammai Business Development Plant Director Division Manager ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The Shred2Share project is under the service of Infozafe,which is a systematic document storage and destruction system in accordance with international safety standards, organized in collaboration with more than 65 leading organization partners to support learning materials, sports equipment, school uniforms,and useful books for schools which are in need of underprivileged children and youth development programs under the Royal Initiative Project of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn. The budget is divided into 2 parts as follows: 1. To support donations to the schools under the Border Patrol Police; and 2. To organize activities for the schools under the Border Patrol Police. From 2008-present, the Company has collected documents destroyed safely of 26,096.31 tons, where the paper returned to use in the recycle process is comparable to reduction of deforestation of more than 782,889 trees. Note: (1 ton destruction = 30 trees) • Reduce carbon dioxide emission of 6,785.04 tons • Reduce coal consumption of 2,870.59 tons • Reduce water consumption of 1,304,815.50 cubic meters TBSP has conducted the Share2Share Project for ten consecutive years (20082018). Over the past year, in addition to the support of learning and teaching mediums for students of the Border Patrol Police Schools, the Company brought a total of 45 student representatives and teachers from the Border Patrol Police School in Sakon Nakhon Province to attend the camp activity, it was called “Marine nature Education with Shred2Share 11” at Natural History Museum Sattahip District, Chonburi Province in 2019. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The Company participated 30 August 2018 in conservation activity and planted mangrove forests with the Bang Pu Industrial Estate, organized by the Bang Pu Industrial Estate, and received cooperation from youth groups, students, citizens, as well as the public sector and private sector to plant mangrove forests and collect garbage in the area along the dam, the Army Nature Education Center (Bang Pu) at the Royal Thai Army Nature Education Center (Bang Pu) Resting place of the Department of Army Quartermaster, Bang Pu Mai Subdistrict, Mueang District, Samut Prakan.The Company participated in such activity every year. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental action The Company focuses on carrying out work in parallel with environmental care, resulting in the Company being certified in the green industrial project level 4, creation of a green culture.In 2017, the Company focused on cultivating employees to pay attention to the environment in every activity, such as creation of a culture of safety, energy conservation, reduction of paper consumption and paper recycling including the use of recycled materials. In addition, the Company managed the pollution that affects the outside as follows: Waste and non-used material management The Company manages zero waste to landfill by removing waste from outside through a company legally licensed and in 2018 hazardous waste was burned in incinerators, representing19 tons, and 151 tons of non-hazardous wastes. The Company delivers industrial waste such as paper and plastic stickers to dispose at the refuse derived fuel company (RDF) and also promotes compliance with 3R guidelines for reducing paper usage and recycling, including the use of recycled materials. Wastewater treatment The Company focuses on managing operations to prevent chemical spill and waste disposal. Systematic waste emissions that cause water and air pollution are carried out under the law with installation of a high-quality wastewater treatment system which is monitored for treated water every month. Air pollution management from ventilation chimneys The Company closely monitors and control chemicals and dust drained from the plant’s ventilation chimneys by installing the activated carbon air treatment system to reduce the amount of chemicals and eliminate the smell of chemicals in the production process, providing a measure of the dust released into the environment, and comparing the dust value with the measurement and the standard values as announced by the Ministry of Industry. In 2018, the Company had the dust released into its environment of not higher the standard value set with the results of air quality monitoring from the ventilation chimneys as follows: Organic Vegetables with Bio-Fertilizer Project Regarding the implementation of the bio-fermentation project for TBSP since 2014 to present, for over 5 years,the Company provided a demonstration of two biological fermentation processes, including soil fertilizer formula and wastewater treatment formula, with the objective of learning to make bio-fermentation for the household use to reduce costs. In addition, the Company joined as part of the green industry project and proceeded to level 4, Green Culture and then expanded the results by applying to the vegetable garden planting in the “Organic Vegetables with Bio-Fertilizer Project” to meet the needs of employees, as well as to make benefits from the empty space in the plant and also contribute to the cooperation of the employees with harmony and leisure activities.And in 2018, the Company continued to promote the project by asking employees to bring the soil fermented into biofertilizer to use for planting at home to get organic food. In addition, information about how to take care of vegetables along with the decoration of pots was shared in the group. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Company has emphasized on anti-corruption by establishing anticorruption policy that has already been approved by the Board of Directors as the explicit practices on business operation and organizational culture. This is consistent with the Company’s ideology on “Fair Operations”, i.e., the Company is responsible for giving fairness to all parties of related persons”. The Company declared our intention to participate in Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption on June 26th, 2016 (“Anti-corruption Policy)” that can be downloaded at www.tbsp.co.th). The Company has reviewed the guideline to ensure that it is under the policy to prepareto apply for a certification of the Collective Action Coalition of Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption: CAC. During 2018, the Company conducted activities and prepared various measures to encourage confidence that the Company complies with the anticorruption policy. It has also communicated all employees to acknowledge and continue to practice, cultivated awareness of actions that may cause a corruption risks, performed analysis of indications, and regularly assessed a corruption risk, which is considered one of the risks under regulatory compliance risks. In the future, the Company will continue to push forward the policy to be certified in the Collective Action Coalition Program. The Company creates preventive work system with the method for Risk Mitigation and Control. Responsible persons,measures on monitoring, verification and assessment of risk management are defined as the guidelines for employees in order to prevent corruption. Moreover, the Company also expresses our intention to promote and expand this concept to our business partners (Suppliers) for complying along with compliance with corporate governance for communities, society, and environment. This is considered as wide expansion for enabling business partners to perceive the Code of Conduct of Business Partners for using as the guidelines of their business operation. This is beneficial for sustainable society and environment. Currently, there are more business partners who sign and accept these guidelines.Based on good response of business partners, the Company is confident to generate good people for society increasingly.
