UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Period covered 1 January to 31 December 2018 Date submitted to UN Global Compact website 3 May 2019 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ABOUT US Our purpose Lloyds Banking Group is a UK financial services provider Our purpose is to Help Britain with around 26 million customers and a presence in nearly Prosper. We are creating a responsible business that better every community. meets our customers’ needs and a culture where our colleagues Our main business activities are retail and commercial put customers first. This is key to our long-term success and banking, general insurance and long-term savings, provided to fulfilling our aim to become the best bank for customers, under well recognised brands including Lloyds Bank, Halifax, colleagues and shareholders. Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows. Our active supply base comprises approximately 3,500 Find out more about our Group 2018 Annual Report and Accounts suppliers, the majority of which are in professional services sectors and are located in the UK, other European countries or North America. More information about the Group and our strategy is available in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. Find it fast HUMAN RIGHTS Page 3 LABOUR Page 6 ENVIRONMENT Page 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Page 13 1 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our strategy is to be the best bank for customers, colleagues and shareholders. As a UK focused retail and commercial financial services company, our success is inextricably linked to the UK economy, and we believe we have a responsibility to help address some of the social, economic and environmental challenges that the UK faces. This is why we remain committed to operating sustainably and responsibly and our purpose to help Britain prosper. I am pleased to reaffirm Lloyds Banking Group’s support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This third Communication on Progress shares an update on the progress we have made in integrating the principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. I look forward to providing you with a further update on our progress in 2020. Yours sincerely, António Horta-Osório Group Chief Executive 2 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS continued We aim to align our activities and policies We understand that human rights encompass Our approach with international best practice and recognised more than just the individual and take into standards. We adhere to the United Nations account social, ethical and environmental We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and (UN) Declaration of Human Rights as well as issues in our investment, lending and service the rules and regulations of each country in operations. Our corporate governance structure respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers, which we operate. As signatories to the UN Global ensures that colleagues are supported to suppliers and those of the communities in which we operate. Compact, we align with its Ten Principles and also work responsibly and manage risk effectively. This structure includes our Board and our We understand that the financial system has a unique support the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which we use as a framework Board-level Responsible Business Committee. interaction with human rights and we have policies and to understand our human rights impacts, to It extends to every part of our business governance processes in place to mitigate associated risks. define our responsibility and approach to respect through our Group Executive Committee and Executive-level Committees. human rights, and to guide the development of our Human Rights Policy Statement. In addition, In 2015, we welcomed the UK Modern Slavery Act and are we support the UN’s wider development agenda We have a number of internal policies and procedures that reflect our commitment to committed to doing business responsibly, taking meaningful through the UN Sustainable Development operating responsibly and ethically both at Goals (SDGs). steps to ensure that workers’ fundamental rights and freedoms a business and an individual level. These include Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan supports the aims our Ethics and Responsible Business, Colleague, are respected. We do not tolerate slavery, trafficking or forced of seven key SDGs (4 Quality Education, 5 Gender Sourcing, Speak Up (whistleblowing) and labour in any part of our business or supply chain. Equality, 7 Affordable and Clean Energy, 8 Decent Anti-Bribery Group policies. These Group Policies, Work and Economic Growth, 9 Industry, Innovation associated procedures and mandatory training are You can read more about our approach in our and Infrastructure, 10 Reduced Inequalities and reviewed annually, alongside our Code of 12 Responsible Consumption and Production), Responsibility and Code of Supplier Responsibility, Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement 2018. and we are committed to our role in contributing to and form part of the governance of the Group’s their continued development and success. In 2018 Policy and Risk Management Frameworks. we developed an enhanced Sustainability Strategy which overtly supports two of the SDGs. More information on this is available on page We do not tolerate slavery, trafficking 20 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. For information on the more specific labour or forced labour in any part of our standards that we comply with, please refer business or supply chain. to the Labour section in this report. 4 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS continued Our Code of Responsibility (the Code) provides clear guidelines for doing business fairly and More information about responsibly, in line with our Group Values: putting Outcomes our strategy, targets and customers first; making a difference together; performance is available online and keeping it simple. The Code encourages Best Bank for Customers mandatory In August, Lloyds Banking Group Modern Slavery & Human colleagues to report, through Speak Up or to the training completed by 85 per cent signed a three-year partnership Trafficking Statement 2018 Group’s Colleague Conduct Management Team, of colleagues in 2018, to confirm agreement with the City of London any actions that are unsafe, unethical, unlawful, they have read and understand police to help fight economic crime Human Rights Policy Statement or not in line with Group Policies. We revised the their responsibilities under the in the UK, including those relating 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Code in 2017 and plan to review it again in 2019. Code of Responsibility to human trafficking and modern Employees are required to review the Code and slavery. During this partnership, the complete Speak Up training every year as part of In 2018 colleagues reported Group will contribute £1.5 million the mandatory training curriculum. After training 378 Speak Up concerns, of which to related projects they are expected to understand their 167 were progressed to investigation. responsibilities and to adhere to them every day. 49 per cent of the concerns Training and guidance for specialist investigated were upheld and Group Sourcing and Supplier Our Code of Supplier Responsibility highlights remedial action taken where Manager colleagues on the the importance we place on respect for human appropriate requirements of the UK Modern rights across all our business relationships. Whilst we expect our suppliers to have their Slavery Act and the risks of slavery Zero cases identified of human and human trafficking. The content own whistleblowing policy and facility, suppliers rights abuses in 2018. No reported from this training is also available and their workers can also report any incidents through our confidential Speak Up line. An incidents of human rights breaches, for colleagues to replay and to independent supplier, Expolink, manages the slavery or trafficking from our download for future reference Speak Up line and we have worked with Expolink suppliers in 2018 to ensure that, if instances of modern slavery Training on specific commercial or other human rights abuses are reported, they Annual Anti-Money Laundering sectors was delivered in March 2018 are identified, and effectively and sensitively mandatory training completed by to Commercial Banking colleagues investigated. 97 per cent of colleagues in 2018. and 1,100 clients to raise awareness This training included references of the issue and support customers to human trafficking and provided to be more aware. This included a specific modern slavery case an overview of sectors in which the study as an example risk of forced labour may be higher such as agriculture, car washes, nail bars, hospitality and construction 5 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress LABOUR continued As outlined in the human rights section of this We seek to enable colleagues to achieve a positive Our approach report, we have a number of internal policies and balance between their work and their lives outside procedures that reflect our commitment to of work and provide a number of opportunities, At Lloyds Banking Group, our efforts to be a responsible operating responsibly and ethically. Our Code of such as flexible working, to help them do this. Responsibility applies to all colleagues, We work to safeguard and promote colleague business require building a culture of integrity and respect. contractors and temporary employees and wellbeing, by ensuring a psychologically sound We do not tolerate slavery, trafficking or forced labour in any provides an overarching framework to ensure the working environment to help prevent work-related illness and by providing support and health advice part of our business or supply chain. highest possible standards of behaviour each and every day, including in relation to diversity in times of need. Our Mental Health Strategy and inclusion. supports colleagues and leaders through a Mental We aim to align our activities and policies with international best Health Resource Centre and this year we stepped Our Group Inclusion & Diversity strategy is led practice and recognised standards. We are either a signatory from the very top, with Group Executive up mental health training for colleagues at all levels. We are also committed to achieving the to, or abide by, the principles of a number of international and Committee (GEC) members championing the highest standards of health and safety and fire agenda. Key focus areas – gender, ethnicity, national codes and standards relating to responsible business disability, LGBT and agility – are each sponsored protection for our colleagues, customers and anyone who visits our premises. practice. These include: The Equator Principles, the UN Principles by individual GEC members. Through a range of initiatives and strategies we work hard to ensure As a founder member of a group of leading for Responsible Investment, the UN Global Compact, the UN Lloyds Banking Group is inclusive for everyone. employers supporting workforce agility, agile Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the ILO (International In our internal operations, our Pre-employment working is at the heart of Lloyds Banking Group’s strategy to work more efficiently for the benefit Labour Organisation) labour standards. Vetting Policy and Group Wide Vetting Standards, of our customers, colleagues, and the business. apply to all permanent and non-permanent Having switched in 2015 to an agile working employees that we recruit, including temporary policy, over 40 per cent of colleagues now work staff and contractors. The Pre-employment in an agile way. In 2018, we introduced our Vetting process upholds our respect for labour Workforce Agility Team Led Toolkit and continue rights. It includes the review of individuals’ proof to embed agility into our recruitment processes. of identity, address, and right to work in the UK. Our commitment to agile working has been We want to ensure that every colleague feels recognised and we were named a Top 10 valued and empowered to thrive. The Group has Employer for Working Families in 2018 for the approximately 65,000 employees and recognition fourth consecutive year and Top Employer for agreements with two trade unions, Accord and Flexible Hiring at the Timewise Power 50 Awards. Unite, which collectively negotiate on behalf of 98 per cent of our UK employees and approximately 95 per cent of employees worldwide. The Living Wage Foundation has We do not tolerate discrimination in accredited the Group as a Living Wage Employer respect to employment and occupation. and we review our pay rates annually to ensure We recognise that everyone is different minimum rates are above statutory minimum and we are working hard to build wage requirements. We have worked, and continue to work with, third-party contractors an inclusive Group that reflects the and suppliers to ensure that they operate in diversity of modern Britain. line with our commitments. 7 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress LABOUR continued In 2018, we became the first FTSE100 company We offer bespoke development programmes to set public goals to increase Black, Asian and and recruitment processes for colleagues and Minority Ethnic (BAME) representation at all levels. job applicants with disabilities. We aim to appoint Outcomes And in October, we signed the UK Government’s the best candidate into any role and give full and Race at Work Charter and already meet and fair consideration to job applications from those In 2018 the Group was the first Named the overall Outstanding exceed its principle requirements. with disabilities, and are unbiased in the way we FTSE100 company to set public Employer at the inaugural Investing assess, select, appoint, train and promote people. goals to increase Black, Asian in Ethnicity awards; and once again, We also launched our Sponsoring Leaders We offer a guaranteed interview scheme for and Minority Ethnic (BAME) a Top 10 Employer for Working programme, enabling women in senior roles to candidates who declare a disability and meet representation at all levels Families, and Times Top 50 champion the potential of women in more junior the minimum requirements of the role. Employer for Women roles. The promotion rate for the 100 colleagues Over 35 per cent of senior roles are who completed the programme in 2018 was We continue to run a Disability Work Readiness held by women, making progress Retained our Business Disability around five times that of non-participants. Programme (DWRP) in partnership with Remploy, towards our target of 40 per cent Forum (BDF) Gold Standard, and one of the largest disability-focused work by 2020 hold Disability Confident Leader We are committed to being a more disability experience initiatives in the financial services confident employer, with 1.7 per cent of status with the Department for sector. This programme has evolved over the Around 50 per cent of colleagues colleagues disclosing a disability in 2018 via Work and Pensions last four years, and as at December 2018 a total belong to one of our five diversity our HR system. The Department for Work and of 939 placements have been completed, with Pensions designated the Group as a Disability networks Set to achieve Autism Friendly 200 people moving into employment as a direct Confident Leader for our inclusive recruitment Bank and Employer accreditation result of attending a DWRP placement, 88 per cent of colleagues believe process and in November, we won a ‘Nothing from the National Autistic Society 34 of whom secured employment within that the Group is an inclusive place about us without us’ Disability Smart Award, Lloyds Banking Group. in mid-2019 recognising the way we gather insights about to work disability from colleagues, customers and Our Financial Crime team rolled out charities, and then use them to inform our Over 40,000 colleagues have training in November 2018 available decisions. As a member of the Business Disability completed training on mental to all colleagues via a WebEx Forum, we are proud to have retained our Gold health, and we are training 2,500 Masterclass during Financial Crime accreditation in the Disability Standard and colleagues to become mental Awareness Week. The training more than 24,000 colleagues have completed health advocates by 2020 covered Know Your Client (KYC), our industry leading workplace adjustment Behavioural and Transactional process to date. Enrolled 200 leaders in our new Indicators as relates to financial Optimal Resilience Leadership flows from human trafficking. Programme, which covers personal, It also included details of high-risk mental and physical wellbeing and industries, such as agriculture, are now working on extending this construction, healthcare, catering/ to the next level of 2,000 senior hospitality and food processing, managers and provided real life case studies relating to labour and sexual We were a top ten Trans-Inclusive exploitation employer and fifth employer overall in the Stonewall Top 100 2018, the highest ranked financial services company in the UK 8 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress LABOUR continued Working with our suppliers • Allow  their employees to exercise their legal As part of our risk-based approach to supplier management, we analyse suppliers based Updated in 2019, Our Code of Supplier right to organise and join associations (such Outcomes on geography, service sectors and spend. Responsibility defines what we expect from our as trade unions) The majority of our direct suppliers represent suppliers in order to ensure responsible sourcing To raise employees’ awareness is integral to the way we do business. It clearly • Provide  clear and uniformly applied a traditionally low risk of modern slavery and disciplinary and grievance procedures human rights abuses. According to the 2018 of this priority area for our business, distinguishes between what is expected from we developed and delivered suppliers and what they are encouraged to do. including prohibiting mental, physical Global Slavery Index, 99 per cent of our suppliers or verbal abuse are in geographies that are considered low risk training and guidance described We expect all suppliers to conform and provide us in the outcomes on Page 5 for modern slavery; 95 per cent of our direct with evidence to demonstrate their approach to • Ensure  working hours are in accordance with suppliers are located in the UK, 3 per cent in responsible business issues. local regulation and industry practice and other European countries, 1 per cent in North Guidance on modern slavery The Code of Supplier Responsibility addresses voluntary overtime is at a manageable level America and the remaining 1 per cent in other risks which is available through seven specific issues, including human rights and • The  wages they pay meet legally mandated countries, including India, Israel and Hong Kong. our online supplier management labour issues, and details the expectations we minimums without unauthorised deductions portal Additionally, over 80 per cent of our external place on our suppliers and those in their supply supplier spend is in service sectors considered chains. Our expectations are that suppliers: Our suppliers are also asked to comply with low risk such as management consultancy, legal, specific Third Party Supplier Policies, where HR, IT, marketing and communication. Analysis • R  espect the human rights of their employees applicable to the services they provide to the of the remaining 20 per cent potential higher-risk and comply with all relevant legislation, Code of Supplier Responsibility Group. We include our standard modern slavery service sectors shows that 99.6 per cent of this regulations and directives in the countries clauses in our supplier contracts and purchase spend is through entities within the UK. Where we and communities where they operate orders’ standard terms and conditions to ensure have suppliers in recognised higher risk service • P  rohibit forced labour (slavery) and human compliance with all laws that apply to their supply sectors such as cleaning, catering, property, trafficking in their supply chain and give of goods and services to us, regardless of the security and uniform providers we ensure that their employees the right and ability to leave jurisdiction in which they operate. This includes a dedicated Supplier Manager supports these employment if they choose the Modern Slavery Act and any local legislation relationships. Whilst we recognise that we are that is aimed at combatting modern slavery; we not immune to the risks of human rights abuse, • Prohibit child labour ensure that we receive appropriate information we consider the risks to be considerably less on suppliers’ supply chains and organisations, than if these suppliers were located in other including copies of their modern slavery jurisdictions or sectors. statements, if applicable. 9 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued To meet our commitment, we have Over the next three years, we are working towards Our approach developed an approach that will: our overall aim of becoming a leader in supporting the UK to successfully transition to a more At Lloyds Banking Group, we have a unique position within • Identify new opportunities to support sustainable, low carbon economy. To do this, our customers and clients and to finance we have set ourselves seven ambitions: the UK economy with our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper. the UK transition to a sustainable low 1. Be a leading UK commercial bank for carbon economy We support the aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement on sustainable growth, supporting our clients • Identify and manage material sustainability to transition to sustainable business models Climate Change and the UK Government’s Clean Growth and climate related risks across the Group, and operations and to pursue new clean Strategy. We are committed to supporting the UK to disclosing these and their impacts on the growth opportunities Group and its financial planning processes successfully engage with opportunities and challenges in line with the Task Force on Climate-related 2. Be a leading UK provider of customer support on energy efficient, sustainable homes created by climate change. Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations 3. Be a leading UK provider of low emission/ • Use our scale and reach to help drive progress green vehicle fleets towards a sustainable and resilient UK economy, environment and society through 4. Be a leading UK pension provider that our engagement with industry, Government, offers our customers and colleagues investors, suppliers and customers sustainable investment choices and challenges companies we invest in to • Embed sustainability into the way we do behave more sustainably and responsibly business and manage our own operations in a more sustainable way 5. Be a leading UK insurer in improving the resilience of customers’ lives against extreme weather caused by climate change 6. Be a leading UK bank in the Green/ Sustainable Bonds market 7. Be a leading UK bank in reducing our own carbon footprint and challenging our suppliers to ensure our own consumption of resources, goods and services is sustainable 11 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued For each ambition we will consider the UK To support the implementation of the TCFD Working with our suppliers Government’s targets and current plans. recommendations across the Group, we have We will use forward looking scenarios to identify established a senior executive group TCFD Our ambition is to be a leader in reducing our Outcomes own environmental footprint and we work with risks and opportunities over the short, medium forum. In 2018, we commenced a review of our suppliers to ensure our own consumption Business travel carbon emissions and long term and assess how they impact climate-related risks and opportunities in the of resources, goods and services is sustainable reduced by 14 per cent since 2016 the resilience of our strategy. Group’s Commercial Banking division. Detailed as well as reducing environmental impact in assessments are now being undertaken in 2019 We have established a dedicated governance our supply chain. As a minimum, we expect Total energy consumption reduced on higher risk sectors in Commercial Banking process to provide oversight and ownership suppliers to: by 6 per cent since 2016 and the scope of review is expanding to include of the sustainability strategy. This includes other divisions. the Responsible Business Committee (RBC), • Have a written environmental policy or 100 per cent of UK electricity came a sub-committee of the Board, which meets As part of our TCFD implementation plan we statement in place which is appropriate from renewable sources in 2018 quarterly and provides Board level oversight. are developing a long term reporting framework and relevant for their operations At Executive level, we have established a Group that will enable us to track our performance 29 per cent reduction of Executive Sustainability Committee (GESC), against our sustainability strategy and disclose the • Abide by all rules and regulations related location based greenhouse gases which is a sub-committee of our Group Executive financial impact of climate change related risks to the protection of the environment since 2016 Committee (GEC) and provides oversight and and opportunities. This will build on the work recommends decisions to the GEC. we have already done to develop a set of market We also encourage suppliers to have an 2.6m homes that could be leading targets for improving the sustainability environmental management system in place. powered as a result of our support We have also created a Group sustainability of our own operations, which include reducing team, supported by divisional Governance of UK renewable energy projects our operational waste and improving energy, in 2018 Forums and working groups led by divisional water, paper and building efficiency. Managing Directors. This enables a coordinated approach to oversight, delivery and reporting We are also supporting others in becoming 1.4m sq ft of commercial real of the Group sustainability strategy to the GESC, more sustainable. In 2018 we launched a £2 billion estate space funded to become along with a mechanism for keeping management Clean Growth Finance Initiative (CGFI) to help more energy efficient with and the Board updated on climate related issues British businesses reduce their environmental green loans in 2018 impacting the Group. impacts and benefit from the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy. Position statements about More information about our sectors that feature heightened sustainability strategy, targets environmental risk are and performance is available available online 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Lloyds Banking Group pages 24-25 Reporting Centre Responsible Business Data Sheet 2018 12 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 13 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION continued All colleagues, including contractors, complete • Implement effective market-based solutions Our approach mandatory annual Anti-Bribery training annually that take into account any social and and are encouraged to confidentially report Lloyds Banking Group is at the heart of communities, serving any instances of suspected bribery via the environmental concerns about their operations whistleblowing service, Speak Up, or their line • O perate safely and securely within a defined the financial needs of over 26 million customers in the UK. manager. Colleagues are also encouraged to framework that upholds human rights We have a moral and ethical duty to act with the highest speak out if they have any suspicions regarding • A lign their operations with the principles of this standard of integrity and will not tolerate acts of bribery violations of the standards in our Code of Responsibility and other policies and procedures. framework and with the United Nations Global or corruption committed by any of our employees, including Compact Framework’s labour, environment Our approach and governance is overseen and anti-corruption standards the Board of Directors, and any third parties who act on our by the Financial Crime Standards Committee, behalf. Lloyds Banking Group is a member of the Transparency and Financial Crime Prevention Committee, • A ssess the long-term impact of their activities which meet monthly to discuss and resolve issues. across the entire supply chain and give specific International Business Integrity Forum. consideration to impacts that affect indigenous We have identified and developed clear position people and local communities statements about sectors that feature heightened To tackle bribery and corruption, we have policies and risk, which are publicly available online. These • S how a clear commitment to robust ESE procedures in place to comply with all applicable laws and include defence, forestry, mining, oil and gas and risk management, including Health & Safety, power and during 2018, we reviewed our external environmental and social impact, and evidence regulation where we operate. This includes an Anti-Bribery Policy sector statements to ensure alignment to our of a good track record for transparency in the which prohibits the payment, offer, acceptance or request of any sustainability strategy and to consider climate way they manage these and other risks benefit which could be construed as a bribe and takes a broad related risk. In all sectors, which may have heightened Ethical, Social & Environmental (ESE) approach to defining corruption as misconduct associated with risk, we aim to work with customers to: the abuse of power for private gain. This is informed by guidance issued by the UK Ministry of Justice to support the UK Bribery Act 2010 which applies to us wherever we operate in the world. 14 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION continued As a minimum, we expect our In relation to high risk sectors, businesses within suppliers to: the Group are expected to identify any higher We have a moral and ethical duty to act risk sectors or jurisdictions and implement Outcomes with the highest standard of integrity • A dopt a Code of Business Responsibility appropriate controls to address any bribery No fines or external legal cases and will not tolerate acts of bribery or similar that covers adherence to local laws, and corruption issues identified. This includes bribery and corruption and business integrity; enhanced due diligence and also sign off involving the Group during 2018 or corruption committed by any of including improper payments, conflicts from the business’ own risk area as well as a our employees, including the Board of interest, fraud, competition, gifts and requirement that the Nominated Senior Manager Ensuring colleague awareness of modern slavery through our of Directors, and any third parties hospitality and brand and intellectual within the business would be required to approve property protection the relationship prior to any contracts or formal annual Anti Money Laundering who act on our behalf. agreements being signed. mandatory training module. We measure our performance by monitoring This contains information in the following: relation to human trafficking and the ‘red flags’ that will assist • N umber of incidents involving a colleague colleagues in detecting and or supplier offering or accepting a bribe reporting activity. In 2018, around • Number of breaches in our policy 97 per cent of colleagues completed this training • Number of completed training sessions • Number of staff in financial crime roles • N umber of waivers submitted by business units in relation to our Group Policy Position statements about sectors that feature heightened anticorruption risk are available online Lloyds Banking Group Reporting Centre 15 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress TELL US WHAT YOU THINK Queries or comments can be shared at any time by writing to: Group Chief Executive’s Office Lloyds Banking Group 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN @LBGplc 16
