CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report 2018 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Content 5 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 84 EMPLOYEES 6 Company profile 85 Attractive employer 9 CR strategy 90 Diversity 11 Stakeholder dialogue 94 Health and safety 14 Materiality analysis 97 Employee engagement 99 Good leadership 20 BUSINESS ETHICS 21 Corporate Governance 101 ENVIRONMENT 21 Governance 102 Environmental stewardship 22 Compliance 105 Climate action 27 Responsible marketing 108 Waste and recycling 29 Interactions with health systems 110 Water management 31 Suppliers 113 Plant and process safety 31 Supply chain standards 115 Biodiversity 34 Mica supply chain 36 Human rights 38 Bioethics 116 COMMUNITY 41 Clinical studies 117 Community involvement 45 Animal welfare 119 Global Health 121 Broad Minds 48 PRODUCTS 49 Innovation and digitalization 124 FACTS & FIGURES 53 Sustainable products 125 Report profile 53 Sustainable product design 127 Indicators 56 Packaging and recycling 127 Economics 58 Health for all 128 Business ethics 58 Global strategy 131 Employees 61 Focus programs 144 Environment 64 Open innovation sharing 150 Community 66 Pharmaceutical supply chain 152 Goals 68 Prices of medicines 164 Recognition and rankings 70 Health awareness 167 Sustainable Development Goals 73 Product safety and quality 172 Non-financial report 73 Chemical product safety 179 GRI content index 76 Patient safety 179 General disclosures 79 Product-related crime 184 Economic Standards 82 Transport and warehouse safety 187 Environmental Standards 190 Social Standards 197 Global Compact CoP 201 Assurance report 2 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Letter from the CEO Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Merck, In 2018 we ran an employee campaign called “350 We aspire to be a leading science and technology company, Good Deeds”. The name says it all – to commemorate our which also means developing technological advances that 350th anniversary, we rolled up our sleeves to support good benefit all humankind. This ranges from treatments for causes across 60 countries. We made donations to chariserious diseases, to products and services that make table initiatives, launched new projects and volunteered our research and biomanufacturing faster and more reliable, time. Our employees poured great effort into helping people through to materials for the technologies of tomorrow. We with disabilities; they renovated hospitals and cooked meals are leveraging the great potential presented by genome with disadvantaged children. Starting this year, our workediting, big data and artificial intelligence while living up force across the globe will be permitted to take up to two to the massive responsibility that arises from utilizing such days of paid leave per year to volunteer for charitable activtechnologies. To keep our moral compass aligned, we ities spearheaded or supported by Merck. discuss complex ethical issues in our Bioethics Advisory While I am proud to be part of a company that is so Panel, consisting of internal and external experts from a deeply dedicated to community outreach, corporate responvariety of fields and cultures, and comply with the clear-cut sibility means so much more to us. Indeed, our entire recommendations they make. business model is founded on this sense of responsibility. 3 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Last but not least, responsible conduct involves respecting Sustainable Solutions covers everything that we at the interests of our employees, customers and investors. In the company do to ensure that our processes, products and line with this ethos, we are deeply committed to the United services contribute to sustainability, specifically in terms of Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, climate and environment. Thanks to our liquid crystals, for labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corrupinstance, energy-efficient smart windows can block sunlight tion. and help reduce the energy needed for air conditioning by In 2018 we realigned our corporate responsibility up to 40%. Another example is Design for Sustainability, a strategy to reflect a shared value approach that centers system our Life Science team uses to analyze and enhance more heavily on creating long-lasting added value for both products at the development stage in a bid to conserve our company and society. We also narrowed the focus of our resources from cradle to grave. three strategic spheres of activity. Broad Minds embodies our tradition of promoting STEM Under Global Health, we partner with other actors education, scientific research and culture. We are on a quest to support a variety of initiatives that improve access to to spark enthusiasm for science among the next generahealth services particularly for people in lowand middletion. In 2018, we were therefore thrilled to host the German income countries. Our non-profit Merck Foundation is likenational “Jugend forscht” young researchers competition wise focused on achieving this goal. For me personally, the for the third time. As someone who lives and breathes greatest proof that we are on the right track is our fourthresearch, I thoroughly enjoyed interacting with so many place ranking in the Access to Medicine Index, where we curious, talented up-and-coming scientists and discussing beat out some of the giants in the pharmaceutical industry. their ideas and projects. It is also reflected in our advances in malaria and antimiWe at Merck absolutely believe that progress thrives on crobial research, our continued fight against the tropical the nourishment of creative minds. The wide-ranging examdisease schistosomiasis, and our many awareness ples contained in this report illustrate that we do more than campaigns such as “Embracing Carers”. pay mere lip service to responsibility – we live it every day. For us, scientific research and responsible entrepreneurship go hand in hand, a principle that will guide us today, tomorrow and beyond. Yours, Stefan Oschmann Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO 4 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Strategy & Management Within this chapter: 6 Company profile 11 Stakeholder dialogue 9 CR strategy 14 Materiality analysis 5 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Company profile  Part of the non-financial report We are Merck, a vibrant science and technology company. Science is at the heart of everything we do. It drives the discoveries we make and the technologies we create. Our work makes a positive difference in millions of people’s lives every day. In line with our strategic direction, in Healthcare, we discover unique ways to treat the most challenging diseases such as multiple sclerosis and cancer. Our Life Science experts empower scientists by developing tools and solutions that help deliver breakthroughs more quickly. And in Performance Materials, we develop science that sits inside technologies and changes the way we access and display information. Everything we do is fueled by a belief in science and techand as EMD Performance Materials in the high-tech matenology as a force for good. A belief that has driven our work rials business. since 1668 and will continue to inspire us to find more joyful Apart from our three business sectors, our financial and sustainable ways to live. We are curious minds dedireporting presents the five regions Europe, North America, cated to human progress. Asia-Pacific (APAC), Latin America as well as Middle East and Africa (MEA). As of December 31, 2018, we had 51,749 We are Merck employees worldwide, which compares with 52,941 on We hold the global rights to the Merck name and brand. The December 31, 2017. only exceptions are Canada and the United States. In these In 2018, our 207 subsidiaries with employees in 66 countries, we operate as EMD Serono in the biopharmaceucountries generated sales of € 14.8 billion. Our 90 productical business, as MilliporeSigma in the life science business tion sites are located across 21 countries. Employees and sales by region – 2018 Group structure infertility, growth disorders as well as certain cardiovascular Merck comprises three business sectors: Healthcare, Life and metabolic diseases. Biopharma is the larger of our Science, and Performance Materials. Our Healthcare busiHealthcare businesses and operates in four franchises: ness sector – the biggest among our three business sectors Oncology, Neurology & Immunology, Fertility and General – comprises the two businesses Biopharma and AllerMedicine & Endocrinology. Our R&D pipeline positions us gopharma. On December 1, our Consumer Health business with a clear focus on becoming a global specialty innovator transferred to Procter & Gamble (P&G). in oncology, immuno-oncology and immunology including Our Biopharma business discovers, develops, manufacMS. Our allergy business Allergopharma is one of the tures and markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological leading companies in the field of allergy immunotherapy prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), (AIT) in Europe. For high-precision, effective allergy 6 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management therapy, we offer comprehensive diagnosis solutions as a BrightLab™, our digital ecosystem for complete lab basis for individual treatment concepts. Our AIT products management. concentrate on causal treatment of type 1 allergies such as Our Performance Materials business sector comprises allergic rhinitis (for example, hay fever) and allergic asthma the specialty chemicals business of Merck and supplies soluto meet patients’ needs. tions for displays, computer chips and surfaces of all kinds. In Life Science, we are a leading, global supplier of Since April 1, 2018, Performance Materials comprises three tools, high-grade chemicals, and equipment for academic business units: Display Solutions, Semiconductor Solutions labs, biotech and biophar¬maceutical manufacturers, as and Surface Solutions. If we compare Performance Materials well as the industrial sector. We make scientific discovery with a smartphone, Display Solutions represents the user easier and faster with technologies like CRISPR for geneinterface, Semiconductor Solutions the intelligence and editing; and we provide drug manufacturers with process Surface Solutions the aesthetics. Our Display Solutions busidevelopment expertise that make medicines safer and more ness unit comprises the liquid crystals, OLED (organic lighteffective for patients. We offer both testing kits and services emitting diodes), photoresists and liquid crystal windows to ensure that our food is safe to eat and water is clean to businesses. Semiconductor Solutions, the second-largest drink. Our portfolio comprises more than 300,000 products business unit in Performance Materials, supplies products ranging from lab water systems to genome-editing tools, for integrated circuits, microelectronic systems, for antireantibodies, and cell lines, as well as end-to-end bioproflection coatings, and for the miniaturization of transistor cessing systems to support the manufacturing needs of structures. Deposition materials and conductive pastes for both emerging biotech and large pharma companies. For semiconductor packaging round off the portfolio. In the example, our Life Science business sector has built the Surface Solutions business unit our goal is to help ® expertise to further develop our BioReliance End-to-End custom¬ers with our materials and solutions to make innoSolutions, a service offering for process development and vative surfaces of all kinds more beautiful, more resistant or manufacturing for emerging biotechs. Another example is even more intelligent. Net sales by business sector – 2018 7 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Governance focused approach has continued until today with the divestBased in Darmstadt, Germany, our company operates in the ments of the Biosimilars business (2017) and Consumer legal form of a corporation with general partners (KommanHealth business (2018), so that we can increase our efforts ditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E. on our Oncology, Immuno-oncology and Immunology franMerck KG holds around 70% of the total capital of Merck chises. Within Life Science, we have significantly transKGaA (equity interest); the shareholders hold the formed to become a diversified industry leader through the remainder, which is divided into shares (share capital). Our acquisition of Millipore (2010) and Sigma-Aldrich (2015). ® During the last years, Performance Materials has continued shares have been included in the DAX 30, the blue-chip index of the Deutsche Börse, since 2007. In September to deliver profitable growth and a significant cash contri2008, our company was added to the FTSE4Good Index, a bution, and we evolved this business further into attractive sustainability index that assesses the social, ecological and science and technology areas such as semiconductor mateethical conduct of companies. rials through the acquisition of AZ Electronic Materials (2014), which also helped us further diversify our product Group strategy portfolio that was strongly driven by liquid crystals. Our Throughout the past years, Merck has grown significantly Group Strategy considers certain foundational elements through a series of strategic moves that have enabled us such as, first and foremost, a risk diversification strategy to develop into the vibrant science and technology company that ensures that we are not over-exposed to any single we are today. We have systematically and continuously customer, industry or geography. We want to be a forwardstrengthened and focused our portfolio of innovative science thinking company generating longterm sustainable value. and technology throughout our business sectors. In HealthWe focus our efforts and activities on innovative areas to care we divested our Generics business (2007) to focus add maximum value to the future of science and technology. on highly specialized products and acquired Serono (2007) You can find more information on our strategy in our to expand our pipeline and strengthen our business. This Annual Report 2018. 8 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management CR strategy  Part of the non-financial report Major global trends such as a growing population, increasing life expectancy, resource scarcity, and digitalization are transforming our society and our lives. To cope with these challenges and changes, policy makers and civil society must join forces with the private sector to find solutions. For us, this transformation is driving the development of sustainable, personalized and interconnected products. Our approach: Looking, listening and doing we endeavor to meet people’s current and future needs. better In doing so, safety and ethical aspects matter just as much We are aware that as a leading science and technology to us as business success. In our production activities, we company our business operations impact our environment seek to impact the environment as little as possible, which and the people around us. We have therefore made responrequires safe manufacturing techniques, high environmental sible conduct a pillar of our corporate culture, the bedrock standards and strict quality management. Furthermore, we of our sustained success. Through our innovative top-quality strengthen our company by recruiting, developing and motiproducts within our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance vating talented employees. We strive to set an example for Materials business sectors, we help resolving global chalethical conduct and actively contribute to the communities lenges while also bolstering our own financial performance. we live in. Our Group strategy aims to maximize our success, which To quickly identify new global trends and challenges, goes hand in hand both with respecting the interests of our we engage in dialogues and initiatives, share lessons learned employees, customers, shareholders, and communities, as and best practices with other companies in our industry, and well as mitigating the ethical, economic and social risks. Our evaluate media coverage. This allows us to minimize risks corporate responsibility (CR) strategy is underpinned by our while also leveraging business opportunities that arise. Group strategy, and we focus our resources on those areas In 2018, we realigned our CR strategy, focusing more where we can have the greatest impact. All our CR activities heavily on generating sustainable added value for fall under the heading of “responsible governance”, which ourselves as a company and for society. To achieve this, we for us most importantly means looking, listening and doing are taking a shared value approach. In revising our strategy, better. we modified our three strategic spheres of activity to bring We take responsibility for our products, the environment them more in line with our businesses. Our focus areas and the people around us – especially for our employees and are now “Global Health”, “Sustainable Solutions” and “Broad the communities in which we operate. Through our products, Minds”. Our CR strategy 9 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Global Health a CR Committee in place to steer the implementation of An estimated 400 million people in lowand middle-income our CR strategy and submit recommendations regarding CR countries lack access to adequate, affordable primary goals to the Executive Board. While our Executive Board healthcare. Hand in hand with our partners, we help provide chairman bears overall responsibility for this body, it is local solutions and develop treatments for neglected tropical chaired by the head of our Group CR Group unit and consists diseases. For instance, we are fighting schistosomiasis using of representatives from our business sectors as well as from the active ingredient praziquantel. Through our Global relevant Group functions such as EQ, HR, Compliance, and Health Institute, we are developing diagnostics, therapies Procurement. and preventive solutions to address infectious diseases such Our CR Committee also reviews our CR strategy to as malaria and schistosomiasis. Moreover, we are working ensure that it covers the issues material to our company. In on therapeutic challenges such as antimicrobial resistance. doing so, we draw on regular input from our stakeholders as You can find more information under “Health for all”. well as the results of materiality assessments. This council also defines measures to enact our CR strategy and Sustainable Solutions assesses the success of these efforts. In addition, it ensures We are constantly working to improve the sustainability that the initiatives of our business sectors, Group functions footprint of our products – even during their use phase – and subsidiaries align with our Group-wide CR strategy. The which helps our customers achieve their own sustainability measures adopted by the CR Committee are implemented goals. To this end, we have established systematic by our line managers as well as by interdisciplinary project approaches for product development such as our Design for teams. Sustainability program. A program of our Life Science busiIn 2018, the CR Committee met three times a year, with ness sector, this initiative allows us to assess the sustainits sessions focusing on human rights, environmental and ability of products under development through techniques social standards in the supply chain, animal welfare, bioethsuch as life cycle analyses. You can find more information ical principles, and community involvement. Updating our under “Sustainable product design”. CR strategy was also on the agenda. Broad Minds Greater focus on UN Sustainable Development As a science and technology company, we endeavor to Goals (SDGs) excite people about science, inspire curiosity and help their Our CR activities align with the United Nations Sustainable creativity take flight. Our goal is to bolster our reputation Development Goals (SDGs). The materiality analysis we in the field of science, especially in those areas where we conducted this year assessed the contribution our key matehave particular expertise. We not only support educational rial topics made to the SDGs. In this analysis, we investiprograms for schools, but also back pioneering research at gated our direct and indirect impact on the 17 goals and institutes of higher learning. Because music and literature 169 targets of the SDGs. In general, we particularly focus inspire people, we moreover promote a number of cultural our CR efforts on those objectives that best reflect our busiinitiatives worldwide. Creativity and curiosity are the ness ethos. You can find more information on our support bedrock of science, culture and art and also underpin our for these goals under “Sustainable Development Goals”. holistic approach. You can find more information under “Broad Minds”. Understanding and improving the impacts of our operations Corporate responsibility entwined with We work to mitigate the ethical, financial and legal risks of governance our business activities, thereby ensuring our social license Our CR strategy is approved by our Executive Board, which to operate. To this end, we have put comprehensive strucmeets regularly to make decisions regarding our CR goals tures and systems in place to ensure compliance with legal and reporting. Also tasked with overseeing corporate requirements, along with ethical, social and ecological stanresponsibility, our Group function Corporate Affairs reports dards, all of which are explained in detail in the individual to the chairman of the Executive Board. We moreover have sections of this report. 10 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Stakeholder dialogue Our business activities converge with the interests of many people, which is why engaging with our various stakeholders is particularly important to us. We aim to unite divergent interests as far as possible, as well as build and sustain trust. Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and actions transparently in an effort to ensure social license to operate. Dialogue at various levels Our key stakeholders include our employees, customers and business partners, patients, the Merck family, and our suppliers. We maintain continuous contact with these groups through a variety of channels such as stakeholder surveys, issue-specific dialogues, roundtable discussions, and information forums. We also engage stakeholders through our advocacy work and industry coalitions. Our stakeholders 11 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Regular stakeholder dialogue ipated in the Terre des Hommes Mica Stakeholder Event We regularly conduct surveys among our employees, in the Hague (Netherlands), which centered around discuscustomers and business partners, as well as other relevant sions scrutinizing the relevance of mica in the automotive stakeholder groups. We want to know which issues they and electronics supply chains. In March 2018 we furtherconsider to be of importance to our company now and in more attended the Child Labor Platform (CLP) of the Interthe future, along with how they rate our performance in national Labour Organization (ILO) in Paris (France), which addressing individual issues. We also seek to understand focused on eliminating child labor in sandstone and mica their expectations of us as a responsible company. Our CR mines as well as on cacao plantations. You can find more report reflects the results of these surveys and presents the information under Mica supply chain. actions we have taken in response. 350 years of curiosity: To mark our 350th anniverIn October 2018 we conducted a Group-wide sary, we assumed sponsorship of the Curious2018 – Future employee survey in 22 languages. Around 45,000 Insight Conference. Held in July in Darmstadt, a group employees took part, representing an 86% response rate. of renowned scientists, including six Nobel laureates, presented their research to some 1,300 guests. We also Issue-specific dialogue chose the conference as a platform to launch the Future Our business operations in the areas of healthcare, life Insight Prize, with which we hope to stimulate the creation science and performance materials intersect the interests of groundbreaking scientific solutions to solve existential of various social groups, whom we engage via questionchallenges facing humanity. The Future Insight Prize will be naires, workshops and seminars, as well as at major conferpresented for the first time in 2019, for work on a pandemic ences. Our departments organize such forms of exchange at protector that can analyze emerging pathogens. You can the local, national and international level, depending on the find more information under Innovation and digitalization. topic and degree of importance. Beyond this, we are also involved in industry networks and participate in symposia. Roundtables and informational forums In 2018, we intensified our efforts in the following areas: We have set up roundtable discussions and informational Protecting public health and safety: We partner with forums for local residents at our major facilities. Since 1994, the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI), a non-profit we have been holding an annual public planning forum organization whose main objectives are to protect public in Darmstadt to discuss the development of our site with health and safety by sharing information on pharmaceutical members of the city council, local authorities and the counterfeiting and initiating enforcement actions via the community. In 2018, the forum focused on future worlds of appropriate authorities. We take an active role in this work work, for instance how we can create modern workplaces through participation in conferences and PSI network meetand attract talented employees. ings. In September 2018 we hosted both the PSI Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regional meeting and the PSI Advocacy groups and industry coalitions Technical Forum. The aim of these conferences was to coorWe actively participate in the political process and advocate dinate new actions and share efficient analytical methods our views by engaging policy makers in a direct dialogue and techniques for the forensic identification of counterfeits. as well as through our work with industry coalitions. Below Among the participants were safety and analysis experts are several examples of major national and international from 27 pharmaceutical companies, as well as government industry associations in which we are members and hold officials. You can find more information under Productpositions: related crime. Protecting aquatic ecosystems from trace German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI) substances: In 2018, we participated in the second phase European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) of the “Handling trace substances” dialogue through our German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical membership in industry coalitions. A joint effort with nonManufacturers e. V. (vfa) governmental organizations, other companies, the German European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Federal Environment Agency, and the German Federal Associations (EFPIA) Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Nuclear Safety, this dialogue aims to unite divergent inter& Associations (IFPMA). ests and identify measures to minimize trace substances in Examples of positions held by members of our Executive order to prepare a German federal government strategy to Board include: protect aquatic ecosystems. You can find more information under Water management. Stefan Oschmann, Executive Board Chairman and Towards a responsible mica supply chain: In 2018, CEO: we continued to support and promote the work of the Responsible Mica Initiative (RMI), whose goal is to improve European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and traceability along the Indian mica supply chain through Associations (EFPIA), President collaborating on specific cross-industry actions. We took German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), part in RMI events with various interest groups and also Member of the Executive Committee attended symposia. In April 2018, for instance, we partic12 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Udit Batra, Executive Board member and CEO Life Marcus Kuhnert, Executive Board member and Chief Science: Financial Officer: Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, Board member German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), Vice Massachusetts High Technology Council (MHTC), Board Chairman of the Hessian Chapter member University of Delaware, Department of Engineering, Involvement in initiatives member of the Advisory Council We collaborate with an array of civically engaged organiPrinceton University, Department of Engineering, member zations such as the Goethe-Institute, the Joint Conference of the Advisory Council Church and Development (GKKE) (pharma dialogue) and the World Environment Center (WEC). Furthermore, we are Kai Beckmann, Executive Board member and CEO also involved in initiatives and projects that share our interPerformance Materials: pretation of responsible entrepreneurial conduct. This is why we support, for instance, the Code of Responsible Conduct German Federation of Chemical Employers’ Associations for Business and are members of the Chemie³ and Respon(BAVC), President ® sible Care initiatives. Darmstadt Rhein Main Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK), Vice President Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research Political donations (IGD), Chairman of the Advisory Board We do not make donations in the form of financial contriConfederation of German Employers’ Associations (BDA), butions or services to political parties or related organizaVice President tions. Donations to holders of political office or candidates for such, as well as to political initiatives, must always Belén Garijo, Executive Board member and CEO comply with the statutes in force in the recipient’s country. Healthcare: This approach is stipulated in our internal guidelines. In the United States, political action committees (PACs) have been Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America set up through which our employees can donate money to (PhRMA), Board member support political candidates and organizations. Such donations are not made by or on behalf of the company; they are reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission and publicly disclosed. 13 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Materiality analysis  Part of the non-financial report Which topics – in terms of our corporate responsibility – are of particular significance to our long-term success? What expectations do our various stakeholders have of us? And in which areas do we contribute to a more sustainable development? In an effort to answer these questions, in 2018, we again conducted a materiality assessment, thereby fulfilling the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the German CSR Directive Implementation Act. Realignment To decide which topics to include in our report, we regularly conduct comprehensive materiality assessments. With our 2018 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report, we took this process a step further: Looking at a broad range of issues, we considered the topics on which the business activities of our company have a material impact and, conversely, the impact these topics have on our business activities. Materiality process Identifying our topics of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) on the chemical We first assessed the topics from previous materiality and pharmaceutical industries, and our economic setting. In assessments in terms of their relevance before comparing conducting this analysis, we drew on relevant legislation, them against the United Nations Sustainable DevelopNGO reports and ESG ratings. ment Goals to determine the impact they have on these goals. As a next step, we discerned which additional sectorAnalyzing our own impacts specific issues to include. As well as analyzing external factors, we also evaluated our company’s contribution to sustainable development. For Analyzing external expectations and each of the topics identified, we reviewed the following: requirements For each of the identified issues, we evaluated various the influence of the industries in which we operate external factors and assessed the impact they have on our own positioning as a company our business. Such aspects include relevant regulations, the number of value chain steps affected our competitors, the financial market, new requirements the importance for our worldwide sites 14 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Results of the analysis Section 289 (3) of the German Commercial Code. The prinWe identified 35 topics that are of significance to our CR ciple of double materiality requires companies to disclose strategy and reporting and weighted them according to their non-financial information when the following two criteria relevance. The results were then discussed, validated and are met: Firstly, the information is necessary to understand adopted by our CR Committee. the company’s business performance, business results and The issues rated as material form the focus of this CR financial situation. And secondly, the information makes it Report. Since our stakeholders also expect information and possible to understand how the company’s business activitransparency from us regarding less significant issues, we ties affect non-financial aspects. also report on these, albeit in less detail. We have reviewed the double materiality of the topics identified. Those that fall within the scope of this definition Identifying topics for non-financial disclosure are marked in the materiality matrix. The topics are linked The German CSR Directive Implementation Act obliges us to the respective chapters in this report. to review the “double materiality” of topics according to Material topics 15 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Material issues in our value chain The following table shows where our material issues fall within the value chain: upstream in our supply chain, in the course of our own activities, or downstream with our customers and patients. Moreover, we have listed the issues to show the breakdown of materiality by business sector and stakeholder group. Product safety and quality Chemical product safety Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates Patient safety Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Product-related crime (formerly Counterfeit products) Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Transport and warehouse safety Material for: Customers, Government agencies, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Communities Ethical conduct Bioethics Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Scientists Clinical studies Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists, Patients Animal welfare Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists 16 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Good business practice Compliance Material for: Employees, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Competitors Responsible marketing Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Community involvement Material for: Merck family, Employees, NGOs, Media, Communities Interactions with health systems Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Governance Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Customers Data protection Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Customers, Patients Health for all Access to health Material for: NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Prices of medicines Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Health awareness Material for: NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients, Communities, Competitors 17 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Supply chain standards Supply chain standards Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Competitors Human rights Human rights Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Communities, Employees Sustainable products Sustainable product design Material for: Customers, Scientists Attractive employer Diversity Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Media Attracting and retaining employees Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Shareholders, Competitors Employee development Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Good leadership Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Employee engagement Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Health and safety Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Government agencies Work 4.0 (formerly Digitalization of the world of work) Material for: Employees, Employee representatives 18 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Strategy & Management Technology Innovation and R&D Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Scientists, Health systems, Patients Digitalization Material for: Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Customers, Patients Resource efficiency Waste and recycling Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities, Customers Water management Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Environmental protection Energy efficiency and renewable energy Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Customers Greenhouse gas emissions Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers Plant and process safety Material for: Employees, Shareholders, Merck family, Government agencies, Media Biodiversity Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs Emissions Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs 19 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Business ethics Within this chapter: 21 Corporate Governance 34 Mica supply chain 21 Governance 36 Human rights 22 Compliance 38 Bioethics 27 Responsible marketing 41 Clinical studies 29 Interactions with health systems 45 Animal welfare 31 Suppliers 31 Supply chain standards 20 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Corporate Governance Governance  Part of the non-financial report Alongside Courage, Achievement, Respect, Integrity, and Transparency, Responsibility is one of our six core values and has been an integral part of our corporate identity for 350 years. These core values guide us in our daily work, defining how we interact with our customers and business partners. We research and develop products to enhance life in all its diversity, from the great questions facing humanity to the little everyday pleasures. We endeavor to give patients and customers the best – and find solutions for the world of tomorrow. Our approach to responsible governance conducted by an independent auditing firm, and hold Group Our Values along with the external regulations and initiacertificates for both. tives to which we are committed give rise to requirements We support the following responsible governance initiafor responsible governance that are integrated in both our tives: Corporate Responsibility strategy and our Group-wide Since 2005, we have been a member of the United guidelines. Nations Global Compact and are committed to These guidelines comprise charters and principles complying with its principles. Our annual progress report valid for the entire company, as well as specific standards illustrates how we live our responsibility in our day-to-day and procedures for individual business sectors and sites. actions. Take for example our Corporate Environment, Health As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible and Safety (EHS) Policy, which forms the basis for imple® ® Care Global Charter, we voluntarily go above and menting the chemical industry’s Responsible Care Global beyond what is required by law and have adopted mandaCharter within our company. Or our Safety Policy for chemtory standards for product responsibility, environmental ical products, which defines product safety processes along impact mitigation, health, and safety. with the corresponding management structures. As a member of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) network, we are dedicated to improving the supply chain How we live responsible governance with respect to environmental, compliance and social Derived from the provisions contained in charters, principles standards. and policies, our internal standards give specific guidance 3 We are a member of Chemie , a collaboration between to those responsible for operational processes. They are the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the constantly updated by the relevant departments and are German Employers’ Federation of the Chemical Industry available on our Intranet. Our managers implement these (BAVC), and the German Mining, Chemical and Energy standards in their respective areas of responsibility and Industrial Union (IG BCE). The partners of this globally ensure that they are adhered to. We moreover educate and unique alliance seek to make sustainability a core part of train our employees on all guidelines that apply to them. the chemical industry’s guiding principles and to jointly We employ management systems to steer processes drive the sector’s position within the German economy as as well as define goals, actions and responsibilities. These a key contributor to sustainable development. This initiasystems are based on standards such as the internationally tive has developed a system of 40 indicators to measure recognized quality management standard ISO 9001, good the progress of sustainable development within the chemworking practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, and ical industry. ISO 14001 for environmental management. We regularly undergo ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification, which is 21 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Compliance  Part of the non-financial report First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means acting in accordance with the law, a practice commonly known as compliance. All our activities must adhere to laws, regulations and international ethical standards around the world because compliance violations don’t just result in possible legal prosecution but could also seriously compromise our reputation as an employer and business partner. Our approach to compliance Executive Board detailing the status of our compliance Compliance is one of our primary considerations worldwide. program, updates that have been made, compliance and As an international company with operations in developing data privacy cases, and training figures. Additionally, an and emerging countries, we have extremely stringent update is prepared at the mid-year mark to highlight current requirements for effective compliance management. For us, developments and the status of relevant projects and initiahowever, there is more to compliance than simply adhering tives. to regulatory provisions. We consistently aspire to act in Our Group Compliance Officer oversees 77 Compliance accordance with the principles defined in our Values and Officers around the world, who are assigned to business believe that profitability should go hand in hand with the sector teams and implement the measures of our complihighest ethical standards. ance program within their respective areas of responsibility. In executing their tasks, these Compliance Officers receive How we ensure compliance guidance from our Group Compliance Programs and Support Our Group Compliance function manages the core topics team, a centralized body that drives the design and update of anti-corruption, healthcare compliance, antitrust, antiof our compliance program across all business sectors and money laundering, fraud prevention, third party due diliGroup functions and is responsible for initiating necessary gence, data privacy, transparency reporting, and dawn raid measures. preparedness. To cover these core compliance topics, we Our global Transparency Operations team has the have Group-wide policies, procedures and processes in responsibility of incorporating current and upcoming transplace that ensure our business activities align with the parency reporting requirements in the health sector – relevant laws, regulations and international ethical stansuch as those of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical dards. Other compliance related issues, including respective Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and the United States internal regulations and guidelines, are managed by the Physician Payments Sunshine Act. responsible functions (such as Pharmacovigilance, Export We have successfully integrated our compliance frameand Import Controls and Environment, Health, Safety, work more closely within our business sectors. For example, Security, Quality). a new holistic concept is being developed, which combines Supported by our Group Compliance function, our Group the existing monitoring controls into a single system, Compliance Officer is responsible for our compliance providing a dashboard view of potential compliance risks program, which consists of the following elements: across the organization. Compliance requirements specific to each business sector are also integrated into employee Efficient solution-oriented systems and processes training material. Enabling policies Designated Compliance Ambassadors support local Monitoring and controls compliance implementation and operate independently of Investigations and case management our Compliance Organization. Located in the various regions Whistleblowing hotline (SpeakUp Line for anonymous and in which we operate, these Compliance Ambassadors are non-anonymous reporting) global compliance representatives who support compliance Continuous improvement tailored to business risks initiatives across our businesses and functions, increasing Target-group focused training accountability and ownership of business ethics. Our Compliance Ambassadors are located in the Our compliance program is regularly updated to reflect new following regions: requirements such as those resulting from amendments to legislation, relevant industry codices or changes within our Europe: Austria, Germany, Switzerland company. Africa: Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Our Group Compliance Officer reports to the Executive Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Board every six months on the status of our compliance Africa, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda activities, possible risks and serious compliance violations. Middle East: Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, In turn, the Executive Board updates our supervisory bodies Lebanon, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, at least twice a year on key compliance issues. As part of United Arab Emirates, Yemen regular reporting processes, we annually compile a compreAsia Pacific: China, Japan, Korea hensive compliance and data privacy report for the Latin America: Argentina, Chile 22 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Clear chain of command for reporting violations due diligence and bioethics. The code has been provided Any reports of potential compliance violations that we to all employees worldwide both digitally and as a print receive via our whistleblowing hotline “SpeakUp Line” are brochure. Available in 22 languages, it explains the prinreviewed by the Compliance Investigations and Case ciples for interacting with business partners, employees Management team and appropriate investigative steps are and the communities in which we operate. initiated. Exposed cases showing a certain risk profile are Our Human Rights Charter supplements our Code of additionally presented to the Compliance Case Committee, Conduct with globally valid principles regarding human which consists of senior representatives from Compliance, rights, as well as the core labor standards of the InternaCorporate Security, Data Privacy, Human Resources, tional Labour Organization (ILO). Internal Auditing, and Legal. Duties of the committee Our Anti-Corruption Policy stipulates that all business include assessing and classifying ethical issues, investiactivities must be conducted in accordance with legally gating their background and terminating these issues applicable anti-corruption standards. All forms of bribery through appropriate measures. If during the investigation a – whether giving or receiving – are strictly prohibited. root cause is identified that could lead to further compliance We have reinforced our policy by adding and updating violations, it is monitored continuously, and preventive or relevant corruption prevention sections. One example is corrective actions are applied. An associated sub-committee the changes made to the gifts and hospitality section. advises on disciplinary action if necessary. Additionally, we have created guidelines on local limits and thresholds in giving or receiving gifts and hospitality Conflicts of interest (especially transportation and accommodation) to or from We take all potential conflicts of interest seriously, which third parties (including public officials and external busiis why we have dedicated a section of our Anti-Corruption ness partners). Policy to this topic. It states that employees must strictly Our Pharma Code (for prescription medicines) and our avoid situations where their professional judgment may Consumer Health Code (for over-the-counter medicines) come into conflict with their personal interests, that they as well as underlying policies and additional guideline disclose every potential conflict of interest to their superior documents, set out key principles for interactions with our and that they document the disclosure. Such issues are partners in the health industry. usually resolved directly between the employee and their Our Group-wide Antitrust and Competition Law guideline manager but can also be routed to superordinate HR or stipulates that all business activities across the Group are employment law functions. We have therefore implemented to be carried out in compliance with applicable competia specific governance process that also includes the Exection regulations at all times. We acknowledge the imporutive Board and ensures that shareholders and related tance of fair competition and expect the same of contract parties are regularly provided information on potential organizations acting on our behalf. conflicts. We use an online confirmation process to send GroupBeyond this, our commitment to an appropriate conflict wide policies to relevant managers, Group Compliance and of interest process is documented in our Annual Report. Legal. Recipients then confirm not only receipt of the policies, but also that they are being adhered to and impleData Privacy integrated into Group Compliance mented appropriately at the relevant sites. This confirmaOur Data Privacy unit is integrated into our Group Complition process was also used to roll out our Code of Conduct. ance organization. As required by law, this unit acts indeWith this initiated process, we are striving to draw the pendently and submits frequent data privacy updates as attention of all our managers and employees to take note of well as compiling a regular comprehensive data privacy the updated Code of Conduct. report as a part of the compliance report. Besides a central Group Data Privacy Officer, we also have Local Data Privacy Guidelines for new business units Officers at various sites around the world. Where necessary, we update our policies according to external requirements. Our Medical Devices and Services Our commitment: Guidelines and standards unit falls under the scope of existing Biopharma Compliance Our compliance program builds on our Values and integrates policies and we have separate legal and compliance guidthese into our compliance framework, which contains guideance for business interactions with our key stakeholders. lines for entrepreneurial conduct that are mandatory for all We recognize the fact that we are increasingly interacting our employees Group-wide: with patients and patient organizations and have therefore The Merck Code of Conduct provides our people with a revised our corresponding compliance policy. More informatool that promotes ethical business practices. In 2018, we tion on our commitment to our Code of Conduct and healthcompleted the roll-out of an updated version called “What care compliance regulations can be found under Responsible guides us”. This version is closely linked to our Values and marketing. includes newer topics such as data protection, supplier 23 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Requirements for our business partners recommendations, Group Internal Auditing performs a To be effective, compliance management must not be systematic follow-up and monitors the implementation of restricted to the boundaries of our own company, which the prescribed corrective actions. In 2018, 54 operations is why we expect all our business partners worldwide to were assessed for corruption-related risks. comply with our compliance principles. We only collaborate with partners who pledge to comply with all applicable laws, Compliance training reject all forms of bribery, adhere to environmental, health We provide regular compliance training in the form of classand safety guidelines and refuse to tolerate discrimination. room and online courses that cover our Code of Conduct, Furthermore, we contractually require our business partanti-corruption, antitrust awareness, data privacy, and ners to demonstrate a commitment to internationally recoghealthcare compliance standards. Employees are requested nized human rights and labor standards, as well as to to attend these courses based on their risk indication, and our own compliance requirements. We also monitor adhersome are also extended to independent contractors and ence to these standards for existing business relationships supervised workers (such as temporary staff). We regularly via our established global Business Partner Risk Manageupdate our training plan and adapt it to new developments. ment process – usually every three years, or ad hoc when In 2018, our training concept was reviewed thoroughly with new risks are identified. a special focus on formats, media usage, target groups, While our supplier management processes focus on and frequency, and a refresher concept was included to vendor compliance with our standards, our Global Business strengthen learning measures. Additionally, a large Partner Risk Management Process governs interactions with amount of the training material was reviewed to make sure sales partners such as sales agents, distributors and wholeit addresses the compliance topics in a way that allows salers. Our Business Partner Risk Management approach is employees to better connect to their working environment. integrated in our Anti-Corruption Policy. In 2018, we started the roll-out of our business sectorIn general, we are not able to negotiate social and envispecific e-learning program that is centered on our new ronmental responsibility, compliance or integrity issues with Code of Conduct and aims to make employees aware of the each of our customers individually. We therefore employ a consequences of compliance violations. 10,421 people have global approach for responding to external Code of Conduct already been trained as part of the program, which will be acknowledgment requests. To implement this framework, made available to all new employees on a regular basis. the Merck Corporate Responsibility Letter and a correlation Using global slide deck materials that can be adapted for clause were introduced in 2017. local use according to business und country-specific regulations and situations, local Compliance Officers are now Harmonizing data privacy Group-wide providing classroom training sessions on the Code of Our “Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy” Conduct. We specifically develop some seminars on special defines our standards for processing, saving, using and topics with certain roles in mind. When participating in transmitting data. This approach allows us to achieve a pharma-specific training, for example, employees in our high level of protection for the data belonging to our Healthcare business sector also receive training on relevant employees, contract partners, customers and suppliers, as compliance issues. well as patients and participants in clinical studies. Our We continually educate our employees on new compliGroup-wide understanding of data privacy is based on Euroance requirements, guidelines and projects. One example pean legislation, which also entails the EU General Data is an online course on our Anti-Corruption Policy, which Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) that came into effect in is available in 15 languages. In 2018, a total of 11,404 May 2018. We also consider local data privacy requireemployees and contractors took part in anti-corruption ments, as not all requirements at all sites are covered by training. EU standards. When in doubt, the respective national legal Also in 2018, in response to the European General Data obligations take precedence. Protection Regulation (EU GDPR), we redesigned our regular Data Privacy eLearning course, rolling it out in 17 Compliance audits languages. As part of operational audits, our Group Internal Auditing function regularly reviews relevant matters at our sites “Compliance. Because we care” to determine which compliance guidelines, processes and Our internal “Compliance. Because we care” initiative aims structures are in place and how effective they are. The unit to increase awareness of compliance throughout our Group. also checks for violations of our Code of Conduct and our Harnessing the power of emotion, this communications Anti-Corruption Policy and reviews the workplace requirecampaign engages our employees in the key compliance ments set out in our Human Rights Charter. aspects and thus heightens their sensitivity to and underOur audit planning aims to provide comprehensive risk standing of these issues. Launched in 2017, the initiative assurance through the best possible audit coverage. Our is being implemented gradually Group-wide. This style of annual audit planning process is risk-based and includes communicating has also been incorporated in the Code of factors such as sales, employee headcount, systematic Conduct and was used to enhance our compliance training stakeholder feedback, and the Corruption Perceptions Index materials during 2018. (CPI) published by the non-governmental organization In addition to providing training via webinars, Skype Transparency International. If an internal audit produces meetings and on-site events, we inform our staff about 24 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics compliance issues through a variety of media, including 2013, we have assessed more than 3,500 business partour Intranet, newsletters, posters and our employee maganers, and in 2018, we used this process to assess 335 busizine “pro”. Video clips from all board members strengthen ness partners. the tone from the top and have been in use since 2018 across different channels including our Compliance Learning Ensuring data privacy and information Management Platform. security We operate a data privacy management system as part SpeakUp Line for potential compliance of our Group Compliance function. This system has been violations harmonized across the whole Group. Furthermore, it is All Group employees are encouraged to report potential necessary to protect our information systems, their contents compliance violations to their superiors, Legal, HR or other and our communication channels against criminal activities relevant departments. Worldwide, they can also use our (eCrime, cyber-attacks) of any kind, including unauthorized central whistleblowing SpeakUp Line free of charge and access, information leakage and misuse of data or systems. anonymously to report violations in their local language by Our Group Security and IT Security units implement orgatelephone or via a web-based application. Based on recomnizational, process and technical based information security mendations from the Compliance investigation team or the countermeasures based on recognized international stanCompliance Case Committee, disciplinary actions may also dards. We have harmonized electronic and physical security be taken, where necessary, by the responsible superiors measures (e.g. access control) to bolster our ability to against employees who have committed a compliance violahandle sensitive data such as trade secrets. Aside from tion. These actions may range from a simple warning to active security monitoring, our Group Internal Auditing veridismissal, depending on the severity of the violation. Our fies that we are implementing and complying with our data business partners who have undergone the Business Partner privacy policy and data security programs. Risk Management Process can also use the SpeakUp Line to Our data privacy management system applies the PDCA report violations of internal or external rules. principle (plan, do, check, act), to ensure that data privacy Both the number of reports of suspected compliance policies and tools (plan), data privacy training (do), inspecviolations and the number of actual compliance cases tions and assessments (check), and incident and issue has increased last year. In 2018, 72 compliance-related management processes (act) are all in place. reports that led to investigations were received via the To support local Data Privacy Officers at our sites, we SpeakUp Line and other channels. In 2018, there were 19 have introduced standardized data privacy consulting confirmed cases of violations of the Code of Conduct. services that can be requested by data controllers and processors as needed. We have also implemented a central Risk analysis and management of business IT tool to provide a single source for data privacy processes, partners e.g. answering data privacy questions, registering data We apply a risk-based approach to selecting sales-related processing activities and reporting potential data privacy business partners. The greater we estimate the risk to be incidents. We had zero sanctioned complaints or incidents regarding a certain country, region or type of service, the concerning breaches of customer privacy leaks, thefts or closer and more carefully we examine the company before losses of customer data in 2018. In one case, a minor entering into a business relationship with them. For these personal data breach was reported to the supervisory risk assessments, we use the Corruption Perceptions authority, which was not sanctioned. Index (CPI), which is maintained by Transparency International, and assess potential partners against other paraEFPIA and other transparency initiatives meters such as the nature of the intended business and Members of the Transparency Initiative of the European sales volume. We also tap into background information from Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations various databases and information reported by the business (EFPIA) are required to publish all contributions to medical partners themselves, for instance on their own compliance professionals and organizations in the health sector, along programs. with the names and addresses of individual recipients. If we encounter compliance violations, we decide Beyond this initiative, several countries have introduced whether to reject the potential business partner, terminate legislation to further increase transparency in the pharthe existing relationship, or impose conditions to mitigate maceutical industry. We comply with these requirements identified risks. However, our partners are generally willing and additional standards governing interactions with health to adapt their structures and processes in line with our strict systems and include them in our transparency reporting. compliance requirements. Since launching this process in 25 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Alliance for Integrity training courses, and by sharing best practices on how We are a member of the Alliance for Integrity Steering to develop and implement effective corruption prevention Committee. Established by the German Society for Intersystems. national Cooperation (GIZ), the German Global Compact Network (DGCN) and the Federation of German Industries Engaging stakeholders (BDI), this initiative aims to achieve a corruption-free busiIn 2018, we engaged stakeholders in dialogue primarily ness world in developing and emerging countries. Its activithrough our memberships in various associations. Amongst ties are concentrated in Argentina, Brazil, Ghana and India. other organizations, we are members of the German ChemThe Steering Committee leads the decision-making process ical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), the German Institute for developing measures in these countries, while local advifor Compliance (DICO), the European Federation of Pharsory groups oversee implementation at the country level. maceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the German In 2018, our company was elected chair of the advisory Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Pharmaceugroup of Ghana. Our local Compliance organizations also tical Industry (FSA), the International Federation of Pharcollaborate with these groups and offer training to small maceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), the and medium-sized companies. We furthermore support Alliance for Integrity, the German Association for Supply anti-corruption conferences such as the Global Conference Chain Management, Procurement and Logistics e. V. (BME) of the Alliance for Integrity, which takes place once a year. and the International Association of Privacy Professionals Beyond these efforts, we continuously assist the Alliance (IAPP). for Integrity through business-to-business workshops and 26 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Responsible marketing  Part of the non-financial report Pharmaceutical marketing is regulated by legislation worldwide. In marketing our pharmaceuticals, the wellbeing of patients is always our primary consideration. A variety of internal guidelines shape our business conduct. Since November 2018, we mainly commercialize prescription medicines. In order to strategically focus on innovationdriven businesses, we divested our over-the-counter Consumer Health business. Our approach to responsible marketing operating under the name of EMD Serono, to Allergopharma We adhere strictly to all regulations concerning pharmaand to the Merck Foundation. This will enable them to effecceutical marketing. In Germany, for instance, manufactively adhere to our compliance principles and guidance turers are only permitted to advertise prescription drugs around the world while maintaining the necessary flexibility to medical professionals such as physicians and pharmato implement specific local policies or procedures that cists. These adverts must always disclose the active ingrediadditionally comply with local regulations. ents, adverse effects and contraindications of the drug. Our Through our “Principles of Review and Approval of internal guidelines governing marketing and advertising are Promotional Materials and Other External Communications”, part of our Group-wide compliance program, which requires we ensure that all promotional materials conform to our us to always conduct business in compliance with the law rigorous standards. All our employees involved in creating and in line with the highest ethical standards. This promotional materials have received training on updates is complemented by our internal guidelines and various made to the principles and the associated standard voluntary commitments that, in many cases, exceed the processes. applicable statutory regulations. We regularly review all our In addition to local laws and our own standards, we internal guidelines and revise them as required, in response comply with the codes of conduct of various industry orgato any new developments. nizations, such as the Code of Practice published by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & How we conduct ethical marketing Associations (IFPMA). This code was revised in May 2018 Our Group Compliance unit is responsible for setting up and became effective on January 1, 2019. We simultaneinternal overarching compliance policies to ensure our busiously revised our internal policy “Items Provided to Healthness activities adhere to the statutory regulations that are care Professionals” to harmonize our internal guidance with applicable to our sales and marketing activities. This unit IFPMA Code of Practice requirements. We are also a is further supported by other functions that provide topicmember of the German Association of Voluntary Self-Reguspecific expertise to offer further detailed guidance and lation for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), which has processes for review. For instance, our Global Regulatory defined its own code of conduct regarding collaboration Affairs unit has established a dedicated policy and correbetween physicians and the industry. sponding process document on the review and approval of our promotional materials. The necessary training and Reviewing marketing material Group-wide communications are carried out by the units responsible Our aim is to review all promotional material end-to-end to for each of the respective policies. At the operational level, ensure that it meets our standards, which is why we apply the relevant business and all employees involved in our a harmonized Group-wide review and approval system. sales and marketing activities must adhere to our internal Approximately 2,200 Healthcare employees use a centralpolicies and procedures. Our Group Internal Auditing unit ized platform that allows us to streamline the review and regularly conducts risk-based reviews of our sales and approval process more efficiently, while also providing a marketing activities. You can find more details on how better overview of global marketing data. This also helps us we ensure compliance with statutory regulations worldwide identify opportunities for improvement. under Compliance. Addressing violations of standards and Our commitment: Code of Conduct and regulations industry-wide regulations We have a number of channels for reporting wrongful Our Group-wide “Pharma Code for Conducting Pharmaceumarketing practices to the industry associations where we tical Business and Pharmaceutical Operations” defines the are members. For instance, when members of the FSA or relevant standards for our ethical marketing practices. It third parties suspect a violation of the FSA Code, they also governs our interactions with physicians, medical instican file complaints directly with the respective Arbitration tutions and patient advocacy groups. Board. In 2018, no significant complaints of this kind were In 2018, we revised ten Biopharma compliance policies sustained against our company worldwide. to ensure we provide the required up-to-date compliance We have also established an internal SpeakUp Line that guidance to the business. We also extended the scope of allows our employees to anonymously report potential this policy to our Healthcare business in the United States, compliance violations. If our marketing or advertising rules 27 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics of conduct are broken, we have a committee in place to take and we only pursue DTC campaigns in these areas. We use immediate countermeasures. Any violations are dealt with direct advertising to try and increase people’s awareness of using appropriate corrective action. In 2018, we expecertain diseases and the therapies that are available, thus rienced no significant cases of non-compliance regarding empowering patients to make informed decisions about regulations and voluntary codes. their own treatment. Regular employee training Marketing chemicals Employees who are responsible for our pharmaceutical We also approach the marketing of our chemical products advertising receive regular training on current guidelines. with the deepest sense of responsibility. For instance, we This particularly applies to individuals working in sales, only supply our chemicals to commercial customers with marketing and drug registration. These seminars are proven expertise and we provide them with detailed inforconducted locally in a classroom setting but are also offered mation on the safe handling and use of our products. We online and as e-learning courses. have an extensive safety and security network in place to During 2018, we asked newcomers to our company prevent the misuse of dual-use products. This network to participate in an onboarding training on the topic of features standardized export control guidelines for these “Review and Approval of Promotional Materials and Other products, which are monitored by our central Export Control External Communications”. More than 1,100 employees and Customs Regulations unit, as well as by trade and already took part in a similar training course in 2017. Addiexport control officers at our local subsidiaries. If we suspect tionally, employees in charge of marketing and the promoor are informed of misuse, we terminate our business relation of pharmaceuticals can also access our respective tionship with the customer. When necessary, we work with compliance guidelines via our Intranet. the responsible authorities to prevent illegal use. In 2018, there were eight attempts to obtain our products for illegal Direct marketing only in certain countries purposes. The business relationship with these customers Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising for prescription drugs was terminated. is allowed in some countries, such as the United States, 28 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Interactions with health systems  Part of the non-financial report It is essential that research institutes, physicians, patient advocacy groups and other key players in health systems have access to detailed and up-to-date information on diseases and treatments. We help facilitate this access by sponsoring independent initiatives and medical capacity advancement programs, as well as by donating money and supplies. We also promote outstanding research projects, for example through our Global Grants for Innovation. In all our endeavors, transparency is our number one priority. Our approach to interacting with health Allergopharma and the Merck Foundation. Our guideline systems “Good Practice and Process Guidance: Engagement with We support health systems by providing information, Patients, Patient Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations” making monetary contributions and donating supplies to provides additional guidance for our interactions with professional medical associations, patient advocacy groups, patients and patient advocacy groups. It reinforces our university clinics and other hospitals. These contributions belief that patient wellbeing is always a top priority. are absolutely not intended to influence decisions regarding Through this policy, the supplementary guideline and treatment, prescriptions or purchasing. We have therefore specific local policies, we provide a robust guidance struccommitted ourselves to providing complete transture to support our employees in being compliant during parency. We prepare detailed reports on our donations that their interactions with patients, patient opinion leaders and align with industry-wide codes and with statutory requirepatient organizations. We are also active in the enhancements such as those governing data protection, and we ment of self-regulation within the industry, such as in the comply with all applicable laws and industry codes on transEuropean Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Assoparency. In countries that have statutory or industry obligciations (EFPIA) sub-group discussions with patient orgaations regarding the transfers of values to health systems, nizations and industry representatives on delivering guidewe comply with these and are transparent in our reporting. lines on patient compensation. How we ensure transparency and compliance Transparent reporting at an organizational level In 2018, we continued to publish all financial and non-finanIn all interactions with health systems, Group Compliance cial contributions that we made to European medical profesestablishes internal policies and related review processes sionals and organizations in the health industry. As required to ensure adherence to statutory requirements and transby the EFPIA Disclosure Code, this information includes parency obligations. Group Compliance also provides the the names of individual recipients and their addresses, as necessary training and communication to all applicable well as the purpose and amount of the transfer. Before employees. The Global Transparency Operations team of publishing, we secured all necessary informed consent Group Compliance serves as a center of excellence, forms as required by the applicable data privacy regulaproviding support for transparency reporting and our endtions. to-end management process for interactions with healthcare In addition to disclosing monetary transfers of value on professionals, healthcare organizations, patients and patient an individual level, we continue to publish overall spending advocacy groups. on our research & development activities, as required by the Our Internal Audits unit monitors the local implementaEFPIA Disclosure Code. In 2018, EFPIA issued further guidtion of these initiatives. Before entering into a partnership ance on the disclosure of non-interventional studies or collaboration with a third party, we also apply a selection (NIS) differentiating between retrospective NIS and process based on a policy and standard operating proceprospective NIS for different reporting methods, either on dure. This is part of our Business Partner Risk Management an individual level or in aggregate amount. We have compliance program, which is conducted by Group Compliadopted the new requirement in our preparation of ance. The Compliance chapter of this report provides more reporting from 2018 onward. When the EU General Data details on how we implement legal requirements across the Protection Regulation (GDPR) became effective in May Group. 2018, we revised our global agreement templates with healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations, patients Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and and patient organizations, and the related disclosure industry standards consent templates, in relevant countries to ensure all Our “Interactions with Patients, Patient Opinion Leaders clauses and processes related to transparency reporting are and Patient Organizations” policy provides a comprehensive aligned with the requirements of the regulation. framework for our prescription medicines business. This We also adhere to all statutory transparency requirepolicy was updated in April 2018 to include more guidance ments worldwide, such as the Transparency Code of the for interactions with patients and patient organizaGerman Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the tions and is directly applicable to our Biopharma business, Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), the stipulations of the 29 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Sunshine Act in the United States and the Loi Bertrand in advanced medical training to scientists, physicians, nurses, France. Specific national laws and requirements are implepharmacists, and other healthcare professionals. As with mented by our local units. We consistently adhere to the our other collaborations, we take an entirely transparent applicable data privacy legislation and endeavor to ensure approach to this. All direct and indirect financial support the full compliance of our partners. aligns with the principles of EFPIA. According to our internal In 2018, we registered an increase in the number of “Medical Education Funding Policy”, all requests for medical countries adapting new transparency disclosure rules, education funding are channeled through an evaluation including Canada and Saudi Arabia. The province of Ontario process under the responsibility of our R&D and compliance (Canada) has passed the Health Sector Payment Transfunctions. This process ensures that all funds for medical parency Act, which came into effect on January 1, 2019. education programs are granted according to established This makes it the first province in Canada to formally internal guidelines and criteria while also complying with all address the transparency of payments made by pharmaapplicable laws and industry codes. ceutical and medical device companies. In Saudi Arabia, In 2018, we continued our partnership with the Internathe Saudi Food and Drug Authority (SFDA) introduced new tional Pharmaceutical Alliance for Continuing Medical Educatransparency reporting rules that were implemented on tion (iPACME). This group of 20 professionals from 17 October 1, 2018. different companies from around the world engages in Relevant employees participate in mandatory online continuous discussions for improving and harmonizing training and classroom seminars, so that they stay quality standards for continuing medical education. informed about our interactions guideline and policy, and We continue to promote research and education in and important changes to reporting requirements for transfers for developing countries through a series of programs, with of value. a focus on malaria and schistosomiasis. These research programs, involving African post-doctoral fellows, include, Partnering with patient advocacy groups for example, the sponsorship of three PhD fellowships in Patient advocacy groups support patients, family members support to the governmental malaria control programs in and caregivers, providing them with information on disease Namibia, Botswana and Zambia. management. We have also made it our goal to improve Other examples of research programs enhancing local patient quality of life, which is why we support the vitally expertise include collaborations with the University of Cape important work of these organizations. We ensure transTown and Medicine for Malaria Venture (MMV) to identify parency on our donations by publishing the details of new potential anti-malarial drug candidates. We also work contributions to European patient organizations on our with the Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) to study website. The report is updated annually and includes all the impact of schistosomiasis infection on the severity of donation amounts, recipients and the purpose of each donamalaria co-infection in children, and with the European and tion, thus fulfilling our obligation as a member of EFPIA. Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) in a fellowship program on clinical practices and management. Transparently promoting medical research and education Introduction of a new compliance tool We sponsor research and continuing medical education In May 2018, we introduced a new compliance tool called around the world so that we can contribute to medical Quantum Connect, which replaced our previous tools for advances that will benefit patients. Through our Grants supporting the planning, review and confirmation of for Innovation, for example, we support research projects compliant interactions with healthcare professionals, healthin fertility, multiple sclerosis, oncology and growth disorcare organizations, patients, and patient organizations. ders. As of 2018, a total of 99 research proposals have Quantum Connect stands as a single global tool that is been selected to receive research grants through the Global applied to all markets in which we operate. The new softGrants for Innovation program since its inauguration in ware encompasses elements to determine the appropriate 2009. compensation for service engagement and ensures Through our Global Medical Education and External Relaagreements are compliant with applicable laws and codes, tions unit we also provide grants to continuing medical such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). education providers, enabling them to develop and deliver 30 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Suppliers Supply chain standards Our company procures many raw materials, packaging materials, technical products, components and services from across the world. The overarching goal of Group Procurement, in close collaboration with our supply chain departments of each business sector, is to protect the stability of these supply chains and always provide our customers with the best possible products and services at optimal quality. In this fast-paced world, we believe that secure supply chains are the key to our success. We expect our suppliers to adhere to the same ethical, social and compliance standards as we do. Our approach to making our supply chains Risk Response Tracker: to create and monitor risk mitimore sustainable gation activities. The Risk Response Tracker is currently One of the goals of our supplier management is compliunder development. ance with fundamental environmental and social standards, alongside high quality, reliable delivery and A “risk factor” for the Supplier and the Material Risk Assesscompetitive prices. To achieve this, we've introduced relements is calculated by multiplying risk probability and risk vant strategies, processes and guidelines that we are impact. Risk probability considers 29 risk titles such as continuously improving to prevent violations of supply chain “Economic freedom”, “Social unrest”, “Unfair business pracstandards. Our supply chains are diverse and differ in their tices” or “Poor labor practices” throughout the five “risk characteristics. While some supply chains are automated, domains”: financial, geo-political, compliance, operations, others, especially in the service sector, are labor intensive. and sustainability. Risk impact is calculated by considering Our risk-based supplier selection and management supplier spend and the number of Merck businesses approach takes this diversity into account. If the risk probimpacted. The aspect of risk impact will be further refined to ability exceeds our risk appetite, we take further actions. take into consideration the impact to our finished products For example, we ask the supplier to conduct a sustainability and our customers. assessment or an audit. This additional step helps our sourcing employees to identify required mitigation actions How we implement Corporate Responsibility with relevant suppliers and work on improvements. standards in the supply chain We further developed our supplier and material risk Group Procurement is responsible for integrating corporate management and launched a new program in 2018. This responsibility (CR) requirements into the relevant stages of program covers our key suppliers and aims to identify, our sourcing and supplier management processes. It is a assess, respond, and monitor third-party risks that could global organization with direct accountability and resources have an impact in our supply continuity. It has four main in procurement-relevant local subsidiaries. Our Center of elements: Excellence for Supplier Sustainability coordinates all relevant measures, such as updating our guidelines where Supplier Risk Assessments: to capture the overarching necessary, examining processes and coordinating our risks at supplier legal entity level, including multiple risk participation in external initiatives. Our Procurement domains. This system was tested and implemented in employees in all countries are kept up to date on these 2018. guidelines and processes through internal communication Alert system: to notify our Procurement unit when any channels such as our company intranet. Sourcing staff are of our suppliers face a potential disruption. The system responsible for the supplier selection process and collabowas implemented in 2018. rate closely with the stakeholders in each business sector. Material Risk Assessments: to capture the risks of releAll new Sourcing staff are trained on those sustainability vant materials that make up our most significant finished aspects that are of importance for procurement. products. The Material Risk Assessments were aligned with our business in 2018. 31 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Our commitment: Guidelines and standards and Safety Policy), ISO 14001, and the BME Code of We expect all our suppliers and service providers to comply Conduct. In our Responsible Sourcing Principles we set out with environmental and social standards, which are these expectations for our suppliers and formally oblige primarily derived from the core labor standards of the Interthem to apply these standards to their own vendors. national Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global All modifications to legal frameworks are incorporated Compact. and appropriate measures are initiated where necessary. Moreover, we support the Compliance Initiative of the German Association for Supply Chain Management, ProcureGlobal procurement ment and Logistics (BME) and have endorsed the BME Code In total, the goods and services we purchased in 2018 of Conduct. In particular, this code sets out rules for from more than 60,000 suppliers in almost 150 countries combating corruption, antitrust violations and child labor, as amounted to around € 7.4 billion compared with well as for upholding human rights, protecting the environ€ 7.0 billion in 2017, representing an increase of 4.8%. Of ment and public health, and promoting fair working condithese (including R&D services), we purchased 50% from tions. suppliers based in EU countries and 35% from vendors Our Group Procurement Policy stipulates expectations based in OECD countries outside the EU. The share of goods for our suppliers and specifies how we monitor compliance and services sourced from suppliers based in non-OECD with our standards. This policy reflects both internal and countries outside the EU increased from 14.8% in 2017 to external guidelines, such as our Code of Conduct, our 15% in 2018. Human Rights Charter, our EHS Policy (Environment, Health Share of overall goods and services purchased 32 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Material use companies in compliance with all restrictions stipulated by We primarily use chemical and pharmaceutical raw competition law. The strategic focus of the TfS activities materials for our manufacturing operations, in addition to concentrates strongly on the initiative´s demonstrable operating supplies and packaging materials such as folding improvements of supplier sustainability standards. We've boxes, glass bottles and ampules. We utilized 487.6 metric been a member of TfS since 2014. kilotons of material in 2018, a slight increase compared to Via a collaborative platform, we now have access to 2017. We only record the weight of the materials that are evaluated supplier self-assessments of more than directly used in our pharmaceuticals and chemicals. 10,700 suppliers and audit reports from over 1,000 suppliers, partially initiated by Merck and partially by other How we monitor our supply chain TfS members. Based on all the audits and assessments A number of different approaches are used to keep track of conducted since joining the TfS initiative, in 2018 we our suppliers and ensure adherence to our standards and focused on scorecard improvements of our suppliers rather values. These are generally based on the risk they pose, than additional new assessments and audits. combining the factors of country risk, product category and sales. Conducting our own audits We continuously conduct own audits in selected cases based Under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative on business requirements. launched by companies in the chemical industry, we Neither our audits nor those of TfS revealed indications encourage our suppliers to be assessed either on selfof violations of the right of association, the right to collective reported information or via audits. bargaining, cases of child labor, forced labor or compulsory In selected cases we conduct our own CR audits on labor. suppliers. Regarding our mica supply chain, we engage with a global Local suppliers consultancy to conduct audits and the Indian organization We have no internal guidelines stipulating that preference IGEP to conduct inspections. be given to local vendors in allocating contracts and therefore do not collect this type of data. We generally procure TfS supplier assessments and audits our goods and services globally. In some cases, Under TfS, suppliers are assessed either on information however, local vendors do have an advantage, as products obtained during audits, or on the basis of self-reported bought locally may be less expensive, due to a reduction in and publicly accessible information provided by EcoVadis, additional transport costs. Country-specific regulations such an independent rating agency. EcoVadis assesses suppliers as import duties and licenses also help us decide whether to from 150 countries and 190 sectors across the four catesource our goods locally or globally. In some countries local gories of Environment, Social, Ethics, and Sustainable laws require contracts to be awarded to regional suppliers. Procurement. The results are shared among TfS member 33 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Mica supply chain Mica is the primary raw material of our effect pigments, which are used in automotive and industrial coatings and plastic mass coloration, as well as in the cosmetics and food industries. Although it occurs naturally in many places, we mainly procure mica from India, specifically the north-eastern states of Jharkhand and Bihar. This region suffers from political instability and poverty, with widespread child labor, so we’ve taken special measures to meet compliance with our social and environmental standards. Our approach to responsibility in the mica audit reports document any identified shortcomings in this supply chain respect and propose corrective actions. Our employees in In procuring mica from north-east India, we are supporting Kolkata (India) and Darmstadt (Germany) then follow up to this region by safeguarding local jobs and livelihood. We work on resolving any identified issues. only source the raw material from formal working environIn 2018, ERM conducted six audits. Identified defects ments, such as mines qualified by our company, as this primarily involved occupational safety precautions and gaps is the only way to monitor compliance with our standards in the implementation of management systems. When violaincluding our ban of child labor. tions are discovered, we work together with the Our mica suppliers have been informed of our standards suppliers on corrective measures. When breaches are not and have confirmed that they adhere to the principles of our rectified, we take further actions up to freezing relations Human Rights Charter as well as the requirements of the with the respective company or even terminating the busiMerck Responsible Sourcing Principles. We do not tolerate ness relationship altogether. child labor and contractually prohibit our suppliers from employing children. Hence, we are driving initiatives and Monthly inspections taking measures to improve the conditions of mica sourcing Since 2013, the IGEP Foundation, a local non-government based on our high standards. We constantly review our organization, has been arranging monthly unannounced monitoring processes and work on improving their effectivevisits to check the working standards in the mines and ness. at the processors. In 2018, three mica mines and three processing plants were regularly checked. During these How we organize our mica supply chain visits, IGEP monitors productivity and occupational safety We have established direct business relationships with those as well as compliance with the ban on child labor. suppliers who handle mica mining and processing in India. They also check whether our suppliers have held mandatory Our procurement unit is in direct contact with the suppliers training sessions for their employees. In October 2018, to reiterate the importance we place on ethical, social and IGEP supported by one of our EHS specialists held a environmental standards. Whenever non-compliance with workshop on workplace health and safety for our suppliers. our standards is identified, we work with suppliers to ensure the appropriate implementation of corrective measures. Tracking system for mica sources We use a tracking system to ensure mica that is supplied Our commitment: Compliance with guidelines to us comes from mines qualified by our company and and standards to monitor the productivity of the mines. All mine owners As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we record the daily extraction volume of their mines in a are actively involved in working to abolish child labor. Our logbook, and we review the volumes of mica reported in the Human Rights Charter underscores this commitment. In our logbook and supplied to the processing companies. Responsible Sourcing Principles, we set out our expectations for our suppliers in terms of corporate responsibility and Community outreach in the mica supply chain human rights, including the ban of child labor. The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most impoverished regions in India. Together with IGEP, we are Auditing our mica supply chain working to improve the living conditions of the families We have implemented a series of oversight mechanisms in the mica mining areas. The literacy rate and the number through a system that monitors and audits compliance with of children who attend school are far below the Indian our social and environmental standards. In addition to national average, according to a study in 2016 and a report regular self-inspections, we conduct comprehensive in 2018 by the organization Terre des Hommes and the announced audits at mica mines and processors, as well as Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations. unannounced check visits. As part of our efforts, we are financing three schools run by our partner IGEP in Jharkhand, which are attended Annual audits by a total of almost 500 children and adolescents. All three The international consultancy firm Environmental Resources schools introduced a sixth grade in 2018. This change will Management (ERM) conducts annual audits of all mines contribute to school attendance of children and younger and processing plants, investigating working conditions as students. Tailoring and carpentry courses are also offered. well as environmental, health and safety issues. The 34 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics At a fourth school run by one of our mica suppliers, we chain by joining forces across industries. In 2018, we provide scholarships for 200 children. actively supported the RMI’s work to improve traceability In addition to our education efforts, we are committed along the Indian mica supply chain: Responsible Mica specto improving local access to healthcare. To this end, in ifications have been developed and pilot tests on the field 2010 we established a health center operated by IGEP to have been conducted. To build sustainable living conditions serve the region’s 20,000 residents. Two medical profesin local communities, the RMI started a community empowsionals work at the center and also provide regular health erment program in the mica mining area. The goal is to services to schools. Previously there was no healthcare of address the root causes of child labor and to improve the any kind in this region. livelihood of the local community. In 2018, 40 villages in In August 2018 we supported a health checkup camp Jharkhand and Bihar (India), were selected for the program. that was run in collaboration with the Indian hospital chain We participated in dialogues with various stakeMedanta at two different locations in the state of Jharkhand holders and at conferences in 2018, such as the Child (India). The first took place in Jhumri Telaiya in the Labor Platform (CLP) of the International Labour OrganizaKoderma district with the second one in Tisri in Giridih tion (ILO) in Paris (France), the Mica Stakeholder Event in district. These health camps were visited by more than The Hague (Netherlands) organized by Terre des Hommes 1,000 people and gave them access to up-to-date diagnostic and the OECD Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chain tools and doctors without charge. Patients were then in Paris. During these meetings, approaches on fighting provided with initial treatment. The follow-up will be done child labor were critically reviewed and best practices were by our health center. The camps are regarded as starting shared. point for further health camps in the communities. New sources of mica Stronger together: Joint action in the mica Our processes undergo constant review and improvement. supply chain We are evaluating other sources for mica according to our We are a founding member of the Responsible Mica Initiaquality, social and environmental standards both in India tive (RMI), which was established as a multi-stakeholder and in other regions. Part of our mica, for example, is group following the Mica Summit 2016. From January 2018 obtained from Brazil. This helps us to secure supply over the to January 2020, our company holds the presidency of the long term and avoid potential bottlenecks. We also manuorganization. The initiative aims to eradicate child labor and facture effect pigments based on synthetic substrates as an unacceptable working conditions in the Indian mica supply alternative to pigments based on natural mica. 35 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Human rights First and foremost, all nations have a duty to establish a regulatory framework to protect human rights. As an international enterprise, we in turn also have a duty to uphold human rights, taking steps to ensure that they are not compromised by our business activities. We are constantly working to integrate human rights due diligence into our processes in an effort to minimize the risk of human rights violations and to protect these rights within our sphere of influence. Our approach to human rights due diligence unites and complements existing policies and guidelines on We are committed to upholding and protecting human human rights such as our Code of Conduct, our Corporights. To this end, we must better understand the potential rate Environment, Health and Safety Policy, our Responsible impact of our business activities and relationships on human Sourcing Principles, and our Charter on Access to Health rights, as well as identify the practices already in place in Developing Countries. In 2018, we started the process at our sites that fulfill the function of human rights due of updating our Human Rights Charter, partnering with diligence. This knowledge helps us adapt our Group-wide external stakeholders such as trade unions, business human rights due diligence efforts to better meet local federations and representatives of potentially impacted needs and adapt our processes in response to the respecgroups. Additionally, we are currently drafting a Group-wide tive risk profiles. In doing so, we can develop support Social and Labor Standards Policy. Aligning with the core programs, strategies and processes to overcome particular labor standards of the International Labour Organization challenges. At the same time, we are working to identify the (ILO), this policy is scheduled for publication in 2019. opportunities presented by the positive impacts of our operAt the end of 2016, the German federal government ations. adopted a national action plan for implementing the UN Within the German Global Compact Network (DGCN), Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. We we are a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer welcome this plan, which reflects the UN Guiding Principles Learning Group, a working group in which we engage with and sets out the duty of states to protect human rights as other companies to share lessons learned as well as well as the responsibility of companies to uphold them. It successes in implementing human rights due diligence. furthermore provides specific guidance on how the German federal government and German businesses can do so. How we promote respect for human rights Through our current efforts and initiatives, such as evalOur Executive Board bears ultimate responsibility for uating our existing grievance mechanisms, we are on the upholding human rights within our organization. Our Group right track to fulfilling the requirements stipulated in the Corporate Responsibility unit handles the coordination of national action plan. activities and processes relating to human rights due diliIn the United Kingdom, the UK Modern Slavery Act gence. Progress and measures are regularly discussed at CR requires us to report on the steps we are taking to counter Committee meetings, while subject matter experts within forced labor and human trafficking. In 2018, our company our Group functions, business sectors and local units are in once again issued our UK Modern Slavery Statement, which charge of initiating the necessary actions. has been endorsed by our Executive Board and is available In 2018, we formed an internal, cross-functional human on our website. rights working group that has two overarching objectives. First, it helps us meet our obligation to respect human rights Creating awareness through joint, cross-functional actions. And secondly, it is In 2018, we started to implement measures based on the intended to establish an ongoing dialogue on the subject. findings from the Group-wide human rights self-assessment The group meets three to four times a year, with the first of our subsidiaries, which included initiating steps to raise meeting having been held in November. awareness of certain human rights risks. In 2018, we hosted In 2018, we also added the topic of human rights to our a workshop on modern slavery, which was attended manual for new managing directors in an effort to heighten by representatives from the Group functions Environment, awareness at the executive level. The manual is primarily Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ), Procurement, Human intended to consolidate all the legal and compliance-related Resources, Compliance, and Corporate Responsibility. responsibilities of a managing director into one document. Human rights and modern slavery were also on the agenda of our annual Global Security Network Meeting in Darmstadt Our commitment: Guiding principles, charters and our Environment, Health, Safety (EHS) forums in Tokyo and laws and Shizuoka (both Japan) and Corsier-sur-Vevey (SwitzerOur Human Rights Charter affirms our commitment to land). They were also part of “EHS StartUp!”, our EHS orienrespecting human rights while also defining the relevant tation program for all new EHS managers in Darmstadt. requirements for our company. This charter furthermore 36 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Launched in 2017, our Group-wide online course on our Our annual compliance risk reporting covers human Human Rights Charter was successfully completed by 194 rights issues. In 2018, our Compliance Group function people in 2018. This course was mandatory Group-wide started updating their compliance risk reporting process for all managing directors as well as all leaders from the with human rights and modern slavery now featuring more first managerial level below Executive Board. In addition prominently in our risk reporting and our newly created selfto this, Procurement executives from the second and third monitoring process. managerial tiers were also required to take the course, To reinforce human rights due diligence within our which focuses on modern slavery and the increasing regucompany, in 2018 we reviewed our existing grievance latory requirements for companies such as those set out in mechanisms, focusing particularly on their scope and effecthe national action plan and the UK Modern Slavery Act. By tiveness. Based on the results, in 2019 we decided to open taking the course, participants confirm that they have read up our SpeakUp Line, previously only accessible to and understood our Human Rights Charter and are working employees, to external stakeholders as well. Grievances can to promote its values. now be reported via a link on our external website. Continually improving our management Human rights and investment decisions processes When projects exceed a certain cost threshold, our InvestWe are continuing our efforts to further integrate human ment Committee must approve the expenditure. The rights into our operational processes, reviewing our committee’s decision considers factors such as environapproach to human rights risks and their impacts and ment, health and safety. When it comes to investment working to improve them. We focus on external manpower, projects, we are also bound by our Code of Conduct, which product and service sourcing, and collaboration with stipulates compliance with the principles of the UN Global contract partners. We are currently working to obtain an Compact and therefore also with the core labor standards overview of the use of external manpower Group-wide. of the International Labour Organization (ILO), such as the Building on these findings, we intend to execute risk-based prohibition of child and forced labor. measures to increase awareness of modern slavery at the local level as well. To support these efforts, in 2018, we Keeping employees informed developed an interactive database for human rights risks We use a variety of channels to educate our employees on and issues that also covers specific risks in individual counhuman rights, including topical Intranet sites and other artitries. cles featuring employees explaining how their work intersects with human rights. 37 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Bioethics  Part of the non-financial report Bioethics guide us in how to use the rapidly advancing power of life sciences and technology responsibly and ethically to the ultimate benefit of society, humans and other living beings. However, factors such as diverse cultural backgrounds have led to heated debates on divisive bioethical issues arising from the explosive progress in science and particularly molecular biology. In light of this situation, we feel the need to clarify our own position on these issues. Our approach to ethical business conduct Since it was formed in 2011, the Stem Cell Research OverIn our work we encounter various bioethical issues, sight Committee (SCROC), for example, has been verifying including animal testing and clinical research, stem cell use, all internal research proposals that employ human stem the use of genetically modified microorganisms, and the cells and ensuring compliance with our ethical guidelines potential impact of new genome editing techniques such and any legal requirements. This also includes collaboration as CRISPR/Cas. We are strongly committed to conducting with external partners. this research in an ethical manner. Patient wellbeing and benefit is always our number one priority, both during Our commitment: Identifying issues early on treatment with our drugs and when our products are distribAs a global company, it is crucial for us to promptly identify uted to academic researchers and the biopharma industry. and address new developments concerning bioethical issues We carefully evaluate our position on controversial topics so in order to define our own stance. Although we align all that we can make informed decisions that meet the highest our business activities with international and national legisethical standards. lation, many bioethical discussions raise questions that far exceed the current scope of legislators, which is why we also How we assess bioethical issues seek the advice of external experts. The Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP), co-chaired by a senior executive biomedical expert of our companyand the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) Head of our Global Health Institute, gives clear guidance discussions on bioethical issues, which steers our behavior and entreIn 2018, the MBAP addressed, for the first time, the topic preneurial conduct. It consists of renowned international of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and related ethical issues. experts in the fields of bioethics, theology, science, and The recommendation was to develop a supervisory board law. The MBAP meets once a year and also spontaneously, that includes roles and responsibilities for the highly sensiif required, in response to emerging urgent bioethical tive data that is used in clinical and other applications of AI. issues. We publish a summary of the discussions from each Other topics included new developments in stem cell meeting on our internal electronic collaboration platform. research, genome editing and animal welfare. Our employees can ask MBAP members for advice and are able to report concerns on ethical issues. Biotechnology and genetic engineering We continuously adapt the organizational structure of We utilize genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in our the MBAP to reflect the current requirements of bioethical research and development work and have been manufacissues in all three of our business sectors. In 2018, two turing biotech products using GMOs since the 1980s. experts from Africa and Asia became standing members, Without this technology, the major medical advances of having previously had guest status. This has enabled us to past years would not have been possible. further integrate the important views of these regions in our Our most important research hubs for medical biotechbioethical discussions. nology are Darmstadt (Germany), Boston (MA, United Our dedicated guidance panels for genome editing and States), Beijing (China) and Tokyo (Japan). Major biotech stem cell topics continue to operate under the overarching production sites are located in Martillac (France) and MBAP. These panels are responsible for the operational Aubonne, as well as Corsier-sur-Vevey (both in Switzerimplementation of our stance and are empowered to make land), which is one of the largest biopharmaceutical producdecisions about specific questions on individual projects. tion facilities in Europe. 38 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Across our Group, we manufacture our biotech products projects are reviewed and approved by the SCROC before according to the highest standards, and all our biotech any stem cells are used for research purposes. We only use activities are subject to strict statutory regulations worldcell lines approved by the United States National Institute wide. Compliance with these regulations is monitored by our of Health (NIH) and that are allowed under the German biological safety officers. We continuously track regulaEmbryo Protection Act and the German Stem Cell Law. tory changes that relate to biotech products and adapt our During 2018, the SCROC continued discussions on a new processes accordingly, thus ensuring we adhere to all statuInformed Consent Form for the use of induced pluripotent tory requirements. stem cells (iPSCs), which is expected to be finalized in 2019. iPSCs are identical to embryonic cells and can generate Using genome-editing techniques every type of cell in the human body. They are used in many We are a leading supplier of technologies such as CRISPR/ research projects, but, in most cases, do not require specific Cas9, which can be used to target and modify specific approval by the SCROC. The SCROC also decided to support genes, a process known as genome editing. CRISPR/Cas9 the generation of organoids derived from adult stem cells opens up new possibilities in genetic engineering research under the precondition that stem cells derived from fetal that could bring about major advances in the treatment of tissue should be avoided. serious diseases or in “green genetic engineering”, which is So far, we do not support research aimed at producing the use of genome editing techniques in plant cultivation. artificial gametes. Any support on our part would have to Statutes in different countries allow for a varying degree of comply with the German Embryo Protection Act and our latitude in applying this technique. Fertility Principle. Our Genome Editing Technology Principle provides a The topic of producing artificial gametes will be revisited mandatory ethical and operational framework for our by the SCROC in order to follow up on ongoing developemployees, setting clear operational boundaries for us both ments. as a supplier of custom targeted nucleases and genetically modified cell lines, and as a user of genome editing techFertility research nologies for scientific research. This principle includes backWe develop treatments for infertility and seek to improve ground information on the topic and explains our current the success rate of in vitro fertilization, and so we are stance on the technology. frequently confronted with various related bioethical In 2018, the MBAP re-examined the current possibilities issues. Our legislative point of reference for these issues is and ethical boundaries of genome editing systems and the German Embryo Protection Act and we are steered by agreed that our Principle did not need to be updated. It our Fertility Principle, which was developed based on guidwas determined to understand more fully the advances in ance from the MBAP and came into force in October 2017. genome editing in agriculture, as well as gene drive technologies, and the associated ethical and country-specific Biosampling and biobanking legal implications. A number of MBAP members and Merck Biological samples obtained from patients within clinical scientists pooled their insights to co-author a paper entitled, studies are indispensable to the development of new preci“Ethical Considerations in the Manufacture, Sale, and Distrision treatments and advanced diagnostic methods. We bution of Genome Editing Technologies”, which was handle these samples in a responsible and ethical manner, published in the American Journal of Bioethics. The paper in compliance with all regulatory requirements and shows that we have become a thought leader in the scienaccording to the consent given by patients for the use of tific discussion on genome editing innovations and that we their samples. This may include the permission to use are committed to fostering a broader dialogue in a bid biospecimens for further medical research beyond the to create lasting buy-in and acceptance for this promising clinical study through an optional consent. Since 2017, a technology. policy and standard operating procedures have defined our principles and processes of human biosample management Stem cell research during and after clinical studies. We currently neither participate in clinical programs that Biological samples, including tissue and body fluids, are utilize human embryonic stem cells or cloned human cells stored in biorepositories together with the corresponding for the treatment of diseases, nor do we pursue such encrypted patient and specimen data. While these are approaches ourselves. We do, however, use human embryextremely important to our research, their storage and use onic stem cells in our research and offer our customers for research purposes requires us to adhere to stringent several select stem cell lines. Thereby, our Stem Cell Prinethical standards and all current legislation. ciple ensures compliance with our ethical approach. All 39 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Clinical studies cian wishes to prescribe a drug to treat a disease for which We discover and develop innovative medicines that meet it is not approved. Such applications can benefit patients. patient needs. In doing so, we adhere to all relevant statuHowever, to use a drug in this way, solid evidence must tory and regulatory requirements, as well as scientific and exist showing that it can be effective in the treatment of the ethical standards. For clinical studies, these standards specific disease. particularly include the Declaration of Helsinki, in which the Our principles for disseminating information regarding World Medical Association has formulated ethical principles the off-label use of our products are set out in correfor medical research involving human subjects, and the sponding globally applicable policies. In 2018, we included Good Clinical Practice (GCP) of the International Council for a statement regarding requests on off-label use in the new Harmonisation (ICH). More details can be found under Clincompliance policy concerning interactions with patients. We ical studies. only market our medicines within the scope of the drug’s marketing approval and we never share information on offOff-label use label use for commercial ends but provide such information We endeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, to healthcare professionals only for medical purposes and often doing so in close collaboration with medical profesonly upon direct, unsolicited request. The information must sionals. We regularly receive inquiries about the off-label be backed by scientific evidence and factually balanced. Our use of our products, i.e. indications for which the drug was employees are not permitted to make any sort of treatment not originally approved. While each medicine is authorized recommendations for individual patients. for specific indications, cases do arise in which a physi40 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Clinical studies  Part of the non-financial report Our company develops medicines that help people with serious diseases. Before obtaining regulatory approval, we conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary, also with healthy subjects to test the safety and efficacy of these products. These studies generally run for multiple years. Before they begin, extensive preclinical testing must be performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no unacceptable risks. This typically includes procedures such as animal testing. Our approach to safe and transparent clinical authorization and made available to patients after we studies have proven its efficacy and safety. We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always Assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is complies with applicable laws and regulations. When discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, gender performing clinical studies, we adhere to the highest ethical or socio-economic status. and scientific standards worldwide. We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues How we govern clinical studies that are relevant to patients, healthcare professionals or Pharmaceutical development and the related governance society as a whole, and only when the medicines being process are the responsibility of our Head of Global tested show great therapeutic promise and have a positive Research and Development, who co-chairs the Development benefit-risk ratio. In addition, a sound, established scienDecision Group (DDG) with the Global Head of Innovative tific methodology must be available to investigate these Medicine Franchises. The DDG replaces the former Developscientific or medical questions. We only enroll the number ment Operations Committee (DOC). Decision makers from of participants required to answer each of the questions. all relevant functional areas sit on this biopharma Protecting the safety, wellbeing, dignity and rights of the committee, thus ensuring a cross-functional approach to the patients and healthy volunteers participating in our clinical governance of drug development. studies is of utmost importance to us. We do not intenUnder the umbrella of the DDG, two further committees tionally expose study subjects to undue risk or irreversible oversee our clinical studies. The Integrated Clinical Study harm. Personal data privacy is also extremely important Committee (ICSC) is responsible for studies in pharmato us, and the confidentiality of all data and information ceuticals that are under clinical development, while the collected is ensured in compliance with statutory regulaGlobal Medical Affairs Decision Board (GMADB) is respontions. sible for studies involving approved medicines. Both bodies consist of medical scientific experts and executives with Clinical studies in developing countries long-standing experience in clinical research. The ICSC We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local is also supported by our therapeutic area review boards, laws and regulations and we adhere to all relevant interwhich conduct thorough scientific assessments of new drug/ national scientific and ethical standards, irrespective of the pharmaceutical study concepts. Our development and study region or country. We are intentionally expanding our mediteams present clinical study concepts to the appropriate cinal product development to more diverse markets in order committee. Each committee meets regularly to conduct a to address the healthcare needs in various regions and comprehensive review of the proposed concepts and has to countries and to support the development of their verify that our studies are scientifically sound, have a legithealthcare systems. imate scientific purpose and are performed according to the In performing clinical studies in developing countries latest standards and best practices. where there is usually a lower level of healthcare and the Before administering a new drug to human subjects, healthcare infrastructure is less developed, we adhere to all there must be sufficient evidence that it offers a potential relevant scientific and ethical standards at all times. When therapeutic benefit, is sufficiently safe for use in humans we perform studies in developing countries, we also: and has a positive benefit-risk profile. We only take the critical step of a first in-human clinical trial after diligently Only do so in an environment in which the principles of conducting extensive preclinical testing. This important Good Clinical Practice can be upheld. step of exposing humans to an investigational drug is Only investigate diseases and innovative medicines that governed by the Human Exposure Group chaired by our are relevant to the local population. Global Chief Medical Officer. Only conduct clinical studies in countries where we expect Potential risks for subjects are carefully and continuthat the drug being tested will be submitted for marketing ously analyzed before and during the course of our clinical studies. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) over41 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics sees the safety of subjects participating in our clinical informed about all aspects of the clinical trial in a language studies and, as necessary, reviews the benefit-risk profiles that they understand; this includes the potential risks and of investigational drugs. You can find further information on benefits from participating in the study. All participants are the MSEB under Patient safety. given ample time and opportunity to inquire about details before deciding whether to participate. All questions are Our commitment: International guidelines answered by the clinical investigator or another qualified and agreements healthcare professional familiar with the study. As far as We have renamed our Clinical Research Policy and extended possible, non-interventional (observational) studies are also its scope. The now so-called Human Subjects Research and assessed by an ethics committee. The subjects are further Development Policy provides the framework for conducting provided with detailed information. clinical studies and ensures that we adhere to all applicable Every study follows precisely defined procedures to legal, ethical and scientific standards. In addition to the ensure that studies are conducted to the highest quality relevant national laws and regulations, these standards also standards in line with good working practices for the develinclude: opment and manufacture of drugs (GxP), the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and other international The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the Interguidelines and regulations. This approach ensures in particnational Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requireular that studies are designed, conducted, recorded, and ments for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) reported in line with all applicable requirements. In 2018, The Declaration of Helsinki published by the World Medical once again, no significant issues regarding these clinical Association study procedures were raised by third parties or regulatory The Belmont Report from the Office for Human Research agencies. Protections, USA We continuously collect and communicate safety data Good Pharmacovigilance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/ for our investigational drugs and promptly provide clinical Distribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP) investigators with important new findings relevant to the The International Ethical Guidelines for Health-related safety of subjects. In this way, we ensure the safe use Research Involving Humans published by the Council for of our pharmaceuticals. Potential adverse effects and risks International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) are taken into consideration in an effort to evaluate the The “Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial Inforbenefit-risk ratio of our products and manage any risk. mation via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases” and the Product information, including the Investigator’s Brochure “Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Trial Results and Subject Information, is updated accordingly. You can in the Scientific Literature”, published by the International find more information under Patient safety. Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the Japan Pharmapopulations ceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), and the PharThe implementation of clinical studies in vulnerable popumaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America lations, such as children or people with mental disabilities, (PhRMA) requires special attention and care in order to comply The “Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing” with the highest ethical and scientific standards. As the wellpublished by EFPIA and PhRMA being of the individual is our absolute priority, we involve vulnerable populations only when there is a scientific justiRegular supervision of clinical studies fication and if there is no other way to achieve concluOur clinical study procedures are regularly inspected by sive results. When performing such studies, especially when health authorities to ensure compliance with the applicable informing study participants and obtaining their consent, we laws and guidelines. We also conduct our own internal comply strictly with all statutory regulations. quality assurance audits. These are planned by the The Pediatric Praziquantel program led by our company Biopharma Research & Development Quality function, based within a consortium of partners has been implementing clinon a quality risk assessment approach to identify areas for ical trials in developing countries and involving vulnerable internal and external auditing. In both cases, we respond populations. The program aims at developing, registering immediately to any issues found by defining and impleand providing access to a pediatric formulation of prazimenting corrective and preventive actions to improve our quantel for treating schistosomiasis in children younger than processes accordingly. six years of age. Due to a lack of clinical data and no suitable pediatric formulation of praziquantel, this age group Conducting clinical studies responsibly currently goes untreated. Following the successful complePrior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must first be tion of the Phase I bioavailability studies with healthy adults assessed and approved by a qualified independent ethics in South Africa and the swill-and-spit taste study in children committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizations aged six to eleven in Tanzania, Phase II was concluded in required in the respective country must be obtained. In November 2018 in Ivory Coast with children aged younger accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines than six years. The current results confirm the formulation (ICH-GCP), all subjects must give their explicit informed and the dose that will be pursued by the consortium until consent before enrolling in a clinical study. Subjects are fully 42 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics registration. Phase III is due to start in 2019 with children pean project led by the European Patients Forum (EPF); it in the target age group in Kenya and Ivory Coast. features partners from patient advocacy groups, universiThe clinical program was designed in line with the United ties and not-for-profit organizations, along with a number of States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European pharmaceutical companies. This partnership has created a Medicines Agency (EMA) recommendations for pediatric suite of resources that is available to better inform patients development. It was planned and is being implemented with on the development process and the importance of their the support of regulatory authorities and a panel of internainvolvement while also offering them a way to incorporate tional experts, including clinicians from endemic countries. their needs into the development of clinical studies. EUPATI Further details can be found under Health for all. also aims to improve the availability of objective and reliable information for the public. Teaming up to get results To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development Responsible data sharing of new medicines, we frequently conduct clinical studies We support professional circles in advancing medical and in collaboration with external partners in academia and scientific knowledge, thereby allowing for informed industry, as well as with medical scientific advisory boards, healthcare decisions for the benefit of patients. To this end, service providers and vendors. We expect all our partners upon request we provide qualified researchers with study to abide by the same set of high standards when protocols, anonymized patient data, study data, and clinconducting clinical research. This applies especially to ical study reports. We share data and information in a contract research organizations (CROs) performing studies manner that is consistent with the following joint Principles on our behalf. for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing of the EFPIA and We have established processes defining the requirePhRMA: ments for selection, approval, contracting and oversightmonitoring of CROs. In addition to comprehensive collaboSafeguarding the privacy of patients ration manuals with a contracted vendor, expectations on Respecting the integrity of national regulatory systems the highest quality level of the provided services including Maintaining incentives for investment in biomedical roles and responsibilities are specified in detailed quality research agreements. Based on a risk assessment approach, vendors are audited regularly against applicable regulations, guideDisclosure of clinical studies and publication of lines and the above-mentioned manuals and agreements. results This also applies to study centers (for example hospitals) We are obliged to disclose information from our clinical involved in our clinical studies. In 2018, once again, these studies, which we do publicly in a complete, accurate, audits did not reveal significant non-compliance with the balanced, transparent and timely manner, as laid out in our above-mentioned standards. Clinical Trial Disclosure Policy. Our clinical study designs and results are made public in the international ClinicalTrials.gov Close dialogue with patients and advocacy database run by the United States National Institutes of groups Health (NIH), which can also be accessed via the World We want to ensure the voice and needs of patients Health Organization’s International Clinical Trials Registry are adequately taken into consideration when developing Platform (ICTRP). Furthermore, in accordance with EU reguand executing clinical studies. To this end, we have establations, we publish results from our clinical studies in the lished Patient Advisory Boards (PABs). Our Patient Advisory European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials Boards Charter describes the process on how to involve (EudraCT) database, which is run by the European Medithe Patient Advocacy Groups in our clinical research. During cines Agency (EMA). If required by local laws and regulaAdvisory Board meetings, caregivers and representatives tions, we publish study results on other publicly accessible from patient advocacy groups are invited to share their platforms. In 2018, we provided participants of ten studies experience and particular perspective related to our clinical with Lay Patient Summaries, which explain clinical study trials, plus multiple aspects including but not limited to results in plain language. protocol design, educational materials, and others. This We make sure that results from our clinical studies are advice and wealth of valuable insight applies to both the published in medical journals in line with applicable laws and design of the clinical trial and its operational implemenindustry codes. In doing so, we adhere in particular to the tation. We use this information to render clinical developcurrent version of the Good Publication Practice (GPP3) and ment and clinical studies more patient-centric by sharing follow the recommendations of the International Committee the outcomes of the PABs internally. Our Global Clinical of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications Operations organization uses such information in multiple Policy ensures compliance with all relevant standards and manners with a clear focus on patient centricity in everywe have defined standard procedures for scientific publicathing we do. tions on our products. Furthermore, we are involved in the European Patients’ Academy on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI), a publicImmuno-oncology: Major clinical research private partnership within the Innovative Medicines Initiamilestones tive (IMI). It initially ran from 2012 to 2017 but we have Immuno-oncology investigates the extent to which the extended our participation until 2020. EUPATI is a pan-Eurobody’s immune system can be activated or strengthened 43 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics to mount an immune response against cancer. As part of performing a thorough assessment of all available data, we a strategic alliance with the U.S. pharmaceutical company ensure that the potential benefits outweigh the potential ® Pfizer, we are developing avelumab (Bavencio ). This is risks for patients. We have published a position paper on the an investigational anti-PD-L1 (programmed cell death ligand Early Access Program on our website. 1) antibody that we initially discovered and developed as a potential treatment for different tumors. Under this collabSupport of independent human subject oration, in 2015 we launched JAVELIN, our comprehensive research international clinical study program in which we are invesIn addition to conducting our own clinical research programs tigating the potential therapeutic benefit of avelumab in and studies, we also support studies proposed by indepenmultiple tumor types. As of the end of 2018, more than dent investigators, so-called investigator-sponsored studies 9,000 patients have been evaluated within this program. (ISS). Our ISS Principles, published on our website in 2018, In 2018, avelumab has continued to gain marketing define an ISS as “an unsolicited request for funding and/or authorization in several countries including Argentina, supply of an investigational or marketed product by a thirdAustralia, Brazil, Chile, Israel, Lebanon, Mexico, Saudi party investigator/institution that initiates and conducts an Arabia, and Taiwan for treatment in patients with metastatic independent scientific investigation as the regulatory Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and aggressive form sponsor.” By granting financial or material support for indeof skin cancer. Previously, we successfully started to market pendent human subject research, we seek to stimulate the the medicine in the EU, Japan and the USA. Subsequently, advancement of clinical and medical knowledge and patient avelumab has also been granted regulatory approval in care in our areas of therapeutic interest, and to support Canada and Israel for the treatment of patients with locally the safe and effective use of our products. We give priority advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (a malignant to research that is innovative and has the potential to tumor of the urothelium that lines the urinary tract) that address specific unmet medical or scientific needs. Our prinhad progressed following platinum-containing ciples, framework and standards for granting support for chemotherapy. Meanwhile, avelumab continues to be evalISS and for our collaboration with independent investigauated in several ongoing registrational Phase III studies tors are specified in our ISS Principle and our corresponding across multiple different tumor types, including lung, policy and standard operating procedure. gastric, ovarian, renal cell, and head and neck cancers. Positive top-line results were shown in 2018 in renal cell carciComing to terms with the past noma. In the 1950s and 1960s, drugs from various manufacturers were tested on children living in institutions in Germany, Enabling early access to new medicines often in collaboration with (university) hospitals and general Not all patients can take part in a clinical study and so practitioners. In 2015, we made files in our historical must wait for a new pharmaceutical product to be approved. archives at our global headquarters in Darmstadt Through our Early Access Program, we are, under specific (Germany) available to researchers, in order to help undercircumstances, enabling patients to gain early access to stand and come to terms with this episode in the history of new, potentially life-saving medicines. The offer is aimed science. When their work is completed, their findings can be at people with serious conditions who have already used used to make a final assessment of this complex issue. We all the available therapies without success. It allows them guarantee full transparency and will do everything necesto obtain medicines that have already been clinically tested sary to help the affected institutions come to terms with the but not yet obtained marketing approval. Here too we meet past. stringent statutory, ethical and scientific standards. By 44 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics Animal welfare From both an ethical and scientific perspective, animal research is indispensable and is furthermore mandated by law. We enforce stringent animal welfare standards that meet and frequently exceed applicable laws and extend these high expectations to our suppliers, contract research organizations and other partners. Our approach to animal welfare animal welfare auditing team in order to accommodate for Animal studies enable us to test both the safety of our increased auditing and AAALAC International reaccreditation chemical and medicinal products, and the efficacy of our demands. All our animal science and welfare officers and pharmaceuticals. We conduct animal testing within our experts regularly interact through our global laboratory Healthcare business sector as part of the official drug animal science network. This platform for sharing best pracapproval process and for biological quality control. Animal tices and lessons learned supports the animal welfare units welfare is also a prominent issue for our Life Science busiat our sites as well as all projects and processes related to ness sector, where laboratory animals are kept, for animal science and welfare. instance, for the production of antibodies. Our subsidiary Our Group Animal Welfare Council is made up of repreBioReliance conducts animal testing as part of contract sentatives from all our business sectors and convenes twice research work for third parties. a year to support and advise the Chief Animal Welfare Our Group-wide Policy on the Use, Care and Welfare of Officer. This council discusses relevant developments and Laboratory Animals sets forth our commitment to consismakes decisions regarding our Animal Welfare Strategy. If tently uphold the highest ethical standards regarding the an employee identifies an internal issue regarding animal housing, care and feeding of laboratory animals. When welfare, they can file an incident report which will be sent conducting animal research, we pursue well established and directly to the Chief Animal Welfare Officer or report it via tested methods that ensure high-quality results. We strive our SpeakUp Line. to replace animal testing with alternative methods wherever In most cases, our sites are subject to additional possible and permissible by law. We therefore subscribe national regulations. In order to assess the quality of animal to the internationally recognized 3Rs for animal-based husbandry practices and ensure compliance with our stanresearch: dards as well as all statutory requirements, we appoint animal welfare officers and establish animal welfare Reduction using the minimum number of required councils across our Group, even where not required by law. animals Refinement minimizing distress or discomfort before, Work with committees and associations during and after testing As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are Replacement replacing animal studies with non-animal involved in several organizations such as the European systems Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the German Association of Research-based PharIn 2018, we launched our internal 3Rs Award, which is maceutical Companies (vfa) and Interpharma, a federation open to all our employees and which further strengthens our of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Switzercommitment to apply and actively promote the 3Rs in our land. As a member of Interpharma, we have joined a continanimal research activities. uous dialogue with Swiss Animal Protection to identify We also promote the 3Rs outside our company. Under common interests and find synergies regarding the 3Rs. the International Consortium for Innovation and Quality in Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer sits on various commitPharmaceutical Development (IQ Consortium), for instance, tees and takes an active role in order to advocate our posiwe have joined forces with other companies to introduce the tion on animal welfare. Moreover, he represents EFPIA on Global 3Rs Awards Program. In partnership with the Associthe AAALAC International Board of Delegates, where he ation for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal ensures adherence to European standards. He has been Care International (AAALAC International), the IQ Consorappointed to the Board of Directors of AAALAC International tium recognizes innovative contributions to the 3Rs of since the end of 2016 for a three-year term. He is also a animal research to advance ethical science in academia and member of the German Federal Animal Welfare Commisindustry. sion. How we ensure animal welfare Our commitment: Group-wide methodology Through our Corporate Animal Science and Welfare (EQ-A) and standards unit, we endeavor to create uniform high-quality animal Through our Group-wide Policy on the Use, Care and welfare standards. To ensure adherence to these standards, Welfare of Laboratory Animals, we have made a commitwe initiate animal welfare audits within both our ment to global animal welfare principles and the highest company and our partners. In 2018, we expanded the possible ethical standards in animal research. In 2017, we 45 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics updated this policy to include the work of our Group Animal animal studies are indispensable and legally mandated by Welfare Council. The policy further sets out principles on the ICH guidelines or REACH, which place priority on the safety housing, care and feeding of laboratory animals. We strive of humans. Laws and regulations govern all aspects of to provide our animals with high-quality living condianimal research, such as the housing conditions of laborations and consistently seek ways to make improvements. tory animals, the conduct and approval of studies and the This ethos applies equally to the contracted animal research reliability and expertise of all involved individuals. services we offer third parties such as contract research organizations, academia or partnerships and to those The majority of laboratory animals are services we contract from these third parties. In addition rodents to our policy, our Group-wide Animal Science and Welfare In 2018, around 166,000 animals were used at Merck. manual describes the requirements for implementing, mainThis represents a decrease of 12% compared to 2017. taining and improving animal welfare practices. Moreover, The majority (96%) of the laboratory animals we use are our standard entitled Housing and Husbandry Practices for rodents (mice or rats). In addition, approximately 10,800 Common Laboratory Animals also applies to our external animals were used by contract research organizations partners. In 2018, we implemented the Vendor Qualification (CROs) in our name and in collaborations with academia. Standard, which describes our criteria for evaluating the Regulatory agencies sometimes require investigational quality of animal welfare practices in our suppliers and partdrugs to be safety tested on non-rodent species. This allows ners. researchers to identify potential adverse effects with the necessary accuracy and include them in the risk Legal requirements assessment of a substance. Animal research is only permitted if there are no recognized alternative methods available. In many fields, however, Animal types Auditing our research facilities zations (CROs) to conduct animal research on our behalf. We perform regular audits on our animal research facilities Furthermore, we work with both the private sector and, to a to ensure adherence to our animal welfare standards. In much lesser degree, academic institutions. However, when2018, ten internal audits and ten authority visits occurred. ever collaborating with such organizations, we expect them We have initiated the relevant corrective measures where to adhere to comparably high standards as we do, as set out necessary. No critical shortcomings were identified during in our Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory Animals Policy. these audits. We verify compliance with this policy through a risk-based We adhere to the highest international animal qualification procedure and, where necessary, conduct welfare standards at all times. All our Healthcare laboraaudits, typically every three years. tory animal facilities and one of our Life Science laboratory animal facilities in the United States have been accredited Regularly auditing our partners to the standards of AAALAC International. We perform regular audits on our animal breeders and contract research organizations to ensure compliance with Collaborating with partners and suppliers our animal welfare standards. As part of our work with We perform the majority (95%) of animal studies ourselves Interpharma, we have worked with other member compaand procure our animals from specialized breeders. Somenies to develop a cross-company audit concept that times, however, we also hire contract research organiconcentrates on those partners that are relevant to the 46 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Business ethics maximum possible number of companies involved. The accelerate the development of alternative approaches to results are shared among Interpharma member companies animal use in regulatory testing. Through our membership and treated confidentially. Based on the results of the in the German Association of Research-based Pharmaceuaudits, it is up to the discretion of each company whether or tical Companies (vfa), we also support the set Foundation not to collaborate with the respective suppliers. In 2018, the dedicated to researching and developing new alternatives in association conducted two audits in Denmark, one in France animal experimenting, which seeks to reduce and replace and one in the United Kingdom. animal testing. To achieve this objective, the foundation funds projects that conduct research into alternative Comprehensive employee training methods. Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer is currently Vice We regularly train all employees who work with laboratory Chairman of the set Foundation Board of Trustees. animals, thereby ensuring that animal studies are Our own scientists are also working on developing alterconducted according to the latest scientific standards and native methods and have received numerous accolades for that animals receive the best care possible. The nature and their efforts, which includes being presented with the 2018 scope of this training is based on national, international and Animal Welfare Research Award by the Hessian government local legislative requirements. Our employees also regularly in Germany. One of our Global Research & Development participate in external continuing education programs such teams was recognized for demonstrating how animal as accredited laboratory animal science courses offered by welfare and cutting-edge research can go hand in hand the Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science through the use of innovative housing systems for rabbits Associations (FELASA), the American Association for Laboand rats that are used in legally required animal experiratory Animal Science (AALAS), the Society of Laboratory ments when developing medication to treat arthritis. Animal Science, the Laboratory Animal Science Association Other awards that our teams have received include: (LASA) and the Interessengemeinschaft Tierpfleger 2014: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for (Community of Animal Technicians). The respective local, Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing national and international regulatory authorities monitor our 2010: The IUTox Bo Holmstedt Scientists Award for Alteractivities to ensure compliance. native Test Strategies according to the 3Rs 2009: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists How we implement the 3Rs Award We implement the 3Rs by way of various measures – both 2008: The Eurotox Bo Holmstedt Young Scientists Award within our own company and as part of industry assofor Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3Rs ciations. To minimize discomfort and distress to animals 2007: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for before, during and after testing (refinement), in 2017 and Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing 2018 we successfully implemented our own innovative 2006: The German Animal Welfare Research Prize group housing concept for rabbits and rats at one of our awarded by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and sites. By keeping animals together in groups, they are Consumer Protection (BMELV) for alternative methods to generally healthier and less stressed. replace or reduce animal studies Wherever possible we adopt out our animals and employ 2005: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists a special rehoming program using accepted animal welfare Award organizations that specialize in laboratory animals. In 2018, for example, we closed down our own dog breeding colony In 2018, we also launched an internal Merck 3Rs Award, and gave the animals away for adoption. which is open to all our employees. The three winning We actively support the development of alternative teams in 2018 were recognized for providing innovative testing methods and their official recognition at an interways of implementing the 3Rs for animal-based research. national level. There is a serious need for action here One of the winning teams is based in Israel. It found a because animal research can only be truly reduced if a new way to produce monoclonal antibodies using an in-vitro methodology is internationally accepted. Without this global method instead of the animal itself, which has the added recognition, both animal studies and alternative testing benefit of achieving higher yields than conventional produchave to be conducted in parallel when developing pharmation methods. A bio-monitoring team in France was awarded ceuticals intended for worldwide distribution. for developing a pyrogene test that does not need to use To help improve this situation, we support the European rabbits as test subjects. This project is currently awaiting Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing regulatory approval. We moreover recognized a team from (EPAA). This collaboration between the European CommisItaly that developed an in-vitro method, which replaces sion, European trade associations and companies from mandatory growth hormone testing on animals. various sectors seeks to pool knowledge and resources to 47 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Products Within this chapter: 49 Innovation and digitalization 66 Pharmaceutical supply chain 53 Sustainable products 68 Prices of medicines 53 Sustainable product design 70 Health awareness 56 Packaging and recycling 73 Product safety and quality 58 Health for all 73 Chemical product safety 58 Global strategy 76 Patient safety 61 Focus programs 79 Product-related crime 64 Open innovation sharing 82 Transport and warehouse safety 48 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Innovation and digitalization  Part of the non-financial report We develop products and technologies that enrich people’s lives and are constantly on the lookout for groundbreaking developments and trends. Research and development (R&D) and innovation are the cornerstones of our success. In 2018, we spent around € 2.2 billion on R&D, corresponding to 15% of our net sales. New technology and the advance of digitalization in particular enable us to create innovative technologies, products, services and pioneering business models. At the same time, digitalization is decreasing the time-to-market for new ideas, which creates opportunities we intend to leverage. 1 Research and development costs by business sector – 2018 1 Not presented: Research and development costs of € 47 million allocated to Corporate and Other. Our approach to innovation and digitalization Our Group function Strategy and Transformation facilOur three business sectors Healthcare, Life Science and itates innovation between the individual business sectors Performance Materials, have established strategies to drive and beyond our current business scope. It oversees an new product developments for the benefit of patients and end-to-end process that ranges from setting the innovaour customers. The diversity of these business sectors tion direction, through ideation, incubation and growth of provides us with a breadth of technologies and depth of projects to establishing long-term business models. market know-how, giving us a competitive advantage in We push the progress of promising projects as quickly developing new products. as possible from the brainstorming and idea generation When deciding where to invest, we analyze current stage to an incubation and growth phase, where we provide megatrends to determine the innovation fields in which we project teams with a suitable environment to develop their see potential for new business. We endeavor to identify business models and scale-up. Projects are monitored in a innovation projects that transcend our current portfolio and lean, gate-based process, with strict criteria applied at each develop them from the initial idea all the way to a funcgate to evaluate progress. All activities are supported by tioning business model. This can only succeed if our busiexperts in business model design, business development, ness sectors work closely together and if we are open to market research and agile methodologies. The objective is external momentum. Our end-to-end innovation process that, after market launch, the new products or services will seeks to achieve exactly that. make a measurable contribution to our business success. 49 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products INFO Driving digital innovations A major focus of our innovation efforts is digitalization, and we want to leverage related opportunities to boost our OUR THREE INNOVATION FIELDS IN THE business performance. We therefore increasingly form new INNOVATION CENTER strategic partnerships with organizations that offer different Bio-Sensing and Interfaces perspectives. The following areas are those in which we This innovation field focuses on the interface expect to see progress: between the biological and digital world. The Research and development: Digital technologies goal is to utilize data analytical tools to enable enable us to access and quickly analyze large volumes faster and more accurate (remote) monitoring of data, thereby accelerating our research and developand treatment of health in numerous areas. ment activities. This is especially the case in our Healthcare business sector, where we are working to advance Clean Meat the development of new drugs to provide patients with This field concentrates on the biotechnology faster access to effective medicines. required to produce meat in laboratories so that Supply chain management: Digital technologies help it is healthier, more efficiently produced, us to better manage our supply chain. Collating all data ethical, and environmentally sustainable. centrally gives us access to crucial real-time data. This enables us to predict supply bottlenecks around the world Liquid Biopsy technologies and respond promptly to make sure medicines reach their This area focuses on non-invasive alternatives destination when needed. to traditional tissue-based diagnostics like liquid Production: We set up the infrastructure to capture data biopsy, thereby reshaping methods of detecting throughout all stages of our production processes and and managing various diseases. apply advanced data science methods to optimize our manufacturing methodologies. Digital product innovations: Digitalization enables us to broaden our existing product portfolio to include, for instance, new digital services. We also promote health awareness and improve disease awareness and patient treatment through innovative e-health offerings such as Whilst we are open to innovation around the world, our Diabetes Online Risk Assessment (DORA). many potential partners for these projects are based in Interactions with customers: Thanks to modern data Silicon Valley (California, USA), which is one of the key sites collection and analysis methods, we can make more effiin the global high-tech industry. We are therefore currently cient use of customer-relevant data. This information building an innovation hub in Silicon Valley to be closer to allows us to adapt our products and services where necesinnovation partners there, be it companies or institutions. sary. The Silicon Valley Innovation Hub aims to scout new technological opportunities and establish partnerships and projects You can find more information on research and development within our three innovation fields. in our Annual Report 2018. Discovering new technologies through How we drive innovation collaboration The organizational set-up of our research and development In 2018, our Silicon Valley Innovation Hub signed a partactivities reflects the overall structure of our company. All nership agreement with, among others, the Bao Group at three of our business sectors operate their own independent Stanford University. Using our liquid crystals as the enabling Research and Development (R&D) units, which are aligned technology, Bao is working on Liquid Crystal Elastomers, with their individual innovation strategies. In 2018, our often referred to as artificial muscle, making it the most Group function Strategy and Transformation developed promising candidate for developing wearable haptic sensora new end-to-end process that covers innovation both actuator systems. between and beyond current business sectors and is Our China Strategy and Transformation Group is responresponsible for implementation. This function reports sible for driving our strategy in this fast-evolving market. directly to the CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board. The China Innovation Hub was set up in 2018, with the Our Innovation Committee (IC) oversees the implemenmission to boost innovation through collaboration tation of innovation projects both between and beyond our between current businesses, and cooperate with Chinese business sectors. It is tasked with ensuring that the decistart-ups, academic institutions, business partners and local sion-making process for selecting innovation projects is governments to explore new innovation fields. In spring both transparent and consistent and reviews the progress 2019, the first batch of start-ups will be hosted by the China of ongoing efforts. The committee consists of senior execInnovation Hub. utives from our Group functions and our three business M Ventures is our strategic, corporate venture capital sectors. For projects requiring larger-scale investments, the arm. It invests in innovative technologies and products IC consults our Executive Board. with the potential to significantly impact our core business areas. M Ventures has a significant focus on early stage 50 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products investing and company creation, including the creation of (South Africa). Also in 2018, we started to accept applicaspin-offs to leverage our science and technology base, and tions to our China accelerator program, which will be run by takes an active role in its portfolio companies. The fund the China Innovation Hub from 2019 onwards. has a total volume of € 300 million and has the mandate to Our Accelerator is complemented by hackathons, two of invest in the areas of Healthcare, Life Sciences, Performance which were carried out at the Innovation Center in 2018. Materials and New Businesses. One of them was a so-called Makerthon in collaboration with Deutsche Telekom. Over three weeks in late 2018, Our commitment: Protecting innovative ideas almost 80 young students and professionals provided hardWe are committed to ensuring the confidentiality of sensiware solutions to different challenges where healthcare tive information, especially of intellectual property in digitaland technology intersect. At a final pitch event at our ization projects, and to protecting our innovative ideas. Our Innovation Center, the teams were offered the opportunity Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy defines to present their solutions to the two host companies. the standards that govern how we process, save, use, and We support the start-up program HIGHEST 1877, which transfer data. You can find more information on data protecis run by the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt tion under Compliance. (Germany). We were Silver Sponsors of the Startup and Innovation Day held in October 2018 and also participated Spotlight on the Innovation Center as jury members. We completed the construction of our new Innovation In 2018, we continued our two-year partnership with the Center in Darmstadt (Germany) and moved into the European Space Agency (ESA) through which we hope to premises in early 2018. It was officially inaugurated during leverage synergies in areas such as innovation, digitalizath tion and materials research. We hosted astronaut Thomas our 350 anniversary celebrations on May 3, 2018 which were attended by German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Reiter, who gave a speech to our R&D employees about The Innovation Center offers our people and external research options in space, and we took part in the panel partners an optimal environment in which to cultivate their discussion “Space Meets Non-Space” at the ILA Berlin, a ideas and scale them up to viable new business. We provide leading aviation industry exhibition. We were also a partner the infrastructure needed to advance cutting-edge of the “Space Exploration Masters”, initiated by the Europrojects, along with state-of-the-art methods and tools. pean Space Agency (ESA), which annually awards the best It currently hosts 22 innovation projects. In September business ideas that bring the benefits of space exploration 2018, the Innovation Center was nominated for the National closer to society by way of products and services. German Sustainability Award. Our bi-monthly Innovators’ Club brings together a Channeling internal ideas to generate innovation diverse range of external and internal experts to share projects insight and debate about a range of topics, from curiosity We want to maximize the innovative power within our research and new work order to novel innovation methodcompany, which is why we give our employees around ologies. These events are open to anyone with an interest the world the opportunity to present their ideas to us via in innovation, from start-ups to company experts and other various channels. Our objective is to identify ideas between interested employees, and even other organizations. our business sectors and beyond our current scope that have the potential to become viable new businesses. Our Synergizing external ideas: Start-ups and crossInnospire (innovation and inspiration) initiative encourindustry collaboration ages employees to submit ideas for new products, services Numerous start-ups around the world are working on new and business models. The best suggestions are then develtechnologies and innovative business models. The “Merck oped into business plans in a multi-stage process. More Accelerator” supports selected enterprises in their developinformation on this topic can be found under Employee ment, with a focus on initiatives that align with our business engagement. sectors and other current trends. In return, we gain insights The most promising ideas that are sourced through into the innovative start-up scene and are able to identify channels such as Innospire become innovation projects, and emerging market trends early on. Our primary goal is to we offer employees the chance to focus on their innovation link these start-up companies with our innovation projects project by hosting them in the Innovation Center. In addior our business sectors for future collaboration. In 2018, tion to financial backing we provide a protected ecosystem we accepted ten start-ups into the Accelerator at our Darmand dedicated support, as well as clear governance and stadt headquarters. Following the end of this three-month decision-making to efficiently grow and scale innovation program, we are already working on an innovation project projects into sustainable future businesses. with one of the start-ups and are in talks with eight others Our Innovator Academy strives to unleash the innoregarding future collaboration. vation potential of idea-givers, internal project teams, In 2018, we started our Africa Satellites program in members of Think Tanks and start-ups. It offers a wide Nairobi (Kenya), Lagos (Nigeria) and Cape Town (South range of development programs, methodologies and online Africa). These satellite engagements will enable us to foster and offline trainings. Besides an online training platform, our network in the African founders’ scene and to scout webinars are offered introducing employees to the topics cutting-edge start-ups for our Accelerator program. As part and contents of the Innovation Center through practical of the program we organized a hackathon in Cape Town examples. 51 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Third Displaying Futures Award analytics and machine learning. The team works with eComThe aim of our annual Displaying Futures Award, run by our merce data to provide insights to our customers and busiPerformance Materials business sector, is to support teams ness teams in Life Science, using image recognition techfrom academic and institutional backgrounds. In 2018, the niques to support the work of clinicians and researchers target topic area was “smart medical devices”. in our Healthcare sector, and assisting in the research and Submitted by creative minds and start-ups from 19 couninnovation process in Performance Materials. In addition, we tries, the number of ideas we received rose from 69 in 2017, have established a global data science community, bringing to 97 in 2018. A panel of judges selected the three winning together over 250 analytics professionals from around our teams by considering important criteria such as innovacompany. One milestone of this development was when tiveness, business potential and social impact. The winners around 120 employees participated in our first internal Data enter into a year-long partnership with our company, which Science conference in June 2018. will culminate in a final event in summer 2019 where they will be able to pitch their ideas to investors. Promoting visionary research During our 350th anniversary year we were the main Maximizing the opportunities of digitalization sponsor of the Curious2018 Future Insight Conference. Through our strategic partnership with Palantir TechnoloThe conference, which took place in July in Darmstadt gies, a company based in California (United States), we are (Germany), brought together top scientists from around the able to use their data analysis capabilities to improve and world to discuss the future of science and technology. More accelerate the development, commercialization and delivery than 60 renowned speakers, including six Nobel laureof new medicines. The access to Palantir technology has ates, presented their work to around 1,300 invited guests. enabled us to create tools that help to improve patient We intend to establish Curious Future Insight as a flagship retention, increase sales rep efficiency and aid in strategic conference, a forum at which the brightest minds in science targeting to deliver effectively on our product launches. We and entrepreneurship can share their work and develop can also now integrate and analyze large amounts of data visionary solutions to tackle global challenges. The conferto improve our operational excellence. ence will take place again in July 2020. During the conference we also launched the Future Syntropy Insight Prize to stimulate innovative solutions enabled by Syntropy is a joint venture being formed by Merck and ground-breaking science. We want to help drive the develthe California software company Palantir Technologies. The opment of what we call dream products. These are products partnership aims to give scientists and research centers that don’t yet exist but that might solve some of the exisaccess to a technology platform that integrates different tential challenges to mankind. We plan to grant up to types of datasets across an organization into a singular € 1 million every year for the next 35 years to researchers point of access. In this way, experts can collaborate more who contribute to making these dream products a reality. effectively on research on cancer and many other diseases. The first Future Insight Prize will be awarded in 2019, for Advances in medical research over decades have achievements in the field of pandemic preparedness. created a wealth of knowledge about diseases and how to In 2018, we also held the Innovation Cup Anniversary treat them. This includes biomedical data. Massive amounts Edition, which brought together some of the brightest of this data are trapped within silos and between institutions students from all over the world with experienced profesand are inaccessible to the scientists and clinicians who sionals to develop new ideas into convincing business plans. need it to advance their research. Syntropy will create a A jury made up of top scientists and entrepreneurs selected network that drives discovery and improve human lives. the best business plan and awarded € 20,000 to the winning team. In addition, in 2018, we started a series of science Improving customer experience through competitions and rolled out the 350th anniversary research artificial intelligence grants. We are currently developing chatbots, which are textbased dialogue systems that enable people to ask computer Rewarding inclusive innovation systems questions in natural language – exactly as they In September 2018, we hosted the European final of the would write messages to another person. This means we are “Inclusive Innovation Challenge” in Darmstadt (Germany) available to answer questions from our customers 24 hours as the exclusive European partner. The competition was a day. In the future, for example, patients with multiple initiated by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) ® Initiative on the Digital Economy and aims to accelerate sclerosis will be able to order refills for their RebiSmart injection device via chatbot. Future chatbots may even be technology-driven solutions enabling greater economic capable of reminding patients to order a refill. Chatbots opportunity for employees around the world. The challenge are more cost-effective for us than traditional customer awards over US$ 1 million in prize money. Organizations services. and companies from around the world can take part with technological solutions to shape the future of work. Development of a Global Data Science Team In 2018, we built up a global data science team of around 30 data scientists to leverage the huge potential in advanced 52 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Sustainable products Sustainable product design Respect for the environment is at the heart of sustainable conduct. We see it as our duty to not only conserve resources when developing our own products, but to also help our customers increase the sustainability of theirs. Our Life Science business sector develops solutions to make research and biotech production simpler, faster and more efficient, while our Performance Materials business sector focuses on solutions for the electronics market, for example semiconductor or display materials. Our approach to sustainable product design With our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we Our individual business sectors take different approaches have developed a comprehensive approach to increasing to sustainable product design. In our Life Science business the sustainability of Life Science products through the sector, we aim to reduce the impact of our products on analysis of different sustainability criteria. health and the environment. This applies to the entire lifeOur Life Science researchers are using a green chemistry cycle, from manufacture and use to disposal. At the same assessment tool to develop innovative solutions in line time, we seek to make our products more efficient and userwith the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry developed by friendly, asking ourselves right at the start of product develchemists Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner. opment how to best reconcile these requirements. Our in-house-developed web-based tool DOZN™ enables Our Performance Materials business sector develops and us to assess the green alternatives of various chemicals, produces numerous products that in turn help our thereby creating transparency for our customers. customers manufacture sustainable and environmentally The following guidelines also set out requirements for compatible goods. Our aim is to develop smart products that sustainable product design within our Performance Materials allow people to save energy in everyday life. The avoidance business sector: of hazardous materials is a principle that is embedded in the product development process. The Green Product Policy ensures that we adhere to all national and international laws and statutes (e.g. REACH How we include sustainability in product and the European Union RoHS Directive), as well as to design industry and customer-specific requirements. The Corporate Responsibility (CR) unit within our Life Our raw materials for the cosmetics industry fulfill the Science business sector is responsible for coordinating and high standards of the Cosmetics Directive and are driving product-related sustainability. This includes our produced in line with Good Manufacturing Practices for Design for Sustainability (DfS) program for eco-friendlier Cosmetic Ingredients (EFfCI GMP). As part of a regular life science products as well as DOZN™, a web-based tool process we reviewed the EFfCl GMP in 2018 and commufor assessing greener alternatives. nicated the results to the plant managers operating in Our Performance Materials business sector has its own the field of Surface Solutions. A new manual for cosmetic CR Committee comprising representatives from all Perforsuppliers was also made available in 2018. mance Materials business units and other relevant internal units. The committee functions as a platform to discuss CR Sustainable product design in the Life Science issues and meets three to four times per year. business sector The responsibilities described here also apply to product Through our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we packaging and recycling. have developed a comprehensive approach to increasing the sustainability of Life Science products. The DfS program Our commitment: Chemicals and product provides our product developers with a range of tools that policies enable them to analyze the impact of the product on the To meet the product safety regulations relevant to our following areas: materials, energy and emissions, waste, company, our Regulatory Affairs Group Policy details Groupwater, packaging, usability and innovation. For each of wide processes for managing and implementing product these areas we have developed several sustainability safety, including the necessary management structures. criteria that are noted on a scorecard. When developing a new product, our aim is to improve on as many of these Our processes for sustainable product design criteria scores as possible. We conduct product life cycle Within our Life Science business sector, a variety of analyses to understand the potential environmental impacts approaches help our experts to drive sustainability improvewithin different stages of the product life cycle. The findings ment during the development of products and packaging: of these analyses show us how we can improve our products 53 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products and are incorporated into subsequent development stages. to autoclave the whole device, which saves energy and During this process, experts from R&D, Product Manageresults in a 91% reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions ment, Quality, Procurement and other departments are in produced during cleaning. constant contact with one another. By the end of 2018, 27% of these product development projects met three or more Greener chemistry product sustainability criteria. Our greener, bio-based solvent Cyrene™ is derived from We are currently working on enhancing our DfS waste cellulose. This solvent is used as a more sustainable program, with the aim of helping our development teams alternative to substances such as dimethylformamide better account for environmental impacts during the (formic acid), which is classified as teratogenic. Through product development process and improving communication Cyrene™ and other greener solvents, we are helping our of sustainability attributes to our customers. In 2019, we customers make their production processes safer and more intend to integrate the changes to the program into our environmentally sustainable. Cyrene™ was shortlisted for product development process. The improvements will espethe “innovation of the year” at the Ethical Corporation's cially involve our suppliers, with specific criteria aiming 9th Annual Responsible Business Awards in 2018. We've at encouraging the majority of them to participate in the teamed up with leading institutions and start-ups to coTogether for Sustainability industry initiative. In 2018, we develop other green solvents. In contrast to conventional ran a first product development pilot project for which we solvents, these are based on natural resources such as corn engaged 10 suppliers of consumable parts who represent cobs and sugar cane bagasse, making them eco-friendlier, more than 85% of the manufacturing cost of the product. more biodegradable and easier to recycle. Green chemistry assessment tool Eco-friendly lab water use In addition to DfS, our Life Science researchers are devel® In mid-2017, we launched Milli-Q IQ 7000, a new lab oping innovative solutions in line with the twelve Principles water purification and monitoring system. It uses mercuryof Green Chemistry developed by chemists Paul T. Anastas free UV oxidation lamps and has a hibernation mode to and John C. Warner. These aim to make research as envisave energy while still preserving system water quality. We ronmentally compatible as possible and to minimize were able to reduce the system footprint by 25%, and the negative impacts on human health. More than 750 greener cartridges by 33%, all of which cut down on the amount alternatives to conventional products have been made availof plastic used, packaging and transportation, as well as able so far. waste levels. Our in-house-developed web-based tool DOZN™ enables us to assess the green alternatives of various chemCurrent product examples from Performance icals, thereby creating transparency for our customers. Materials Under DOZN™, the twelve Principles of Green Chemistry Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainprovide a framework for rating our products in three major ability in a variety of ways: stewardship categories, namely “Improved resource use,” “Increased energy efficiency” and “Reduced human Energy-efficient displays and environmental hazards.” The system calculates scores Our liquid crystals provide high picture quality in LCD TVs, on each substance based on a range of data that includes computer monitors and many more electronic devices, while the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and also making them more power efficient. Self-aligned vertical Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) as well as the Material Safety alignment (SA-VA) is the next-generation liquid crystal (LC) Data Sheet information. To date, we have used this matrix technology and was launched in 2018. SA-VA helps to assess and improve more than 40 products. It is our goal conserve resources and is even more environmentally to make the tool available to our customers in 2019, so that sustainable because less energy and solvent for the orienthey can evaluate the environmental footprint of their activtation layer are required to manufacture the displays. Moreities. over, its manufacture is more efficient as it requires fewer process steps. Furthermore, since SA-VA technology can Wide range of solutions be processed at lower temperatures, it is also suitable for Our Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of prodsensitive materials such as those used in premium products, ucts, each with different properties that are taken into or for forward-looking applications such as flexible displays. consideration when applying our DfS approach and the PrinOur reactive mesogen materials can also be used for ultraciples of Green Chemistry. The following examples illustrate thin optical films to improve the visual performance of LC the results. and OLED displays, making them suitable for potential new flexible-type displays. Greener laboratory filters Mobile-device displays have increasingly high resoluWe have significantly reduced the environmental footprint tions yet are still expected to be as energy-efficient as of our EZ-Fit™ Manifold laboratory filter, and it now requires possible. This is where our liquid crystals for touchscreen 47% less raw material than its predecessor, the Hydrosol applications come in. Based on ultra-brightness FFS techManifold. The packaging is 100% recyclable cardboard and, nology (UB-FFS), these liquid crystals provide displays with overall, 99% of its parts are recyclable. Because the heads 15% more light transmission. This can reduce the energy can be easily removed for cleaning, it is no longer necessary consumption of smartphones and tablets by around 30%, 54 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products thereby prolonging battery life. UB-FFS also enhances production material and send it back to us. We then prepare picture resolution. Devices with the innovative UB-Plus it so that it reaches its original quality again and can be liquid crystal technology and with a significant reduction in reused. This approach saves valuable resources and energy consumption are expected to enter the market in benefits the environment. 2019. Life cycle approach to benefit our customers Switchable windows At the plants where our effect pigments are produced, we Windows that can be darkened in a matter of seconds focus on saving energy and reducing CO2-output. In 2018, are now a reality thanks to our liquid crystal window this led to an 18% overall CO2-reduction for plants, which (LCW) technology. These darkened windows regulate the operate for our Surface Solutions portfolio. This is espeheat generated by direct sunlight. The LC material was cially relevant for those customers who want to reduce their ® commercialized under our licrivision brand, and in October upstream CO2 footprint. We also conducted a gap analysis 2018 a new brand for the product was launched under on the origin transparency of raw materials, the sustainTM the name eyrise . Initial estimates show that this techability in product development and product sustainability. nology can lower the energy consumed by building climate In the Surface Solutions area of our Performance Materials control systems by up to 40%, thus replacing conventional business sector, we use around 600 metric tons of renewsun shading. We have invested € 15 million in the construcable materials for the production of commercial products. tion of a facility in the Netherlands to manufacture these This is mainly by extracting the natural compound glycerol switchable glass modules, which began deliveries in 2018. from a variety of plant-derived oils. In response to market demand, we prioritized solar control during 2018, and we have three sophisticated architectural More natural-based cosmetics projects in the pipeline to be fitted with solar control LCWs. Responding to the ever-growing popularity of natural We were able to realize the first commercial project in cosmetics, we are working closely with our customers in the October 2018: large solar control windows for the company cosmetics industry. Our cosmetic formulations comply with Orkla in Oslo (Norway). Furthermore, we presented a selecstrict criteria and by the end of 2018, 68 of our cosmetic tion of these innovative architectural solutions at the trade pigments and actives were certified according to Ecocert’s fair “BAU 2019”, where we focused on our eyrise™ techCOSMOS standard for organic and natural cosmetics. We nology. Among other things, we showed an iconic building also obtained halal certificates for our Eusolex T and UVdesign by renowned Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer. The Titan product ranges. Our aim is to develop more naturalbuilding is currently being constructed for the company based raw materials for use in cosmetics in the future. Kirow Ardelt in Leipzig (Germany). We also help partner companies build their own window production using our Alternative to plastic microbeads liquid crystal materials. We manufacture mineral-based pigments and functional fillers that are used by the cosmetics industry. Our OLEDs – organic light emitting diodes ® RonaFlair functional fillers series provides an alternative Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) increase the energy to plastic microbeads that are used in skin care products. efficiency of displays while also providing brilliant colors and Through this range of 27 innovative products, we are razor-sharp images. To further enable unique display applisupporting initiatives such as the declaration of Cosmetics cations and efficient production of large-area OLED displays, Europe, which advocates a phase-out of microplastics in we are developing high performance OLED materials for rinse-off products by 2020. Microbeads are tiny, nonvacuum evaporation methods and printing processes. biodegradable polymer particles that cannot be filtered out Our OLED production is designed with cost and resource by wastewater treatment plants. They end up in marine and efficiency in mind. Here, we also work together with our terrestrial ecosystems, where they can harm the organisms customers: When OLED materials are installed, some living there. We are continuing to develop other functional production material always remains in the used containers fillers that don’t make use of microbeads. and machinery. Our customers can collect this residual 55 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Packaging and recycling Packaging protects our products from external influences and ensures that they reach the customer undamaged. Packaging must therefore remain intact across the entire product life cycle to guarantee safety. We are working to reduce the amount of material we use, as well as increasingly utilizing eco-friendly materials where possible. We have also put recycling programs in place to help our customers properly dispose of and recycle our products and packaging. Our sustainable packaging strategy by at least one of these standards, so that we can report We aim to deliver our products in packaging that is safe this figure in the future. and easy for customers to handle, and as sustainable as possible. With more than 300,000 products in our Life Cellulose and air cushions replace polystyrene Science portfolio – ranging from biochemicals to lab chemiand foam cals, from filter materials and systems to instruments – we In the past, glass reagent bottles were secured using face a variety of challenges when it comes to packaging. expanded polystyrene (EPS) molded foam to prevent them We strive to improve the sustainability of this packaging to from breaking during transport. While EPS, also known as ® help both us and our customers reduce the environmental Styrofoam , is an excellent cushioning material, it is manuimpact. To achieve this, we have developed a sustainable factured from non-renewable petrochemicals and difficult packaging strategy for Life Science that is built on the to recycle. By contrast, molded pulp components can be three pillars of optimizing resources, using more sustainable easily recycled with other paper materials and compacted materials and designing for circular economy. In 2018, together for storage and transport. We employ a substitugoals and targets were defined in collaboration with internal tion program in which we replace EPS as far as possible with stakeholders from Sourcing, Distribution and the Global molded components made of cellulose and recycled paper Packaging Material group. In December 2018, we started pulp. implementing and internally communicating our sustainable We are already using molded pulp inserts to pack some packaging plan. of our 4x4 liter, 4x2.5 liter and 6x1 liter bottles in shipping We have set four goals that build on these three pillars: boxes, thereby replacing around two million EPS parts per year. We are currently conducting safety tests on new pulp Reduce amount of packaging designs for shipping other bottles of various sizes. Overall, Achieve zero deforestation we used approximately 669 metric tons of molded pulp Improve plastic sustainability packaging material in 2018. Maximize recycling We seek eco-friendly alternatives to ship our products safely, which is why we are also working with a Internal targets relating to these goals have been defined specialist biotech company to develop a more sustainable up to the year 2022 and we have identified initiatives that ® bulk-packaging design to transport our Millistak+ Pod will be implemented in order to achieve them. Disposable Depth Filter. A life cycle assessment showed that we achieved a 24% reduction in used corrugated cardboard, Design for Sustainability program which translates to a 17% decrease in greenhouse gas Our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program supports our (GHG) emissions from the life cycle of the packaging mateLife Science business sector in creating products with rials. Moreover, 70% less time is required at our customers reduced life cycle impacts. This process focuses on utilizing in the processing of products and their packaging. recyclable or reusable materials that can be easily recovered or separated. Through DfS, we are continuously working to More cardboard instead of plastic reduce the ecological footprint of our products and make Whilst solvents are usually packed in plastic bottles, we use disposal as easy as possible for our customers. ® Titripac because it offers a more eco-friendly alternative. The cardboard carton and plastic liner with an integrated Making packaging more sustainable withdrawal tap have made the packaging more recyclable A great deal of our packaging is fiber derived from wood. We while also cutting its weight by more than half. As a result, are constantly working to increase the proportion of corruthe greenhouse gas emissions arising across the entire gated cardboard boxes certified to the standards governing product life cycle are 61% lower than for plastic bottles. sustainable forestry, including the Sustainable Forestry Because the withdrawal tap protects the product against Initiative (SFI), the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and contamination, the contents can be used to the very last the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification drop, thereby reducing chemical waste. Schemes (PEFC). As part of reaching our “zero deforestation” goal by ensuring that none of our fiber-based packReusing expanded polystyrene (EPS) boxes aging materials contribute to deforestation, we are currently Many of our Life Science products need to be kept cool defining new procedures on how to track the percentage of during shipping and are therefore packed in special EPS woodand fiber-based packaging materials that are certified boxes. To mitigate waste, we offer our customers in the 56 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products United States the option of returning these boxes to us. If for our cut disc filters. The membrane box packaging has they are still fully functional, we reuse them. In 2018, this been re-engineered for usability and reduced environmental amounted to more than 14,000 boxes being reused at least impact. The newly redesigned membrane box packaging once, making up around 5% of shipments leaving the three is manufactured using 22% less plastic and replaces polydistribution centers where this type of packaging is being styrene with polypropylene that has a 43% lower global used. warming potential than polystyrene. Other environmental impact enhancements include elimination of foam inserts Integrating stainless steel canisters in and local sourcing of materials, resulting in less transproduction portation and fewer emissions. This new design also reduces In China, Korea and Taiwan, our Performance Materials GHG emissions by 180 metric tons per year across the liquid crystal mixtures are delivered to display manufacentire product life cycle. A life cycle assessment conducted turers in stainless steel canisters. Our customers utilize on this new packaging design features the following sustainthese Merck Standard Canisters directly on their production ability improvements over the previous design: lines without decanting. The empty canisters are then sent back to us and cleaned. In 2018, 1,374 standardized canis22% reduction in weight of product packaging ters were in circulation within this closed system, which 33% reduction in GHG emissions allows them to be reused over multiple years. 27% reduction in non-renewable energy Steel instead of glass Recycling program updated Thanks to our bulk product delivery system, our solvents In cooperation with a waste-management company based are delivered to Life Science customers based in the United in Massachusetts (United States), we employ a comprehenStates in special reusable steel containers such as the EMD sive recycling program for our Life Science customers in the ® ReCycler . Our customers can return empty stainless-steel United States. Product waste from their research labs and containers to us for refilling, enabling us to significantly biopharmaceutical manufacturing operations is collected, reduce the consumption of primary packaging materials. In sanitized and recycled into plastic lumber. This material can 2018, we filled more than 14,000 reusable containers. be used in many industries, such as construction, landIn Europe, we also utilize reusable stainless-steel scaping, transportation and marine construction. The containers to deliver solvents that are required in bulk program includes our Biopharma Recycling and Ech2o for preparative chromatography. Our customers send the Collection Recycling Programs. empty containers back to us, where they are properly We are continuing to expand this program throughout cleaned and then reused. Approximately 32,000 of these the United States and are exploring options in other regions serialized stainless-steel containers are currently in circulasuch as Europe and Asia. The program now serves twelve tion. The rate of return is at around 90%. customers. Since launching the program, we have recycled 2,738 metric tons of waste generated from the use of our New sustainable membrane packaging for cut products, including 1,218 metric tons in 2018 alone. disc filters With the objective of helping customers meet their own sustainability goals, we have redesigned membrane boxes 57 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Health for all Global strategy Two billion people across the globe do not have adequate access to health. At Merck, we are striving to make health solutions affordable, raise awareness of diseases and teach people how to manage them. We are working with committed partners to tackle this complex challenge by researching innovative solutions, developing new approaches and improving existing programs to help people at the point of care. Our approach to improving healthcare of Activities within our strategy for global access to healthunderserved populations care are generally related to one of four areas: Our aim is to create a healthier future for all: for individuals, communities and countries. We want to use innovation in Availability: we research, develop and refine health science and technology to improve the health of undersolutions that address unmet needs, tailoring them to served populations in lowand middle-income countries. To local environments. For example, we are committed to achieve this, we are leveraging our expertise from all busithe Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative. ness sectors and collaborating closely with a wide range of Affordability: we seek to provide assistance to those partners. We also participate in industry-wide initiatives and who are unable to pay for the health solutions they need, work with other businesses to develop new approaches. for example through our Patient Access Programs. This In 2018, we refined our Global Health strategy for also includes addressing challenges surrounding pricing addressing the global needs that impact access to health. and intellectual property. Our strategy is designed to overcome access barriers for Awareness: we help raise awareness for diseases and underserved populations and communities in developing therapies by empowering medical professionals, commucountries in a business-integrated and sustainable manner, nities and patients to make informed decisions. One way thereby creating “shared value.” For us, creating shared to do this is through our global awareness campaigns. value means developing business models that increase the Accessibility: we promote initiatives that strengthen value and competitiveness of our company and at the same supply chains and develop localized health solutions. time solve unmet health needs and bring value to underMedicines should reach the people who need them quickly served populations, thereby creating a win-win-situation for and safely, as demonstrated in our NTDeliver project. us and society. In order to address unmet needs whilst strengthening How we are improving access to healthcare health systems and our position in the market, we follow Our Global Health unit coordinates the implementation of three core operating principles: our strategy for global access to healthcare. Several teams work on ways to investigate and reduce the barriers that Developing innovative solutions: we take a leading make it difficult for underserved populations to receive role in the elimination of schistosomiasis, and we create healthcare. new integrated drug, diagnostic and vector control soluOur Global Health unit is responsible for Group-wide tions for infectious diseases. initiatives, programs and sponsorships that relate to global Engaging cross-sector partners: we participate in health topics. Our experts collaborate closely with the multi-stakeholder global health platforms to help achieve Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business the Sustainable Development Goals. We utilize access sectors to effectively leverage their strengths and compealliances for our solutions and create locally based opportencies. tunities where possible. Integrated into our Global Health unit, the Merck Global Creating business opportunities via a shared value Health Institute seeks to provide research and developapproach: we help sustainably improve the health of ment capabilities in order to engage in health system underserved populations by drawing our portfolio from strengthening programs and develop a sustainable portfolio across all three of our business sectors. of treatments, diagnostics and preventive measures against infectious diseases. The Institute operates as a social busiWe have created focus programs to address our priority ness enterprise, using innovative financial mechanisms to areas. We want to be instrumental in the elimination of deliver innovations for those who are most vulnerable: schistosomiasis and fight malaria and other infectious women and children in the developing world. diseases whilst helping to build local capacity across the Our Access to Health subunit investigates the factors value chain and positioning our company as a leading and that make it more difficult for underserved populations to reliable partner. receive healthcare, working with various partners to develop ways to remove these barriers. 58 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products The Merck Praziquantel Donation Program, the third oration with the World Intellectual Property Organization subunit, coordinates our efforts to eliminate schistosomiasis (WIPO) together with our external partners. The 2018 Access to Medicine Index ranking and the report Our commitment: Providing a solid basis for card for our company can be accessed here: access to healthcare www.accesstomedicineindex.org To demonstrate our commitment to access to healthcare, we publish a dedicated Access to Health Charter on our Partnering to develop clinical capacity and website. This charter sets out guidelines on the following: skills In order to advance global access to healthcare, it is necesOur approach sary to develop trained and professional clinical Pharmaceutical product donations personnel. We are collaborating with the European & Fake medicines Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP), R&D for infectious diseases which supports international fellowship programs for postPharmaceutical product pricing doctoral researchers from developing and emerging counIntellectual property rights tries. In addition to receiving training on clinical aspects such as clinical trial practices and clinical management, Every two years, the Access to Medicine Foundation research fellows are also given the opportunity to work for a publishes the Access to Medicine Index, in which it benchperiod of up to 24 months at a number of leading pharmamarks 20 of the world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical enterprises, including our own company. They are ceutical companies on activities and initiatives that experts then able to return to their home countries and academic consider most relevant for access to medicine, ranging from institutions with the knowledge they need to implement donations, and patents to capacity-building. We use the their research in line with international regulatory requireranking to inform and, in certain cases, guide our access to ments and standards, as well as to train other local students health strategy and approach. to also help them enhance own their skills. We endorsed the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases when it was launched in 2012. Participating Engaging Stakeholders companies, governments and private organizations promise Partnerships and dialogue are important instruments for to help control or even eliminate the top ten most prevalent improving access to healthcare, and we aim for stakeholder infections. We are particularly engaged in the fight against dialogues that have a large-scale relevance and impact. schistosomiasis. Our partners include multinational organizations, government agencies and NGOs, as well as academic institutions, Access to Medicine Index Ranking 2018 health industry associations, private sector companies and th We have maintained our ranking of 4 place in the 2018 independent experts on global health topics. Index, a recognition of our company’s integrated strategy on access to medicine, our efforts across the whole value Alliances for better access to health chain to address the needs of unserved and underserved We are a member of the Business for Social Responsibility populations, and our commitment to shared value. (BSR) initiative and have also endorsed the BSR Guiding The company has been particularly recognized by the Principles on Access to Healthcare, which provide a frameAccess to Medicine Foundation for leading practices such as: work for us to refine and enhance our Global Health efforts. In 2017, we joined forces with 21 other leading pharmaEstablishing the Merck Global Health Institute to accelceutical companies to launch Access Accelerated, a global erate R&D, incorporate access provisions and build initiative that seeks to improve both the treatment and capacity for projects and initiatives targeting schistosomiprevention of non-communicable diseases in lowand asis, malaria and bacterial infections middle-income countries. Joining the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative’s NTD Drug Discovery Booster to accelerate the development of Our Access Dialogue Series early-stage projects for Chagas disease and leishmaniasis as part of Merck’s commitment to Open Innovation The Merck Access Dialogue Series was launched in 2013, Improving access to better therapies in diabetes, cancer, as a multi-stakeholder platform for sharing information and hypertension, and fertility in underserved regions through exchanging best practices on broadening access to the Merck Capacity Advancement Program. healthcare. We are always looking for opportunities for Joining “Access Accelerated”, a global initiative with collaborative actions. The outcomes of the series inform and multiple programs including the Merck Capacity Advancedrive our access strategy, plan of action and engagements. ment Program, which affirms our commitment to This process is intended to be an open space for insightful measuring impact and sharing results publicly via the and critical dialogue on how we and our partners can best Access Observatory use our respective capacities, experience, expertise and Disclosing publicly the patent statuses for small molecules competencies to sustainably address access barriers. In in scope via the Pat-INFORMED platform with 20 leading 2018, we hosted an event on open innovation and intellecresearch-based pharmaceutical companies and in collabtual property as well as supply chain and delivery. 59 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Discussions at a global level World Health Assembly in Geneva (Switzerland) in May We participated in many events in 2018, that had a global 2018 th reach or relevance. To position ourselves as a key player for 15 International Symposium on Schistosomiasis in Rio global health, we continued to engage major stakeholders de Janeiro (Brazil) in August 2018 th in a dialogue on infectious diseases, and to deepen collab9 European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partorations with the scientific community through publications nership (EDCTP) Forum 2018 in Lisbon (Portugal) in and primary roles at international scientific conferences and September 2018 events. We were also part of stakeholder groups including World Health Summit in Berlin (Germany) in October the Swiss NTD Alliance and the Swiss Malaria Group. 2018, panel on “Access to Essential Medicines” th Selection of events and initiatives: 67 American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (ASTMH) in New Orleans (United States) in October/ International Society for Neglected Tropical Diseases November 2018 (ISNTD) conferences in London (United Kingdom) in Merck Access Dialogue Series: Supply Chain & Delivery March and June 2018 in January 2018 and Innovative Intellectual Property and World Malaria Day, including a ‘Malaria Screening Access in November 2018 Campaign and a Scientific Forum’ attended by the First Hosted Fellows from the African Public Health Leaders Lady of Ghana in Accra (Ghana) in April 2018 Fellowship at our Vevey manufacturing site in November th Multilateral Initiative on Malaria (MIM) – 7 Pan African 2018 Conference on Malaria, in Dakar (Senegal) in April 2018 60 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Focus programs So-called neglected tropical diseases are concentrated almost exclusively in impoverished populations in the developing world. Barely known in industrialized nations, they attract little public attention and research funding. One poignant example is schistosomiasis. Our aim is to help in providing urgent action to prevent and control these neglected diseases, as well as more familiar ones such as malaria. Strategy for preventing and treating We have been partnering with the World Health Orgainfectious diseases nization (WHO) since 2007, regularly providing them with Our strategy is to not only develop and provide medicines, donations of praziquantel tablets. Over time, we have built but also to improve diagnosis, counter disease transmission, up a portfolio of pioneering R&D projects on schistosomiincrease disease control and strengthen local health asis. These include: systems. We seek to improve healthcare in developing countries by creating novel and integrated health solua new pediatric formulation of praziquantel to treat chiltions for infectious diseases and by ensuring the sustaindren under the age of six able implementation of these innovations, many of which the screening of our proprietary compound library are led by our Global Health Institute. Our Group-wide through a dedicated schistosomiasis drug discovery platinitiatives and programs particularly address the medical form needs of women and children. the development of innovative and highly sensitive schisOur comprehensive Global Health portfolio includes the tosomiasis diagnostic methods following programs: the setup of approaches for vector control health education programs that help prevent transmission Development of a pediatric formulation for praziquantel to treat schistosomiasis in children under the age of six Our fight against malaria Development of a new active ingredient to treat and According to estimates by WHO, nearly half of the world’s prevent malaria population is at risk of malaria. More than Screening of our compound library in search of potential 200 million cases of malaria and over 400,000 related new active ingredients to treat schistosomiasis and deaths are recorded every year with 70% in children under malaria five years of age. Around 90 different countries are affected Development of diagnostic kits for schistosomiasis and by the disease, with approximately 90% of deaths occuring malaria in Africa. Development of products and technologies to enhance There is an urgent need for new products to overcome prevention of disease infection and re-infection the problem of increasing drug resistance and to achieve the goal of complete eradication. Through our One Merck In addition, we engage in activities that address bacterial for Malaria program, we are well positioned to help deliver infections and antimicrobial resistance, for example by integrated and sustainable health solutions against malaria developing assets for antibiotic quality and laboratory (treatments, diagnostics, prevention methods) to endemic capacity to detect antimicrobial resistance, improving the countries. In our efforts, we closely collaborate with a wide use of antibiotics by healthcare providers and patients, and range of partners in both developed and developing counhelping define industry-wide guidelines for the control of tries. antibiotics. Schistosomiasis: Over 900 million donated Our fight against schistosomiasis tablets Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is one of the most As part of our long partnership with the World Health Orgaprevalent parasitic diseases in Africa, placing a great burden nization that dates back to 2007, we agreed to donate on public health and the local economy. The disease affects praziquantel tablets every year for distribution in African over 200 million people worldwide, with more than 90% countries. This year, our donation program was expanded of cases occurring in Sub-Saharan Africa. Around 10% of to include Burkina Faso, Niger, and Sierra Leone, and now those affected are preschool age children. An estimated covers a total of 46 countries. In 2018, we donated approx200,000 people die every year from the effects of schistoimately 200 million tablets for distribution in 34 countries, somiasis, such as liver and kidney infections, bladder cancer and we keep our commitment by maintaining production and blood loss. capacities to a level sufficient for manufacturing up to In the 1970s, we partnered with Bayer to develop a 250 million tablets a year. medicine called praziquantel. Today, praziquantel remains the standard of care for the effective treatment of schistosomiasis around the world. 61 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Countries that have received donations of praziquantel tablets Schistosomiasis Health Education Project control and eventually achieve elimination of the disease. We have been working with the NALA Foundation since The GSA continues with its efforts to raise awareness launching the Schistosomiasis Health Education Project in through campaigns such as #MakingSchistory, which began 2017. Through this partnership, we are donating nearly in 2017. € 300,000 over a period of three years to support the Federal Ministry of Health in Ethiopia in promoting the longPartners in schistosomiasis research term behavioral change that is needed to help eradicate The need for a more sensitive diagnostic is crucial in the schistosomiasis and other neglected tropical diseases. The fight against schistosomiasis. Since 2017, we have been project targets a population of 850,000 in Bench Maji, a collaborating with the Australian Institute of Tropical Health region in southwestern Ethiopia, with a focus on approxiand Medicine at James Cook University in Townsville mately 260,000 students in 290 schools and includes distri(Australia) and with the Baylor College of Medicine in bution of customized educational material and improving Houston (United States) to research new biomarkers in water sanitation and hygiene facilities through a commuorder to develop diagnostic tools for schistosomiasis. A nity-based approach. In 2018, activities were launched in collaboration with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and all 74 schools of the Bero and South Bench districts of the the Foundation for Innovative Diagnostics started in 2018, Bench Maji region, reaching almost 70,000 students in total. with the objective of developing innovative rapid diagThe goal for 2019 is to extend this model to two other nostic solutions for schistosomiasis. districts. Praziquantel is an effective and well tolerated drug, but it is not active against all development stages of the paraCentral platform in the battle against this site. Research activities have continued in collaboration with parasitic disease many partners in developing and developed countries. This Since schistosomiasis is a complex disease, a coordinated, discovery work searches for new, long-lasting compounds multi-sectoral approach is needed to combat it. We joined to treat juvenile forms of the parasite, improve efficacy forces with international partners from various sectors to and prevent reinfections. One potential compound has been address the remaining gaps in the fight against this infection identified and is currently in the pre-clinical research phase. and initiated the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) in We also continued supporting academic research into a new 2014, to coordinate and increase the impact of our efforts. genome editing method for vector control to combat schisThe founding members of the GSA include the Bill & Melinda tosomiasis. Gates Foundation, the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative We have been fostering research and development as (SCI), the United States Agency for International Developwell as manufacturing capacities and know-how in endemic ment (USAID) and World Vision International. countries through collaboration with local academic and In 2018, the GSA acquired additional international public institutions. We have been implementing a series stakeholders as new members. As well as organizing several of research programs on schistosomiasis involving African conferences and key meetings, it took part in various post-doctoral researchers. New initiatives and opportunities projects aimed at driving local efforts to combat schistosowere also assessed to tackle female genital schistosomiasis miasis. The GSA is also working to promote and support and its impact on HIV/AIDS. an international action plan to progress schistosomiasis 62 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Consortium for the development of Pediatric The program is progressing towards the next phase, Praziquantel Formulation which entails the development of the asset in combination If left untreated at preschool-age, schistosomiasis can have with another anti-malarial compound in acute uncomplilong-term effects such as stunted growth and an impaired cated malaria. The clinical development plan is also being learning ability, causing chronic diseases like bladder cancer defined with new clinical studies in patients to start in late or genital schistosomiasis. Since July 2012, we have been 2019 or early 2020. working within the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, with representatives from both the public and private sector Developing new lead programs including funding organizations, with the goal of developing Our strategic collaboration with the University of Cape Town a pediatric formulation of praziquantel for all children under in South Africa has led to the development of a new the age of six. research and development platform. In 2018, this collabFollowing initial Phase I studies and a taste evaluation, oration, including our collaboration with the Medicines for we completed a Phase II study in Ivory Coast to assess the Malaria Venture, was extended to continue screening activiefficacy and safety of two different formulations for orodisties with the aim of identifying new therapeutic solutions persible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under for malaria while building research capacity in and for Africa. the age of six. The results indicate that both formulations This program continues to leverage our proprietary chemical are well tolerated and confirmed one formulation for further library of almost 100,000 compounds to identify new lead development. The process for the active pharmaceutical programs for the treatment of malaria, targeting liver-stage ingredient has been developed and is being transferred to a forms of the parasite and long-lasting compounds to contract manufacturing organization. improve post treatment prophylaxis. This program is coIn 2018, two new partners joined the Consortium: the funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) and the UniverResearch. sité Félix Houphouët-Boigny in Ivory Coast. Both will play A separate collaboration involving two research centers an important role in implementing the Phase III trial, in Portugal, Instituto de Biologia Experimental e Tecnologica which is due to start in the first half of 2019. This trial (iBET) and Instituto de Medicina Molecular (IMM), saw comprises the confirmatory clinical study in schistosomaprogression in the development of a new cell model of infected preschool-age children and is co-funded by the liver-stage malaria infection. This model could serve as a Consortium, the European & Developing Countries Clinical screening tool for novel anti-malaria drugs. Trials Partnership (EDCTP) and the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund). Regulatory submission is Preventing and controlling transmission planned in 2020, and we expect the product to be available To help prevent the spread of malaria, we are working for launch in the first endemic countries in Africa in 2021. to improve access to insect repellent as a vector control method. Through internal and external collaborations, we Accurately diagnosing malaria are working towards demonstrating the efficacy of ® ® Malaria is hard to distinguish from other infections that IR3535 against malaria in Africa. IR3535 is used in cause a high fever. Reliable diagnostics are needed to insect repellents for complementary prevention from vector correctly identify patients suffering from the disease so that borne diseases, such as malaria, dengue fever, Zika, the appropriate treatment can be administered to the right Chikungunya, and Lyme disease. The repellent has the population. We have been working on a kit containing a major advantage of being very safe for all age groups novel malaria detection and typing test adaptable to including children as well as for pregnant women and © the MUSE cytometry platform. It aims to accurately diaglactating mothers. nose malaria and measure the type of malaria parasite as In 2018, we entered a partnership with the Infanta well as the infection level. This malaria kit was launched Malaria Prevention Foundation and with ASPIRx, a Ghanaian for research use in 2018. At the end of 2018, we sold bio-pharmaceutical manufacturer. This supports the the underlying technology platform developed by our Life National Malaria Control Program of the Ghana Health Science business sector to the U.S. laboratory supplier Service by exploring development of solutions based on ® Luminex, which is now commercializing the diagnostic kit. IR3535 for malaria prevention in vulnerable communities. Enabling the treatment of children Addressing the global health challenge We have been developing a new, innovative drug for caused by antimicrobial resistance (AMR) the treatment of malaria since 2015. The new compound In order to address the growing emergency of increased is intended to be developed as a single-dose combination bacterial resistance, we have been implementing new treatment to treat and potentially prevent malaria in chilcollaborative programs to assess the degree of resistance of dren. The Phase I study in healthy volunteers in Australia identified bacterial pathogens. We also focus our efforts on allowed the safety of the compound to be assessed, and the development of new technological platforms to speed up a Phase Ib study provided data to support clinical proof assessment of the type of infections. A Master’s program is of principle. These clinical activities have been supported currently being run at Makerere University (Uganda) where through a grant by the Wellcome Trust, a biomedical students are researching ways of tackling the three AMR research charity based in London. areas of prevention, detection and management. 63 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Open innovation sharing We consider it our duty and responsibility to share core technological advances in the battle for global access to healthcare. This level of transparency, however, requires a solid, transparent and reliable legal framework to protect the intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies and enforce patents, in order to provide time and protection to balance the cost of research and development. Our approach to sharing and protecting we do not have expertise. We hope to foster the discovery intellectual property of new generations of health solutions that tackle the needs The approach that we and other pharmaceutical manuof the poorest, with a first focus on neglected tropical facturers take to our intellectual property impacts access diseases (NTDs). to healthcare. We often refrain from filing or enforcing In 2015, we established the Open Innovation Committee patents in developing countries. In markets where we do to provide technical expertise, strategic guidance and deciregister product patents, we are transparent and committed sion-making on our open innovation activities, collaborato sharing data to the greatest possible extent and tions and strategy. The Open Innovation Committee is coimproving public access to clinical study data. We report on chaired by the heads of our Access to Health subunit and the patent status of our products via a publicly accessible the globally acting Patents Healthcare unit and is part of the database. Furthermore, we support voluntary licensing Open Innovation Initiative. agreements of all kinds, including non-exclusive voluntary licenses, legally binding non-assertion covenants and Our commitment: supporting transparent and clauses that aim to widen access to health. Moreover, we reliable frameworks support the concept of patent pools, but believe that these Our approach to intellectual property is based on the princishould be structured to improve access to medicines, ples set out in our Access to Health charter. prevent anti-competition behavior and overcome We support TRIPS, an international agreement admingeographic limitations. We consider joining patent pools istered by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that when they are relevant to our portfolio and meet all our effiaddresses trade-related aspects of intellectual property cacy, quality and safety requirements. We are currently only rights, along with TRIPS addenda such as the Special Declaactive in the Medicines Patent Pool, which recently extended ration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, also its scope to include HIV, hepatitis C and tuberculosis. known as the 2001 DOHA Declaration. This extends the The responsible treatment of intellectual property does deadline for the least-developed countries to apply TRIPS not pose a barrier to health, but rather guarantees safety provisions to pharmaceutical patents until 2033. and high quality for patients worldwide. Nearly all medicines that address the highest burden of disease in develInitiative improves access to patent oping countries are not protected by patents. Studies found information that between 90% and 95% of the WHO Model List of EssenWe are a founding member of the Patent Information Initiatial Medicines are off-patent. We provide 46 essential meditive for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), which was established cines and products, of which 27 are on the WHO Essential by 20 leading research-based biopharmaceutical compaMedicines List and 29 are considered to be first line treatnies. Pat-INFORMED acts as a global gateway to medicine ments. patent information, offering new tools and resources to Through our initiatives and partnerships, we provide determine the existence of patents that are relevant to access to patent information. In some cases, we even give products sought by national and international drug procureaccess to parts of our compound libraries. This is true ment agencies. This transparency should make it easier for for open innovation research projects and collaborative drug procurement agencies to access a basic body of patent research programs for novel R&D platforms in the search of information necessary to implement disease management new active substances. strategies and other activities that address public health needs. Pat-INFORMED features patent information for small How we organize access and control of our molecule drugs within oncology, hepatitis C, cardiovascular, intellectual property HIV, diabetes and respiratory therapy areas and any prodThe Merck Open Innovation initiative is a collaborative and ucts on the WHO Essential Medicines List that are not within cross-functional effort led by the Access to Health and the these therapy areas. The initiative is backed by the World Patents teams. It aims to mitigate affordability issues Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the Interby sharing our intellectual property to accelerate early national Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and discovery in diseases that have high unmet needs, where Associations (IFPMA). 64 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Pat-INFORMED currently houses information on over and tuberculosis, by making intellectual property and know14,000 individual patents, for 600 patent families and 169 how available to the global health research community. so-called INNs, unique names that are globally recognized Through the WIPO Re:Search platform we are working on and used to identify pharmaceutical substances or active the extension of the collaboration with the University of pharmaceutical ingredients within medicines that cover a Buea (Cameroon) and University of California, San Diego wide range of conditions. The initiative will soon extend to (United States) to find potential cures for onchocerciasis, other therapeutic areas and explore the inclusion of complex leishmaniasis, Chagas disease and African sleeping sicktherapeutics such as biologics. ness. Open innovation collaboration: WIPO Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative Re:Search In 2017, we formed a partnership with the Drugs for Established in 2011, WIPO Re:Search is a public-private Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), under which we are partnership administered by the World Intellectual Property involved in the Drug Discovery Booster project for neglected Organization (WIPO) in collaboration with BIO Ventures for tropical diseases. This project pursues an open innovation Global Health (BVGH). We are one of more than 100 approach in which the participating companies simultanemembers of the WIPO Re:Search platform. The mission is to ously search for new treatments for leishmaniasis and accelerate the discovery and product development of mediChagas disease. We are joined in this project by six other cines, vaccines and diagnostics to create new solutions companies (Astellas, AstraZeneca, Celgene, Eisai, Shionogi for people affected by neglected tropical diseases, malaria and Takeda). 65 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Pharmaceutical supply chain In many parts of the world, medicines are not always available where and when they are urgently needed. We want patients in lowand middle-income countries to have fast, safe and affordable access to our products. We believe that this can be accomplished through efficient supply chain management and by utilizing local manufacturing. Our actions in this area reflect our high standards for improving access to healthcare for underserved populations. Our approach to local supply chain solutions Through our Virtual Plant Teams, we support our During product development and manufacturing we favor contract manufacturers in complying with quality standards. approaches that enable us to control the cost of goods Our external partners in Africa, Asia and Latin America are and allow for local supply chains that strengthen the local each assigned a Merck production expert to act as a virtual economy. This is the model applied in the context of the site leader who is able to provide guidance. This approach Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, for instance, in which the was again recognized as a best practice in the 2018 Access manufacturing and supply are planned to be undertaken to Medicine Index. locally. We partner with pharmaceutical companies and other Leveraging technological possibilities for supply chain stakeholders to improve supply chains in efficient market access developing countries and to guarantee the targeted supply Accurate business forecasts are the foundation of efficient of medicines. We manufacture some of our products directly supply chain management. We use harmonized Biopharin the regions where they are needed in order to build local maceutical business planning processes across our Group, capacity, reduce travel time and distance, and achieve cost including a special software platform that enables us to plan savings that can be passed on to the consumer. centrally for specific demand for medicines. The data generOur pharmaceutical supply chains are organized effiated by the software platform is used to manufacture and ciently to ensure that our products reach the right place deliver medicines according to demand, which allows us to in the right condition and quantity, at an affordable price prevent local inventories from running out or expiring. and on time. Modern supply chain solutions allow us to We employ a software-based solution for our customers monitor our inventory and current deliveries, as well as to in northwestern Africa, which gives them continuous access predict expected demand for medicines, partly in real time. to our e-shop so that they can quickly and easily order medicines approved by the respective regulatory authoriHow we organize our supply chains ties. The system makes demand more transparent whilst The Global Planning unit is responsible for our efficient reducing lead times and miscommunications. Combined, medicine supply chains and is part of Biopharma Supply both systems enable us to react more quickly to local Network Operations within our Healthcare business sector. demands, including in developing markets, than ever Global Planning collaborates with our Global Health unit and before. consults experts from other business sectors as needed. Working with partners to achieve more Our commitment: High quality standards for Our collaborations and partnerships are founded on the pharmaceutical production Group-wide exchange of centrally stored information, which All our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the allows us to organize shared supply chains in a more effisame high standard of quality worldwide. This ensures full cient manner. compliance for us and our contract manufacturers with the internationally harmonized guidelines Good Manufacturing Shared data platform for medicine donations Practice (GMP) and Good Distribution Practice (GDP). NTDeliver is our digital information tool, which facilitates In 2018, we refined our “Right First Time” (RFT) transparency in supply chains for medicine donations concept, which aims to reduce the number of temperature that are created through public-private partnerships. Delivexcursions that happen during transportation worldwide. At eries from companies running donation programs are clearly the same time, we encourage shipping sites and receiving displayed – from purchase orders made by the World Health units worldwide to improve their processes together with Organization (WHO) through to delivery to the first warefreight forwarders and carriers. house in the destination country. This improves the coordiOur uniform quality assurance system ensures that nation of our efforts and provides WHO, the local experts our quality standards are universally adhered to. It and us with a more transparent overview of the in-country comprises training courses, quality control monitoring and inventory. Following a pilot in 2017, where we tracked delivtechnologies that are tailored to each site. The results of all eries all the way to the treatment point in the destinaaudits conducted by health authorities are published Grouption country, we fully implemented the system in 2018. We wide, allowing the respective units to share lessons learned started using NTDeliver last mile tracking as a standard and benefit from the improvements of others. reporting tool in the school-based deworming program for schistosomiasis in Kenya. This system is now fully functional 66 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products in collecting and consolidating field information and has nization Amref Health Africa and benefits patients as well helped us reach out to more than 12,000 teachers as communities. In 2018, five primary healthcare points throughout Kenya. In addition to supply chain data, we have were opened in the Kenyan counties Kajiado, Kiambu and started to integrate the first level of impact data requests Machakos. from the teachers, such as the number of children treated. Fight against falsified medicines Further partnerships According to a WHO report published in 2017, more than We are a founding member of the Accessibility Platform, 10% of all medicines in developing and emerging countries which meets to discuss local supply chains during our are counterfeit or substandard, creating a major health risk. Access Dialogues. This is an informal effort spearheaded The Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF) is a non-profit initiaby the private sector to raise awareness of supply chain tive funded by our company that is fighting counterfeit TM issues as part of the access to health challenge. It seeks to medicines with its GPHF Minilab . TM increase knowledge-sharing and information exchange The GPHF Minilab is a portable, compact laborathrough open, multi-stakeholder dialogue, and to identify tory that fits into a tropics-resistant suitcase and can detect opportunities for collective action. We also share best pracfake medicines quickly, easily and cheaply. Around 90 tices with other companies and partners on efficient, endchemical substances can be tested for their authenticity. to-end, secure supply chains. The Accessibility Platform was The GPHF develops these Minilabs, supplies them at cost recognized by the Access to Medicine Foundation’s white and provides training on how to use them. The WHO report paper on “Shortages, stockouts and scarcity: the issues cites the Minilab as one of the most important tools for facing the security of antibiotic supply and the role for detecting poor quality and falsified medicines. As part of a pharmaceutical companies.” In the paper, the Foundation study published in this report, over 20,000 pharmaceutical TM acknowledges that companies have a strong role to play in samples were tested using the Minilab , with more than helping to address supply chain complexities and recognizes 1,000 of them identified as falsified. An international study the Accessibility Platform as a best practice in information conducted by the Difäm-EPN Minilab Survey Group in 2017 TM sharing through partnerships. also highlighted how the GPHF Minilab has helped ensure access to safe medicines in developing countries. The Promoting local production Minilab is currently the only product of its kind. Having started to supply pharmaceutical products in 2017, The majority of Minilabs are deployed in countries in our production facility in Nantong (China) increased its Africa and Asia. These test kits are primarily utilized by production volume to full capacity in 2018, in order to national health agencies, often in partnership with the labs serve local markets. In addition, we manufacture drugs of governmental drug inspection centers or within multilatfor diabetes, cardiovascular conditions and diseases of the eral health interventions led by various UN bodies, aid orgalower respiratory tract in India and Indonesia. This local nizations in the United States and Germany, faith-based capacity building supports local economies and allows us to networks or the incoming goods inspection unit in the medisupply medicines faster and more affordably here and in cines supply chain in all kinds of healthcare facilities, for neighboring countries such as Sri Lanka and Myanmar. In example medical stores and major hospitals. 2018, we further expanded the scope of local production Through the Merck Global Health Institute, we are also with a contract manufacturing organization (CMO) in Russia. co-developing a new user-friendly technology that will enable users to detect falsified medicines at the qualitative CURAFA and quantitative level. Initial models will focus on measuring TM the presence and quantity of the active pharmaceutical In 2017, we started the project CURAFA . The name is derived from the Latin word ‘curare’, which means care, ingredient for malaria and other bacterial infections. TM and the Swahili word ‘afya’, which means health. CURAFA facilities serve as points of care for integrated primary Expanding Minilab use healthcare services and are run by local pharmacists and In 2018, the GPHF developed testing methods for five addinurses, who provide pharmaceutical and clinical tional active ingredients, effectively covering a total of 90 services, medicine, digital health solutions, insurance and active agents from the essential medicines list. Test protofinancing schemes. The staff is supported by a modern cols for ten more active pharmaceutical ingredients were facility with WiFi access and charging stations, tablet PCs developed and 30 existing protocols reviewed. All test and TVs, refrigerators for cold chain medicines, and solar protocols will be put together into a single volume in 2019, power. and made available in three languages in 2020. By 2020, We created the project as part of our vision to achieve the Minilab will then cover 100 active ingredients, ranging primary healthcare for everyone everywhere. Our mission from antipyretic, antimalarial and antiviral, to antibacterial is to address inequalities in primary healthcare access in and antimycobacterial medicines. emerging economies and to enable accessibility, availability Since 1998, the GPHF has supplied a total of 843 Miniand affordability of primary healthcare. We also aim to labs to nearly 100 countries, with seven new Minilab shipleverage on-the-ground learning to build a sustainable busiments made in 2018. The GPHF and its partners held three ness model for primary healthcare and provide a space for official seminars for Minilab users in 2018 with 60 particico-creation with fellow innovators. The project was implepants. mented in collaboration with the non-governmental orga67 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Prices of medicines  Part of the non-financial report In OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) countries, prescription drug costs currently account for between 6% and 29% of total healthcare spending. However, advances in the research and development of innovative medicines are dramatically transforming the healthcare landscape, allowing chronic diseases – the greatest cost drivers – to be treated more effectively and affordably. Our approach to pricing medicines Customer-centric contracting models We want to ensure that all patients have access to the We are dedicated to advancing value-based healthcare most effective medicines for their needs, which is why we through pricing and contracting mechanisms that comply are working to prevent cost from becoming a barrier to fully with all local laws. In collaboration with payers such treatment. We are committed to flexible and fair pricing as health insurance companies, we have developed various – both within and across countries. We therefore adapt productand market-specific reimbursement and our prices based on local market access, also taking into contracting models with the aim of providing patients with account factors such as health system capacity and financial prompt access to our innovations. For instance, we have standing, geographic circumstances and existing infrastrucentered into a risk-sharing agreement in the United ® ture, statutory requirements, unmet medical needs, and Kingdom that provides immediate access to Mavenclad socioeconomic aspects such as the ability of patients to pay. for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS); under this agreeThis approach involves working closely with governments ment, the National Health Service only has to pay for mediand other stakeholders. In addition to these considerations, cines for those patients who respond to the drug. Since the we continuously monitor dynamic healthcare environments start of 2018, under this scheme 488 patients in the United and markets, pricing and reimbursement systems and legal Kingdom have been reimbursed for the cost of the drug. and regulatory guidelines, adjusting our prices as necesWe have also created contracting models for our ® ® sary. oncology drug Erbitux , our MS drug Rebif and our growth ® We review our prices on an annual basis to ensure hormone Saizen to make it easier for patients to access they meet patient access needs. To assist this process, we these medicines. In this vein, we have also capped per use a consistent, data-driven approach to monitor our local patient costs in certain countries and have formed riskpricing. We also make our products affordable to patients sharing agreements there. in certain countries by participating in government tenders, establishing second low-price brands or branded generics Pricing schemes to serve low-income patients and operating patient access programs. We work in close partnership with governments and other Moreover, we support risk-sharing agreements and are stakeholders on innovative, differential medicine pricing working to improve data efficiency in health systems in schemes and furthermore supply products at reduced order to achieve an optimal distribution of funds and prices to certain countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America and resources. the Middle East. In India, for instance, we are working with public sector representatives such as Bharat Heavy ElectriSetting medicine prices cals Limited (BHEL) and the Oil and Natural Gas CorporaOur Global Pricing and Market Access unit sets initial prices tion (ONGC) to develop alternative models for low-income in coordination with the respective businesses. Following a patients and patients who have a limited ability to pay. reorganization in 2018, this team now reports to the Chief Moreover, we regularly participate in government Operating Officer of our Healthcare business sector. Our tenders for products that are used in public hospitals serving individual subsidiaries are responsible for managing prices low-income patients. Many of these tenders take place in and continually adapting them to local environments. developing countries. Our commitment: Medicine price guidelines Low-price second brands and principles We have established low-price second brands for some of The affordability of our health solutions is part of our our existing brands, particularly in countries with a large broader patient value proposition, which includes increasing percentage of very low-income patients. In Brazil, for accessibility, availability and awareness. Medicine pricing instance, twelve of our products are available as a lower adheres to the stipulations of our overarching Access to priced version. Other examples of countries where we have Health Charter and is defined in detail by our Pricing of established low-price second brands include Mexico, the Medicines guideline. Our Patient Access Programs Policy Philippines, Poland, and South Africa. furthermore sets out standards that enable us to offer medicines at reduced prices. 68 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Generics primarily toward low-income patients who receive the drug ® Hand in hand with our partners, we offer branded generics free of charge, our Erbitux donations have so far benefited particularly in developing countries to meet the local need around 11,500 patients in China. for affordable, high-quality medicines that are required to We run similar assistance programs in other countries ® treat the diseases endemic to these nations. In doing so, such as India, where we also offer Erbitux at discounted we ensure better access to reliably high-quality medicines prices. Over 1,700 patients have participated in the initiaat lower prices. In the Philippines, for instance, four branded tive. In nations such as China, Peru and the Philippines, we generics have been launched to date. offer free-of-charge biomarker screening that determines ® whether Erbitux would be a suitable treatment. Patient access programs In addition to our oncology initiatives, we offer access ® ® ® Worldwide, we operate patient access programs that allow programs for our drugs Rebif , Gonal-F and Saizen . In us to offer certain products at more affordable prices China, for instance, we operate the Gonal-F-Baby Fund, in several countries. Examples include efforts in China to an access program that provides financial assistance for ® fertility treatments to low-income couples who have lost expand access to our oncology drug Erbitux , which is used to treat conditions such as colorectal cancer. Geared their only baby. 69 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Health awareness Many people are ill but do not realize it. This means that, although effective medicines and therapies are available, these individuals either do not receive treatment or do not receive it in time. To try and prevent this, we conduct global campaigns to raise awareness and improve knowledge of diseases, their symptoms and treatment options. Ultimately, healthcare professionals, communities and patients can only make informed decisions if they have the right knowledge and information. Our approach to raising health awareness Awareness and knowledge transfer for thyroid Awareness plays a key role in our approach to improving disorders access to healthcare. We seek to empower communities, Throughout 2018, we continued our work to raise awaremedical professionals and patients with appropriate tools, ness of thyroid disorders. At the global level, we supported information and skills so that they can make high-quality, the International Thyroid Awareness Week in May 2018 for informed decisions on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, the tenth time. This annual awareness campaign, which care, and support. we run jointly with the Thyroid Federation International We often join forces with committed partners to conduct (TFI), aims to highlight some of the lesser-known aspects of educational campaigns for prevention, early diagnosis and thyroid disorders. awareness, which also helps to build the capacities of To mark this year’s International Thyroid Awareness medical professionals working in the fields of research, techWeek, we commissioned an international survey, together nology and healthcare. with the TFI, among hypothyroidism patients in six countries. The results suggest that getting diagnosed can be How we build awareness difficult and distressing for many of those affected by The strategic direction and the output of all awareness thyroid disorders, with 70% of surveyed patients saying activities are aligned with our respective businesses. This that they found the road to diagnosis stressful. means that the different business units plan and implement We hosted a number of our own events during the our diverse awareness projects either on a global level or week, with more than half targeted specifically at healthcare through their local offices, with projects organized according professionals. These events connected us with almost to the specific needs of the local area. The offices are 35,000 people, including around 11,000 healthcare profesalso responsible for local mobilization during our global sionals. Furthermore, we reached three million people campaigns. through our own social media activities in 23 countries and an additional 35 million people were touched by news Our commitment: Access to health through coverage, social media and events. awareness At the regional level, we launched an awareness and Our strategy for addressing access to healthcare incorpoaction campaign with the Vietnam National Hospital of rates the topic of awareness and is laid out in our Access to Endocrinology, which highlighted the fact that although Health Charter. Our awareness campaigns are also subject many women suffer from thyroid disorders, an estimated to the respective marketing principles set out in guidelines 50% go undiagnosed. The campaign offered free screening such as our “Pharma Code for Conducting Pharmaceutical for thyroid diseases in 15 hospitals nationwide, with around Business and Pharmaceutical Operations.” In addition, they 50,000 screenings taking place under the supervision and are governed by internal policies and guidance for reviewing management of the Merck Vietnam representative office. our interactions with health systems and by the review processes for communication materials. Awareness campaigns for cancer Each year in September, we support the Head and Neck Global awareness campaigns Cancer Awareness Week, an initiative by the Make Sense We regularly conduct campaigns, often in collaboration with Campaign that is run by the European Head and Neck patient advocacy groups, to raise awareness of various Society (EHNS). We align with the Make Sense Campaign’s diseases across the globe. We focus on those diseases that three-year theme, “Supporting Survivorship,” and demonalign with our core competencies, expertise and expestrate our commitment to the head and neck cancer rience along the health value chain, in particular cancer community through our own “Stand Up for Survivors” (specifically colorectal as well as head and neck), thyroid campaign. Our publicity material included a video in which a disorders, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. During 2018, head and neck cancer survivor discussed the challenges she we conducted or participated in multiple campaigns that faced during remission. Partners were encouraged to transenabled us to reach millions of people. late our materials and leverage them locally with stakeholders in their region. We also asked subsidiaries to show their solidarity with survivors by sharing photos on social media that showed them representing the key theme and standing up for survivors. 70 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products World Cancer Day the carers surveyed felt that people around them don’t truly On February 4, 2018, we again recognized World Cancer understand what it means to care for someone with MS. Day, an annual initiative driven by the Union for InternaFinally, MS in the 21st Century, an initiative sponsored by tional Cancer Control (UICC). This year, we focused on the our company, launched a website for discussions between future possibilities of cancer care with our campaign “We patients and healthcare professionals. Can. I Can. Help Shape the Future for Patients.” Teams from around the world got creative, expressing their World Malaria Day hopes and aspirations for the future of cancer care through Since 2015, Merck has championed World Malaria Day, held sculptures made from modelling clay. We received almost annually on April 25, with campaigns that raise awareness 330 images of support from 24 countries and our multifor the disease and through engaging in the activities and channel social media activity generated over 15,300 views. efforts of the “One Merck for Malaria” program. In 2018, we hosted events in Accra (Ghana), joining forces with the Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month Infanta Malaria Prevention Foundation of the First Lady of During March 2018, we backed Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Ghana and with ASPIRx to support the Ghanaian National Awareness Month, an initiative to raise awareness of CRC, Malaria Control Program. These events, which included a its symptoms and the importance of early diagnosis. Our scientific symposium, led to the signing of a Memorandum “gut strength: Targeting CRC Together” campaign encomof Understanding for a consortium to identify and deploy passed three key themes: together, strength and support. timely and effective malarial prevention solutions for We united on social media to share a message of support vulnerable populations. through a Thunderclap, which reached over 162,000 people worldwide. Colleagues also showed their commitment to World Diabetes Day the CRC community by sharing photos of themselves visuWe launched a global campaign for World Diabetes Day on ally representing the key themes and using the campaign November 14, 2018, under the concept: See it. Slow it. hashtag #gutstrength. Stop it. The aim of the campaign is threefold: helping people spot the risks and symptoms of type 2 diabetes, empowWorld Multiple Sclerosis Day ering them take action to slow down progression to type 2 We participated in the annual World Multiple Sclerosis Day diabetes and ultimately equipping them to help themselves (WMSD) in May 2018. This year’s theme was #bringingusor others prevent type 2 diabetes. We continued our partcloser to ending multiple sclerosis (MS), which was selected nership with the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), to celebrate advancements in research and care and to look working on a range of educational activities that aim to raise to the future for further developments. A total of 26 Merck awareness of prediabetes and diabetes prevention and to organizations participated in this initiative of the MS Interglobally reduce the rise in type 2 diabetes cases. national Federation (MSIF) by showcasing their support and activities. Online diabetes campaign We also announced a new campaign, #MSInsideOut, to According to the International Diabetes Federation, there support the MS community and deepen understanding of were 14 million cases of diabetes in Africa in 2015, a figure the disease. The initiative involved a collaboration with the expected to more than double by 2040. Moreover, approxsocial network Shift.ms, which acted as executive producers imately 60% of cases go undiagnosed. Awareness of early of a new documentary, “Interpreting MS”, which featured symptoms of diabetes is low, even among healthcare unique perspectives from people with MS. The documentary professionals. To improve early diagnosis and promote th premiered at the 34 Congress of the European Committee awareness of the disease, we joined forces with various for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS) partners in March 2015 to launch a digital initiative known in Berlin (Germany) in October 2018. as DORA (Diabetes Online Risk Assessment). DORA aims To accompany the premiere of the documentary, we to expand individuals’ knowledge of diabetes by providing published the report “Living with Multiple Sclerosis: The free online self-assessment tests to determine their risk Carer’s Perspective”, which examines the experiences of of developing the disease. Depending on the outcome of those caring for people living with MS. This report was the online test, people have the opportunity to take a free developed in collaboration with the International Alliance of blood test in partnering pharmacies. When this blood test Carer Organizations (IACO) and Eurocarers, the European indicates diabetes, they are given a starter pack to help network that represents informal carers and their orgamonitor the disease at home. Until recently, DORA had been nizations. A survey of MS carers across seven countries deployed in Ethiopia, Ghana Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the United Namibia, and South Africa. During 2018, the program was Kingdom, and the United States) found that almost half of extended to Angola, Botswana, Tanzania and Uganda. Since those surveyed became carers when they were 34 years old its launch, there have been more than one million visits to or younger, and one in three had been caring for somebody the DORA website. for 11 years or more. Furthermore, nearly half reported that their caring responsibilities had negatively impacted their Healthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative future plans and life goals, while a similar proportion said Nearly one in four women worldwide are held back from they suffered from either severe or high stress levels. This achieving their full economic potential due to preventable emotional toll was compounded by the fact that over half of causes, including exposure to a wide range of communicable 71 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products and non-communicable diseases. In addition, they spend the demographic trends, childbearing choices and familysignificant time on unpaid work. This has implications for related policy decisions in China, Japan and the emerging their own health and well-being. To tackle these challenges, markets of Southeast Asia. we are committed to Healthy Women, Healthy Economies. In the United States, we conduct six studies with the Under the auspices of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation March of Dimes Center for Social Science Research to better (APEC), we collaborated with representatives of several understand the relationship between economic and governments to launch this public-private partnership that employer policies, women’s health and productivity and aims to identify and implement policies that advance childbirth. Under a collaboration with the Wilson Center, women’s health and well-being to support their economic we supported the development of a policy brief titled “The participation. The initiative has developed a policy toolkit Juggling Act of Caregiving: Balancing Career, Health, and with recommendations to improve women’s health. We have Gender Roles”. made Healthy Women, Healthy Economies part of our core We are also conducting research to understand the full commitment by forming collaborations to make meanrange of impacts that multiple sclerosis has on the lives of ingful change and supporting research to quantify the sociowomen who are affected by the disease in Argentina, Brazil, economic impact of health burdens on women. Chile, Colombia, and Mexico. This research builds on the European report we launched in October 2017. Our collaborations We joined forces with the Philippine government and the Embracing Carers initiative Philippine Thyroid Association (PTA) to educate more than Embracing Carers is a global initiative that we lead in collab2,000 health industry employees on thyroid disorders, a oration with prominent caregiver organizations around the problem that disproportionately affects women. By the end world. Embracing Carers is designed to increase awareness, of 2018, our campaign had reached nearly eight million action and discussion for the often-overlooked needs of people in the Philippines. caregivers. We believe that the topic of caregiving is one In Jordan, we collaborated with the Royal Health Awareof the most under-addressed public health issues of ness Society, an NGO that increases awareness among our time. Caregivers spend so much time looking after women about thyroid disease and trains health workers someone else that they often do not get the recognition and on thyroid disorders in women. We reached over 7,000 support they need. We raise awareness of the issues carepatients through the Society’s thyroid disease website and givers face, activate stakeholders for deeper engagement, an accompanying social media awareness campaign, and establish global best practices and advocacy resources, and engaged and educated over 120 healthcare providers during endorse the improved integration of carer support into the a scientific event. entire spectrum of care. In 2018, Embracing Carers We also sponsored and undertook several other projects supported the self-identification of caregivers, extended the in Brazil, Spain and the United States. reach of the initiative to Brazil and China, established dedicated disease-specific carer resources, and collaborated Quantifying the socio-economic impacts of with carer communities to develop the first-ever Global health burdens on women State in November 2018, which highlights the needs of In Asia we are working to help our local not-for-profit partunpaid caregivers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, ners better understand the drivers and impacts of the socioIndia, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United economic dynamics they will be facing locally. In 2018, States. we commissioned the Economist Intelligence Unit to study 72 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Product safety and quality Chemical product safety  Part of the non-financial report Since many of our chemicals are classified as hazardous substances and mixtures, we must ensure that they pose no risk to people or the environment. We therefore comply with an array of national and international regulatory requirements, statutes and guidelines, an approach that is crucial to our business activities. In addition, we strive to meet the expectations that stakeholders such as customers and employees have of a comprehensive hazard management system. Our approach to safe chemical products requirements, and have also endorsed general voluntary Product safety is one of our top priorities. Starting at the commitments of the chemical industry such as the Respon® development stage, we investigate the potential adverse sible Care Global Charter. impacts chemical substances may have. Along the entire To meet the product safety regulations relevant to our value chain of our chemicals – from cradle to grave – company, we have enacted our Regulatory Affairs Group we fulfill all statutory requirements, often even exceeding Policy, which details our Group-wide processes for them. We furthermore publish extensive information on our managing and implementing product safety, including website so that both our customers and the general public the necessary management structures. The statutory can learn about our products and how to handle them requirements applicable to our operations include the Globsafely. ally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and its implementation in regional and How we ensure chemical product safety national legislation (such as the CLP regulation in the EuroOur Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials pean Union and HazCom 2012 in the United States), the business sectors each have their own organizational strucEU chemicals regulation REACH, the amended U.S. Toxic tures in place to provide guidance on product safety. These Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the amended German units work in close collaboration with our Group-wide goverFederal Banned Chemicals Ordinance (ChemVerbotsV). Our nance function Corporate Regulatory Affairs Chemicals Group-wide policy also incorporates legal norms concerning (EQ-R) to ensure our products’ safety. Their tasks include the transport of hazardous chemicals, biocides, cosmetics, registering chemicals, classifying hazardous substances and and products used in food and animal feed. In 2018, we communicating risks by means of safety data sheets and furthermore implemented our Group Label Standard, which labels. provides a consistent framework for labeling products Our Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) monitors according to GHS requirements. regulatory requirements worldwide to check for relevant In this period, there were no incidents of non-complichanges, initiating and reviewing the measures needed to ance with regulations or voluntary standards involving integrate these changes into our processes. chemical product labeling. Corporate Regulatory Affairs Chemicals (EQ-R) ensures regulatory compliance Group-wide. Reporting directly to the REACH registration complete head of our Group function Corporate Environment, Health, In 2018, we finished registering all substances covered Safety, Security, Quality, EQ-R is independent of our busiby REACH, doing so within the allotted time. In the third ness sectors and not subject to any operational commitand final REACH registration phase, to be completed by ments. Any necessary corrective or preventive action is June 2018, we evaluated and registered all substances carried out by the operating units within each business produced or imported in annual quantities greater than one sector. EQ-R further supports individual units in implemetric ton. This process also incorporated the substances menting and harmonizing efficient processes. added to our portfolio through the acquisition of SigmaAldrich. Our commitment: statutory regulations and Group-wide guidelines We have implemented Group-wide guidelines that guarantee compliance with national and international regulatory 73 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products In line with the Strategic Approach to International ness sectors, we utilize nanomaterials to develop products Chemicals Management (SAICM), a global policy framewith new functions and properties, thereby making resource work, a growing number of countries are recognizing the and energy consumption more efficient. In our Healthcare requirements for registering and licensing chemicals, such business sector, we collaborate with research institutes and as the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the United other European companies to explore the use of nanomaStates and the Act on the Registration and Evaluation of terials to improve therapeutic options. Under the auspices Chemicals (AREC) in Korea. Thanks to our expertise in of European research partnerships, we are also investiimplementing REACH, we are well prepared for such a gating whether nanoparticles are suitable vehicles to deliver procedure and are already registering chemicals as active pharmaceutical ingredients to the required site of required. action. Despite their promise, the unique structure of nanoparTranscending laws ticles may harbor risks, which we assess in line with statuIn an effort that goes beyond statutory requirements, we tory requirements such as REACH. Moreover, we only utilize support the goals of the Global Product Strategy, an interthis new technology with the greatest care, abiding by the national initiative of the chemical industry. In this vein, we precautionary principle and taking nanomaterial safety publish product safety summaries for all lead substances very seriously. In doing so, we consider Group-wide requirethat we have registered under REACH, making them availments for safety, environmental stewardship and health able on the website of the International Council of Chemical impact mitigation, employing our existing product safety Associations (ICCA). processes and systems. Whether using nanomaterials in pharmaceutical and chemical laboratories, production faciliSafety analysis during product development ties, filling plants, or warehouses, we follow our Group-wide We believe that product safety starts during the develPolicy for Use and Handling of Nanomaterials. opment stage. By conducting hazard, exposure and risk In the manufacture and processing of our products, we assessments, we work to ensure our chemicals can be safely adhere to all statutory regulations along with standards used later down the road. All our innovations undergo an such as those of the German Federal Institute for OccuEHS analysis, which examines factors such as their impact pational Safety and Health (BAuA), as well as the German on human health and the environment. Before launching a Chemical Industry Association (VCI). We also provide our new product, we evaluate all relevant hazardous substance customers safety data sheets containing information on data and classify the product according to the Globally the proper handling of nanomaterials during transport, Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemprocessing, storage, and disposal. icals (GHS), along with locally applicable regulations such as CLP in Europe. In conducting these safety assessments, Sharing nanotech knowledge our employees in our Life Science and Performance MateOver and above our internal efforts, we continuously engage rials business sectors are advised by their respective Reguother companies, associations and regulatory agencies in latory Affairs unit. a dialogue on the opportunities and risks of nanotechnology. We also take part in committees and working Our approach to nanotechnology groups, including the Nano Panel of VCI’s Technology and Nanotechnology is a highly innovative field of development Environment committee, as well as Responsible Production that researches and uses structures 50,000 times thinner and Use of Nanomaterials, a joint technology working group than a human hair. This technology makes it possible to of the Society for Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology produce materials with completely new properties and (DECHEMA) and the VCI. Under the auspices of the VCI, we functions for a myriad of applications. furthermore review current scientific literature in order to Nanotechnology opens up many opportunities for our stay abreast of new advances in nanotechnology. Group. In our Life Science and Performance Materials busi74 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Standardized product safety information worldwide in the respective national language and accounts As part of our efforts to communicate the potential dangers for country-specific regulations. To access it, customers of our products, we provide our customers with in-depth need merely scan the product’s barcode or enter it manuinformational material on all our chemicals. These brochures ally. contain instructions on proper use and handling to prevent them from posing a danger to people and the environment. Our goal is to give our customers product safety ~25 information that has been standardized worldwide. We issue all chemicals classified as hazardous with safety data sheets, which, in accordance with UN regulations, follow a globally harmonized format. These sheets contain information on the physicochemical, toxicological million safety data sheets in total are made available to and ecotoxicological properties of the agent, and reflect the our customers. relevant regulatory requirements of the countries in which they are published. We therefore produce country-specific safety data sheets in 44 languages for our Performance Materials business sector and in 37 languages for our Life Informing and educating customers Science business sector. Although not mandated by law, All information on the safe use of our products is also availwe also provide safety data sheets for the non-hazardous able on our website, where our customers can additionmaterials and finished medicinal products manufactured by ® ally access the ScIDeEx program. This tool allows them our Healthcare business sector. Since all these documents to check whether they can use chemicals safely within the must be kept up to date and consistent, we have autoboundaries of the REACH exposure scenarios. mated the majority of our Group-wide hazard communicaTaking a more active approach, we also endeavor to tion processes. Within Performance Materials, we draft all educate people on the safe handling of hazardous safety data sheets Group-wide using a single system. chemicals, providing users with best practice advice and In 2018, we also automated most of the safety data information. To this end, we regularly conduct seminars and sheet creation process for our Life Science business sector information sessions worldwide that teach basic lab safety and also developed an app that provides our Life Science rules such as the handling of flammable solvents and the customers with access to the latest product safety storage of hazardous chemicals in safety cabinets and wareinformation. Covering the whole life cycle of the product houses. along its entire supply chain, the information is available 75 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Patient safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of patients who are treated with our medicines is our absolute priority. Our pharmaceutical products need to be effective in treating the respective disease while also posing as little risk as possible to patients. That is why we consistently monitor risks and any adverse effects that may arise, and take the necessary actions to minimize them. The benefits of our drugs must always outweigh the risks for patients. Our approach to ensuring patient safety studies, spontaneous reports on adverse effects, patient Through rigorous benefit-risk management, we ensure that support programs, and articles published in medical and the benefits of our drugs always outweigh the risks for scientific journals, and furthermore reassesses the benefitpatients. Every new medicine passes a series of precisely risk profile on an ongoing basis. defined development stages. Before any drug is given to Our experts make sure all information on the risks and humans, we conduct extensive preclinical testing both in adverse effects of our medicines is properly documented, vitro and in vivo. Through toxicological testing, we detertracked and reported to the respective health authorities mine whether an active pharmaceutical ingredient is toxic to in accordance with regulatory requirements. The Global living organisms and, if so, at what dosage. This also helps Patient Safety unit analyzes all data and uses this as us determine the dose that humans can safely tolerate. required to reassess the benefit-risk profile. We then inform Only when this is complete do we perform clinical studies to regulatory authorities, physicians and patients about new investigate the safety and efficacy of the drug when used in risks, additional risk mitigation measures and potential humans. During clinical development, we diligently use all changes in the benefit-risk balance. collected data to continuously evaluate the drug’s benefitOur Product Quality unit (MBQ) processes quality risk profile. If we consider the drug’s benefit-risk profile complaints relating to our products. When quality defects to be positive, we then submit an application for marketing may have an impact on patient safety or lead to adverse authorization to the regulatory authorities. effects, Global Patient Safety gets involved. Continual monitoring Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board After a drug is launched, the number of patients being Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the treated with it increases significantly. In certain circumsafety and benefit-risk evaluations of our drugs throughout stances, rare adverse and severe effects that go undetected clinical development and commercialization. It endorses during clinical development may occur, which is why we appropriate measures to minimize risk, such as package continually monitor and manage the positive benefit-risk insert updates. This board is chaired by our Chief Medical profiles after market launch. Pharmacovigilance is the Officer (CMO) and consists of experienced physicians, scienprocess of continuously monitoring a drug to detect and tists and experts from our company. Throughout a drug’s assess signals as part of signal management activities. The entire life cycle, the MSEB reviews and assesses important aim is to track the adverse effects in an effort to take medical safety risks and benefit-risk issues, and reviews appropriate action to minimize and communicate the risks ethical issues if necessary. in a transparent way. We always provide physicians and patients with the latest information on the safety of all Our commitment: Guidelines and statutory our marketed drugs. This applies to the entire life cycle of requirements a product, ranging from development, market launch and We follow international guidance and standard procedures commercialization to expiration of the marketing authorizasuch as the International Conference of Harmonization tion. (ICH) guidelines and the Good Pharmacovigilance Practices For new products, educational materials are developed (GVP) established by the European Medicines Agency for patients and healthcare providers to communicate the (EMA). In addition, we adhere to all statutory pharmacovigknown and potential risks, and ways to minimize them. We ilance regulations in those countries where we market our assess the effectiveness of these materials in close collabproducts, and we constantly work to incorporate all required oration with our Benefit-Risk Action Team. If required, we changes in our Group-wide standards and processes. In adjust the content of the materials and their distribution, 2018, for instance, we harmonized the processing of and describe the results from the effectiveness analysis in personal data worldwide according to new European legisour periodic safety reports and risk management plans, lation on data privacy. which we submit to health authorities for evaluation. In November 2017, the EMA implemented a new process for EudraVigilance to monitor the safety of medicines. This How we monitor patient safety newly established approach provides marketing authorizaOur Global Patient Safety unit is responsible for pharmation holders with access to data on suspected adverse covigilance. It continually collects current safety data from effects., requiring them to monitor the EudraVigilance data a wide variety of sources across the globe, including clinical for safety signals and to report these to health authorities. 76 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products In response to these new requirements and to the new partners involved in pharmacovigilance, which help us hone data transmission format stipulated by ICH guideline E2B our pharmacovigilance processes so that they surpass (R3), we upgraded our Global Safety Database to ensure statutory requirements. the technical capabilities needed to support the coordinated exchange of individual case safety reports. Innovative signal detection In 2018, we assessed new country-specific regulatory In 2018, we successfully launched a new methodology and requirements and implemented necessary changes in order technical system for analyzing and managing large amounts to fulfill them. Examples include the Chinese Food and Drug of data from around the world, such as scientific studies Administration, the new India Pharmacovigilance Guidance and news about side effects. Through this new tool for for Marketing Authorization for post-marketing safety signal detection, named Empirica, we intend to become reporting and the new Canadian requirements for safety more efficient and proactive and improve risk management. signal notification. It helps us to comply with regulatory timelines for safety In addition to adhering to guidelines and regulations, we signals and other safety-related factors and will ensure that have introduced a Benefit-Risk guide to our Global Patient all signal data, documentation and decisions are captured Safety unit, which builds on the results of a joint initiative in one place. This allows easy access to and analysis of that we are involved in between the European Union and the our data as well as cross-functional collaboration between European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and AssoGlobal Patient Safety and other internal and external stakeciations (EFPIA). These results helped us in compiling the holders. Furthermore, we established a new signal detecdocumentation for the marketing authorization of cladribine tion process that allows us to detect signals directly from and avelumab. the EudraVigilance Data Analysis System (EVDAS) and enables us to comply with any new requirements set by Collecting information and checking health authorities. processes Our self-developed mobile app, named agReporter, is used Up-to-date labeling and product information to report any adverse effects arising from the use of our Our product information explains to physicians and patients products. Although initially intended for use by field nurses how to properly use the respective drug and allows for and our sales representatives, in 2018 we introduced an an informed decision on the treatment. In accordance with interface designed for non-medically trained users, thus statutory regulations, the package insert contains all relemaking patient feedback the core of our efforts to consisvant information such as indication and ingredients, as well tently collect adverse effects data. In 2018, the app became as dosage, storage, mode of action, instructions for use, available in a total of eight languages, with a Chinese warnings, precautions and possible adverse effects. Should version currently in the works. the medicine contain ingredients that may impact the enviIn 2018, we introduced a new pharmacovigilance intelronment, the package insert may also contain information ligence process to improve internal data analysis and inforon the proper disposal of the product. mational output from our various sources. We have develAs necessary, we review and update all product inforoped new capabilities in the following areas: mation documents such as package inserts, ensuring that our medicinal products contain the latest information on advanced benefit-risk management safety, efficacy and pharmaceutical formulation. In accorbig data analytics dance with statutory requirements, all modifications to the advanced signal detection technology inserts are submitted to the respective regulatory authoripilot processes in patient-centric adverse effects collecties for approval. tion Internal and external training Supervising drug safety All employees involved in the safety and quality of pharmaRegulatory authorities conduct periodic inspections to verify ceutical products are trained according to our global training that we are complying both with statutory requirements and standards. We verify compliance with these requirements our own internal standards for drug safety. In Germany, by producing training compliance reports and performing these are handled by the German Federal Institute for Drugs regular audits. and Medical Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute Our training is delivered via a global-learning plat(the German Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedform. All of our 20,000-plus Biopharma employees receive icines (PEI) on behalf of the EMA. In 2018, four pharbasic pharmacovigilance training once a year that covers macovigilance inspections were conducted in Japan, the procedure for reporting adverse effects from our prodSlovakia, Slovenia, and Turkey. Every inspection has ucts. Other training courses keep employees up to date confirmed the proper functioning of our pharmacovigilance on their professional expertise as well as internal standard system. operating procedures and other relevant requirements. This Furthermore, we perform audits to ensure that all our ensures adherence to Good Pharmacovigilance Practice departments and subsidiaries involved in pharmacovigilance (GVP) requirements. consistently meet all requirements across the globe. In 2018, we conducted a total of 37 audits and found no significant deviations in our pharmacovigilance system from these requirements. We also audit vendors and licensing 77 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Sharing expertise with other countries tronic reporting in Argentina, El Salvador and Peru. Health We endeavor to transfer our drug safety expertise around authorities in Mexico and Brazil are also moving towards the world, especially in countries where health workers need adopting this technology. This program makes us one of the to build their pharmacovigilance expertise. In 2018, first companies to participate in global electronic reporting. we organized a workshop for 96 students from the School Our activities in providing health for all include involveof Medicine of the National University in Guatemala, as ment in piloting a social business healthcare platform in reporting of adverse drug reactions is often not sufficiently Kenya named CURAFA. As part of this project, in 2018 we represented in the curricula of medical students. The particprovided training to two pharmacies on pharmacovigilance ipants were already examining patients and prescribing awareness and safety reporting procedures, and introduced drugs on a daily basis, so they considered the workshop to our agReporter app to the people working there. be relevant and applicable in their daily routine. Launched in late 2017, we are continuing the “Afrika We also assist Latin American health authorities in kommt!” project in an effort to educate trainees from Africa implementing electronic reporting processes for adverse on the safe use of pharmaceutical products. The ultimate effects. Following a pilot project in Ecuador that ended in goal is for them to eventually take what they have learned April 2018, we are supporting the implementation of elecand implement it in their home countries. 78 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Product-related crime  Part of the non-financial report According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considerable proportion of the medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard. In industrialized nations, however, such products are also becoming increasingly available on the market through unlicensed internet pharmacies and underground platforms, posing a risk to public health. Moreover, chemical products too can be used for illegal purposes such as the manufacture of illicit drugs. Our approach to product-related crime How we are tackling product-related crime Our company develops and manufactures products of the Our Group function Corporate Security coordinates all our utmost quality. In order to protect both customers and anti-counterfeiting activities, all of which are overseen by patients, we secure our products against counterfeiting and the Chief Security Officer and the head of Environment, are deeply committed to fighting product-related crime. For Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ). Furthermore, all our instance, we collaborate with regulatory and law enforcesites have a product crime officer who investigates potential ment agencies at the regional, national and internacases of counterfeiting, acting as the interface between local tional level. When cases of product-related crime are idenregulatory and law enforcement authorities, national associtified, we also cooperate with the law enforcement and ations, our Group functions, and our facilities. Depending on public health authorities in the respective countries. In the type, allegations are first investigated by the competent taking preventive action, we furthermore partner with unit. In 2018, conference calls attended by all product crime representatives from Interpol and the World Customs Orgaofficers were held every two weeks to discuss strategic nization. Our guidelines, standards and processes apply to matters along with local issues and suspected cases of crimall our business sectors and markets worldwide. inal activity. What we mean by product-related crime Group-wide anti-counterfeiting network 1. Counterfeit products: In line with the relevant WHO Our Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network (MACON) is standard, we define a counterfeit product as “a product that responsible for globally monitoring and executing all is deliberately and fraudulently produced and/or mislabeled anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. Along with respect to its identity and/or source to make it appear with coordinating prevention and the development of secuto be a genuine product.” rity systems, this organization is also responsible for invesThis includes products tigations. Comprised of experts from various units such as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export Control, Supply with incorrect active ingredients or concentrations thereof Chain, Patient Safety, and Quality Assurance, this network without any active ingredients is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit. with dangerous impurities To investigate suspected cases, MACON collaborates with modified/altered packaging and/or incorrect brand with the competent law enforcement agencies and regunames latory authorities. This network has allowed us to identify with an authentic active agent, but not one produced more cases of counterfeiting and take decisive action, under GxP conditions especially in high-risk countries. In 2018, MACON investhat have expired tigated and pursued numerous incidents including theft, that were diverted from the legal supply chain (for counterfeiting and illegal diversion in both the legitimate example through theft). and illegitimate supply chain. 2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers to the Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and diversion of either chemicals or pharmaceuticals from within standards the legitimate supply chain for illegal export, for use in the Our Crime Relating to Products of the Merck Group Guideline production of illicit drugs, weapons or explosives, or for any describes our goals and strategies for combating productother illegitimate purpose. related crime. Our Group-wide Product Crime Investigation Standard sets out mandatory requirements and defines 3. Black market crimes: This refers to the sale of counthe knowledge sharing process within our company in an terfeit and/or diverted products via illegal channels such as effort to provide a solid legal footing for dealing with illicit the Internet, or for illicit purposes. products. 4. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft from production sites and warehouses, or while in transit. 79 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Enhanced monitoring and reporting systems of our products and is considerably harder to counterfeit We analyze and document all counterfeit product incidents than commonly used holograms. We take a risk-based using a Group-wide reporting system. This approach approach to identifying the products to be labeled in this provides us with a complete picture of the security situmanner. ation and enables us to identify possible links between Using our Track and Trace system to track the serial different cases, thus equipping us to combat similar incinumbers of our products, delivery points (such as phardents more effectively going forward. Our standard opermacies) and distributors can trace the supplier of the ating procedure “Data and Documentation Quality Managemedicine to verify its authenticity. So far, this system ment” details the corresponding process and was used in has been established in the United States, the European 2018 to standardize and harmonize data quality and Union, China, Egypt, Colombia, Turkey, and parts of the reporting across our organization. Middle East, with implementation in Russia still underway. Preparations are currently being made to launch Track Tracking system for chemical substances and Trace in Indonesia and Malaysia. We monitor chemicals that could be misused to produce Our free Check My Meds app for smartphones allows illegal weapons, explosives or narcotics, tracking them patients in the United States and Colombia to scan the through an internal system that flags suspicious orders or serial number of their medicines and quickly verify their orders of sensitive products. These are only released once authenticity. we have confirmed the existence of a (verified) end-user In our Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) declaration. project in Nigeria, we are working closely with one of our In 2018, the integration of Sigma Aldrich into our orgasuppliers on a text message-based identification system. nization substantially increased the volume of products to Patients scratch off a barcode that is printed on the be monitored. In an effort to augment process safety and product packaging and then send this code via text efficiency, we revised our internal reporting. message to an assigned number. They immediately In addition to fulfilling the duties stipulated by statureceive a response telling them whether their code is tory provisions on export control, we also report suspiauthentic. cious orders, inquiries and requests to the competent We sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund ® authorities. Through these efforts, we are honoring a volun(GPHF), which supplies GPHF Minilabs to test the tary commitment of the German Chemical Industry Assoquality of 90 different active ingredients. Used primarily ciation (VCI) and meeting the terms of the Guideline for in developing and emerging countries, this compact kit Operators published by the European Commission. can detect counterfeit medicines quickly, easily and inexpensively. You can find more information on this project Reviewing our efforts under Pharmaceutical supply chain. We evaluate the effectiveness of our measures according to We offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry ® the number of reported, investigated and solved cases, as Candurin pearl effect pigments with unique color well as their severity. properties that make tablets and capsules more difficult to counterfeit. Supporting customers and patients To protect patients, pharmacies must be able to determine Industry-wide exchange the identity and authenticity of pharmaceuticals. We are In an effort to fight product-related crime, we have joined therefore rigorous in meeting the requirements of the EU forces with organizations such as the European Federation Falsified Medicines Directive and, accordingly, have set a of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the goal for February 2019 to apply a unique serial number to International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers the packaging of all the prescription medicines we commer& Associations (IFPMA), and the German Association of cialize in the European Union. We have already concluded Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies e. V. (vfa). We the preparatory stage of implementation for 73% of our also support industry-wide initiatives. For instance, we products covered by the directive. In 2018, 32% of these partner particularly closely with the Pharmaceutical Security serialized products were in circulation. We are also transInstitute (PSI), a non-profit organization dedicated to posing similar guidelines in many other countries. In the protecting public health by sharing information on pharUnited States, for instance, we were the first company to maceutical counterfeiting and initiating enforcement actions comply with the 2018 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) through the appropriate authorities. We take an active role product identification requirement. in this work through participation in PSI conferences and network meetings. Furthermore, we are a member of In parallel to meeting these provisions, we also Rx-360, a consortium of global pharmaceutical manufacpursue our own initiatives: turers and suppliers that aims to prevent counterfeit products through a worldwide quality control system. We apply the Security M label to some of our products, which enables users to easily verify the authenticity 80 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Raise awareness for product-related crime Security audits for contract manufacturers We endeavor to raise awareness of product crime among and distributors our employees and business partners, educating our people We regularly check whether our distributors and contract Group-wide on the subject. manufacturers are complying with GMP and GDP (Good All staff involved in security, such as product crime offiManufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice). These cers, participate in onboarding and training programs audits are based on the EMA ICH Q10 pharmaceutical aimed at building their capacities and promoting best pracquality assurance standard. In doing so, we also ascertain tice sharing. We are continuously evolving these programs the extent to which our security requirements are being and adapting them to new trends. In 2018, for instance, we obeyed by contract manufacturers and distributors, held 40 onboarding sessions for our product crime officers, conducting special security audits if a concrete need is idencovering product-related crime, incident reporting, case tified. Such audits are also conducted standardly when we management, and cooperation with authorities. certify external service providers for our Security M label. In addition to offering training, we contributed to This applies to both pharmaceutical contract manufacturers “Schutz vor Arzneimittelfälschungen: Regelungen zur as well as print companies that print packaging. The findings Arzneimittelsicherheit”, a book published in July 2018 by from these audits are a key factor in our decision-making Editio Cantor Verlag that discusses approaches to process when considering potential external partners. If any combating counterfeit drugs. critical defects are found, they must be rectified prior to us signing a deal, or a detailed corrective action plan must be submitted for our approval. In 2018, we conducted four security audits of our partners worldwide, who have since remedied the relevant defects. 81 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products Transport and warehouse safety  Part of the non-financial report We transport and store products and materials worldwide such as chemicals and pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermediates and waste, as well as technical materials and packaging, all of which could pose a hazard to health and the environment if handled incorrectly. Our approach to safe transport and storage substance. Moreover, special rules of conduct apply to all We strive for all our shipments to reach our customers and warehouse employees. sites safely, undamaged and with the required safety inforThird-party warehouses must also adhere to our strict mation. Several of the materials we store and transport safety requirements. Before we sign a contract, providers are classified as hazardous. To minimize danger to people must submit a statement detailing how they plan to meet and the environment, we therefore adhere to extremely our stringent safety standards, while audits are performed strict safety regulations across our Group. The storage to ensure compliance from both our own warehouses as well of such hazardous goods and the corresponding transport as third-party facilities. To this end, in 2018 we drew up a involved – whether by road, rail, plane, or ship – are standardized checklist that helps us assess contract waregoverned by regulations applicable worldwide. Our stanhouse risks. Furthermore, our Group standard “Warehouse dards cover all stipulated safety guidelines, and we ensure Requirements for Third-party Warehouses” defines specific compliance through regular audits of our sites along with structural and organizational requirements. training for our employees and the leadership of contract In Germany, the Technical Rules for Hazardous warehouses. Substances (TRGS 510 Storage of hazardous substances in non-stationary containers) govern the storage of packHow we achieve transport and warehouse aged hazardous materials and apply across all our waresafety house and distribution centers worldwide. We are currently Transport and warehouse safety falls under our Group funcworking with the Committee on Hazardous Substances tion Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) (AGS) of the German Federal Ministry of Labor and Social (see Environmental stewardship), which sets Group-wide Affairs to revise these rules. Beyond complying with these standards and guidelines. In addition, our individual sites requirements, all our sites fulfill the current requirements are subject to various national and international regulations of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and governing environmental stewardship and public safety, Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). which local site directors are responsible for impleOur Group Transport Safety standard defines the safety menting. levels for our facilities and is based on the United Nations Each of our sites around the world has an EHS manager Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. and a dangerous goods manager, a position that equates This is especially important for sites in those countries with to the “dangerous goods safety advisor” required by EU no local regulations covering the transport of hazardous regulations. Both of these people advise the site director materials. We update our Group standard to reflect current on the safe storage and transport of hazardous goods while requirements every two years and support our site directors also monitoring compliance with statutory requirements and in implementing relevant changes at the local level. our own internal standards. Our EHS managers are also responsible for monitoring Enhancing transport and warehouse safety our contract warehouses. Before signing a contract with In addition to the inspections conducted by our EHS and a third-party warehouse operator, we assess whether they dangerous goods managers, we regularly perform riskproperly adhere to national and international storage and based audits across our company to ensure that our sites transport regulations and if they are able to meet our are complying with warehouse and transport safety reguadditional requirements. The findings from this audit are lations. We generally conduct these every four years, summarized in a statement issued by EHS. If off-site wareperforming them more frequently at facilities that pose a houses employ additional subcontractors, these are also potentially higher risk. If major shortcomings are identiincluded in our audit. fied, we re-audit the respective site the following year. Conversely, we may decide to extend the period between Our commitment: Internal standards and audits at facilities where, based on the findings from international rules previous audits, we deem the potential risk to be low. Our Group-wide safety concepts and standards govern In 2018, we audited ten of our warehouse facilities the safe storage of hazardous substances. Take our Warefor compliance with our Warehouse Safety and Transport house Safety standard, for instance, which sets out Safety standards. All audit observations were assessed in measures to prevent materials from leaking or igniting and terms of the areas where we can improve, with the focal requires us to specify the dangers posed by any stored points of the observations being scrutinized and addressed. In response to the deficiencies identified by these audits, 82 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Products we are currently reviewing and optimizing our processes for e-learning concept, we offered further classes on transsafety-related storage time limits. For instance, specific port and warehouse safety. All our truck drivers hold a transport regulations require time limits, as does the use dangerous goods driver’s license, while in Germany they of stabilizers and desensitizers, while plastic packaging has complete additional training on securing cargo, along with a limited shelf life due to aging. Moreover, we drafted or training required by the German Professional Driver Qualifirevised training documents on load securing, safety data cation Act (BKrFQG). Across the globe, we conduct around sheets, safety signs, and the safe use of pallet units. 1,000 internal and external seminars on transport and Third-party warehouses and contract logistics compawarehouse safety every year. In some cases, the managers nies are also regularly audited by our EHS managers. In of third-party warehouses also participate in these sessions. 2018, we audited 15 third-party warehouses and external To further best practice sharing, our EHS managers logistics providers, developing corrective action plans where meet every three years at our EHS Conference in Darmdeficiencies were identified. To optimize safety communicastadt (Germany), where they have the opportunity to share tion, we created additional informational material and lessons learned and participate in transport and warehouse distributed it to all our contract warehouses. safety training. These topics are also covered in the mandaAs a member of the SQAS Logistics & Distributors User tory three-day orientation seminar for all new EHS Group, a service provided by the European Chemical managers. The next EHS conference will be held in 2019. Industry Council (Cefic), we receive additional audit reports on our logistics service providers and evaluate these against Ensuring correct transport our own set of criteria. Our products are primarily delivered to our customers by In 2018, no incidents that could have significantly means of logistics providers. In Germany, we transport impacted the environment or community were recorded at the majority of our hazardous waste ourselves, but do our company, our third-party warehouses or our logistics sometimes also enlist the services of contractors if necesproviders, nor were there any major infringements of intersary. Furthermore, we participate in the German Transport national regulations. Accident Reporting and Emergency Response System (TUIS) operated by the German Chemical Industry AssociaContinuously evolving safety concepts tion (VCI). Within this system, we exchange lessons learned Our local EHS and dangerous goods managers regularly and best practices on chemical transport with experts from review and evaluate our transport and warehouse activities, other chemical companies and also provide hands-on assisinforming site directors of shortcomings and opportunities tance in the event of a chemical transportation accident. for improvement. Underpinned by a strength and weakWhen a transportation or warehouse accident occurs, we ness analysis of each site, we calculate key performance can use our “TUIS Southern Hesse Measuring Concept” to indicators for transport and warehouse safety that help us quickly calculate the rate at which hazardous substances are determine where to institute additional improvements. spilling and spreading. Employee training and best practice sharing Making transport vehicles safer Multiple times a year, our warehouse workers and all The safe transportation of dangerous goods requires safe employees involved in the transport of goods undergo vehicles, another factor we take very seriously. Over the training on our standards and procedures, as well as on past few years, for instance, we have been constantly incident management and changes to international requireevolving our SafeServer truck body technology. Under ments. The e-learning concept we’ve developed for basic this design, the aluminum panels integrated into the side management courses on hazardous material transport is walls of the truck render the walls extremely stable. In mandatory for logistics, EHS and dangerous goods 2018, 14 of our trucks were already running with this techmanagers. By the end of 2018, the majority of eligible nology. employees had completed such a course. To bolster this 83 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Employees Within this chapter: 85 Attractive employer 97 Employee engagement 90 Diversity 99 Good leadership 94 Health and safety 84 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Attractive employer  Part of the non-financial report Across the globe, our employees drive next generation advancements in science and technology. As they do so, we encourage every one of them to pursue the professional path that aligns with their individual ambitions, skills and talents. We offer flexible working models that allow our people to adjust to the changing priorities in their lives. To continue down the path of success, we endeavor to attract talent who will bring courage, creativity and curiosity to the table. Our approach to attracting and retaining mentation of necessary measures. Across all our sites, HR talent staff execute these measures in collaboration with leaderWe believe that curiosity can make great things happen. ship from the business units in accordance with GroupWe therefore seek to provide an environment that gives wide HR guidelines and requirements. We perform our employees plenty of scope for creativity and awakens internal audits every two to three years to ensure that all their desire to innovate. Our employer brand communicates steps taken comply with these guidelines. this mindset to the outside world. Through our motto “Bring Belén Garijo is the Executive Board member responsible Your Curiosity to Life”, we show applicants what they can for Group Human Resources. Our Chief HR Officer, in charge expect when they join our company. We regularly train our of the various HR activities, HR experts and HR business employees, managers and recruiters on the characteristics partners, reports directly to her. Our Business Services of our employer brand. unit oversees the operational tasks of human resources In addition to our recruiting efforts, career developwork, such as drafting contracts and payroll accounting. ment also plays a key role in attracting and retaining Marcus Kuhnert, Executive Board member and Chief Finanpeople. Focusing on their individual strengths, aspirations cial Officer, is responsible for this unit. and skills, we support their personal and professional development, thereby laying the groundwork for an enriching and Digital HR challenging career with our company. To harmonize our HR processes Group-wide, in 2012 We endeavor to discover qualified employees at an early we launched the HR4You online platform, which can be stage in their career and develop their talents. Within our accessed by all employees. This platform is used to manage succession management process, we work with leaders central HR tasks such as development and succession planand Human Resources to systematically prepare these ning, job vacancies, continuing education, and employee select candidates for leadership positions. Our goal is to performance assessments. It moreover helps calculate move suitable candidates into vacancies quickly and efficompensation and bonus payments. ciently. We furthermore develop our people by transferring them Our commitment: Guidelines for employee within the company, for instance from one business sector development and working hours or function to another. To provide a framework for this In 2018, we updated our People Development and Learning practice, our company has a Group-wide job architecture in Policy, which provides a Group-wide framework for continplace called Expanding Horizons, which defines three fundauing employee development. For instance, it specifies mental career types of equal stature: managers, experts guidelines for our development opportunities along with and project managers. roles and responsibilities. The corresponding processes are We seek to offer our employees ideal working condidescribed in our People Development and Learning Stantions including a retirement plan and flextime models, dards. along with social benefits and an attractive compensation Also in 2018, we furthermore started drafting a Grouppackage. Compensation is based on both our company’s wide flexible work guideline that was adopted by the success and individual performance. Executive Board at the end of 2018 and is intended to establish and foster a variety of flexible options for working How we structure our human resources time and location across our organization. management Human Resources (HR) supports and advises all businesses Group-wide work and social standards and units within our organization. Our Centers of Expertise We are dedicated to upholding appropriate labor and social Talent, Development and Recruiting, Compensation and standards. Our Code of Conduct is a compulsory set of Benefits, and Engagement and Inclusion develop strategies rules for our entire workforce. All employees have been to promote and advance our employees, organization and provided with a copy of the Code of Conduct, and new corporate culture. These units also coordinate the impleemployees are supplied a copy with their letter of offer. 85 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees 98% Our Code of Conduct explains the principles for dealings with business associates, general partners, co-workers, and employees, as well as the communities in which we operate. It thus supports all employees in choosing an ethical path. Our Human Rights Charter supplements the Code of Conduct with global human rights principles such as the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Orgaof our employees took part in the Performance and Potennization (ILO), which cover topics like freedom of associtial Management Process in 2018, with 70% of our ation and collective bargaining, forced labor, child labor, employees creating a development plan. anti-discrimination, equal opportunity, equal pay, working hours, occupational health and safety, and the prevention of abuse and harassment. We conduct internal audits to ensure that our local subsidiaries are complying with these Employee learning and education standards. Our Group-wide advanced training and continuing In 2018, we used a benchmark analysis as the basis education program ensures that our employees develop for drafting a Group-wide guideline governing adherence the skills needed to help us realize our company strategy. to additional ILO labor standards. This new guideline is to We constantly adapt the offerings to meet current learning be rolled out and implemented worldwide in 2019, underneeds and strategic priorities. Moreover, employees can use scoring our ambition to make international occupational and our digital HR4YouLearning tool to sign up for events such social standards a pillar of our organization. as seminars and online training courses as set out in their tailored development plan. Providing feedback and supporting In 2018, more than 4,100 employees took part in our development Group-wide classroom courses. These courses are flexible, We regularly provide our employees performance feedback meaning that while the core curriculum is uniform through our Performance and Potential Management throughout the company, there is still room for adjustments Process, which ensures that, in addition to this ongoing to reflect aspects such as specific local change projects. feedback, a meeting is held once a year to evaluate their Along with in-person training, 1,550 employees signed up overall performance. This process is applicable to all for global e-learning courses and 235 completed online employees Group-wide with a Role of 2 or higher, and addilanguage classes. tionally to all non-exempt staff employed by either Merck KGaA or any other subsidiary based in Germany. Performance-based pay Our leaders and subordinates work together to define We endeavor to reward the performance of all our individual objectives and, in a separate process, create a employees and maintain a competitive edge in attracting detailed development plan that reflects each employee’s qualified professionals, which necessitates commensurate core tasks as well as current strategic priorities. In drafting compensation. At our company, compensation is based on the development plan, all employees have access to the the requirements of each position as well as each Development Advisor. Building on our competencies, this employee’s respective performance. In addition to competweb-based tool provides a selection of development opporitive remuneration, we offer attractive fringe and social tunities that employees can tailor to their own needs, while benefits. Our benefits4me package, for instance, encomour digital HR4You platform allows them to create their passes three pillars, namely company-funded benefits development plan quickly and easily. including our company retirement plan, health and wellEmployees can additionally have their performance being offerings, and services. To meet the multifaceted assessed by select colleagues and external partners. This needs of our workforce worldwide, we offer a variety of 360-degree feedback helps to identify personal strengths benefit packages. and advancement opportunities. Moreover, our people have To ensure a competitive remuneration structure, we access to a real-time feedback tool launched in 2017, that regularly review our compensation policy based on data can be accessed via their PC or smartphone, making it analyses and benchmarks. In doing so, we take internal easier to give and receive feedback. Intended to help factors and market requirements equally into account. promote a non-hierarchical feedback culture, this instruWhen revising this policy, we involve key stakeholders such ment has been used since its rollout by 16,183 employees, as employee representatives in the early stages of the who have provided feedback 32,743 times. We are process. The pay structures within our company are genderconstantly updating the tool to make it more user-friendly. neutral and based on defined criteria such as job requirements and performance. Our Group-level analyses show that there is no significant gender-based compensation inequity. 86 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Attracting qualified university graduates basis. If after completing their apprenticeship they wish to We endeavor to attract top university graduates. As part continue studying while working, we will cover up to 75% of of our efforts, we partner with the German online network the costs and also allow them to take special leave. Further“careerloft”. Furthermore, we regularly attend job fairs to more, apprentices can take part in community outreach inform potential applicants about job opportunities and projects. career tracks within our company. In countries outside of Germany, particularly the United States and China, we likeHigh hiring rate and dual education programs wise use career fairs as a way of making initial contact In 2018, 604 people were enrolled in vocational training with university graduates. programs at our sites in Germany, with 222 beginning In addition to recruiting talented students, we also their apprenticeship at our company. In total, we offer provide them financial assistance, collaborating with organiapprenticeships across 24 occupations, primarily in produczations such as the German National Academic Foundation tion, laboratory work and office administration. In 2018, and the Foundation of German Business, as well as we launched an animal welfare apprenticeship along with supporting the Deutschlandstipendium (German national an apprenticeship to become a wholesale and international scholarship program). trade specialist. Furthermore, we enable young adults to University graduates can apply for a position with our pursue a dual education program in the fields of business company directly or complete one of our trainee programs. administration, business IT, process engineering (chemical Our trainees acquire international experience in various engineering), and mechanical engineering. Apprentices in business sectors and functions, and take part in tailored the Laboratory group begin their training as chemistry or continuing education offerings. biology lab technicians and, subject to suitability, may receive the opportunity to start a dual education program Inspiring young people to join our company after six months. Since 2014, we have been offering We employ trainees in units such as Inhouse Consulting, permanent employment contracts to all apprentices and Finance, Production, Marketing, Sales, Human Resources, graduates of cooperative study programs in occupations for and Research and Development. In 2018, we launched a which we have long-term demand. In 2018, the hiring rate trainee program in Procurement. for graduates of these programs – taking voluntary termiOur global graduate program GOGlobal enables univernations into account – was over 90%. sity graduates to join our company as a trainee. Within 24 months, the entry-level employees get to know various Special vocational training opportunities departments and functions while also gaining international In Darmstadt, our “Start in die Ausbildung” program helps work experience. All ten GOGlobal trainee programs young people who have a high school diploma but have provide experience in various units, international assignbeen searching for an apprenticeship for at least one year ments, custom-tailored continuing education, mentoring, without success. We offer them the opportunity to complete and coaching. Although the initiatives are largely centered an eleven-month program with our company, providing around Germany and the United States, we also have professional experience and improving their chances of trainees at our sites in China, France and Ireland. In 2018, gaining an apprenticeship. In 2018, 21 participants aged we employed 114 trainees. 16-25 started this program. Since its launch in 2006, 223 To cultivate young talent, we also offer internships in young people have already taken part; 103 of them have all departments to high school and university students. successfully completed an apprenticeship, while 55 are still Through our Keeping Ties to Students program, we stay in a vocational training program. in touch with talented individuals who perform particularly We also have a similar program for refugees. In 2018, well during their internship. Besides these programs, we the “Integrating refugees through training” initiative also offer university students work-study jobs or the opporprepared 12 young refugees for vocational training, thereby tunity to pursue their bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or opening the door to the German labor market. The project doctorate. Furthermore, every year we invite students from comprises language, technical, cultural, and career-related Austrian, German and Swiss universities to our company to training. In 2018, we hired four of the participants from learn about the various career tracks and job opportunities the 2017 program as apprentices and placed three others we have. In 2018, we redoubled our contact with students in apprenticeships with other companies. The five remaining by expanding our Keeping Ties to Students program and participants are now pursuing further studies at schools or augmenting the number of German national scholarships we universities. sponsor. Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization The foundation: Vocational training The digital transformation has long since overtaken the For us, vocational training is a key way to meet the current world of work. New, agile approaches to work are increasand future need for qualified professionals. In Austria, ingly gaining ground, a shift we are actively supporting Germany and Switzerland, we offer apprenticeships across within our company by offering our people numerous innoa number of professions, along with cooperative education vative digital options to perform their tasks. Take for programs. We continuously invest in new technologies and instance big data applications such as people analytics, integrate these into our vocational training. Young adults which allow us to analyze Human Resources data. Our can also complete their vocational training on a part-time Manager Self Services and Employee Self Services also 87 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees epitomize a state-of-the-art approach to work, enabling Finding work-life balance employees to manage their own data, access information We recognize how important work-life balance is for a and handle HR-related tasks on their own. productive and motivated workforce. With this in mind, at Using such big data applications developed by our the end of 2018 our Executive Board adopted a Group-wide People Analytics HR unit, leaders obtain rapid, specific guideline intended to facilitate the use of a variety of flexanswers to HR-related questions. Besides gleaning convenible working time and location options in the twelve countional master data, this software also collects information on tries where the majority of our employees work (75% of compensation, performance and potential, along with info our workforce). In many countries, we already allow our on engagement and succession planning, interconnecting employees flexibility in setting their own work schedule, this data in meaningful ways. Managers thus have access with our people making use of more than 30 different to an extensive trove of data that they may utilize as long part-time working models. In Germany and the United as they comply with data privacy. The analyses are based States, where around 45% of our workforce is based, we on algorithms and enable us to conduct predictive analytics offer parental leave conditions that go beyond the statutory and make data-driven decisions. minimum requirements. Digitalization is also impacting our vocational training and continuing education programs, where IT skills are Flexible working models becoming increasingly crucial. At the same time, digital We offer our employees various flexible and innovative media are creating new opportunities for learning, which is working models. Our mywork@merck program, for why we are increasingly integrating 3D printing, Big Data instance, is available to employees at our Darmstadt and and artificial intelligence into our curricula. Moreover, we Gernsheim sites in Germany along with many other facilities are testing out novel learning and innovation methods across Europe, Asia and Australia. It is open to both exempt such as Scrum and Design Thinking. and non-exempt employees. In agreement with their teams To learn how to operate plants and machinery, our and supervisors, employees can freely choose their working apprentices also utilize augmented reality glasses while hours and location. Together with their respective supervioperating the systems, accessing useful additional informasors, the teams can decide for themselves when and how tion via a display. often fixed physical presence in the office is necessary for all In 2018, a Group-wide HR innovation campaign also members. Working hours are no longer recorded or monigave rise to an initiative entitled “Ad@m”, which features a tored. This approach aims to strengthen the culture of chatbot. Accessible to HR business partners and leaders, it performance and trust within the company. At the end of provides support for HR-related issues, among other things. 2018, a total of 5,698 employees in Germany were making Going forward, the chatbot will be taking over standardized use of this model. tasks so that managers and HR business partners have In 2018, 4.8% of our employees worked part-time, more time for other matters. 12.5% of whom were men. We believe that with these flexible working models, we are on the right track to achieving Good standing in employer rankings a better balance between the expectations we set as an Our company is one of the world’s best employers, a fact employer and the home life demands of our employees. now officially verified by the Global Top Employer 2018 Ideally, such a balance should also lead to greater certificate awarded by the Netherlands-based Top employee satisfaction and increase our appeal as an Employers Institute. Every year, this independent institute employer. organizes an international assessment involving an external audit as well as a detailed survey to determine the Supporting mothers and fathers processes and structures that make up a company’s human We endeavor to make it easier for our employees to return resources environment. to work following parental leave, which is why in 2016, The success of our efforts is also confirmed by our we launched Parents@Merck in Darmstadt and Gernsheim ranking among the 100 most attractive employers (Germany). By the end of 2018, 100 employees had signed for students and experienced scientists in Germany. This up for this program, which gives mothers and fathers on index is published annually by the research and consulting parental leave the chance to talk and interact while also firm Universum and involves a survey of more than 5,000 helping them keep in touch with the company. Moreover, people. In the category of Natural Sciences, our Group they can make use of the various training and ranked fifth in the student survey and seventh among expenetworking opportunities. We have established a similar rienced professionals in 2018. program in the United States. In addition to this recognition, we were also named a In the United States, we offer the female employees 2018 top employer by Science, a leading peer-reviewed in our Life Science and Healthcare business sectors eight scientific journal. Almost 8,000 employees as well as weeks of paid maternity leave. In Life Science, fathers are managers from biotech and pharmaceutical companies took eligible for two weeks of paid paternity leave, which also part in the magazine’s online survey, ranking our company applies when adopting a child, while Healthcare staff are fourth. given five weeks of paid paternity or adoption leave. In 2019, we intend to standardize paternity leave across all our subsidiaries in the United States, setting it at five weeks. By contrast, the statutory minimum only provides for 12 88 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees weeks of unpaid parental leave per year. Furthermore, we Saving for retirement through a long-term also reimburse up to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees. account At our sites in Germany (around 25% of our workforce), We enable our employees in Germany to reduce their 326 employees were on parental leave at the end of 2018, working hours before retirement or to retire earlier through 42% of whom were men. In other key countries, we go a long-term account. For instance, they can deposit part beyond the legal requirements to offer other kinds of of their salary or comp days into the account. Our company new parent support such as extended leave for employees additionally makes contributions to the account to supplein Brazil. In India, too, we offer five days of paid paternity ment the balance. Employees can then utilize the accrued leave even though it is not legally required. In offering these balance to retire up to three years before they are due benefits, we do not differentiate between fulland partto start their regular retirement plan, or to reduce their time staff. Employees with fixed-term contracts may apply working hours by 50% for up to six years. In 2018, 9,214 for parental leave until the end of their term of employemployees made use of this option. ment, with their employment continuing as agreed until the contract terminates. Taking a sabbatical In essence, all employees of Merck KGaA and Merck Real Daycare support Estate GmbH in Germany (22% of our workforce) can For 50 years our headquarters in Darmstadt has featured request a sabbatical, which allows them a break of up to a daycare center for children aged 1-12. This facility one year. At the end of 2018, 22 people were on sabbatis funded by the Merck family (Merck’scher ical. For personal emergencies in which an employee needs Kindertagesstätten-Verein e. V.) and offers 150 slots. Since to leave immediately, we additionally offer an emergency 2013, we’ve been providing year-round care from 6:30 a.m. sabbatical of up to three months in duration. to 7 p.m. For the children of our employees in Gernsheim, five places are available at a public daycare center. Assistance with family and elderly care Our Darmstadt site also offers provisional daycare For our employees in Darmstadt who are caring for family services to cover times when an employee’s regular childmembers, we provide special seminars and family care care falls through. During school breaks in the German services. Moreover, through our “Family leave” model, we Federal State of Hesse, we host a number of vacation camps offer people throughout Germany the option of taking a focused on sports, art, research, and nature for up to 450 shortor long-term break from work, whether partial or children. We also provide temporary care for sick children. complete. We are thus enabling employees to organize and For up to two days a year, parents throughout Germany can provide care for their loved ones, in line with the German engage the services of an education specialist free of charge Family Leave Act and the German Home Care Leave Act. to look after their children at home. Twice a year, we offer our employees in Germany family Our facility in Mumbai, our main site in India, also has a care seminars on a range of topics. In 2018, these daycare center that our employees can use. In the United addressed work-life balance, the financial and legal issues States, parents can go to www.care.com to find external involved when family members require care, and agechildcare. Furthermore, we offer up to ten days of provirelated dementia and depression. An external associate sional childcare, as well as daycare center slots at special provides advice on all issues relating to family care and rates and home childcare. guides employees in their search for suitable options. In Darmstadt, our company health insurance fund also puts people in touch with nurses and, in the United States, our employees can use the online portal care.com to locate family care services. 89 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Diversity  Part of the non-financial report We are a global science and technology company with employees who represent a varied cross-section of gender identities, nationalities, cultures, religions, and age groups, as well as different sexual orientations. They bring their professional backgrounds, life experience and point of view to the table, incorporating this richness into their work. We believe that a diverse workforce – paired with a respectful corporate culture – strengthens our ability to innovate and contributes significantly to our business success. Our approach to diversity and equal opportunity We are dedicated to creating an inclusive culture that reflects our values and enables every employee to unlock their potential. Our goal is to further drive diversity across our workforce and offer all our people equal opportunities for advancement. Our employee numbers In 2018, we reviewed our Diversity Strategy and revised leaders. Building on this model, we defined six leadership parts of it. Going forward, we will continue to focus on behaviors in 2018, and also started to educate our people promoting women in leadership roles. Because Asian Group-wide on unconscious bias. We endeavor to help markets are becoming increasingly important to us, we leaders recognize and reconsider these thought patterns in have set the new goal of offering better opportunities to their daily routines and interactions as well as their decitalent from the Asia-Pacific region. We are also continuing sion making, ultimately making a lasting change to their to pursue the other goals of our strategy: cultivating an approach. international work environment, taking action against all In 2018, we also expanded a variety of HR tools and forms of discrimination, creating teams with a balanced age software that help leaders manage diverse teams. This structure, and building a diverse base of educational backallows them to quickly and reliably analyze their personnel grounds and experience. and team data in terms of diversity and inclusion, and foster The strategic competencies that guide our employees an inclusive culture that helps all team members contribute. and leaders in their tasks are set out in our Competency Selected data on topics such as diversity are also presented Model, a fundamental element of HR processes such as in this report. recruitment, feedback and training for supervisors and 90 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Women in leadership roles: Requirements and targets At the end of 2018, women occupied 32% of leadership Group Human Resources (HR) has also implemented a roles Group-wide, which means that we exceeded our 2021 number of programs and processes in order to further target of maintaining a 30% representation of women in enhance diversity within the company. In our business these positions. Although these figures are increasing units, work teams assess special requirements and devise a steadily across the company, this is not the case within corresponding course of action. certain business units, Group functions and hierarchical levels. We are therefore working to further increase the Our commitment: Industry-wide initiatives representation of women in leadership positions and in and regulations those business units where they are still underrepresented. In an effort to drive diversity across our organization and To achieve this objective, in 2018 we formed special teams underscore our commitment to fairness, inclusion and responsible for developing goals and measures at a departtolerance in the workplace, we support industry-wide mental level to help us advance female candidates into initiatives: roles in different areas and hierarchies. In the units where the 30% target has been achieved, we are working to In 2017, we adopted the new Inclusion Action Plan of further increase the percentage of leadership positions held the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union by women. In cultivating talent, for instance, we focus on (IG BCE), which sets out concrete measures and provides promoting top-performing women in an effort to place more guidance for creating a more inclusive workforce for women in leadership positions. employees with disabilities. In endorsing this plan, we are meeting the requirements of the United Nations ConvenHow we are making diversity a pillar of the tion on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. company In 2015, we signed the IG BCE Equal Opportunity Charter, Our Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for overseeing thereby promising to do everything in our power to our Group’s diversity strategy and reports directly to Belén achieve gender equality within the company. Garijo, the Executive Board member whose responsibilities In 2013, we endorsed the German industry-wide “Charta include Group Human Resources. Consisting of executives der Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter). ® from all our business sectors and select Group functions, our In 2011, we joined other DAX 30 companies in signing Diversity Council performs four key tasks: a declaration committing to advance women in leadership roles and have been regularly reporting on our progress. It is responsible for implementing our strategy for greater diversity and inclusion. Meeting statutory requirements It evaluates and develops proposals to increase diversity The German Law for the Equal Participation of Women and submitted by our business sectors, Group functions and Men in Leadership Positions in the Public and Private Sector employee-organized networks. has been in effect in Germany since 2015. Owing to our Council members ensure implementation of the Diversity legal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), Strategy in their respective areas, monitoring the this law also applies in part to us. Detailed information can progress of the initiatives. be found on our website. Members act as direct points of contact for the employees Consisting of 37.5% women (six out of 16 members), in their respective areas. our Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of German legislation on the gender quota. Owing to our legal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), we are not required to set targets for our Executive Board. For the two management levels below the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, however, the Executive Board set the following targets in 2016: 91 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees 21% women on the first management level below the Networks to bolster diversity Executive Board of Merck KGaA Creating an inclusive work environment that promotes 26% women on the second management level below the mutual respect is a particular focus of our Diversity Executive Board of Merck KGaA Strategy. We support specific employee networks in order to foster exchange among like-minded individuals. Apart We have set a deadline of December 31, 2021 for reaching from our internal women’s network in various countries, these targets. we also promote networks that further the interests of the LGBTIQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, Intersex, QuesRevealing unconscious bias tioning) community, Afro-American employees and interWe seek to raise awareness for diversity and inclusion national staff. Owing to the acquisitions we have made among our employees. In a bid to educate people on unconin recent years, there has been a steady increase in the scious bias, in 2018 we conducted pilot projects Groupnumber of our employee networks. Going forward, we wide involving a variety of training seminars and plan to roll intend to better leverage the potential of these networks out this training curriculum Group-wide in 2019. Approxto benefit our business activities. Networks with similar imately 380 employees took part in 2018. Through these objectives are to be merged and expanded internationally. workshops, we helped participants recognize unconscious Moreover, we want to help establish leadership structures thought patterns and stereotypes, thereby preventing any within these networks and define their goals. In 2018, the unfair treatment. To support these efforts, in 2018 we networks made great strides in sharing lessons learned and developed a new training concept and accompanying synergizing efforts. programs to drive awareness of unconscious bias across our organization. Our women’s networks offer women within our In 2018, for instance, we rolled out the Job Analyzer, an company a forum to discuss professional possibilities and online tool that helps us maintain gender neutrality when best practices, providing each other mutual support in communicating with applicants. The algorithms assist building their own competencies and advancing their our recruiters and leaders in reducing potential unconscious careers. These networks also seek to identify, consolidate bias during the hiring process. The online tool is currently and maximize synergies between the global groups, tranavailable in English, with a German and French version scending business sectors and hierarchies. currently in the works. Through our Rainbow Network for homosexual, bisexual and transsexual employees, we supported the Promoting women leaders and talent 2018 Christopher Street Day in Frankfurt and Darmstadt We support our business units in their efforts to advance (Germany). As well as taking part, we were the official more female candidates into leadership roles. Since the corporate sponsor of the event in Darmstadt. Since 2016, end of 2017, we’ve been utilizing the Healthy Women, the Rainbow Network has also been active in the United Healthy Economies toolkit, whose guidelines help us identify States and Canada, engaged in activities such as internal methods of promoting the health of our female and external forums. employees. Our U.S.-based Black Leadership Network is dedicated In 2018, we furthermore hosted a variety of events on to advancing and developing African American the topic: employees, offering its members advanced training and continuing education programs, tailored career planning Under our Women in Leadership pharmaceutical initiative, and networking opportunities. we hosted an internal conference for our Healthcare In our Carer Network, we bring together employees leaders based in Darmstadt, Switzerland and the United from across the globe who are caring for family members. States. This workshop aimed to educate people on gender The network helps people share lessons learned and best equality in leadership roles. practices, as well as helping them process the personal Partnering with external organizations, we hosted an and professional experiences that arise every day while event series on “Women in Science and Technology caring for their loved ones. To raise awareness for the Companies”. often overlooked needs of carers, the network also In 2018, our Life Science business sector also organized supports the general mission “Embracing Carers”. 14 Diversity Days. Tapping into external networks In the United States, we sponsored the Big Sisters initiative We are a corporate partner of the Healthcare Businessto commemorate International Women’s Day, a program women’s Association (HBA), a non-profit organization that offers mentoring for young women from underprivcommitted to furthering the advancement and impact ileged communities. Among the mentors are employees of women in the healthcare industry. We encourage our from our company. In mid-2018, we furthermore launched female employees to get involved in this network because an internship program in Italy for women with MS. On it gives them access to mentoring programs as well as the average, women develop multiple sclerosis (MS) twice as opportunity to attend various seminars and conferences at often as men. Unique to this program, it not only provides our global headquarters in Darmstadt (Germany), as well MS patients a stepping stone into the working world, but as in Lyon (France), Lausanne (Switzerland) and Boston also helps us understand their needs and expectations (Massachusetts, USA). Two of our female employees are concerning working life. 92 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees board members of HBA Europe. In autumn 2018, 35 of our To best facilitate this international collaboration, we employees participated in the HBA’s European conference offer intercultural training for all employees along in Berlin (Germany) as well as five female employees in its with suitable online tools. For instance, our Cultural annual conference in Washington D.C. (USA). Moreover, we Navigator helps prepare our staff for international projects were the main sponsor of the HBA’s European Leadership and business trips abroad. We also provide the majority Summit, which was held in Berlin in 2018. of our company-related documents in English, and support In 2018, we also sponsored the Women’s International employees posted to other countries through language Networking (WIN) Conference in Rome (Italy); 16 of our courses and international networks to help them adjust employees attended, with several of them giving talks. The more quickly to their new country. For instance, more than network connects women in leadership roles with the 700 expatriate employees are members of the International aim of helping them gain more influence. In 2018, one Community that meets regularly in Darmstadt. of our female employees participated in the Task Force Summit held by the Center for Talent Innovation in New Addressing demographic change York City (USA). Another issue we are tackling is demographic change. We expect the average age of our workforce to continue to rise Taking action against discrimination in the coming years. In Germany, we are responding to this As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, we do not tolerate any trend with various initiatives including our corporate health form of discrimination within our company. If an employee management program. A case in point is BELS, the tool for feels they have been discriminated against, they can report strain evaluation we use to design ergonomic work spaces the issue via various channels. Their first point of contact that boost performance. BELS accounts for demographic is either their supervisor or one of three Group functions, change by assessing a range of stressors through the namely Human Resources, Legal or Compliance. Alternalens of age. This approach allows us to adapt our worktively, employees can call our SpeakUp Line anonymously places to suit the needs of older individuals. In addition from anywhere Group-wide. Group Compliance is responto modifying physical working environments, we also offer sible for investigating alleged cases, a process coordinated innovative shift models and a prevention program for shift by the Group Compliance Case Committee. In confirmed workers. cases of discrimination, a subcommittee provides a recomIn 2018, our company health insurance fund (Merck mendation for disciplinary action that is implemented by BKK) partnered with our Health Management organization our management team. In this way, we ensure that similar to conduct a year-long campaign entitled “I got a checkcases are dealt with consistently across the company. up”. This initiative sought to educate people about metaDetails on alleged cases can be found under Compliance. bolic syndrome, a combination of multiple risk factors that can lead to serious conditions such as diabetes, heart Successfully integrating international attacks or strokes. To raise awareness for the issue, we employees employed a variety of media such as flyers on mobility, Our company is becoming increasingly international. We nutrition, stimulants, and relaxation, along with an online currently employ people from a total of 136 nations, 24% self-test. In Darmstadt and Gernsheim (Germany), our Site of whom are German citizens. Our leadership (Role 4+) Medical Center offered check-ups for heart attack and includes representatives of 70 nationalities. In 2018, 64% of diabetes risk factors, along with blood lipid, blood sugar, leadership positions were held by non-German employees. body weight, and body composition screening. A total of 900 As of the end of 2018, 74% of our workforce was working employees received a check-up. outside their home countries. 93 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Health and safety  Part of the non-financial report When it comes to the health and safety of our employees, we take our responsibility very seriously, doing everything in our power to safeguard them against work-related illnesses and accidents. With our top priorities comprising issues such as stress prevention, nutrition and mobility, we help our employees prevent acute or chronic health issues through steps that are easy to integrate into their daily work routine. Our approach to preventing accidents and We collect workplace accident data from our sites on promoting health a monthly basis. Every facility is required to immediately We seek to promote the health of our employees and mainreport relevant accidents to EQ, where the cases are investain their ability to perform over the long term, for which a tigated and assessed. If necessary, we implement additional safe workplace is paramount. One of our Group-wide objecsafety measures at our sites. In addition, our German sites tives is therefore to step up our safety culture, with our in Darmstadt and Gernsheim have an occupational safety goal for 2020 to keep our lost time injury rate (LTIR) under committee in place that meets four times a year and makes 1.5. At all our sites, we conduct hazard assessments even decisions on current EHS issues. In 2018, their agenda before a new plant is commissioned to minimize or eliminate included health management along with relevant accidents any potential safety risks to our employees. Furthermore, and incidents. They also discussed the status of the rollwe are working to make workplace health management a out of an IT system for hazard assessment and contingency greater part of our corporate culture and leadership. planning processes. Beyond all these safety mechanisms, In 2018, we developed a key performance indicator our Life Science business sector holds monthly safety calls management system to review the effectiveness of our with all local EHS officers to share lessons learned and occupational health practices and identify opportunities for discuss recommended actions for comparable situations. If improvement. In addition, for the first time we included employees are worried about their health or safety, they are questions regarding employee health in our 2018 Employee encouraged to use our global SpeakUp Line and are moreEngagement survey. The input from this survey is used to over entitled to take a temporary leave of absence. calculate our company’s Healthiness Index, which is due At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health to be published after completing the analysis in 2019. The Management unit helps weave health awareness into our index should reflect the general state of health of our corporate culture. The appropriate strategy, individual focal employees. areas and measures required are developed by an interOur health projects are tailored to the needs of our disciplinary steering committee consisting of various senior employees. In 2018, we refined our objectives, creating a leaders such as the head of Occupational Health & Safety, roadmap for the next several years that will concentrate the chairman of the Works Council, the head of Health on shift work, office work, mental stress, and demographic Management, and the production heads of our business change, as well as analyzing key disease occurrence inforsectors. Meeting six times a year, the topics discussed mation to draw up appropriate measures. We regularly evalinclude workplace health fundamentals, good leadership uate the success of our individual efforts. and tailored health programs. On top of their usual tasks, some of our production How we manage occupational health and employees at our sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim are also safety responsible for health matters. After completing a training Our Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) course, these health partners act as a liaison between our Group function is responsible for our Environment, Health employees and Health Management, providing a channel and Safety (EHS) management system. Since October through which they can voice their ideas and suggestions 2018, this unit has been reporting to Executive Board for workplace health management strategy and initiatives. member Belén Garijo, who took over the position from Since our production employees have shown great appreWalter Galinat on his retirement at the end of September ciation for these health partners, we have decided to start 2018. EQ sets objectives, oversees global initiatives and introducing this practice in other departments as well. conducts internal audits, while local EHS managers ensure that each individual site adheres to occupational safety Our commitment: Policies and bylaws laws and regulations. All new EHS managers are required Our approach to occupational health and safety is detailed in to complete EHStart-up!, a three-day orientation held in our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. Darmstadt that covers topics such as occupational health This is an integral part of our EHS management system, and safety as well as our BeSafe! safety culture program. which undergoes an external OHSAS 18001 audit every year. 94 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Our Group Health Policy defines how we ensure workClear rules of conduct place safety for our employees while also promoting their Experience shows that most workplace accidents can be health and welfare. This document details our Group-wide prevented by proper conduct. Through our “BeSafe!” approach to safety and health management as well safety culture initiative, we are working to educate our as our comprehensive behavioral modification program to employees on dangers in the workplace and provide them prevent workplace accidents and occupational diseases. One with rules of conduct that help keep them safe. All produccomponent of the policy is our Global Wellbeing and Health tion and warehouse sites have now been incorporated into Promotion Framework, which describes the differing the program. 60% former Sigma-Aldrich facilities have likerequirements in a wide array of countries. Our individual wise implemented BeSafe! since being acquired by our sites are responsible for performing local workplace risk company in 2015. The rollout at these newly acquired sites assessments and hazard analyses. will continue until 2020. At most of our sites in Germany, we work in partnership In 2018, we conducted awareness campaigns across with employee representatives to craft comprehensive the Group as part of our BeSafe! program. For instance, bylaws on occupational health and safety. Our Employee we once again used a video in German, English and Spanish Care bylaw defines processes such as employee care to increase employee awareness in a bid to further bolster conversations, which help our leaders to promptly identify our safety culture. The video forms part of our BeSafe! health risks and mental stress in their employees. In 2017, training and is also available on our Intranet. In 2018, this bylaw was extended by an additional three years. Introwe translated the video into Chinese, French and Japanese duced in 2017, our Occupational Integration Management in order to reach more of our employees in their local bylaw governs the procedure for protracted employee language. In addition, several subsidiaries again held safety illness and applies to all our facilities in Germany. This bylaw competitions. To underscore the importance of safety, in aims to help keep the employee’s position open while also 2010 we launched the Safety Excellence Award, which is helping to prevent adverse health impacts after their return presented annually to all production sites that have no to work. workplace accidents on record for the year. In 2018, 62 of 90 facilities achieved this honor. Furthermore, we conducted Renewed safety certification two refresher courses on key content from our BeSafe! In 2018, we inspected and recertified the safety manageprogram, as well as occupational safety training in individual ment systems at all our Performance Materials production countries in accordance with the statutory requirements and sites. The Healthcare facilities at our Darmstadt site were specific risks of each country. It is the responsibility of each also recertified, along with those of other units. Furtherfacility to conduct this training. more, our Life Science facilities in Bangalore (India), Buchs (Switzerland), Irvine and Haverhill (both in the United Workplace health management Kingdom), and Jerusalem and Rehovot (both in Israel) once At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health Manageagain obtained OHSAS 18001 certification. Also in 2018, our ment unit conducts an array of campaigns and programs to site in Arklow (Ireland) was incorporated into our Group promote the health of our workforce. These activities are certificate, meaning that 31 of our sites are now OHSAS based on health indicators derived from sources such as 18001 certified. At 30 of these sites, 100% of employees the health report issued by our company health insurance are covered by a certified safety management system, with fund, evaluations from our Site Medical Center and, since such a system including around 70% of employees at our 2018, our employee surveys. We utilize the findings in the Darmstadt facility. The certification process helps us creation of prevention programs tailored to specific pinpoint weak areas, identify opportunities for improvement target groups or facilities. Moreover, our Health Manageand take suitable measures. Other sites are also required to ment unit offers specific health programs such as mindfulapply this standard. ness courses and workplace ergonomics consultation. Along In 2020, we plan to migrate to the new ISO 45001 these lines, we have a standard procedure in place for certification guideline, which will replace OHSAS 18001. continuously assessing the working conditions and environment, making state-of-the-art updates wherever needed. If Accident rates other sites express interest, our Health Management unit The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used will advise on potential improvements or health programs. to assess the success of our safety efforts. This figure When requested, we also provide local consultation and measures the accidents resulting in at least one day of operate campaigns by means of an internal service contract. missed work per one million man-hours. We track the LTIR Since 2013, Site Catering at our Darmstadt facility has for both employees and temporary workers. Having held the “Job&Fit Premium” certification from the German achieved the target we set in 2010 for a 2.5 LTIR, in 2015 Nutrition Society e. V. (DGE). To obtain this certification, a we set a new ambitious goal of permanently lowering this strict set of regulations regarding food selection and meal figure to 1.5 by 2020. After all, we believe that nothing is planning must be met. In 2018, we received the Dr. Rainer worth an accident. In 2018, our LTIR was 1.3. The majority Wild Prize for the design and realization of our new of incidents resulting in lost time were slips, trips and falls, employee cafeteria in Darmstadt. In particular, we were along with accidents involving the operation of machinery praised for the variety and balance of the food on offer, and equipment. In 2018, there were no fatal accidents. as well as for our Job&Fit certification. This prize recognizes outstanding projects, individuals and initiatives that support 95 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees and raise public awareness of healthy eating. We also offer Training in mobile gyms a variety of nutritious options for our staff at our other sites. In September 2018, we launched and started expanding Our employees have access to a health catalog detailing the Training Island project, which centers around mobile our Health Management services in both English and gyms located in renovated buses. Featuring state-of-theGerman. Created together with our Social Counseling and art equipment and experienced trainers, participants can our Site Medical Center, it contains information on work out close to their office twice a week for twelve ergonomics, nutrition, stress, and mental health issues. minutes. The program was designed in particular to prevent We hold the “Excellence” certification for our Germanymusculoskeletal disorders and to motivate employees to wide health management efforts. Sponsored by BKK exercise. In addition to working out, participants can also Dachverband e. V., this certification is granted in recogreceive an individual consultation on topics such as food nition of companies that have implemented exemplary and nutrition, while screening at the beginning and end of health management programs and met the quality criteria the project highlights personal successes. Initially available of the European Network for Workplace Health Promotion to Life Science and Performance Materials employees, the (ENWHP). training islands will be open for a period of twelve months. Our program to minimize chronic back pain is an In 2018, 300 employees made use of this offer, with 450 integral component of our workplace health management already having registered for 2019. efforts in Darmstadt and Gernsheim. This initiative, which also takes mental health factors into account, is offered Weight Watchers at Work for shift workers in units with demonstrable need, such as a relatively high From April to July 2018, 31 Life Science and Performance number of employees suffering from these sorts of sympMaterials shift workers in Darmstadt and Gernsheim took toms. In 2018, we ran the program over a period of seven part in the Weight Watchers at Work – Shift program. Run weeks at our site in Gernsheim, with 17 logistics employees by Weight Watchers and redesigned in partnership with our taking part in an effort to prevent their back pain from Health Management, our company is the first to test this becoming a chronic issue. Held weekly, the 90-minute program. Aimed at employees with a body mass index (BMI) sessions focused on various topics such as exercise, selfequal to or greater than 25, which is considered overweight, management and relaxation. We also offered one-on-one Weight Watchers coaches provided in-depth seminars on telephone coaching sessions. making healthy nutritional choices and leading a more Beyond this initiative, throughout Germany we offer active lifestyle. The course was offered at the workplace our employees services such as our Fit@Merck company and focused particularly on living and coping with shift work, fitness program, which provides them with up to € 195 with the schedule planned around the participants’ shifts. per year towards health prevention classes. In Darmstadt As well as attending seminars, employees could download and Gernsheim, we furthermore run a company sports the Weight Watchers app to scan the bar codes of packaged program that currently features 25 different activities such food and find out its nutritional information. This tool also as tennis, volleyball, strength training, triathlon, yoga, and provides tips on losing weight and contains thousands of bouldering. healthy recipes. On average, participants lost seven kiloIn an effort to improve our workplace, we regularly grams during the program. analyze the ergonomics of individual workstations, implementing appropriate measures as required. Our workers Testing and supporting our employees also receive training on occupational ergonomics Our Physical Ability Test and Health Preservation process tailored to specific areas, whether manufacturing, office ensures that all employees meet the health requirements work or the laboratory. Moreover, we conduct wellness for their particular tasks. This test helps us implement programs at many sites, for instance the Industrial Athlete targeted intervention as necessary. Program (IAP) we offer to our Life Science employees in Our Travel Health & Medical Advisory Service assists our Danvers (Massachusetts, USA). Open to all workers who employees who spend a lot of time abroad on business, wish to improve their general and physical wellbeing providing them with recommendations on necessary vaccithrough exercise in small groups, this initiative proved very nations and advice on hygiene risks. popular and was attended by 60 people in 2018. Starting in 2019, we will be expanding the services we offer to include individual personal training sessions. This will be aimed in particular at employees with a medical certificate from a physician, but also shift workers who aren’t able to take part in group courses. 96 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Employee engagement  Part of the non-financial report As a science and technology company, we are always looking for new solutions and constantly working to evolve our approaches. Motivated, curious employees are key to our ability to innovate, and therefore also to our success. However, we also need a corporate culture that broadens our employees’ knowledge and skills, one that creates exciting opportunities and encourages them to take a proactive role in shaping the development of our company. Open feedback from every individual helps us pinpoint the areas where we can do better. Our approach to engagement charitable activities that are offered or supported by our We strive to create a work environment that empowers our company. employees to truly think outside the box. An environment that is conducive to developing ideas, seeking creative soluUnderstanding our employees tions and discovering new market opportunities. To better To give us a better sense of the situation within our company engage employees, we have set clear goals and defined the as a whole and to benchmark against our competitors, we steps necessary to achieving them. conduct Group-wide employee engagement surveys on an We seek to understand the needs of the people who work annual basis. These surveys provide a platform for employees, for us and therefore regularly conduct employee surveys, managers and executives to engage in a regular dialogue, either Group-wide or within individual countries, businesses sharing ideas and experience. The 2018 employee engageor projects. These surveys help to facilitate communication ment survey revealed that 61% of employees feel engaged at between leaders and employees and show us ways we can work, with around 45,000 people (86%) having taken part. In improve. Moreover, they are paramount to a company culture response to the 2016 survey, in 2018 we continued a series that values dialogue and employee input. of measures to improve our work environment, which focused on our IT infrastructure as well as our recruiting and How we engage our employees onboarding processes. Engagement and Inclusion, a unit within our HR organization In addition to taking the pulse of our workforce, we responsible for areas such as employee engagement and continued work on our Science Network project. Due to the diversity and inclusion, creates and oversees our employee broad positioning of our company, we do not have a central surveys. research and development organization that unites expertise In addition to conducting employee surveys, we regularly across our businesses. In building the Science Network, our include local employee representatives in our decisionprimary aim is thus to accelerate the exchange of innovative making processes. Within Germany, 13 of our subsidiaries ideas and facilitate collaboration among all our R&D employees. have employee representation, while in Europe 27 of our One of the components of the project is the Continuous Perforsubsidiaries have employee representation bodies across eight mance Dialogues held between 1,300 employees and their countries (Austria, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the Nethersupervisors in order to align performance and potential lands, Spain, and Switzerland). In addition, 63% of all our appraisals with research and development needs. Merck KGaA employees are subject to collective agreements. Local works councils as well as a Group works council repreEncouraging and rewarding innovative ideas sent our employees, discussing topics such as compensation, Our company has a long tradition of rewarding ideas. In 1853, working hours and organizational realignment. The Senior we became the first industrial company in the world to introduce Executives Committee represents the interests of our top a contractual bonus for employees who made suggestions leaders, while the Euroforum represents our employees at the for improvement, and approximately 60 years ago we set European level. Focusing on the economic situation, employdown bylaws stipulating principles and rules for our ideation ment rates and significant changes within our company, this efforts. Our idea management program seeks to inspire our body covers all EU countries as well as Switzerland and employees to think creatively and encourage them to contribute Norway, although not all countries have their own delegate. to the continuous evolution of our procedures and processes. We reward all ideas that are successfully implemented by Our commitment: Corporate Volunteering offering employees a bonus based on how much the suggestion Guideline enhances our processes or cuts down our costs. At the end of 2018, the Executive Board adopted a GroupIn 2018, our employees submitted approximately 1,500 wide guideline governing volunteer work, which grants our suggestions for improvement via our Germany-wide employees up to two days of paid leave per year to volunteer. ideation program. These ideas are expected to yield around This time can be used to support the local community through € 1.6 million in cost savings in the first year. As a reward for 97 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees their proposals, our employees received around € 300,000 in At the end of 2018, 22 project teams were hard at work bonuses. in the Innovation Center, where they have access to a maker In addition to rewarding good suggestions, we also reguspace. Equipped with the resources to quickly develop protolarly hold a Group-wide innovation competition called types, this space is also open to all our other employees. Innospire that allows employees to submit ideas for new Besides taking part in our Innospire competition, employees products, services and business models. Through this compefrom around the world wishing to get involved at the Innovatition, we target ideas in specific areas such as biointerfaces tion Center can apply for a three-month think tank program and biosensing, enablers of precision farming, and artificial that will allow them to drive innovation beyond our existing intelligence. However, we also welcome ideas outside of these businesses. By analyzing current trends and technologies in target areas. In 2017, nearly 900 ideas were submitted. After select fields of innovation, the program aims to generate new choosing the top eight proposals at the end of 2017, we ideas and initial business plans for innovation projects. held a boot camp in 2018 with the aim of developing these Four think tanks were held in 2018 and focused on topics from ideas in a quick and agile manner. In May 2018, each team areas such as biosensing and interfaces, liquid biopsy techpresented its project to the Executive Board. Three winners nologies, and clean meat. were then chosen, whose ideas were incubated at our InnoBeyond facilitating cross-collaboration and creativity, the vation Center in Darmstadt. Along with the three winning Innovation Center team regularly conducts events, workproposals, a further three projects from our Healthcare and shops, seminars, and webinars. Through these channels, we Life Science business sectors were selected. introduce our employees to innovation methods such as Besides Innospire, we annually present awards in recogdesign thinking and working out loud, which have proved very nition of outstanding ideas, teamwork and projects. In popular. 2018, the Executive Board presented four teams consisting in total of 34 employees with awards in the categories of PerforKeeping employees informed and mance, People, and Technology, along with a special CEO encouraging dialogue Award. Projects were submitted Group-wide by 80 teams from We keep our employees up to date and encourage exchange various countries, Group functions and businesses. through a number of formats tailored to specific target groups. On top of these mechanisms, all employees have the Take, for instance, our international collaboration platopportunity to submit ideas related to human resources to form EVA or our international employee magazine “pro”, our HR innovation campaign, with a total of 146 proposals which is published in seven languages and is available in digital submitted in 2018. The ideas are evaluated by a jury of top format as well as an app. “pro” has a readership covering more executives from our various business sectors, who then select than 90% of our approximately 52,000 employees worldwide the two most interesting approaches to be further explored in their local language. Several subsidiaries also publish local and advanced by interdisciplinary teams. A prime example of editions of “pro”, for example in Germany, Korea, Mexico, and such a proposal is the “Ad@m” project, a chatbot developed to Russia. In addition to these formats, a variety of newsletters support standardized workflows. is also published by our business sectors. Above and beyond our internal initiatives, we also collabOur collaboration platform EVA encompasses our global orate with the nonprofit organization TED, one of the most Intranet for all subsidiaries and business sectors and furtherdistinguished global platforms devoted to developing new more consolidates numerous collaboration applications in one perspectives and innovative ideas. Through this partnercentral location. EVA ranks as one of the most important ship, we aim to share ideas worth spreading with the world. internal communication media – second only to e-mail – In November 2017, we joined forces to host TED@Merck in receiving approximately 1.89 million hits per month. In 2018, London, an event featuring talks that have since been watched we rolled out software that automatically translates news in online by more than eight million people. In November 2018, 22 languages, thus facilitating digital participation and worldwe again hosted a TED event, this time in Darmstadt. Entitled wide understanding. “The Art of Possibility”, ten of our people from a pool of 110 Moreover, we publish articles on EVA and host various applicants presented their ideas. events to raise employee awareness of corporate responsibility issues. In 2018, for instance, we ran an internal Making room for ideas: Our Innovation Center communication campaign entitled “You’re part of it”. In addiin Darmstadt tion, employees had the opportunity to engage in community Over the last several years, we have undergone a major evoluoutreach through our 350 Good Deeds project. tion and grown through acquisitions. We are now transforming our site in Darmstadt into a global headquarters that will Deepening employee engagement bolster our ability to innovate, enabling us to respond flexibly SPARK is a global volunteer program in which our Life Science to growth while also reflecting our corporate identity. employees conduct scientific experiments with school children Opening its doors in early 2018, our Innovation Center is around the world in an effort to ignite a passion for science the heart of our global headquarters. Replacing the previous in the next generation. Benefiting both urban and rural modular innovation center, this new facility gives our schools, this initiative also gives our employees the opportuemployees room to explore their creativity by joining nity to pass on their knowledge. You can find more informainterdisciplinary teams and collaborating on pioneering tion on SPARK as well as our myriad education projects in projects – all with the aim of cultivating new businesses that the communities in and around our global headquarters under transcend our existing ones. Community involvement. 98 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees Good leadership  Part of the non-financial report We believe it is essential for our leaders to develop and grow so that they can lead all employees Group-wide to the best of their ability. Within our company, many teams collaborate across sites and international boundaries. While the variety of skills, strengths and experience these teams bring to the table creates great potential for our leadership to leverage, global collaboration too plays an increasingly important role in the development of our next generation of leaders. Our approach to good leadership strategies, our 360 degree feedback tool, and career Our strategic competency model describes core compemanagement services. It applies to all employees but partictencies that should underpin the conduct of employees of ularly to our leaders, who act as role models and are thereall levels. Our six core competencies are Purposeful, Futurefore key to building employee buy-in for the competency oriented, Innovative, Results-driven, Collaborative, and model. In addition, the model defines the leadership culture Empowering. In our day-to-day work, they play an importhrough which we intend to grow our business. Building on tant role in our success. This model provides the foundation this model, in 2018 we defined six leadership behaviors that for all development activities within our HR work, including outline the way we expect our leaders to act. leadership and management programs, talent development Our Competencies 99 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Employees During career advancement discussions, employees and senior executives take classes on management techniques supervisors review specific growth and development needs, and strategic business development. To date, a total of 397 as well as the progress of development measures. Through executives have completed this program. employee surveys, our people moreover have the opportuAnother initiative we have been offering our up-andnity to evaluate various factors such as leadership quality coming leaders since the 1990s is our International within our company. Management Program, where participants work on an interdisciplinary project over a period of eight months. The How we facilitate good leadership results are then presented to the Executive Board. In 2018, We expect our leaders to be attuned to the needs of our 26 of our employees took part in this program. diverse workforce and therefore provide them support in In addition to these various programs, we partner with the form of resources and data. At the same time, they universities across the globe to enable our employees to can access transparent feedback through specially develobtain qualifications such as an Executive MBA. oped tools in order to track the impact of their decisions. In 2015, we launched a Growth Markets Management Program (GMMP) covering business administration topics Management and talent programs for leaders and content specific to our company for local leaders in In recent years, we have initiated three programs to Africa, China, Latin America, and the Middle East. enhance the skills of our people managers. The By the end of 2018, 59% of our people managers rated Managerial Foundation Program imparts the basics of leadRole 3+ had taken part in one of these management and ership, such as communication techniques, leadership talent programs. styles, conflict management, motivation, and emotional intelligence. The Advanced Management Program covers Leveraging growth market potential topics such as change management, self-reflection and In 2018, six of our employees successfully completed resilience. In addition, it teaches coaching methods that “Afrika kommt!”, a one-year scholarship offered by the help leaders transition from their first management role to German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) that positions leading cross-functional and international teams. trains young experts and leaders from Sub-Saharan Africa. The third initiative is our Global Leadership program, which In supporting this initiative, we aim to build a pool of focuses on competencies needed to ensure successful interregional partners to encourage economic cooperation national collaboration. In 2018, the Managerial Foundation between Germany and Africa. 17 former scholarship and Advanced Management programs were offered at recipients are now working for us in various specialist and several of our sites worldwide, while the Global Leadership leadership positions, some of them in various countries in program was held in Germany and the United States. Africa and others in Darmstadt. Nine new candidates were Since 1999, we have been partnering with top interchosen for the seventh round of “Afrika kommt!”. They took national universities to offer an international and modular up their positions at our company in November 2018. Merck University program. Over a period of ten months, 100 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Environment Within this chapter: 102 Environmental stewardship 110 Water management 105 Climate action 113 Plant and process safety 108 Waste and recycling 115 Biodiversity 101 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Environmental stewardship  Part of the non-financial report As a science and technology company with manufacturing operations, our activities have an impact on the environment, generating air emissions, wastewater and waste. Even the materials we utilize could adversely affect the environment if not handled properly. To mitigate these impacts, all our sites meet a strict set of environmental regulations and continually adapt their processes to new regulatory requirements. Moreover, due to the growing scarcity of natural resources, we attach great importance to using energy, water and materials efficiently. Our approach to environmental stewardship Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. Internal standards are Minimizing negative environmental impacts and taking meanapproved by the head of EQ. While standards provide an ingful climate action requires a holistic approach. Our goal is to operational framework, guidelines present an overarching diligently monitor detrimental emissions into the air, water and outline of our company’s position on a specific issue. soil and try to prevent them wherever possible. How we structure our environmental stewardship practices On October 1, 2018, Belén Garijo took over from Walter INFO Galinat as the Executive Board member with responsibility for environmental governance, a remit that also covers climate impact mitigation, water management, waste and OUR EQ GROUP FUNCTION recycling, and plant and process safety. Our Group function (“ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY, Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) is in SECURITY, QUALITY”) charge of steering all related ecological efforts Group-wide. Responsibilities of Group Governance and At our individual sites, each site director is responsible for Service Unit Environment, Health, Safety, environmental stewardship as well as occupational safety at Security, Quality (EQ) the operational level. At larger facilities, the site directors Develop and maintain Group EG strategy receive day-to-day support and advice from Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) managers, with EHS coordinators Performance of environmental and safety performing this role at smaller facilities. These local EHS audits organizations report to and work hand in hand with EQ. Compliance audits to review adherence to In 2018, our EHS organization comprised more than 200 standards EHS managers – supported at the local level by other Implementation of EQ management systems personnel. Our Group function EQ conducts annual EHS semiConducting EQ improvement programs nars at our various sites. All new EHS managers are required to complete EHStart-up!, a three-day training course held at our Consulting for investments, process developglobal headquarters in Darmstadt that covers topics such as our ment and acquisitions Rapid Incident Report System (RIRS, see below), energy effiConducting training programs ciency and climate impact mitigation, wastewater, occupational Responsibilities of local operating units safety and process safety. with competencies at local sites: The EQ leadership meets with the Executive Board on Wastewater treatment a regular basis, usually once a month, to report on their environmental stewardship efforts. Every six months, EQ Waste management provides the Executive Board with a report on environEnvironmental analysis mental, health and safety issues that also covers climate Plant safety impact mitigation, water management, waste and recycling, Occupational health and safety and plant and process safety. The report focuses on our current progress, documenting and assessing the work EHS Fire protection/risk prevention has accomplished. The Executive Board utilizes this brief as Approval procedures a source of information and as documentation to support ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 certification. Our Executive Board is moreover responsible for approving internal guidelines such as our Environmental, 102 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Clearly defined incident reporting procedures is to better recognize and counteract health hazards in We have established a variety of reporting procedures (EHS the workplace. In addition to these efforts, in 2018 we Leading Rate) to review critical situations, near misses and introduced the Sustainable Water Management Standard. environmental incidents as quickly as possible and take Composed of two parts, it replaces our Water Protection corrective action. These procedures allow us to track the Standard and details wastewater discharge control and respective incident, its degree of severity and all risk mitimonitoring, water use analysis and protective measures gation efforts. All incidents are logged Group-wide and against rainwater risks such as contaminated rainwater. reported to the Executive Board every six months. In the event of major incidents, our Rapid Incident Material investments in environmental impact Report System (RIRS) promptly notifies the Executive mitigation Board, our EHS Group function and Group Communications. Preventing and monitoring air, water and soil emissions Such incidents may include fatalities, accidents with involves large expenditures on the part of our company, as multiple casualties, or injuries and damage that occur does proper waste disposal. Moreover, we have set aside beyond our premises, but also environmental disasters such provisions for groundwater and soil remediation to as earthquakes or floods. Through the RIRS, we can coorensure our ability to execute all measures required. In dinate the responses of all those involved and inform other 2018, our provisions for environmental impact mitigapotentially impacted sites immediately. To make the RIRS tion totaled € 137 million, 94% of which was attributable faster and more effective, we migrated to an online version to Merck KGaA. Neither these environmental indicators nor of the system at the end of 2018. the ones appearing later on in the report reflect data from our Consumer Health business. This is due to the fact that Our commitment: Standards and standard this business was transferred to Procter & Gamble as of operating procedures December 1, 2018 and, pursuant to IFRS 5, was classified Our approach to environmental stewardship is built on our as a discontinued operation as of April 2018. Group-wide EHS Policy (Corporate Environment, Health and Safety Policy), which has been endorsed by the ExecParking lot remediation completed utive Board. This policy is closely aligned with the stipulaIn 2018, we completed our ten-year project to deconta® tions of the chemical industry’s Responsible Care Global minate a parking lot at our Gernsheim site. The scope of Charter, as well as with the environmental management the environmental remediation required turned out to be standard ISO 14001, and emphasizes the responsibility of significantly greater than originally anticipated. During the our leadership toward environmental stewardship, health decontamination work, we removed hexachlorocyclohexane and safety. Moreover, it addresses our suppliers, encour(HCH) residue from the soil under the parking lot and propaging them to adopt similarly enhanced standards erly disposed of it using external incinerators. governing environmental sustainability and safety. In doing so, our Corporate EHS Policy complements the Responsible Assessing environmental impacts and Sourcing Principles of our Group Procurement function. reporting violations The principles of our EHS policy are implemented In general, we conduct risk-based assessments along with through internal guidelines, standards and standard operinternal and external audits on all our production faciliating procedures. For instance, our Group EHS, Security ties every three years with the goal of analyzing and miniand Quality Manual describes how we organize environmizing our environmental footprint. Conducted by EQ, these mental stewardship and occupational safety across assessments serve to ensure that our requirements are the company. In addition to this manual, we have put being met. As needed, we use the results to define a suitin place a number of other internal standards that govern able course of action. In addition, grievance mechanisms environmental stewardship such as our Air Emissions Stanare in place to identify potential violations of our requiredard, Waste Management Standard and Energy Managements. In 2018, our corporate EHS audits rated 80% of ment Standard. the 40 sites audited as “good” or “satisfactory”. We assess Potential EHS risks posed by acquisitions, divestments performance on a five-tier scale: “excellent”, “good”, “satisor site closures are assessed through due diligence, a factory”, “poor”, and “critical”, which in turn determines process defined in our EHS Due Diligence and Post Merger how frequently an audit is conducted. If the findings are Transaction Standard. During audits, new sites are given deemed to be good, a facility will undergo audits less often, priority. while significant violations can increase the frequency. We regularly review our internal guidelines, standards Aside from using audits to identify issues, we also and standard operating procedures. In 2018, we revised encourage employees to report potential violations of our and introduced multiple standards and processes. For standards to our Compliance unit. All of these violations are instance, we updated our Office and Field Service Safety reported to the Executive Board. In the 2018 period, we Standard to increase our focus on safety in areas beyond recorded no significant violations of environmental laws or our production facilities. We also adjusted our Occupational regulations Group-wide. Hygiene Standard. In making these improvements, our aim 103 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment ISO 14001:2015 Group certificate Every year we contract a third party to perform a certiSince 2009, our company has held a Group ISO 14001 fication audit. In 2018 a sample of ten sites underwent certificate, which means that all production sites with more and passed an ISO 14001 audit, while two facilities were than 50 employees must implement the requirements of newly incorporated into the Group certificate. Furthermore, the certificate. Other facilities are not obligated to implewe conduct internal audits to ensure compliance with our ment an ISO-certified environmental management system. requirements. New sites must gradually establish a corresponding environmental management system with predefined indiStakeholder dialogue cators for factors such as greenhouse gas emissions and By participating in a variety of industry associations, we water use, as well as obtaining ISO 14001 certification. exchange information and ideas on environmental issues. The annual internal audit reports and management reviews In 2018, for instance, we took part in discussions between carried out as part of the Group certificate afford us a better the German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI) and overview of how all our sites are performing. German legislators on eliminating the thermal value criteria. Until the end of 2018, our company chaired the VCI plant 81 safety working group. Additionally, we contribute to the dialogue on plant and process safety in our capacity as a member of the European Process Safety Center and the Commission on Process Safety of the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building, and Nuclear Safety. Since 2018, we have also of our sites worldwide are currently covered by the ISO been involved in a multi-stakeholder dialogue to develop the 14001 certificate. Trace Substance Strategy of the German federal government to protect aquatic ecosystems. Furthermore, we engage residents in the vicinity of our sites in discussions on issues of local relevance. 104 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Climate action Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of the 21st century. Because our operations also generate greenhouse gas emissions, we endeavor to reduce these emissions to mitigate our impact on the climate, a course of action expected by our customers and stakeholders. Although stricter regulatory requirements may lead to planning and investment uncertainty, burgeoning regulations and rising energy costs are making climate impact mitigation an increasingly smart investment. Our contribution to climate protection We know that efficient energy management plays a We are taking action to mitigate our impact on the climate. major role in climate impact mitigation and is also becoming Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas increasingly important to our customers. With this in mind, emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) by 13 of our sites have decided to obtain ISO 50001 certifica20% relative to the 2006 baseline, an objective set by the tion, the international standard for energy management. Executive Board in 2009. Scope 1 covers emissions that we Our company is subject to a wide array of national and produce ourselves, for instance by burning fossil fuels to international energy and emissions regulations such generate power, while Scope 2 pertains to emissions from as the German Energy Conservation Act and the German the consumption of purchased energy, such as electricity or Renewable Energy Sources Act. Our activities are also district heating. governed by EU Directive 2012/27/EU, which stipulates that Across the globe, 40 of our sites account for roughly relevant companies must establish energy management 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions, which is why we are systems and regularly audit their energy consumption. The focusing our efforts here. sites subject to these requirements are responsible for Energy conservation represents a key component of implementing them and furthermore undergo audits our climate impact mitigation activities. By adapting and conducted by internal or external experts. updating our technology, we are improving the energy effiThe revised EU Emissions Trading System took ciency of our R&D operations, our production processes effect in April 2018, establishing a legal framework for and our buildings. Just as important for climate impact mitiinstallations covered by this system for the fourth phase gation is the reduction of process-related emissions. of the trading program (2021 – 2030). Going forward in Furthermore, we are working to lower the emissions phase four, we foresee having to purchase the emissions resulting from energy generation. Where financially viable, allowances that we are still largely obtaining for free during we additionally make use of renewable energies to generate phase three (2013 – 2020). our own power. Slight increase in energy consumption How we structure our climate impact We used 2,232 gigawatt hours of energy in 2018, versus mitigation efforts 2,194 gigawatt hours in 2017. Our energy intensity relative Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, to sales totaled 0.15 kWh/€ in 2018. Quality (EQ) is responsible for globally overseeing all climate impact mitigation efforts (see also Environmental Emissions lowered despite growth stewardship), with each of our sites handling the actual Despite growth in our operating business, we managed to implementation of the specific measures. reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 11% relative to the 2006 baseline. We thus lowered our process-related Our commitment: Standards and legal emissions from 111,000 metric tons in 2017, to 95,000 frameworks metric tons in 2018. In 2018, we emitted 698,000 metric Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) stantons of CO2 equivalents, versus 704,000 metric tons in dards on energy management and emissions from coolant 2017. Greenhouse gas emission intensity amounted ensure that energy and process-related emissions are to 0.047 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales in this period. managed consistently across the Group. We audit our EHS Between 2006 and 2018 we more than doubled our processes at random to verify compliance with all EHS stansales, which means that, relative to sales, our emissions dards. dropped significantly. 105 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons) (Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline), the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions and divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). Because it was divested in 2018, emissions from the Consumer Health business are no longer included in these figures. Strategic climate program and generated 136,000 kilowatt hours of power in 2018, Since 2009, all our measures to improve energy effireducing our emissions by roughly 37 metric tons. ciency and reduce process-related greenhouse gas emissions have been housed under our strategic Edison Educating employees about climate impact program. Within this framework, our Group function EQ mitigation collaborates with a working group comprising representaWe encourage our employees to do their part to preserve tives from all our business sectors. Any site can propose a the climate and regularly report on our Group-wide project to curb CO2 emissions. climate action efforts in our EHS newsletters while also Through the more than 360 Edison projects initiated providing helpful information and tips on our Intranet. Moresince 2012, we aim to save around 177,000 metric tons of over, we support employees who prefer greener modes CO2 annually in the medium term. Since 2012, these efforts of transportation. For instance, we constantly update our have conserved approximately 89,000 megawatt hours of leased vehicle pool with more efficient models so as to energy in total, primarily from electricity. reduce the average carbon emissions of our fleet GroupBy the end of the year, we had implemented or launched wide by 30% by 2020, relative to 2013. 34 of the 48 Edison projects approved for 2018. These initiatives are expected to achieve savings of around 75,000 Subsidies for our employees metric tons of CO2 in the medium term. As in previous In January 2017, we lowered the CO2 emission rate for years, we also accepted new project proposals. newly registered Merck KGaA company cars from 150 g/ In 2018, the efficiency projects underway focused on km to a maximum of 135 g/km. We are currently in the optimizing air conditioning and ventilation systems, using process of updating our vehicle emissions limits to the new and optimizing electric motors, and energy generation at requirements (test cycle). At our German subsidiaries, we installations mainly located in Germany, the United States offer a subsidy of € 100 towards monthly lease payments to and Switzerland. employees who opt for a greener car model. In 2017, the Executive Board approved a roadmap for The average emission rate of our company fleet in achieving the remaining savings needed to meet our climate Darmstadt and Gernsheim is 122 g/km, with about 15% of target, and in 2018 they made the decision to purchase the fleet being electric. more power from renewable sources in an effort to achieve In the United States, we provide our people with finanthis objective faster. cial incentives to choose greener options. For instance, they receive up to US$ 1,000 in subsidies towards the construcInvesting in renewable energies tion of a private solar power unit and up to US$ 100 towards Globally, we utilize photovoltaic plants with a total output an energy audit for their home. They are also eligible for of approximately 2,500 kilowatts. In 2017, we installed a as much as US$ 3,500 towards the purchase of a hybrid or solar voltaic system at our site in Burlington (Massachuelectric car. To date, we have helped 55 of our employees setts, USA). It has an installed capacity of 182 kilowatts install solar panels and motivated 361 employees to switch to a hybrid or electric car. 106 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Recharging facilities at our sites bike free of charge for the first half hour. Deutsche Bahn, Our company fleet in Darmstadt and Gernsheim includes the German national rail company, has set up further rental 23 electric vehicles (as of December 2018) that our stations all around our sites in Darmstadt, and in 2018 we employees can use for business purposes, but we also sponsored 100 bikes in the city. want to encourage our workforce to use electric cars in their private lives. To this end, our Darmstadt headquarters Switching to sea freight offers ten charging stations in the employee parking garage In an effort to lower greenhouse gas emissions resulting that recharge electric vehicles using green electricity. from the transport of our products, we utilize sea rather Furthermore, this site has six additional charging stations than air freight whenever possible. However, this is only and 15 charging boxes for departmental vehicles. Over an option for products that survive protracted transport the next several years, we intend to continually expand times undamaged, and we cannot allow the quality of the charging infrastructure at our German and European customer service to suffer due to lengthy transport. The raw sites. Charging is processed via a payment platform called material mica, for instance, is transported primarily by ship. eCharge. Employees already registered on the platform also have access to a network across Germany featuring 6,000 Transparency regarding CO2 emissions and charging stations across 740 cities. energy consumption In 2018, we installed eight new charging stations in The organization CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure the United States and Switzerland. In the United States, we Project) assesses the ways in which companies are working now offer 43 such stations to our employees at 11 sites to minimize the risks and consequences of climate change, nationwide. Moreover, we have ten charging stations availalong with their success and strategy for doing so. The able (as of December 2018) at our sites in France, Ireland rating scale used ranges from A to D-, with A being the and Switzerland. top score. In 2018, we received a C (B in 2017). The lower rating is attributable to several factors, including our failure Jobticket and carpooling to make progress on our ambitious emissions target in the We offer our workforce in Darmstadt a “Jobticket”, an reference period. annual subscription to use local public transportation whose Since 2008, we have been reporting in detail on our cost we partially cover. In 2018, more than 5,800 climate impact mitigation efforts as stipulated by the CDP. employees made use of this option. Our people also have We track our greenhouse gas emissions in line with the access to an online tool that helps them organize carpools. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, an internationally recognized standard, reporting on Scopes 1 and 2 as well as parts Bike sharing in Germany of Scope 3. Regarding Scope 3 emissions, we only track At our German facilities, we also encourage our people to emissions from business trips and employee commuting, use eco-friendly forms of transport through “bike4me”, from waste management, and from the manufacture and a program enabling them to lease a bike at special rates transport of fuel. Besides these emissions, we also measure with payments coming out of their pre-tax income. In 2018, energy consumption at our sites. However, this does not 161 of our employees signed up for the program. include energy use outside our field of activity such as raw Furthermore, our employees can also use the Deutsche materials production, as we do not have sufficient data Bahn Call a Bike service throughout Germany and borrow a available to perform these complex calculations. 107 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Waste and recycling Waste contains valuable raw materials that can be reused in the production stream. However, it can also pose risks to the environment, so we consider it fundamental to both prevent and recycle as much of our waste as possible. Our approach to waste and recycling fostering interactions and promoting best practice sharing We work to both limit the loss of raw materials and minimize on waste management. In addition, these groups of experts the environmental impacts of our waste disposal processes. are responsible for further integrating waste scoring into our To this end, we have set the goal of reducing the ecological company practices. impact of our waste by 5% by 2025 (relative to the 2016 Waste management is part of our Group-wide ISO baseline). 14001-certified environmental management system. As well We generally try to prevent waste, for instance by develas undergoing external certification, we also conduct oping new production processes or optimizing existing ones. internal EHS audits to review our waste management pracSince this is not always feasible, whenever possible we tices. Moreover, in an effort to ensure Group-wide compliendeavor to reuse the accrued waste to produce materials ance with our environmental standards, we regularly host or generate energy. Through our Waste Scoring System and activities such as EHS forums and conferences to keep our its objectives, we are supporting the circular economy. By local EHS managers and site directors informed on various employing measures such as waste separation, for instance, waste disposal issues. we ensure that raw materials are recycled, and that unrecyclable waste is discarded in an environmentally Our commitment: Group-wide EHS standard sustainable manner in line with the strictest waste disposal Our Group-wide EHS Waste Management Standard provides standards. In doing so we comply with local legal requirea consistent framework for waste management ments, taking into account the available disposal options. across all our sites, defining organizational structures and minimum requirements. It moreover stipulates that all facilResponsibility for the waste disposal process ities document their waste by type and quantity, reporting As a generator of waste, we are responsible for the ultimate this data to EQ. In 2018, we revised this standard to further disposal of our waste products and therefore choose our reinforce the requirements for achieving our waste disposal service providers with the utmost care, contractually stiptargets. ulating disposal requirements. Each of our vendors must prove that they have properly discarded our waste, and Award for our Waste Scoring System we perform random audits to verify their compliance with At our company we use a variety of methods for recycling our disposal standards, especially when it comes to and disposing of waste, each of which has a different impact hazardous substances. on the environment. To account for these impacts in our waste reduction efforts, in 2016 we created a Waste Scoring How we organize our waste management and System that allows us to compare the amount of waste recycling activities our individual sites are producing and monitor our various Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, waste streams. Under this system, the volume of waste is Quality (EQ) bears overall responsibility for our waste assigned to one of five categories according to how it is management and recycling activities, while our EHS discarded (see diagram) and then multiplied by a factor that managers are in charge of implementing our guidelines increases based on the disposal method’s environmental and requirements at our individual sites (see Environmental impact. The sum of the scores of each category provides the stewardship). In 2018, we established both a Group-wide total Waste Score of our company. and a U.S.-based Waste Expert Network Group aimed at 108 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment All sites are expected to do their part to reduce waste. The Preventing waste: Sharing instead of discarding Waste Score excludes construction and demolition debris, In April 2018 we launched the online platform Troc@Merck along with waste from water treatment plants, because such at our site in Corsier-sur-Vevey (Switzerland). Using this platwaste inherently has clearly defined disposal methods that form, departments can procure consumables, devices and prodcan rarely be circumvented. ucts that other departments were planning to throw away. By In 2018, we were awarded third place for our Waste involving all our employees at the site in this project, we are Scoring System in the regional Responsible Care also raising awareness on waste minimization. competition. Organized by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), this year’s competition centered around Preventing waste: Reducing filter waste “Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals”. In 2015, we switched our multi-step filter process for photoresists to a single-step process, thus decreasing filter Clear target for reducing the environmental waste by 50%-70%. Since 2017, this process has become impacts of waste standard at all our facilities involved in photoresist filtering. In 2017, we calculated our Group-wide Waste Score for 2016. Taking this as a basis, in 2017 the Executive Board Reycling: From production waste to valuable adopted the goal of reducing the environmental impact of compost our waste by 5% by 2025. To achieve this objective, we At our site in Molsheim (France), since 2017 we have been constantly examine our production processes and disposal making a concerted effort to achieve our waste disposal methods to identify potential areas for improvement. In target by composting all solid media waste from production 2018, we furthermore established two Waste Expert activities instead of incinerating it. This method involves Network Groups that meet regularly to discuss best pracfilling biodegradable bags with the solid media waste and tices, thus facilitating Group-wide exchange among our shipping them to a local composting facility, where the sites. In addition, these expert groups are responsible for waste is mixed with vegetable and green waste. Once integrating waste scoring into our company practices. turned into compost, it is used by municipalities and individRelative to 2017, the amount of waste we produced uals. This method is set to reduce the amount of incinerated in 2018 decreased slightly, coming to 247 metric kilotons. waste by 80 metric tons annually. Construction and demolition debris continue to account for the majority of our total waste – 31% in 2018, and 36% in Recycling the solvent methanol 2017. In particular large quantities of such waste material At our site in Darmstadt, we have initiated various was generated by the remodeling of our global headquarters processes to prevent waste and recycle materials. In 2018, in Darmstadt, a process we completed in 2018. for instance, a solvent recycling process enabled us to recycle 211 metric tons of methanol, which is generated in the manufacture of excipients for cosmetic products and the amino acid glycine. 109 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Water management Worldwide, the number of areas suffering from water scarcity is on the rise, yet our various facilities are dependent on a regular supply of water. At the same time, legislation governing water conservation is growing increasingly stringent. Our wastewater may contain traces of substances such as heavy metals or pharmaceutical active ingredients, which makes sustainable water management a key focus of our environmental stewardship. Our approach to sustainable water overall responsibility for water management. At our indimanagement vidual sites, our engineers work closely with our EnvironFor us, sustainable water management means not negament, Health and Safety (EHS) managers to implement tively impacting the aquatic ecosystems from which we water conservation and wastewater treatment measures. obtain freshwater, or into which we discharge purified wastewater. Our commitment: Standards and guidelines To bolster sustainable water management practices, we In 2018, we replaced our EHS “Water Protection” standard use an assessment tool from the European Chemical with two new Group-wide EHS standards: “Sustainable Industry Council (Cefic) to evaluate water management Water Management Part 1 – Waste water” and “Sustainable practices and progress at our facilities. Based on this Water Management Part 2 – Water use and stormwater assessment, our sites draft a list of steps that need to protection”. These two new standards detail the way we are be taken and implement them gradually. This often brings integrating modern mechanisms of sustainable water best practices to light which are then shared throughout the management into our management system. Both are company. based on the commitments we have made under the global ® In addition, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing Responsible Care initiative. Guided by the “Waste water” our water consumption at sites in water stressed standard, over the next several years our company will be areas by 10% by 2020. To lay the groundwork for this rolling out a method of assessing our wastewater discharge undertaking, we are systematically analyzing our water data into the ecosystem. The “Water use and stormwater protecutilizing tools such as the Water Risk Filter of the World tion” standard sets out Group-wide requirements for the Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) and the Aqueduct Water Risk responsible stewardship of water as a resource. It moreover Atlas of the World Resources Institute (WRI). These instruestablishes a way for us to manage the risks that arise ments help us determine, for instance, whether a site is from direct or indirect water abstraction. The standard even located in a water-stressed area, i.e. those regions where covers risks such as contaminated rainwater and flooding. the demand for water exceeds the amount available. Through internal audits, we verify compliance with our stanHowever, we also encourage efficient water managedards. All our sites are required to measure and assess ment at facilities in areas of low or moderate water stress, the risks and impacts of the hazardous substances in their which is why we are expanding our best practice sharing wastewater. They are moreover committed to handling platform for sustainable water management. This tool water responsibly and to analyzing water abstraction and provides examples of successful measures and enables our rainwater risks. EHS officers to share ideas and lessons learned. In addition to these measures, we are optimizing our At the same time, it is our responsibility to minimize production and purification processes to minimize the the impact of our wastewater across all our sites, which is amount of pharmaceutical active ingredient residue in our why our regular EHS audits review site-specific water wastewater. What’s more, all our pharmaceutical manufacmanagement practices at our production and developturing facilities have wastewater treatment plants and regument facilities. larly assess the composition of their wastewater. Our water management efforts focus more heavily on our manufacturing sites than our administrative facilities Water from our own sources because they have the greatest potential for impacting local For the most part, we draw our process water from our own aquatic ecosystems. wells and drinking water from local suppliers and never do anything to compromise sensitive water sources. However, How we organize our water management in the course of our sustainable water management activiactivities ties, we keep an eye on trends that could potentially lead to Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, sources being reclassified as sensitive. Quality (EQ) (see also Environmental stewardship) bears 110 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment 3 1 Water abstraction (millions of m ) 2018 1 Excludes Consumer Health The cooling water used for our production processes genermust transparently report their water use and identify ally runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory stanthe process steps that require a particularly high volume dards and the energy footprint, we sometimes use freshof water. In response to this information, we execute water in a once-through cooling system. For certain applicameasures to help our individual facilities lower their water tions, we treat production wastewater and reuse it. In 2018, consumption. we reused a total of 24.4 million cubic meters of water. This approach applies to our manufacturing sites in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del Vallès (Spain), Kankakee New standards and comprehensive analyses (Illinois, USA), and Norwood (Ohio, USA), which consume To reach our water management targets, in 2018 we intromore than 30,000 cubic meters of water per year. At these duced two new standards – “Sustainable Water Managesites, we aim to achieve a 10% reduction in annual water ment Part 1 – Waste water” and “Sustainable Water use by 2020, relative to 2014. The same goes for our facilManagement Part 2 – Water use and stormwater protecities in Savannah (Georgia, USA), Hsinchu and Taoyuan tion”. (both in Taiwan), which are at increased risk due to local We enforce the Flagship Self-Assessment of the Eurogroundwater conditions or seasonal water scarcity. By the pean Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and utilized it to end of 2018, we had curbed our water use in water-stressed survey our sites’ water management practices in 2016 and areas by approximately 10.8%. In 2018, our site in 2017. In 2018, we evaluated this data and started assessing Savannah (Georgia, USA), for instance, cut water use by the environmental impacts arising from our discharged 3% by optimizing the pigment washing process in the local water. We constantly analyze the findings from these pressure drum filters. Our facility in Mollet (Spain) installed assessments to take specific steps at individual sites as a filter system that prospectively will reduce local water use needed. by 3% thanks to improved water circulation. Curbing water use Grading of our water management practices We seek to minimize our impact on the water situation at In addition to reporting on our climate action efforts, since our sites. In 2018, we consumed 14,7 million cubic meters 2016 we have also been reporting water-related data to the of water in total, with 883,213 cubic meters originating CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). This initiative in water-scarce areas. Sites in areas of high water stress collects environmental data from companies once a year, 111 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment evaluating their processes and performance on a scale from of the Rhine River. In 2018, we discharged a volume of A to D-. In 2018, we were awarded a “B-” for our water water representing approximately 4% of the average annual management practices (2017: B). discharge of Schwarzbach-Ried Creek. We constantly work to meet the increasingly stringent quality regulations set Water protection measures in India forth by law, coordinating our efforts with the respective We also implement measures to minimize our adverse authorities. impacts at sites not located in water-scarce regions. Our manufacturing facilities in India, for instance, abide by a Continuously monitoring wastewater zero-discharge policy that requires used water to first be The two sustainable water management standards we introtreated before being drained back into the soil. Furtherduced in 2018 also cover the topic of wastewater. We are more, we collect rainwater at our Bangalore site and let it in the process of implementing a method that will lay the seep back into the soil as well, thereby helping stop the groundwork for a comprehensive wastewater assesswater table from sinking further. ment. Our individual sites are responsible for identifying the corresponding areas of improvement and must also comply Our wastewater with the respective requirements imposed by local authoriIn 2018, we generated 13.6 million cubic meters of wasteties. water, consisting of around 9.7 million cubic meters of freshwater wich we directly discharged into surface Antibiotic residues in wastewater waters, and 3.9 million cubic meters of other water, wich We process antibiotic active ingredients on a small scale. afterwards was treated by external treatment plants or The wastewater generated from these activities is subject discharged through other disposal methods. Approximately to an additional purification process before being discharged 50% of our total wastewater was discharged by four sites. into the environment. In 2018, we conducted a systematic, Our Gernsheim site in Germany discharges its purified Group-wide assessment of our ecological impacts from wastewater into the Rhine, our Savannah (Georgia, USA) manufacturing and handling antibiotics. As a follow-up, we facility into the Savannah River and our Onahama site in inspected the wastewater pretreatment facility at our site Japan into the Pacific Ocean. The wastewater generated in Mollet (Spain). The analysis revealed that on site, antibiat our Darmstadt site is purified in our treatment plants otic residues are below the detection limit, meaning that the before being fed into Schwarzbach-Ried Creek, a tributary wastewater has a high degree of purification. 112 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Plant and process safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of our plants and processes is a key element of our environmental stewardship efforts. This approach allows us to protect both our workforce and the people in the vicinity of our sites. Furthermore, high-performance safety systems help minimize production errors, which in turn lowers the risk of financial losses. Our approach to plant and process safety a project as well as the manner in which hazards should be We seek to eliminate manufacturing hazards wherever identified and documented. possible in order to prevent workplace accidents, production The 2012 EU directive on the control of major accident outages and chemical leaks. We train our employees reguhazards involving dangerous substances (aka Seveso III) larly in an effort to minimize human errors and also to was transposed into German law at the end of 2016 and detect technical defects before they have a chance to cause entered into force on January 14, 2017. Numerous amenddamage. ments to this directive have affected regulations such as the German Hazardous Incident Ordinance (aka 12th How we organize our plant and process BImSchV). In response to these amendments, in 2017 we safety updated the existing processes and documents on the Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, assessment and communication of potential hazards Quality (EQ) oversees plant and process safety within our posed by our production plants and warehouses. On company (Environmental stewardship), while at the operarequest, members of the public may access our revised tional level this responsibility falls to our individual sites and safety documentation at any time. We furthermore fulfill our their EHS managers. Fire protection is paramount to the obligation to keep the public informed through forums such safety of our plants and processes. as neighborhood meetings, where residents learn about the We conduct internal EHS audits to review the safety of potential hazards of industrial accidents, common accident our plants and processes. During this process we also evalscenarios, and the measures needed to prevent or mitigate uate selected suppliers based on criteria such as purchasing their consequences. Further information is contained in our volumes, type of incoming raw materials and geographic Hazardous Incident Brochure, which we update on a threelocation. If we identify technical or organizational deficienyear basis and send to approximately 17,000 households in cies pertaining to occupational and plant safety, our vendors the vicinity of our Darmstadt site. The brochure is also availare obligated to rectify them, as are our own facilities, able on our website. with the auditor verifying whether the specified corrective actions have been taken. Keeping a close eye on safety Our EHS performance indicators make it possible to Our commitment: Standards and legislation measure safety and identify opportunities for improvement. All our sites are subject to the same requirements for plant We track EHS performance indicators at all our production and process safety as set forth by our Group-wide EHS Plant and warehouse facilities, as well as at major research sites and Process Safety standard, which describes the safety such as Billerica (Massachusetts, USA) and Chilworth rules for all production plants and warehouses. This docu(United Kingdom). In doing so, we record both accidents ment encompasses the entire life cycle of a plant from and near misses. We investigate each individual incident cradle to grave. Before commissioning a plant, we draft a before devising appropriate countermeasures in an effort to safety concept that is subject to continuous review and, prevent such accidents from repeating themselves in the when necessary, updated until the facility is decommisfuture. sioned. This concept contains an overview of potential risks When it comes to performance indicators, we attach and the corresponding protective measures. particular importance to the EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR) Our Group-wide EHS Spillage Control standard governs for recording and evaluating all minor and major incidents, the handling of hazardous materials and stipulates orgaalong with the associated Loss of Primary Containment nizational measures to prevent toxic substances from (LoPC) indicator. Also important is the EHS Leading Rate spilling or leaking during storage and transport. In addition (EHS LR), which is calculated based on an analysis of near to this standard, our Risk Management Process guides all misses and critical situations. our sites in identifying and assessing risks. As needed, this In 2018, the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) process can be used to develop and implement measures and the International Council of Chemical Associations to minimize such risks. Since 2016, the Group Procedure (ICCA) jointly resolved to tighten the reporting threshHazard and Operability Study has clearly defined the indiolds of incidents such as near misses. We expect that this viduals responsible for pinpointing potential hazards during will result in more incidents being reported going forward. 113 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment In collaboration with our individual business sectors, we In 2018, we recorded no significant incident-related spills have defined specific targets for our EHS performance indiacross all production, research and warehouse sites. cators. The Executive Board receives semi-annual reports detailing the progress of these indicators. Risk Management Process Our Risk Management Process guides all our sites in idenEHS Incident Rate tifying and assessing risks. As part of this process, for Since 2013 we have been tracking the EHS Incident Rate, instance, we conducted a comprehensive audit of our an indicator that synthesizes the following four categories of Performance Materials site in Suzhou (China) following its data: acquisition in 2014. We subsequently took steps to address the shortcomings identified in the audit, all of which we the number of workplace accidents involving our successfully completed in the course of 2018. employees and the contractors who work at our sites environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the Training and sharing lessons learned European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and the The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), for instance the successful interaction between man and machine, product spills which is why it is crucial for us to educate our employees the activation of operational safety precautions with no and provide them with regular training. Our internal continadverse impact on people or the environment, such as uing education programs for site, production, engineering, preemptive systems shutdowns and EHS officers also cover plant and process safety. Likedeviations identified during external reviews and audits wise, we also train newly hired EHS managers in plant and process safety during their onboarding. In 2018, 23 new The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the employees completed the onboarding process. number of incidents and the severity of the event relative In the interest of improving safety, it is extremely to the number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS important to share best practices and lessons learned, Incident Rate, the safer the site is. an approach that enables all our production sites to learn 3.1 from incidents at other facilities and thereby implement preventive measures. Once a month, for instance, site directors and EHS managers participate in safety leadership calls to share new lessons learned. Additionally, regular discussion rounds are held by the EHS managers at our sites. was our EHS IR in 2018, which represents a slight decrease compared to the previous year’s result (2017: 3.4). 114 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Environment Biodiversity The increasing loss of biodiversity is a global challenge that impacts our company as well. After all, we depend on ecosystems for natural resources such as raw materials. Prime examples include red algae (Polysiphonia elon® gata), whose cytoplasm is used in our cosmetic active RonaCare RenouMer, and the seeds of the common ® poppy (Papaver rhoeas), whose extracts can be found in our cosmetic active RonaCare Poppy SE. We therefore have a vested interest in preserving and promoting biodiversity. Our holistic approach to preserving company, for instance, the Nagoya Protocol plays a key role biodiversity in our product development efforts, and we always apply Across all our sites, we consider the ecosystems in our the agreement’s requirements when using genetic resources immediate vicinity with the goal of minimizing our direct originating in countries covered by the protocol. impacts. With these considerations in mind, our wide array of environmental sustainability efforts such as water Nagoya Protocol and access and benefit sharing management and climate action help conserve biodiversity. We are highly vested in implementing the Nagoya Protocol. Our own production sites are located in established A key part of this agreement is access and benefit sharing, industrial and commercial zones. Before acquiring a which ensures that countries providing genetic resources company – and thus its sites – we first conduct an ecological – generally developing nations – also benefit from their risk assessment, taking into consideration information from use. In 2018, we developed processes aimed at systempublic sources such as neighbors and non-governmental atically assessing instances of access and benefit sharing organizations (NGOs). and dealing with them according to common standards. In addition to these efforts, we implemented further requireHow we preserve biodiversity at our sites ments of the Nagoya Protocol, establishing a Group-wide Our efforts to protect biodiversity are organized by our standard that details our approach to genetic resources Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, originating in countries covered by this agreement. Quality (EQ) (Environmental stewardship). In designing new sites and plants, we always include our Environment, Health Biodiversity at our sites and Safety (EHS) unit, which is responsible for reviewing Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants the ecological aspects of a project. EHS is on hand to assist and animals. At our facilities, however, we are required all sites with support and advice, and furthermore performs to seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals detailed environmental impact assessments for large-scale ending up in the ecosystem. We are working to increase projects. the percentage of unsealed surfaces insofar as safety requirements permit. Our commitment: Standards and agreements Our Darmstadt site is a prime example of our commitSubstances that compromise biodiversity should not end up ment to preserving biodiversity. We conduct regular assessin the environment, which is why we design and operate ments of our facilities there to evaluate the site’s nature our plants in accordance with our Group-wide safety and conservation efforts, using the results to help develop an environmental requirements. For instance, our Corporate action plan for improving the surrounding ecosystem for Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards define the plants and animals. For instance, we have created places way we manage waste and wastewater treatment as well of refuge for insects and reptiles, and around 30% of the as how we ensure plant safety. To minimize our impact on premises (0.4 square kilometers) have now been greened. the environment, we furthermore adhere to internal stanEcologically friendly spaces are not a new idea for us, having dards governing air emissions, water protection and energy developed a green open space concept for our Darmstadt management. site as early as 1995. Moreover, we have worked with the The Nagoya Protocol is an international supplementary City of Darmstadt to draft a planning guideline that stipuagreement to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity lates the ecological optimization of our site’s green areas. In (CBD), which was transposed into German law in 2015. The addition, we survey the environment around potential aims of the CBD include the conservation of biodiverconstruction sites to assess the respective flora and fauna sity and the sustainable use of its components. Within our situation there. 115 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community Community Within this chapter: 117 Community involvement 121 Broad Minds 119 Global Health 116 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community Community involvement We take on social responsibility. Focusing especially on those areas where we can best leverage our expertise, we support health, education and cultural projects. Moreover, we provide disaster relief and assist people in need in the vicinity of our sites and in the countries where we operate. Our approach to community involvement of the Merck Family Foundation. This organization takes Across all our facilities worldwide, we are deeply committed on social responsibility by supporting projects that bring to supporting our communities. In selecting social projects, benefits to the people in the vicinity of our sites, focusing we choose initiatives that align with our strategic focus on healthcare and education, promoting citizens’ initiatives, areas, namely Global Health and Broad Minds. development cooperation, intercultural understanding, and We are particularly determined to facilitate access to non-profit objectives. The foundation moreover cooperates health for all citizens worldwide. To do so, we take a multiwith government and scientific institutions as well as pronged approach that includes an array of health projects nongovernmental organizations, and especially furthers aimed at strengthening communities. In pursuing these projects that our employees are privately involved in. efforts, we apply our competencies, knowledge and experience in the health industry, joining forces with dependable Our commitment: The principles of our partners to provide people with the help they need. community involvement We view scientific education as a key component of We align our projects with our Group Policy on Contributions culture and vice versa. Education can help us understand to Society, which defines community engagement for our culture, but culture can also build a bridge to education; company along with the objectives we pursue. This policy it can stimulate curiosity, nurture creativity and even inspire also provides our business sectors and subsidiaries with a scientific discovery. We therefore sponsor cultural initiatives framework for structuring their respective activities. Moreand support a number of educational projects aimed at cultiover, it sets out roles and responsibilities, emphasizing that vating the next generation of scientists. As part of these our activities should have a long-lasting, positive effect efforts, we deploy our expertise to encourage and inspire on the community. With this in mind, we focus our efforts curious young people who share our passion for science and on long-term projects. technology. In 2018, the Executive Board adopted a new Group-wide Our activities are intended to have a positive, longCorporate Volunteering Guideline, which grants our people lasting effect on the community. We therefore promote up to two days of paid leave per year to volunteer in initiamany long-term initiatives, which is an approach that tives that are either run or supported by our company. We strengthens our relationship with our stakeholders and hope that this guideline will encourage even more of our helps reinforce our social license to operate. employees to get involved in the community. How we structure community support 350 years – 350 good deeds th Our Group Corporate Affairs function monitors Group-wide To mark our 350 anniversary, in 2018 we launched 350 community outreach and oversees a portion of our activGood Deeds, a campaign under which we conducted more ities, including the Praziquantel Donation Program, the than 350 charitable activities in 60 countries worldwide – Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF) and the Deutsche Philparticularly in the direct vicinity of our facilities. The aim harmonie Merck. Beyond these Group-wide efforts, our of this campaign was to demonstrate our social commitbusiness sectors also run their own projects such as our ment and give something back to the communities in which educational initiative SPARK, while several of our health we operate. At the same time, it was intended to enhance initiatives in lowand middle-income countries operate employee engagement and bolster team spirit by involving under the auspices of the Merck Foundation. Furthermore, employees around the globe in our community outreach our regionally focused activities are planned and executed efforts. In selecting social projects, we chose initiatives that by our local subsidiaries, who choose for themselves the aligned with our strategic spheres of activity, namely Global focus areas of our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy Health and Broad Minds. However, we also supported envithey would like to support. ronmental projects and provided assistance to people in The Merck family has also long been committed to philneed. The 350 good deeds were chosen by the responsible anthropic work, with its activities falling under the umbrella employees at our individual sites. 117 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community More than 350 charitable activities in 60 countries worldwide Actively participating in more than 60% of the projects, our tion. These two organizations assist people with disabilities employees showed their support by donating their time as and were chosen by the employees who participated. well as money and supplies. Another way they got involved Hand in hand with the Manos Abiertas foundation, we was by voting for their favorite projects, with the four most support an orphanage in Argentina, funding the maintepopular receiving additional funding from our company. nance of the facility along with equipment to meet the chilIn 2018, we spent a total of around € 36 million on dren’s everyday needs. Together with our employees, we community involvement. This figure does not include contrialso donated food, school supplies, clothing, and toys butions from the Merck Foundation or initiatives that in 2018. Our people moreover visited the center regularly primarily served to market our products. to spend time cooking and painting pictures with the children, or to celebrate occasions such as birthdays, Easter or Examples of our 350 Good Deeds engagement Christmas. The good deeds promoted through our anniversary We supported similar volunteering activities in other campaign covered a wide range of issues, an intentional countries, and many employees have donated items such as choice since the campaign reflected the diverse interests books, toiletries and food to social facilities. One example is of our employees. In particular, these activities addressed the Give Back Days held by our people in France. During our th local needs and challenges that our people are 350 anniversary year, they launched two on-site donapassionate about and which they deemed to be worthy. tion drives, the first for clothes and children’s books and th the second for toys and hygiene products as well as canned During our 350 anniversary year, our employees in Poland took a fitting and unique approach toward commugoods, collecting an impressive 1.2 metric tons of food in nity involvement. All the community activities they pursued total. The items were then donated to eight local charities. in their free time were counted and as soon as the number You can read more about the 350 Good Deeds initiatives reached 350, we made a financial donation to both the F84 under “Broad Minds” and “Global Health”. Autism Spectrum Disorder Society and the AVALON Founda118 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community Global Health We use our expertise to support health initiatives all over the world, particularly concentrating on promoting local healthcare infrastructure, providing vocational training and continuing education for medical professionals, and educating people on health issues. Our commitment: The principles of our familiarization with progressing medical treatment methods, community involvement all of which ultimately benefits patients. As with the other ways we support the community, we align In 2018, we supported more than 50 Continuing Medical our health activities with our Group Policy on Contributions Education (CME) programs offered by 17 independent to Society. In addition, health initiatives are also governed medical education providers, and we newly designed 12 by our Healthcare business sector’s policies and our Access Merck Medical Education Programs. More than 320,000 to Health Charter which was updated at the end of 2018. healthcare professionals participated via e-learning platWe calculate the value of our pharmaceutical donations forms and in-person courses. according to the World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines for Medicine Donations. Health education in India: Fighting anemia together Volunteering in health initiatives In India, more than 50% of all women suffer from anemia. As part of our 350 Good Deeds campaign, in 2018 many of As part of our Healthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative, our employees around the world committed to supporting we launched the Swasth Nari Sashakt Parivar (healthy health initiatives and institutions. For example, several woman, healthy family) program in March 2018, joining hundred employees from ten countries participated in forces with the non-profit organization Doctors For You. running, cycling, paddling, and hiking events to boost Reaching almost 4,800 women in Mumbai aged between 18 awareness of diseases such as breast cancer and multiple and 35, the program tested them for anemia and offered sclerosis, as well as to raise funds for charitable health nutritional counselling and medical treatment for initiatives. those with low hemoglobin. Unique to this initiative, the Our employees were also involved in renovating and nongovernmental organization not only treats anemia, but decorating healthcare facilities. In Brazil, for instance, 50 also offers skill development courses to the women underof our employees helped remodel a hospital in São Paulo going treatment. Starting in 2019, around 100 women who that specializes in the treatment of breast cancer and is a have shown improvement and demonstrated an interest in point of contact for women who have experienced sexual advancing their skills will be able to train as a cosmetician or violence. Our people painted the walls of the chemotherapy a seamstress. This opportunity encourages all participants reception area and the outpatient clinic using materials to care for their health and stick to the treatment cycle. provided by our company. In Germany, we support the Dr. Mildred Scheel hospiDisease awareness in Brazil tality house in Greifswald by donating supplies and Since rare cancer types are often detected too late and pose providing manpower. Creating a sense of warmth and wella serious threat to the health of individuals, we want to being, this facility provides a place where the families of drive the conversation on these diseases and raise awarechildren with cancer can stay during the difficult treatment ness for early diagnosis and treatment. To this end, in phases. In April 2018, our employees helped expand and 2018 we partnered with the Brazilian non-profit “Instituto enhance the grounds around the facility. On World ChilVencer o Câncer” to launch a joint social media awareness dren’s Day in June 2018, we also helped out at the organicampaign on rare skin cancer types. Going beyond social zation’s summer festival. media, we supported an event in Brasília to inform citizens about rare forms of cancer. Taking place at the same time Educational initiatives for healthcare as a public hearing on the subject, it was attended by more professionals than 500 guests and served as a platform for healthWe are dedicated to improving medical care around the care professionals to share their knowledge. Initiated in world. Every year, our Global Medical Education and June 2018, a local forum on rare cancers complemented our External Relations unit initiates and supports a multitude efforts to bring healthcare professionals and other stakeof educational initiatives for healthcare professionals. This holders together. includes funding educational programs through independent To raise awareness for the neurodegenerative disease third-party providers, as well as leading the development multiple sclerosis (MS), around 20 employees in Brazil orgaof scientifically and clinically relevant programs. In nized a roadshow featuring an MS mini-simulator and addidoing so, we advance the knowledge of healthcare profestional interactive information, touring four states in 30 days. sionals, sensitize for clinical disease patterns and encourage Visitors had the opportunity to take a virtual journey through the brain of a patient to better understand the 119 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community disease and the challenges patients face in their everyday bikes can travel faster than standard ambulances in high life. More than 1,000 visitors tried out the mini-simulator. In traffic, thus ensuring quick treatment of patients. addition, employees traveled around three Brazilian states Since 2014, we have also led the River Ambulance with an MS suitcase that lets carers of MS patients experiProgram in India in association with the non-profit organience living with the condition. The suitcase contained items zation Narmada Samagra. The River Ambulance transports such as gloves that make it difficult to zip clothes and toothhealth workers and provides healthcare solutions to local brushes that can create a tingling sensation in the limbs. populations living in the remote region along the Narmada To raise awareness of colorectal cancer, we presented River. our Giant Intestine Exhibition in March 2018 in Brazil. Featuring an inflatable model of the organ large enough for visitors to walk through, the exhibition provided audiovisual information on the human intestine, with more than 1,100 people attending. INFO Further educational health projects can be found under “Health awareness”. IMPROVING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE Improving access to healthcare in THROUGH THE MERCK FOUNDATION Madagascar and India The Merck Foundation is a non-profit organizaThrough the AR-MADA initiative in Madagascar, we are tion with limited liability that aims to improve reaching patients who have inadequate or no access to the health and wellbeing of people and advance effective and affordable medical care. Six times a year, their lives through science and technology – volunteer doctors travel to different regions of the island to especially in developing and underserved distribute medicines free of charge and help by providing regions. It is the only foundation of Merck KGaA expertise. We assist the initiative with money and donaand since 2017 has been overseeing many of tions. In addition, one of our employees travels there every our philanthropic activities. Its efforts are year to support activities. In 2018, more than 30,000 primarily focused on improving access to innovpatients benefitted from the project. ative healthcare solutions in underserved Emergency medical care is also a challenge in some communities, building healthcare and scientific remote parts of India, which is why we are working with research capacity and empowering people in several local non-governmental organizations to overcome STEM, with a special focus on women and this issue. In 2018, for example, Merck in India donated 15 young people. motorbike ambulances to the Ministry of Health in the To read more about the Merck Foundation’s federal state of Goa. The bikes are equipped with emerprograms and impact, please visit www.merckgency medical care kits and located at strategic sites across foundation.com. the state’s major cities. Managed and operated by GVK EMRI, a not-for-profit partner of the Goa government, these 120 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community Broad Minds Underpinned by a longstanding tradition, the promotion of education and culture is a core element of our commitment to society. By making education and culture accessible, we nurture characteristics that are essential to us as a high-tech company, namely creativity, enthusiasm for new discoveries, curiosity, and the courage to transcend boundaries. To tap into these key drivers, we sponsor educational and cultural initiatives at many of our sites, grant scholarships and facilitate learning in specific subjects. Our commitment: The principles of our stadt area. In an effort to leverage these lessons learned community outreach and apply them to other countries, we initiated a pilot When it comes to supporting creativity and inspiration project in India in 2017, with subsequent projects launched within our communities, we align our efforts with our Group in Chile, Kenya and Tanzania in 2018. Building on the expePolicy on Contributions to Society, which is detailed under rience from the pilot, our endeavors here focus on providing Community involvement. teachers with the tools to design exciting lessons that will spark their students’ curiosity in science. To date, 100 Promoting education worldwide people have taken advantage of this continuing education We are committed to igniting a passion for science, espeprogram. We are working closely with education experts to cially among young people, which is why we have been develop the lesson concepts. Thanks to their knowledge of supporting initiatives such as the “Jugend forscht” compethe cultural landscapes in the respective countries, we can tition for more than 35 years. In 2018, we hosted the adapt experiments to local environments and introduce our nationals for the third time. Themed “Jump! #ThinkNew”, technologies as well as those of our partners. The projects the contest attracted 182 young scientists from across conducted in collaboration with the Kenya Chemical Society Germany. We have also been organizing the state-level provide a good example of this approach. Utilizing a simple competition for the German Federal State of Hesse since education concept for fourto six-year-olds (“Finding out 1996. with Fred”), these experiments require little preparation, combine imaginative stories with STEM education, and can Junior Labs at the Technical University be performed with inexpensive materials that are easily Darmstadt, Germany available locally. We encourage young people to come to our Junior Labs and explore their scientific curiosity. Linking classroom lessons SPARK: Igniting a passion for science in the with trending topics and modern methods of research, the next generation initiative encompasses different focus areas. For instance, As part of our global volunteer program SPARK, employees we partner with the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt around the world from our Life Science business dedicate to operate a junior laboratory for chemistry, with approxitheir time and expertise to engage school children in handsmately 2,500 students conducting research over the course on learning. The goal is to ignite a passion for science of 2018. We also run the “livfe BioLab”, where in 2018 more and inspire them to consider a STEM-related career. SPARK TM than 1,000 pupils performed biology experiments under activities include our Curiosity Labs program, which professional guidance. educates students through exciting, hands-on science lessons. We also offer tours of our production sites, career Continuing education for teachers and panel events and more. In addition to providing materials expanding school partnerships for interactive lessons, we collaborate closely with educaAs part of our school booster program in Darmstadt tion experts around the world to ensure that SPARK aligns (Germany) and the surrounding area, we helped approxwith specific local requirements and complements existing imately 70 schools conduct experiment-based science curricula. projects in 2018. Additionally, around 1,500 students visited In 2018, as part of SPARK, our Life Science business TM research labs and select manufacturing plants at our global ran its second year-long Curiosity Cube tour across North headquarters. America. Consisting of a shipping container retrofitted into a TM Beyond promoting STEM education, in Darmstadt we mobile science lab, the Curiosity Cube provides a learning also support teachers through continuing professional environment that immerses visitors of all ages in specific development that explores educational concepts and helps science topics through hands-on experiments and state-ofthem evolve their teaching technique. In 2018, we once the-art technology. Supporting the daily work of teachers by more hosted a science conference attended by more than offering tools and resources that most schools lack, the tour 100 teachers from the region. focused on schools with underprivileged students, which Over the years, we have gained a great deal of experiaccounted for 94% of the facilities visited. In total, the TM ence through longstanding school partnerships in the DarmCuriosity Cube traveled 30,000 kilometers across North 121 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community America in 2018, and engaged students in 108 commuSome of our employees also got personally involved in nities. Feedback showed that following the visit, 94% of the action. During the school visit program, 18 employees students increased their understanding of life science termivolunteered 16 hours each, teaching topics such as awarenology and 74% expressed interest in being a scientist. ness of water and electricity signs and organizing small Through the overall SPARK Global Volunteer Program, scientific experiments for the children. In recognition of our TM including the Curiosity Cube , more than 2,800 of our efforts, we received the EU Chamber of Commerce CSR employees volunteered more than 19,000 hours of their Award in 2018. time throughout 2018, engaging over 66,000 students worldwide in science. Music and literature as ambassadors Partnering with Seeding Labs Deutsche Philharmonie Merck We support Seeding Labs, a non-governmental organization What began in 1966 as a company ensemble is now a that provides scientists in developing countries with lab professional symphony orchestra. In addition to regularly equipment, training and opportunities to collaborate with undertaking international concert tours, the Deutsche Philother experts in their field. To date, we have enabled the harmonie Merck is also an integral part of cultural life in organization to equip 69 universities in 34 developing counDarmstadt (Germany) and the surrounding region. Besides tries with 209 metric tons of used but fully functioning giving performances, we also seek to inspire young people laboratory equipment, providing access to the global and ignite a passion for classical music through orchestra scientific community and helping to accelerate scientific workshops. In 2018, for instance, 37 young musicians took research. advantage of the opportunity to play in a professional We are the exclusive sponsor of the Seeding Labs new ensemble for the first time. We furthermore held our tradionline platform, TeleScience. Featuring educational videos tional cushion concerts for children aged four and up. th and training sessions led by our Life Science employees, In 2018, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck gave its 30 who share techniques and tips on a wide range of science charity concert, raising a total of € 50,000. Via the “Echo topics, TeleScience has drawn more than 2,000 users from hilft!” initiative, the proceeds went to help five community th 115 countries since its launch in 2018. projects in the Darmstadt area. To commemorate our 350 anniversary, our symphony also gave performances in Pioneering hands-on learning Beijing (China), Boston, MA (United States), Darmstadt We engage in a signature partnership with Technorama. (Germany), Saint Louis, MO (United States) and Shanghai Located in Switzerland, this organization is the third largest (China). In China, our musicians led an orchestra workshop science center in Europe and a pioneer of hands-on, selffor music students from the University of Beijing, and afterdirected learning. In 2018, our scientists in Switzerland wards gave a hugely successful joint concert to an audience developed experiments for public school pupils to perform of approximately 1,700 people. Beyond these activities, the at special Technorama Days. At these events, more than Deutsche Philharmonie Merck also performed three movie th 650 students collaborated with over 50 employees from our soundtrack concerts at our 350 anniversary celebration for local sites to learn how to detect odors and synthesize a our Darmstadt employees and made a guest appearance at simple fragrance. We are also helping in the development the Millstatt Music Weeks in Austria. and operation of a fully equipped, state-of-the-art wet lab that has the appropriate setup to handle various liquid chemicals and reagents. It is expected to receive more than ~31,000 70,000 visitors annually. Technorama will use this lab to provide science-focused professional training for teachers throughout Switzerland. Clean water for China people attended the concerts given by the Deutsche Philth At the celebration of our 350 anniversary, Merck in China harmonie Merck in 2018. launched a new partnership program with the One Foundation charity fund, which aims to provide clean water to schools. This is an important cause since over 40 million students across 114,000 rural schools in China lack access to safe drinking water. We donate one Chinese renminbi (approximately US$ 0.14) a day on behalf of each of our employees in China, which is used to supply rural schools with clean drinking water. The money donated in 2018 helped to install drinking water purification facilities for around 15,000 students in 33 rural schools as well as providing water testing machines. We also donated 20 sets of portable water quality testing systems to these schools. 122 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Community Literary awards for bridge builders workshops, we host a youth writing competition called La As with music, literature is also an important ambassador Scienza Narrata, whose winners are chosen together with between cultures. We therefore award five literary prizes the winners of the Premio Letterario Merck. worldwide: the Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary With prize money of € 10,000, the 2018 Kakehashi LiteraCriticism and Essay Writing in Germany (since 1964), the ture Prize went to Austrian writer Clemens J. Setz and his Premio Letterario Merck in Italy (since 2003), the Merck Japanese translator Ayano Inukai. Kakehashi Literature Prize in Japan (since 2014), the Merck Worth € 4,000, the 2018 Merck Translation Award in Tagore Award in India (since 2012), and the Merck TransRussia went to Nina Fedorova, Ekaterina Aralova and lation Award in Russia (since 2016). These awards particuNatalia Stillmark, while Tatiana Zborovskaya received the larly recognize authors who build bridges between cultures, Goethe Prize. as well as between science and literature. Translation project in Asia Worth € 20,000, the 2018 Johann Heinrich Merck Award In 2018, we launched the Merck Social Translating project for Literary Criticism and Essay Writing went to Austrian in Korea. Moreover, we sponsored the translation of the author and translator Martin Pollack. German novel “Die Welt im Rücken” (The world at your Endowed with € 10,000, the 2018 Premio Letterario back) by Thomas Melle into ten Asian languages. As part Merck was presented to Carl Safina, an American ecolof this project, we also funded the Goethe-Institut’s innovogist, writer and professor. Honorable mention went to ative approach to translating the book, with ten translators Italian physicist and science historian Lucio Russo. In working simultaneously via a digital platform, engaging in a Italy, we are also dedicated to promoting the next generlively discourse with each other and the author. ation of literary genius. Besides offering creative writing 123 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Facts & figures Within this chapter: 125 Report profile 167 Sustainable Development Goals 127 Indicators 172 Non-financial report 127 Economics 179 GRI content index 128 Business ethics 179 General disclosures 131 Employees 184 Economic Standards 144 Environment 187 Environmental Standards 150 Community 190 Social Standards 152 Goals 197 Global Compact CoP 164 Recognition and rankings 201 Assurance report 124 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Report profile  Part of the non-financial report We take pride in our commitment to corporate responsibility, especially on the occasion of our 350th anniversary. Our long-standing history of giving back to the community has also given rise to a tradition of reporting on our efforts, with this being our tenth Corporate Responsibility Report. Starting in 1993 as a series of environmental reports describing how we meet our obligations to society, in 2003 our reporting evolved into a fullblown compilation released every two years. In 2016, we started publishing the story of our dedication on an annual basis, a practice that continues to this day. With transparency as a key goal, we aim to extensively inform our stakeholders of our activities and successes, as well as the challenges we face. Our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report meets the requirements for a combined separate nonfinancial report as defined in the German Federal CSR Directive Implementation Act. The index to the non-financial report provides an overview of the relevant content. This CR Report also documents the progress we have made in implementing the guidelines of the United Nations Global Compact (Communication on Progress) and meets the criteria of the German Sustainability Code (DNK) of the German Council for Sustainable Development (RNE), a body established by the Federal Government of Germany. Our Statement of Compliance with the German Sustainability Code can be accessed via the DNK database. Reporting framework This CR report covers fiscal 2018 and pertains to our entire Group including our subsidiaries across 66 countries. Any deviations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis. On December 1, 2018, our Consumer Health business was transferred to Procter & Gamble (P&G) after having been classified as a discontinued operation as of April 2018, pursuant to IFRS 5. Upon completion of the sale in early December, around 3,300 employees were transferred to P&G. Unless otherwise stated, our data incorporate the Consumer Health business pro rata for an 11 month period. The majority of the figures we publish reflect the status as of December 31, 2018. As such, figures calculated as of this date exclude Consumer Health because the sale of this business had been completed entirely by that point in time. Data collection and consolidation systems Since 2005, we have been using a Group-wide electronic data acquisition system to collect environmental and occupational health and safety data, which is input locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the quality of this data, we support the sites in optimizing their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance measures. Moreover, our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) conducts internal EHS audits that review both the processes and the data provided. We compile environmental performance indicators from all our production sites across the Group, as well as those warehouse and research sites that are relevant in terms of their environmental impact and employee headcount. The scope of consolidation therefore covers all Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment. The data on employees and community outreach pertain to our entire Group. All employee master data is continually updated in an SAP database. We use community data management software to log data pertaining to our community involvement at subsidiary level. Some employee data is only disclosed for select sites or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text passages. Determining report content We align the content of our CR Report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the principles of completeness and materiality, as well as input from our stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with the “GRI Standards: Comprehensive” option. Moreover, we have taken into consideration the requirements of the capital market for assessing companies' sustainability performance. 125 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures In 2018, we performed a comprehensive materiality assessment to determine the CR topics of relevance to our Group. Experts from our business sectors and relevant Group functions reviewed the findings and validated them. Moreover, as stipulated by Section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code (HGB), we checked the topics validated in 2018 for double materiality . We have derived the content of this CR report from the results of the materiality assessment, addressing all issues identified as material. Detailed information on the materiality assessment and the materiality matrix can be found under Materiality analysis. Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report. The content of the non-financial report has also been reviewed by the Supervisory Board in accordance with Section 111 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). External audit KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of the Merck Group for the fiscal year spanning January 1 to December 31, 2018 and issued an unqualified opinion. Furthermore, after undergoing a limited assurance audit, our company has received an independent audit certificate for the following chapters of this CR report: Strategy & management Business ethics Products Employees Environment Community Facts & figures The additional content provided on the company's websites and external webpages linked in this report is not part of the non-financial report or the information assured by KPMG. Contact: We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions. Merck KGaA Corporate Affairs Group Corporate Responsibility Maria Schaad Frankfurter Str. 250 64293 Darmstadt Germany Tel.: +49 6151 72-0 Fax: +49 6151 72-200 The previous CR Report was published in April 2018. Our next CR Report is scheduled for publication in April 2020. 126 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Indicators Economics 1,2 Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector Performance € million Healthcare Life Science Materials Group 2017 Net sales 6,190³ 5,882 2,446 14,517³ Operating result (EBIT) 1,337³ 834 689 2,423³ R&D costs 1,600³ 241 225 2,108³ 2018 Net sales 6,246 6,185 2,406 14,836 Operating result (EBIT) 731 1,036 508 1,727 R&D costs 1,686 249 242 2,225 1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment Reporting in our 2018 Annual Report. 2 Figures comprise the continuing operations of the Merck Group excluding the Consumer Health business. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted; see Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2018 Annual Report. 127 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Business ethics  Part of the non-financial report Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 2018 2018 thereof 1 2 3 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Number of audits relating to corruption 49 55 50 54 16 % of audits relating to corruption 64 68 65 69 21 Number of audits relating to the workplace requirements of our Human Rights Charter 41 47 45 46 14 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Consumer Health business has been out of Internal Auditing scope since September 2017. 3 Includes global audits which are conducted at the headquarters in Darmstadt and/or the management of the audited function is reporting into KGaA. In 2018, we audited 18% of all Merck subsidiaries (status June 2018, excluding minority holdings), covering approximately 27% of all sales generated between the third quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2018. In 2018, during 46 of our audits conducted in 27 countries, we additionally reviewed workplace parameters as per our Human Rights Charter. No violations were identified. Reported compliance violations 2018 2018 thereof 1 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of reported compliance violations Number of reported compliance incidents 33 36 39 72 17 Number of confirmed cases 8 12 14 19 7 confirmed cases by category Violation of the Merck Human Rights Charter 0 2 0 0 0 Bribery and Corruption 0 2 1 1 0 Violation of the Merck Pharmaceutical Guidelines 2 4 2 2 0 Violation of Data Privacy and Confidentiality Guidelines 1 0 2 3 3 Manipulation of Business Documents 0 2 1 0 0 Violation of cartel laws and fair competition rules 1 0 0 1 0 Infringements in the areas of finance, accounting and banking 0 0 0 0 0 Theft and fraudulent Actions against Merck 2 1 1 5 1 Other violations of the Merck Compliance Principles for the relations with Business Partners 0 1 2 1 0 Other violations of Merck values, internal guidelines or legal requirements 2 0 5 6 3 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 128 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Compliance training 2018 2018 thereof 1 1 2 2 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of persons trained on anti-corruption 3 guidelines 20,404 29,764 17,044 11,404 1,254 Total number of employees trained on anti-corruption guidelines 17,378 25,889 13,345 11,155 1,245 % of employees trained on anti-corruption 43 51 25 22 11 by employee category Number of Role 2+ employees trained on anti-corruption 12,747 14,379 7,080 9,257 1,017 % of Role 2+ employees trained on anti-corruption 64 84 27 36 19 % of employees below Role 2 trained on anti-corruption 22 34 23⁴ 7 4 5 by region (%) Europe – 54 18 19 11 North America – 57 46 36 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) – 38 25 16 not applicable Latin America – 52 19 12 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) – 66 29 18 not applicable 1 From 2016 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, however as of Dec. 31, 2017 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of SigmaAldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “employees below Role 2”. 2 In 2018, our job grading system had not yet been applied to the employees of Sigma Aldrich in Steinheim (Germany), or to those of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures for 2018, these employees are included under “employees below Role 2”. 3 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2018: 249). 4 Figure retroactively adjusted. 5 As of 2016, we are also reporting the training rate by region. No such data was tracked for the preceding year. In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, as well as by staff with HR responsibility, these employees are increasingly receiving training on anti-corruption guidelines. This applies to all employees rated Role 2+. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. Training increased in 2016, due to the initial integration of employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired at the end of 2015. 129 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Legal actions 2018 2018 thereof 1 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA 2 Total number of legal actions pending or completed (for anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly legislation) 2 2 3 3 2 pending 2 2 3 3 2 completed 0 0 0 0 0 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: Annual Report 2015, pages 128-129 and pages 212-213, no. 27 Annual Report 2016, pages 135-136 and pages 228-229, no. 26 Annual Report 2017, pages 148-150 and pages 252-254, no. 27 Annual Report 2018, pages 146-148 and pages 247-251, no. 26 1 Customer privacy 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties 0 0 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies 0 0 0 0 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data 0 1 0 1 1 This data only reflects incidents classified as significant. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2017 130 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Employees  Part of the non-financial report Total number of employees 2018 2018 thereof As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of employees 49,613 50,414 52,941 51,749 11,133 Men 28,997 28,848 30,083 29,006 7,036 Women 20,616 21,566 22,858 22,743 4,097 131 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Number of employees by hierarchical level 2018 2018 thereof 1 1 1 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total employees 49,613 50,414 52,941 51,749 11,133 Senior management (Role 6+) 146 181 197 193 94 Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 2,211 2,685 2,927 3,095 1,155 Low management (Role 3) 6,622 8,139 8,904 9,019 2,661 Other employees (below Role 3) 40,634 39,409 40,913 39,442 7,223 % of women (total) 41 43 43 44 37 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 21 25 30 36 17 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 611 805 917 1,025 368 thereof in low management (Role 3) 2,636 3,361 3,714 3,795 1,036 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 17,348 17,375 18,197 17,888 2,676 % of men (total) 59 57 57 56 63 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 125 156 167 157 77 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,600 1,880 2,010 2,070 787 thereof in low management (Role 3) 3,986 4,778 5,190 5,224 1,625 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 23,286 22,034 22,716 21,554 4,547 by age group Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 14 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 0 0 0 0 0 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 5 7 3 5 3 thereof in low management (Role 3) 130 183 194 211 111 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 7,424 7,229 7,479 7,279 1,460 30 to 49 years old (%) 64 62 62 61 54 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 68 76 72 69 32 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,407 1,670 1,782 1,829 692 thereof in low management (Role 3) 4,770 5,784 6,308 6,206 1,766 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 24,815 23,996 24,733 23,536 3,497 50 years or older (%) 21 23 23 24 32 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 78 105 125 124 62 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 799 1,008 1,142 1,261 460 thereof in low management (Role 3) 1,722 2,172 2,402 2,602 784 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 8,395 8,184 8,701 8,627 2,266 1 From 2015 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, however as of Dec. 31, 2017 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of SigmaAldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”. 2 In 2018, our job grading system had not yet been applied to the employees of Sigma Aldrich in Steinheim (Germany), or to those of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures for 2018, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”. 132 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 1 Average number of employees by functional area 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group 41,511 50,439 52,053 53,809 Thereof women 17,180 21,136 22,353 23,388 Production 11,563 14,829 15,571 16,240 Thereof women 3,642 4,698 5,059 5,359 3 Logistics/Supply Chain 2,581 3,955 3,729 4,014 Thereof women 913 1,459 1,442 1,569 3 Marketing and Sales/Commercials 12,871 14,887 15,115 15,479 Thereof women 5,204 6,401 6,609 6,981 Administration 6,763 8,190 9,286 9,864 Thereof women 3,757 4,421 4,798 5,067 Research and Development 5,097 6,249 6,789 7,245 Thereof women 2,674 3,274 3,591 3,871 Infrastructure and Other 2,636 2,329 1,564 966 Thereof women 990 883 854 541 1 The average employee headcount is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13. Employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015, are only included in the employee headcount calculations as of November 2015. 2 The average employee headcount for fiscal 2018 incorporates the Consumer Health employees on a pro rata basis up until the end of November 2018 due to the divestment of the Consumer Health business as of December 1, 2018. 3 In conjunction with the new job architecture implemented in 2017, some functional areas have been renamed and reorganized. Due to the new structure from 2017 on, it will only be possible to deliver a limited trend forecast in a year-on-year comparison. 133 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Number of employees by region 2018 2018 thereof As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total 49,613 50,414 52,941 51,749 11,133 Europe 23,429 24,438 25,980 25,792 11,133 women 10,316 10,884 11,627 11,464 4,097 women (%) 44 45 45 44 37 Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,079 1,031 1,279 1,209 483 % of employees with temporary contracts 5 4 5 5 4 North America 9,794 10,037 10,520 10,978 0 women 4,183 4,308 4,518 4,742 not applicable women (%) 43 43 43 43 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 22 122 138 148 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 0.2 1 1 1 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 11,096 10,754 11,294 10,486 0 women 3,706 3,981 4,298 4,348 not applicable women (%) 33 37 38 41 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,888 2,231 2,603 2,846 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 17 21 23 27 not applicable Latin America 4,352 4,140 4,050 3,340 0 women 1,986 1,910 1,896 1,648 not applicable women (%) 46 46 47 49 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 43 40 40 62 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 1 1 1 2 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 942 1,045 1,097 1,153 0 women 425 483 519 541 not applicable women (%) 45 46 47 47 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 127 153 172 189 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 13 15 16 16 not applicable External contractors are currently not logged in our employee data system, nor do we currently have any plans to integrate them. 134 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Employees by business sector As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 Healthcare employees 18,566 18,837 19,795 17,456 Thereof women 8,522 9,090 9,656 8,884 Thereof women (%) 46 48 49 51 Life Science employees 18,611 19,178 19,607 20,667 Thereof women 7,883 7,928 8,276 8,837 Thereof women (%) 42 41 42 43 Performance Materials employees 6,228 5,469 5,529 5,278 Thereof women 1,531 1,427 1,455 1,411 Thereof women (%) 25 26 26 27 Employees by contract type As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total employees 49,613 50,414 52,941 51,749 Number of employees with permanent contracts 46,454 46,837 48,709 47,295 % of employees with permanent contracts 94 93 92 91 thereof women 19,034 19,741 20,741 20,545 thereof women (%) 41 42 43 43 Number of employees with temporary contracts 3,159 3,577 4,232 4,454 % of employees with temporary contracts 6 7 8 9 thereof women 1,563 1,744 2,117 2,198 thereof women (%) 49 49 50 49 full-time employees 47,292 48,056 50,498 49,273 % full-time 95 95 95 95 thereof women 18,557 19,457 20,677 20,577 thereof women (%) 39 40 41 42 part-time employees 2,321 2,358 2,443 2,476 % part-time 5 5 5 5 thereof women 2,059 2,109 2,181 2,166 thereof women (%) 89 89 89 87 135 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures New employees 2018 2018 thereof 1 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of new employee hires 5,710 7,085 7,285 7,129 696 by age group Up to 29 years old 2,088 2,930 2,940 2,967 332 30 to 49 years old 3,252 3,736 3,848 3,728 331 50 or older 370 419 497 434 33 by gender Women 2,450 3,388 3,412 3,401 298 Men 3,260 3,697 3,873 3,728 398 by region Europe 2,119 2,689 3,058 2,560 696 North America 730 1,348 1,603 1,524 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1,913 2,201 1,955 2,222 0 Latin America 780 636 497 583 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 168 211 172 240 0 2 Rate of new employee hires (%) 14 14 14 14 6 3 by age group Up to 29 years old 37 41 40 42 48 30 to 49 years old 57 53 53 52 48 50 or older 6 6 7 6 5 3 by gender Women 43 48 47 48 43 Men 57 52 53 52 57 3 by region Europe 37 38 42 36 100 North America 13 19 22 21 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 33 31 27 31 not applicable Latin America 14 9 7 8 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 3 3 2 3 not applicable 1 These figures exclude the 8,975 Sigma-Aldrich employees who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck as part of the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition. 2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. 3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee hires. 136 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 1,2 Staff turnover 2018 2018 thereof 3 4 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total turnover rate 10.38 12.07 9.05 9.09 2.13 Turnover rate by gender Men 10.13 12.87 8.75 9.03 2.21 Women 10.73 10.96 9.46 9.18 1.99 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old 17.49 19.20 13.66 14.24 3.51 30 to 49 years old 9.69 11.37 8.38 8.53 1.79 50 or older 8.08 9.19 7.87 7.39 2.10 Turnover rate by region Europe 6.22 6.23 6.22 5.73 2.13 North America 12.72 11.50 11.02 9.90 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 15.95 22.37 12.53 14.51 not applicable Latin America 15.29 18.85 13.74 15.41 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 12 10.80 11.22 9.77 not applicable Total number of leavers 4,168 6,087 4,710 4,613 233 by gender Men 2,386 3,771 2,596 2,578 153 Women 1,782 2,316 2,114 2,035 80 by age group Up to 29 years old 943 1,464 1,058 1,061 56 30 to 49 years old 2,505 3,589 2,713 2,649 106 50 or older 720 1,034 939 903 71 by region Europe 1,290 1,490 1,488 1,457 233 North America 638 1,132 1,143 1,064 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1,540 2,543 1,387 1,468 0 Latin America 618 814 570 522 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 82 108 122 102 0 1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a long-term illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. 2 Employee headcount is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount multiplied by 100. 3 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 4 Excludes Consumer Health In 2018, the average length of service for employees Group-wide was 10 years (2017: 9.8 years), with 14.9 years (2017: 14.6 years) for Merck KGaA employees. 137 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 1 Work-related accidents 2018 2018 thereof 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR = workplace accidents resulting in missed days of work per one million man-hours) 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.3 2.8 by region Europe 2.6 2.2 2.4 1.9 2.8 North America 0.9 1.1 1.0 1.1 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 not applicable Latin America 0.7 0.4 1.3 1.5 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0.5 1.6 0.0 0.7 not applicable Number of deaths 2 0 0 0 0 by region Europe 1 0 0 0 0 North America 1 0 0 0 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0 0 0 0 0 Latin America 0 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 0 0 by gender Women 1 0 0 0 0 Men 1 0 0 0 0 1 Including supervised workers Both Merck employees as well as contractors have been included in the calculation of these indicators. Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Workrelated accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015. We have defined the LTIR as a key indicator for the Merck Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. For Merck KGaA (about 22% of the employees of the Merck Group), we only report work-related illnesses if these have been certified as an occupational illness by the employers' liability insurance association. In 2018 period, two cases of work-induced illness were verified (as of the end of August 2018). 138 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation 2018 2017 Merck 2018 thereof 1 2 2 3, 4 2015 2016 Group Merck Group Merck KGaA % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 88 97 97 98 100 by gender Women 90 97 97 99 100 Men 87 97 97 98 100 5 by employee category Senior management (Role 6+) 100 100 100 100 100 Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 100 100 100 100 100 Low management (Role 3) 100 100 100 100 100 Other employees (below Role 3) 85 96 96 98 100 1 The 2015 data is based on a reporting date of February 29, 2016. 2 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2017, the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany and of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures for 2018, the employees whose positions had not been graded are included under “Other employees (below Role 3)”. 3 Excludes Consumer Health 4 In 2018, our job grading system had not yet been applied to the employees of Sigma Aldrich in Steinheim (Germany), or to those of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures for 2018, the employees whose positions had not been graded are included under “Other employees (below Role 3)”. 5 In 2017, we switched our job architecture from a Global Grading System to Roles. Figures have been retroactively adjusted for previous years. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to helping all employees follow their own career path at Merck. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Role 2 and up in the job grading system that was used since 2017. Figures have been retroactively adjusted for previous years. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Role 2. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2018, a total of 50,920 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via our online platform HR4You. Internationality of employees 2018 2018 thereof 1 2 2 3 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA Number of nationalities 122 129 131 136 90 Number of nationalities in management positions (Role 4 or above) 64 70 65 70 41 % of non-Germans in management positions (Role 4 or above) 61 65 64 64 17 1 These figures do not include the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company that was acquired in November 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the job grading system had not yet been implemented there. 2 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich. However, as of Dec. 31 2017, the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma. 3 In 2018, our job grading system had not yet been applied to the employees of Sigma Aldrich in Steinheim (Germany), or to those of Allergopharma. 139 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Employee age by region As of Dec. 31 Europe Middle East Number of North (including Asia-Pacific and Africa employees Worldwide America Germany) Merck KGaA (APAC) Latin America (MEA) 2017 Up to 29 years old 7,676 1,438 3,272 1,589 2,257 521 188 thereof women 3,512 608 1,585 634 945 294 80 30 to 49 years old 32,895 5,465 15,680 5,838 8,099 2,913 738 thereof women 14,540 2,423 7,287 2,195 3,074 1,405 351 50 or older 12,370 3,617 7,028 3,250 938 616 171 thereof women 4,806 1,487 2,755 1,069 279 197 88 Average age 41.4 44.1 42.5 42.6 36.9 40.3 39.4 Total employees 52,941 10,520 25,980 10,677 11,294 4,050 1,097 2018 Up to 29 years old 7,494 1,573 3,175 1,574 2,082 470 195 thereof women 3,534 661 1,537 633 966 285 85 30 to 49 years old 31,638 5,636 15,247 5,987 7,616 2,342 799 thereof women 14,238 2,511 7,044 2,281 3,123 1,183 377 50 or older 12,611 3,769 7,370 3,572 788 528 159 thereof women 4,971 1,570 2,883 1,183 259 180 79 Average age 41.7 44.1 42.8 42.9 36.9 40.4 39.2 Total employees 51,749 10,978 25,792 11,133 10,486 3,340 1,153 Age of youngest employee 1 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 Age of youngest employee, excluding apprentices 17 17 18 17 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 140 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Voluntary insurance benefits (voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed) 2018 2018 thereof 1 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 Merck Group Merck KGaA 2 % of employees with healthcare benefits – 68³ 68 67 0 % of employees with Group accident insur4 ance – 39 42 39 5 5 % of employees with life insurance – 57 58 58 0 % of employees with disability insurance 6 (short-term and long-term) – 32 35 37 0 1 Since 2016, we have been reporting voluntary insurance benefits that we offer our employees. No such data was tracked for the preceding year. 2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents. Not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover (mostly covered by an insurance policy). 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. 4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or disability caused by a work-related accident (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g. workman's compensation). 5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case of natural death (not accidental). 6 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case of inability to work caused by an insured incident. All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance. Employees of Merck KGaA are covered by statutory insurance as stipulated by the regulations in force in Germany. We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assistance to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package. Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits € million 2015 2016 2017 2018 Present value of all defined benefit obligations as of Dec. 31 4,153 4,698 4,707 4,719 Pension expenses 210 226 304 295 Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see our Annual Report 2018, Note on Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits). Flexible working hours in Germany 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 % of employees utilizing the “mywork@Merck” working model 35 36 40 42 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Essentially reflects the figures of Merck KGaA. 141 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures In coordination with their teams and supervisors, employees taking advantage of “mywork@merck” can choose when and where they work. Parental leave in Germany 1 1 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees with a right to parental leave 317 359 353 308 thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the respective year) 149 191 151 188 thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in the respective year) 168 168 202 120 3 Number of employees who took parental leave 485 480 352 500 thereof women 301 303 150 240 thereof men 184 177 202 260 Number of employees on parental leave who worked part time during their leave 102 102 49 128 thereof women 99 95 47 109 thereof men 3 7 2 19 Number of employees who returned from parental leave 183 174 312 312 thereof women 51 62 143 65 thereof men 132 112 169 247 Return to work rate (%) 37.7 36.3 88.6 62.4 thereof women 16.9 20.5 95.3 27.1 thereof men 71.7 63.3 83.7 95.0 Number of employees still working for Merck one year after their return from parental leave 184 190 238 –⁴ thereof women 55 73 89 –⁴ thereof men 129 117 149 –⁴ Retention rate (%) 96.8 95.6 89.8 –⁴ thereof women 98.2 93.8 85.6 –⁴ thereof men 96.3 96.8 92.5 –⁴ 1 Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany (which accounted for around 22% of Merck Group employees in 2018). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year but who had not returned by Dec. 31. 2 Figures pertain only to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 20% of Merck Group employees in 2017, and roughly 22% in 2018). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year but who had not yet returned by Dec. 31. 3 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. 4 Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2019. 1 Employees with disabilities (%) As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Employees with disabilities 4.7 4.5 4.3 4.3 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 22% of Merck Group employees in 2018, calculations based on the German Social Code IX SGB IX). 142 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Apprentices 1 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of apprentices 506 576 588 604 % of apprentices 5.3 4.6 4.4 4.5 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (roughly 19% of the Merck Group's total employee headcount in 2015). 2 Only pertains to Merck sites in Germany (approximately 25% of the Group's total workforce in 2016, 2017 and 2018). Essentially reflects the figures of Merck KGaA. 143 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Environment 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol) 2 metric kilotons 2006 2015 2016 2017 2018 3 Total CO2eq emissions 786 722 689 704 698 Thereof direct CO2eq emissions 378 391 384 373 354 indirect CO2eq emissions 408 331 305 331 344 Biogenic CO2 emissions 0 13 14 13 13 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. Sigma-Aldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. 3 eq = equivalent Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO 2eq emissions: Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2018, we emitted 0.047 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 1 1,2 3 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric kilo4 tons CO2eq ) 349 426 353 380 Fueland energy-related emissions, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) 95 127 118 131 Waste generated in operations (category 5) 123 127 68 80 Business travel air travel (category 6) 79 103⁵ 98 103 6 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) 1.1 0.6 0.6 1.4 Employee commuting (category 7) 51 68 68 66 Upstream leased assets (category 8) 0.0⁷ 0.0⁷ 0.0⁷ 0.0⁷ Processing of sold products (category 10) 0.0⁸ 0.0⁸ 0.0⁸ 0.0⁸ Downstream leased assets (category 13) 0 0 0 0 Franchises (category 14) 0 0 0 0 1 Because of the characteristics of the Scope 3 emissions data we do not correct these data subsequently. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Excludes Consumer Health 4 eq = equivalent 5 This figure covers roughly 95% of the employees of the Merck Group because the data for the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, acquired in November 2015, are only partially available. 6 German Railway 7 Already covered under Scope 1 and 2 emissions 8 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. 144 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1 metric tons 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 2.5 2.2 1.9² 1.5 3 CFC-11eq 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. 3 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. Other air emissions 1 2 metric kilotons 2015 2016 2017 2018 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Nitrogen oxide 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 Sulfur dioxide 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.01 Dust 0.06 0.02 0.04 0.01 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Excludes Consumer Health The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation 1 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 % Truck 53 71 73 74 % Boat 41 18 15 14 % Airplane 6 11 12 12 1 The figures of 2015 pertain to goods shipped by our Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn sites in Germany (excluding Sigma-Aldrich). 2 From 2016 on, the figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate the primary means of transport. In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transportrelated CO2 emissions. 145 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 1 Energy consumption In GWh 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total energy consumption 2,141 2,117 2,194 2,232 Direct energy consumption 1,343 1,330 1,319 1,322 Natural gas 1,200 1,260 1,254 1,256 2 Liquid fossil fuels 110 36 32 32 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 33 34 33 34 Indirect energy consumption 798 787 875 910 Electricity 702 692 729 761 Steam, heat, cold 96 95 146 149 Total energy sold 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.0 Electricity 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.0 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 In TJ 2018 Total energy consumption 7,708 7,621 7,898 8,035 Direct energy consumption 4,835 4,788 4,748 4,759 Natural gas 4,320 4,536 4,514 4,522 2 Liquid fossil fuels 396 130 115 115 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 119 122 119 122 Indirect energy consumption 2,873 2,833 3,150 3,276 Electricity 2,527 2,491 2,624 2,740 Steam, heat, cold 346 342 526 536 Total energy sold 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.0 Electricity 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.0 Steam, heat, cold 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline At our sites in Billerica (MA, USA), Bedford (MA, USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Guatemala City (Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/ cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 29% of our Group-wide total. Here, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 50.7%, nuclear energy approx. 12.7% and renewable energies approx. 36.6% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 2,050 GWh for 2018. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 175 GWh for 2018. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,225 GWh for 2018. (The calculation is based on factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs” published by DENA, 12/2012.) In 2018, Merck's energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€. 146 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Water consumption 3 1 millions of m 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total water consumption 13.7 13.8 14.0 14.7 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 1.8 1.8 1.9² 2.1 Groundwater 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.2 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 4.8 4.8 4.8² 5.3 Rain water and other sources 0.01 0.01 0.00² 0.05 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. Water reused 3 1 millions of m 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water reused 23.0 22.7 22.4 24.4 1 Excludes Consumer Health The recirculating cooling system at our Darmstadt, Germany facility accounts for the majority of reused water as it allows the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of consumed water. Wastewater volume and quality 1, 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 3 Total wastewater volume (millions of m ) 12.5³ 12.9³ 13.1³ 13.5 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O3) 1,240³ 1,535 1,669³ 1,589 Phosphorous (metric tons) 10 12 8 9 Nitrogen (metric tons) 487 379 234³ 258 Zinc (kg) 491 448 351 –² Chromium (kg) 42 34 34 –² Copper (kg) 78 48 61 –² Nickel (kg) 29³ 29³ 32³ 29 Lead (kg) 32³ 31³ 35³ 28 Cadmium (kg) 9³ 7³ 6³ 6 Mercury (kg) 2 2 1 0 Arsenic (kg) 5 4 3 –² 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 In alignment with ICCA reporting requirements specified by Cefic, we track heavy metal emissions from lead, cadmium, nickel, and mercury. These heavy metals are considered to be directly toxic to organisms and are also hazardous to human health due to their carcinogenic properties and their ability to cause harmful effects even in minute quantities. Due to having adopted ICCA reporting standards, we stopped tracking arsenic, chrome, copper, and zinc as of 2018. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. 147 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total waste 324² 256² 255² 244 3 Hazardous waste disposed 55 47 43 44 3 Non-hazardous waste disposed 35 38 33² 54 4 Hazardous waste recycled 77² 82² 72² 74 4 Non-hazardous waste recycled 157 89 107² 72 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. 3 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill 4 Recycled = incineration (with energy recovery) and material recycling Exported/Imported hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2015 2016 2017 2018 2 Exported 5.1 4.6 4.9 4.5 3 Imported 0.010 0.010 0.005 0.000 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 Disposal within the EU and the United States. In 2018, approximately 4% of hazardous waste was shipped internationally. 148 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Waste by disposal method 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total waste (metric kilotons) 324² 256² 255² 244 Disposed waste (metric kilotons) 90 85 76² 98 Landfilled waste (metric kilotons) 16 15 13 35 Incinerated waste (metric kilotons) 74 70 63² 63 Recycled waste (metric kilotons) 234² 171² 179² 146 Material recycling (metric kilotons) 202² 139² 149² 126 Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons) 32 32 30 20 Recycling rate (%) 72 67² 70² 60 1 Excludes Consumer Health 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 31% of our waste in 2018. Around 40 metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled.  The following table is part of the non-financial report Significant spills 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0 1 Excludes Consumer Health 149 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Community Spending on community involvement 1,2 3 € million 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total spending 100.0 43.0 33.8 35.7 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 ® 2 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our community involvement figures. 3 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programms of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. 1 Community involvement spending by region Middle East and North Asia-Pacific Latin Africa Europe America (APAC) America (MEA) 2017 € million 8.7 2.9 3.2 0.5 18.5 % 26 9 9 1 55 2018 € million 10.1 2.2 2.6 0.7 20.1 % 28 6 7 2 57 1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions, we have calculated the amount per region by dividing the project spending evenly per country. 2 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programms of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. 1 Focus of our local community involvement 2,3,4 5 % 2015 2016 2017 2018 Global Health 33 35 38 34 Broad Minds: Education and culture 33 36 43 42 Sustainable Solutions: Environment 7 5 4 2 Disaster relief 6 2 2 2 Other 21 22 13 20 1 Based on number of projects 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have integrated our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending figures. 5 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programms of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. 150 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 1 Motivations for our community involvement 2,3,4 5 % 2015 2016 2017 2018 Charitable activities 3 4 9 7 Community investment 92 87 84 88 Commercial initiatives in the community 5 9 7 5 1 Based on total spending on all projects 2 Including Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have been integrating our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 As of 2016, we are separating patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending. 5 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programms of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as community investment. Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. 151 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Goals  Part of the non-financial report Legende: New Goal Goal achieved In Progress Goal not achieved Business ethics Compliance Goal: Bring Compliance closer to the business Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Quantum LEAP (Lean and Effective September 2018 The Quantum LEAP infrastructure has been Approval and Publication): Develop successfully implemented in 60+ countries and introduce an automated, lean for the core components Quantum Connect process and tool landscape to support and MDM (Master Data Management). transparency reporting requirements and the streamlined processing of interactions with our partners in the Healthcare sector. Build on adapted compliance controls and enhance business ownership and accountability. Business Partner Risk Management December 2019 In 2018, a new project has been set up to Process update: Best practice risk redesign the existing Business Partner Risk mitigation to meet strict standards and Management Process and to ensure compliorganizational duties. ance with 5th EU Anti-money Laundering Directive published in June 2018. The new process will fulfill current legal requirements in the areas of anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and fraud prevention. New Merck Code of Conduct: The Code March 2018 We started the roll-out of our business has a strong relation to the Merck sector-specific e-learning program centered Values, built on core principles to on our new Code of Conduct. adhere to. Supported by a business specific roll-out and e-learning. Self-monitoring as part of the CompliApril 2019 We redesigned the existing Compliance Risk ance Risk Assessment process: InteAssessment process and will introduce a grate self-assessment of compliance new technical solution. The self-monitoring program implementation status in process has been added to document the existing Compliance Risk Assessment. status of the implementation of the compliance program across the Merck businesses. 152 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Supply chain standards Goal: Ensure that suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental, and compliance standards Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Perform a qualitative analysis of the End of Q2/2019 In 2018, our Procurement unit worked on available assessment and audit findstandard processes for the purchasing unit ings and define potential courses of that describe the implementation of sustainaction. ability audits in the supply chain and followup measures. Development of a due diligence End of Q3/2019 In 2018, we established an interdisciplinary process for Responsible Minerals working group, collected data to gain supply Sourcing according to the OECD guidchain transparency and conducted first ance for upstream process and impleinvestigations of legal implications. mentation in the working processes of the affected units. Development of a due diligence End of 2019 We acquired first data from our Perforprocess for palm oil sourcing according mance Materials business to gain better to international guidance and impletransparency on the supply chain. mentation in the working processes of the affected units. Animal welfare Goal: Ensure consistently high quality across our animal facilities Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Inspect Life Science animal facilities in End of 2018 In 2018, we completed the feasibility study. preparation for potential accreditation: No additional activities are envisioned at Conduct a feasibility study and make a this time. decision about accreditation. Re-accredit relevant animal facilities. Ongoing In 2018, two sites in the United States were due for re-accreditation (Billerica, MA and Rockville, MD). Both sites completed their re-accreditation and continue operations with full accreditation status. Re-accreditations are conducted every three years. Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Develop and implement an audit plan Ongoing The audit plan is in place, audits have been for suppliers. scheduled and undertaken as planned. Goal: Promote the 3Rs (Reduce, Refine, Replace) Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Develop a Group-wide 3R program. Ongoing We further increased internal awareness for the 3R program through measures like the internal Merck 3Rs Award. 153 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Products Health for all Global Strategy We aim to improve access to health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries. Goal: Awareness: Empower health workers, communities and people Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Engage in a dialogue to jointly identify End of 2018 In 2018, we conducted an Access Dialogue the key access challenges and opporon the topics of open innovation and inteltunities for our strategy for global lectual property. access to healthcare. Focus programs Hand in hand with our partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis worldwide. Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Donate up to 250 million praziquantel Ongoing In 2018, we donated almost 200 million tablets annually to World Health Orgatablets for distribution in 34 African counnization (WHO) for African school chiltries in partnership with the WHO, and keep dren. production capacities at a level sufficient for manufacturing 250 million praziquantel tablets a year. Optimize the praziquantel formulation. End of 2019 In 2018, we completed a first bio-equivalence study, which is currently being Milestone for 2019: complete analysis analyzed. of bioequivalence study. Initiate new partnerships to promote End of 2019 Since 2017, we have been partnering with behavioral change in African school the NALA Foundation to raise awareness children. and encourage behavioral change. Together, we are supporting a national Milestone for 2019: extend project to health project jointly carried out by the two further districts in Ethiopia. Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health and the Foundation. The project was started in two districts, extension into two additional ones is planned. Position the Global Schistosomiasis Ongoing GSA has taken on the role to house and Alliance (GSA) as a partner platform oversee the implementation of the Schistofor advocacy, implementation, somiasis Action Plan and adjusted its work research, communication, and program and working groups to drive strategy development. progress on the Action Plan. Provide WHO with educational bookOngoing The successful development and distribution lets to teach children about schistosoof the booklets have been completed. The miasis and ways to prevent it. goal will be discontinued. Health promotion to leverage behavioral change will continue to be a central element in our fight against schistosomiasis. We will continue to support health education activities and create synergies with existing efforts and projects, for example the NALA Foundation in Ethiopia. 154 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures We aim to improve global health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries, with a focus on combating infectious diseases. Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and optimization of health solutions Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Develop a pediatric formulation of 2018 The current results from the Phase II study praziquantel for the treatment of indicate that both developed formulations schistosomiasis in children under six. are well tolerated at all doses tested and confirmed the formulation for further develMilestone: entry into Phase III. opment. Executive board approved decision to move into Phase III in 2018. Develop a pediatric formulation of End of Q2/2019 praziquantel for the treatment of schistosomiasis in children under six. Milestone 2019: start of Phase III trial. Develop a new antimalarial (PeEF2 End of Q4/2019 The Phase I study in healthy volunteers inhibitor). allowed assessment of the safety of the compound and the Phase I/Ib study Milestone for 2019: Completion of provided data to support clinical proof of Phase I/Ib. principle. Additional cohorts were added in 2018, to fully define the profile of the new antimalarial compound Develop a new diagnostic kit to detect End of 2018 In 2018, we introduced a diagnostic set for and characterize the type of malaria research purposes. At the end of 2018, we parasite. sold the underlying technology platform to the US laboratory supplier Luminex. Milestone: Start of clinical trial. Open innovation sharing Goal: Affordability: Overcome inability to pay Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Establish a partnership to share intelEnd of 2018 Our collaboration with the DNDi NTD lectual property with a non-commerBooster moves forward as we have cial organization. contributed compounds to 10+ screens. We entered into a partnership with the Drug for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), under which we are participating in the Drug Discovery Booster project for neglected tropical diseases. Participate in at least one partnership End of 2018 Our collaboration via the WIPO-Re-Search with a public-sector partner in an platform moves forward. The University of effort to share our intellectual property Buea collaboration has completed the and expertise in infectious and screening phase and is evaluating further neglected tropical diseases. options. We entered into a partnership with the University of California San Diego, United States. 155 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Pharmaceutical supply chain Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized health solutions Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Engage stakeholders in overcoming End of 2018 We presented the pharma industry point of the challenges in creating an end-toview of supply chain challenges at the World end secure supply chain and supplying Health Assembly that addressed Health goods in developing countries. Supply Chain and Delivery Challenges. Host one to two meetings under the End of 2018 We held an Accessibility Platform meeting in auspices of the Accessibility Platform. 2017, and a Merck Access Dialogue on Supply Chain & Delivery meeting in January 2018. Form a partnership to improve healthEnd of 2019 We partnered with the NGO Business for care at the point of care in developing Health Solutions (BHS) to help strengthen countries. supply chains and delivery effectively at point of care to improve sustainable access to health in developing countries. A dozen Merck Supply Chain employees agreed to provide their Supply Chain competences in supporting local healthcare organizations (mainly distributors from Tanzania) on customer demand planning, stock level management, warehouse operations and cold chain management. NTDeliver: Reach more than 1,000 End of 2018 Implementation has taken place. 12,000 schools via a school-based deworming schools were contacted, 8,900 reported campaign with praziquantel and Albenback on the number of tablets distributed in dazole (GlaxoSmithKline). 2018. TM Through the GPHF Minilab , we seek to fight counterfeit medicines in developing and emerging economies. TM Goal: Provide and further develop the GPHF Minilab Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Conduct at least two Minilab training End of 2018 GPHF and its partners conducted three seminars, provide at least 30 Minilabs Minilab trainings in 2018, and provided and spread their use. seven Minilabs. The demand for Minilab consumables for replenishment remained high. Develop new test methods for ten End of 2018 The development of ten test protocols for active ingredients and revise ten ten new drug compounds plus one new test existing methods. protocol for an existing drug compound were successfully concluded. The review on further 30 existing test protocols was intensified. Update the Minilab manuals and End of 2020 A print version of a consolidated English consolidate all test methods into one manual is expected to be available end of single volume. 2019. Work on French and Spanish versions will follow 2019 and 2020. 156 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Product safety and quality Chemical product safety Goal: Use precautionary principle to establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Implement REACH: Register Mid-2018 By June 2018, we had registered all substances produced in quantities of 700 relevant phase 3 substances for the 1-100 metric tons per year (phase 3 of various subsidiaries of our Group. REACH implementation) and register non-phase-in substances. Implement the Global Product End of 2020 Because we were heavily focused on Strategy: Issue product safety completing phase 3 REACH registrations on summaries for all hazardous time, along with the subsequent updates, substances registered under REACH. product safety summaries were not a priority in 2018. Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 By the end of 2018, we had updated 70% of Update safety data sheets for nonthe safety data sheets for non-hazardous hazardous materials. substances within Performance Materials and 80% in Life Science. Harmonize safety data sheets to align End of 2020 Within Performance Materials, all safety with a globally uniform standard. data sheets are drafted using a single system Group-wide, thereby harmonizing the information to the extent permitted by the variations in country-specific regulations. During the integration of SigmaAldrich, safety data sheet creation for products assigned to Performance Materials was transitioned to the Performance Materials process. Within Life Science, safety data sheets for all new product launches have been harmonized. Existing substances will be transitioned to the globally harmonized system by 2020. 157 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Patient safety Goal: Increase patient safety Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Development of a new methodology 2018 We implemented the new signal detection and tools for earlier detection of tool Empirica for safety signals and introsignals and safety issues to ensure duced a new process for the signal detection safety of our products. in the EudraVigilance database. Enhance the effective and timely Ongoing We successfully implemented a project to communication to stakeholders in enhance internal and external communicaagreement with Health Authorities. tion on quantitative outcomes of benefit-risk analysis and safety profiles of our products. We engaged in stakeholder dialogues with health authorities on crisis communication in order to deliver appropriate information to patients and healthcare professionals concerning patient safety. Enhance patient centricity. Ongoing We made the mobile patient centric app for reporting adverse effects (agReporter) available in eight languages. In order to promote the patient use of the app to report adverse effects, we implemented a communication campaign called Patient 360 Series. Product-related crime Goal: Integrate security into relevant business processes for our Healthcare and Life Science business sectors Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Identify strategic and commercial data End of 2018 In 2018, our Healthcare business sector that require greater protection; minilaunched a project to standardize security mize risks by modifying processes. features and thus protect relevant products in key markets. Moreover, we conducted a value chain analysis to identify risks to our Healthcare products. We made security audits a prerequisite for collaboration with contract production and packaging facilities. Goal: Step up interdisciplinary collaboration within global security network Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Expand organizational structures and Ongoing Our product crime officers participate in certify employees who deal with regular MACON conference calls and faceproduct-related crime. to-face meetings, thereby continuously improving their ability to combat productrelated crime. 158 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Goal: Educate employees and other target groups on the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Host conferences and seminars; share Ongoing In 2018, we jointly organized two MACON best practices and lessons learned conferences, one for countries in Europe, the through international networks. Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and the other for countries in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) region. In the same period, conference calls attended by all product crime officers were held every two weeks to discuss strategic matters along with local situations and suspected cases of counterfeiting. Goal: Develop and implement security technology and solutions for supply chain authentication, identification, integrity, and security Action(s): By: Progress as of end of 2018: Status: Support regional activities to counter Ongoing The 2018 MACON conferences featured working product-related crime. sessions to develop and implement security technologies, as well as to discuss appropriate solutions. In addition to these sessions, we took part in workshops and seminars to reinforce collaborative efforts with law enforcement agencies, for instance in Germany, Brazil, China, Italy, Colombia, Mexico, Romania, Singapore, and the United States. Step up internet searches to detect Ongoing We continually scour the Internet for cases of counterfeit products, illegal parallel product crime relating to our company, taking imports as well as trademark infringeinto account new developments, for example ments. the growing importance of social media. Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in Ongoing In 2018, we enhanced our collaboration with conventional distribution channels as monitoring service providers by systematizing well as online sales. the process for exchanging electronic data with one of them. This approach accelerates our efforts to discover counterfeit versions of our products and initiate countermeasures. Participate in and support the DisrupEarly 2019 In 2018, we joined forces with other Pharmation 18 project. ceutical Security Institute (PSI) member companies to run Disruption 18, a project to combat online sales of counterfeit medicines. We support this project by providing both financial support and manpower. Transport and warehouse safety Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and our suppliers Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Harmonize transport and warehouse End of 2022 By the end of 2018, we had finished harmosafety master data through Group-wide nizing the transport and warehouse safety ERP systems. master data for the products in our Life Science portfolio. 159 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Employees Attractive employer Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of leadership positions (Role 6+) with internal candidates Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Use the Talent Management Process to Ongoing In 2018, 87% of our vacant leadership posiidentify suitable employees with leadtions/the positions (Role 6+) were filled ership potential and optimize the internally. process to systematically advance them. Build a high-potential pool that reflects Ongoing We are continuously developing our highour demographic structure. potential pool, which is a reflection of the diversity within our company. Goal: Position our Group as an attractive employer for university graduates Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Participate in university fairs and orgaOngoing We are continuously positioning ourselves nize in-house events for graduates; as an attractive employer for university position our company via employer graduates via editorial articles on careerloft, branding channels. through event information on e-fellows.net and through trainee and employee films on YouTube. By the end of 2018, all 40 planned trainee slots and direct hires were filled through our employer branding and talent sourcing efforts. Approach select target universities. Ongoing We have increased our visibility at our target universities through billboards, job advertisements and newsletters. Moreover, we make use of relevant social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, XING, Instagram, and WeChat). We leveraged the tools available to continue presenting ourselves as an attractive employer for university graduates. Goal: Increase the share of employees (Group-wide) with development plans to 70% by 2020 Conduct extensive internal communiEnd of 2020 The percentage of employees with developcations and people development ment plans increased from 61% (2017) to campaigns and optimize existing tools. 69.9% (2018). Create awareness and share knowlEnd of 2020 To meet this goal, we are taking steps to edge. raise awareness of development plans and help people create a good one. In 2018, these included new training documents and videos, along with printed materials such as the “Development Planning Guideline” and information on counseling career advancement options. 160 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Diversity Goal: Our target for 2021 is to maintain a 30% representation of women in leadership roles (Role 4+) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Deploy teams at departmental level to End of 2021 The measures identified by the business develop goals and measures to move sectors were expanded. women into positions in various units and hierarchies. Health and safety Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Reinforce our safety culture to prevent End of 2020 In 2018, we achieved a Group-wide LTIR of behavior-related accidents/Roll out our 1.3. Through manager training, safety tours BeSafe! program at all newly acquired and train-the-trainer programs, we sites and monitor ongoing implemencontinued to sustain a high level of safety tation via appropriate performance awareness in 2018. We took these steps at indicators. numerous sites – including 20 newly acquired ones. Employee engagement Goal: Measure and improve employee engagement Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Implement a regularly occurring Ongoing In 2018, we once again conducted a Groupprocess to measure employee engagewide employee survey. ment and take actions to improve it. Good leadership Goal: Ensure that people managers are enabled to motivate and develop their employees Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Have at least 50% of people managers End of 2018 3,133 of 5,281 people managers had taken rated Role 3+ take part in a managepart in a management program. ment program. In compiling participant data, we include the following programs: Managerial Foundation Program (MFP), Advanced Management Program (AMP), Global Leadership Program (GLP), Merck University (MU), International Management Program (IMP), and Growth Markets Management Program (GMMP). 161 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Environment Environmental stewardship Goal: Incorporate all production sites into our Group ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management systems Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: At newly acquired production sites, Ongoing In 2018, two sites transferred their environintroduce environmental management mental management system to our Group systems in line with our Group certificate. All sites pertinent to the Group ISO 14001 certificate and certify them certificate have thus been transitioned to accordingly. the new version of ISO 14001:2015. Climate action Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) relative to the 2006 baseline Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Systematically examine the energy End of 2020 In 2018, we conducted an energy audit at a consumption at our individual producproduction facility in Hamburg (Germany). tion sites. Training on energy efficiency End of 2018 In partnership with TU Darmstadt, our Darmstadt site offered day-long workshops on energy efficiency. The six workshops were attended by 80 people who play a major role in enhancing energy efficiency (such as plant engineers). Identify and implement potential End of 2020 In 2018, we implemented 34 Edison energy savings. projects with a view to cutting carbon emissions by 75,000 metric tons in the medium term. Multiple projects had to be postponed until 2019. Reduce process-related emissions. End of 2022 In 2018, we initiated two further projects aimed at lowering process-related emissions, one of which was completed in 2018, and yielded 10,000 metric tons of carbon savings. The second project is scheduled to run until 2022. Based on production volume in 2018, we are expecting to save roughly 40,000 metric tons of CO2 in this period. A third project is currently in the planning stages. Renewable energy End of 2020 Full integration of the purchase of electricity from renewable sources is our goal. 162 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Waste and recycling Goal: Reduce the environmental impact of our waste disposal (Merck KGaA Waste Score) by 5% by 2025 (baseline 2016) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Establish Waste Expert Network End of 2018 We established a Group-wide and a U.S.Groups. based Waste Expert Network Group comprising specialists from various areas who work together to integrate waste scoring and promote best practice sharing. Water management Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 24 of our manufacturing facilities with high water use by 2020 Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2018: Status: Meet the “progressed” requirements End of 2018 During stage 2 of the self-assessment, we set out in the CEFIC flagship selfcreated transparency regarding the water assessment tool (stage 2). This situation in the vicinity of our individual involves creating transparency sites. We successfully analyzed the results regarding the situation in the vicinity by the end of 2018. of the respective sites and beginning the evaluation of the sites’ influence on their environment. Meet the “advanced” requirements set May 2020 During stage 3 of the self-assessment, we out in the CEFIC flagship self-assesswill assess the environmental impacts ment tool (stage 3): This will assess arising from our discharged water. This our sites’ impact on the water situaprocess began in 2018, and will continue tion in the vicinity of each individual until May 2020 without an interim audit. site. 163 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Recognition and rankings The following overview presents a selection of major awards and recognition that we have received or achieved. Information on additional recognition and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our company’s website. CR Performance Access to Medicine Index In 2018, our company was ranked fourth place in the Access to Medicine Index, a position we have held since 2016, and one that has consistently put us among the top five companies in the listing. Published every two years by the international non-profit Access to Medicine Foundation, this initiative evaluates pharmaceutical companies in areas where they have the biggest potential and responsibility to bring about change in developing countries. www.accesstomedicineindex.org CDP climate and water Since 2008, we’ve been reporting our climate impact mitigation activities to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2018, we scored a C in the CDP, versus a B in 2017. The CDP assesses the strategy used and the success achieved by companies in reducing their greenhouse gas emissions, as well as how they address the risks and consequences of climate change. In addition to reporting on our climate action, since 2016 we have been reporting our water-related performance and processes to the CDP. In 2018, we received a Bfor our water management practices, versus a B in 2017. The CDP evaluates performance in the areas of climate and water on a scale from A to D-, with A being the top score. www.cdp.net EcoVadis rating The independent rating agency EcoVadis evaluates suppliers from 120 countries across the categories of Environment, Labor and Human Rights, Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. As a member of the Together for Sustainability initiative, we also undergo this assessment and, as in 2017, were once more awarded Gold status in 2018, putting us among the top 1% of all participating companies. www.ecovadis.com ESG rating from MSCI MSCI is one of the world’s largest providers of financial services for institutional investors as well as environment, social and governance ratings (ESG). This independent organization assesses companies according to their exposure to industrysignificant ESG risks and their ability to manage those risks relative to industry peers. In May 2018, MSCI gave us an “AAA”, their highest rating and one that puts us among the top 3% of all companies evaluated. They particularly praised our Group-wide ISO 9001 certification, our collaboration in industry-wide initiatives and our robust quality management system. www.msci.com/esg-ratings ESG rating from Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a company that rates the sustainability of listed companies based on their environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) performance. In 2018, this organization awarded us 79 out of 100 points, putting us among the leading pharmaceutical companies. We received particularly high marks in the categories of corporate governance and community outreach, and even our environmental performance earned a high score that far exceeded the average. www.sustainalytics.com 164 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Good Company Ranking In 2018, the management consultancy Kirchhoff Consult released its sixth Good Company Ranking, an index that is published every two years. Among the 30 DAX member companies, we took fourth place in this latest round, having moved up six positions from our 2016 rating. http://www.kirchhoff-consult.com Institute for Ecological Economy Research ranking In 2018, the Institute for Ecological Economy Research (IÖW) and “future e. V. – verantwortung unternehmen” issued their tenth ranking of sustainability reporting by major German companies. This index assesses factors such as the environmental impacts of production processes, transparent communication and efforts to enhance supply chain sustainability. Our 2017 CR Report achieved a score of 426 in the latest ranking, putting us in sixth place. www.ranking-nachhaltigkeitsberichte.de/en oekom-research sustainability rating In 2018, the sustainability ratings agency oekom research AG gave our company a Bon a scale of A+ (top mark) to D-, once more granting us oekom Prime Status (“good” to “very good”) as they did in 2017. www.oekom-research.com Sustainability indices Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register In 2015, we were added to the ESI Excellence Europe, a sustainability index that includes the 200 top-rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance. We are also a member of the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. www.forumethibel.org Euronext-Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index Since 2015, we have been members of the Euronext-Vigeo Eurozone 120, an index that features the 120 most successful European companies in terms of their environmental, social and governance practices. www.vigeo-eiris.com FTSE4Good Index Since 2008, we have been included in the FTSE4GOOD Index, a leading international sustainability rating that annually measures the performance of companies in demonstrating strong environmental, social and ethical practices. www.ftse.com STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index In 2018, our company was once again included in STOXX Global ESG Leaders, a sustainability index that assesses companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria. www.stoxx.com 165 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures CR awards Annual Report Competition ARC Awards In October 2018, our 2017 CR Report won three gold international ARC awards in the categories of Interactive Annual Report, Design/Graphics and Interior Design. MerComm, Inc. has been presenting the ARC Awards since 1987, in an effort to reward and recognize achievements in report design, imagery and content. www.mercommawards.com Building Public Trust Award In October 2018, we received a Building Public Trust Award in the category of “Non-Financial Reporting DAX 30”. In presenting this prize, auditing company PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) recognized the non-financial reporting required by the German CSR Directive Implementation Act, the first time this organization has done so. www.pwc.de/en Econ Awards Presented by German publisher Econ, the Econ Awards recognize outstanding concepts and practices in corporate communications. In October 2018, we won a Gold Econ Award for our digital 2017 CR Report, with special mention made of its user-friendliness, high-level content and attractive design. www.econforum.de (German only) 166 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of aspirations aimed at all countries and organizations across the globe. We too are making every effort to help reach these objectives. Recently, for instance, we conducted a materiality analysis to identify the goals with which our daily operations currently align. Our approach Underpinned by 17 Sustainable Development Goals, the international community has identified 169 targets aimed at facilitating the actions necessary to accomplishing the mission. We recognize that companies too are duty-bound to support the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, we examined the SDG targets in an effort to pinpoint the ones where our business activities make the greatest direct impact. A closer look at our efforts With our CR commitments we especially support the goals of Good Health & Well-Being (SDG 3), Quality Education (SDG 4) and Affordable & Clean Energy (SDG 7) (see graphic below). However, our contribution towards achieving the SDGs does not limit itself to the strategic spheres of activity established in our corporate responsibility strategy. This means that we not only contribute to solving global challenges within the areas of “Global Health”, “Sustainable Solutions” and “Broad Minds”, but rather that many of our activities have positive effects that go beyond. This is the case with seven of the 17 SDGs. In our 2018 CR-report, for the first time, we show which SDG targets we support with our management approaches and projects. Beyond these seven SDGs, we are also pursuing activities in support of eight other goals, albeit to a lesser extent. For this reason we do not report on them on a target level. 167 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures SDG 3: Good health and well-being Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Across the globe, two billion people lack access to medicines, with an estimated 400 million lacking access to effective and affordable essential health services. Given this reality, we are striving to rectify the situation through our Global Health Strategy. However, recognizing that we cannot solve these challenges alone, we have joined forces with strong partners to work towards a solution. Target 3.3: By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases. Access to Medicine Index Ranking 2018 Strategy for preventing and treating infectious diseases Joining forces to improve access to health Target 3.b: Support the research and development of vaccines and medicines for the communicable and noncommunicable diseases that primarily affect developing countries, provide access to affordable essential medicines and vaccines, in accordance with the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, which affirms the right of developing countries to use to the full the provisions in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights regarding flexibilities to protect public health, and, in particular, provide access to medicines for all. Access to and control of intellectual property Collaborating on open innovation: WIPO Re:Search Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative Global Health Institute research on neglected tropical diseases SDG 4: Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. Community outreach in the mica supply chain Igniting a passion for science with the global volunteer program SPARK Scientific junior labs at the Technical University, Darmstadt, Germany Education for teachers and school partnerships SDG 5: Gender equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Women in leadership roles: Requirements and targets Revealing unconscious bias Networks to bolster diversity SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Around the world, the number of areas suffering from water scarcity is on the rise. At our sites, we are dependent on a reliable supply of water. We have made sustainable water management a key focus of our environmental stewardship. Target 6.3: By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. High marks for our water management practices Antibiotic residues in wastewater Water protection measures in India Clean water for China 168 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Investing in renewable energies Subsidies for our employees Developing energy-efficient products SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. We expect all suppliers and vendors to adhere to the same high social standards as we do. These are set forth in the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the United Nations Global Compact. Target 8.4.: Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-Year Framework of Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production, with developed countries taking the lead. Our commitment: Guiding principles, charters and laws Monitoring our supply chain SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. We are always on the lookout for pioneering developments and trends. We develop products and technologies that improve people’s lives. New technologies, especially advances in digitalization, enable us to create innovative products, services and business models. Target 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resourceuse efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities. Making packaging more sustainable Recycling program updated Using biotechnology to produce meat in laboratories (clean meat) Material investments in environmental impact mitigation Investing in renewable energies Recharging facilities at our sites SDG 10: Reduced inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries. Shared data platform for increasing the transparency of medicine donation supply chains Providing integrated primary healthcare service facilities (CURAFA) Low-price second brands Generics SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. We take on social responsibility. Focusing especially on those areas where we can best leverage our expertise, we promote health, education and cultural projects. Beyond these efforts, we provide disaster relief and assist people in need in the countries where we operate, particularly in the immediate vicinity of our sites. 169 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Target 11.6: By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management. ISO 14001:2015 environmental certification Clear target for reducing the environmental impacts of waste SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Respect for the environment is the bedrock of our approach to sustainability. We see it as our duty to not only conserve resources when developing our own products, but also to help our customers enhance the sustainability of theirs. Target 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. Our processes for sustainable product design Green chemistry assessment tool Registration of chemical compounds Safety analysis during product development Target 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Award for our Waste Scoring System Clear target for reducing the environmental impacts of waste Target 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. Our processes for sustainable product design Green chemistry assessment tool Our CR strategy Yearly sustainability reporting SDG 13: Climate action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Emissions lowered despite growth Strategic climate program Educating employees about climate impact mitigation Switching to sea freight SDG 14: Life below water Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. Our wastewater may contain traces of substances such as heavy metals or pharmaceutical active ingredients. For us, sustainable water management means not negatively impacting the aquatic ecosystems from which we obtain freshwater, or into which we discharge purified wastewater. Target 14.1: By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution. High marks for our water management practices Avoid antibiotic residues in wastewater Water protection measures in India Alternatives to microplastic in cosmetics 170 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures SDG 15: Life on land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Biodiversity: Nagoya Protocol and access and benefit sharing Biodiversity at our sites SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Clear chain of command for reporting violations Responsible governance SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. Engaging stakeholder: our approach Engaging stakeholders about health for all Discussions on an international level Engaging stakeholders about compliance Engaging stakeholders about environmental stewardship 171 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Non-financial report  Part of the non-financial report Index for the combined separate integrated non-financial report Through our combined separate integrated non-financial report, we fulfill the requirements arising from the CSR Directive Implementation Act. The separate non-financial report of the Merck Group has been combined with the separate nonfinancial report of the parent undertaking, Merck KGaA, in accordance with Section 289b (3) sentence 2 in conjunction with Section 298 (2) of the German Commercial Code, and integrated into our Corporate Responsibility Report. The following index provides an overview of the contents of the non-financial report and contains links to the relevant passages in the CR report. External references within our CR Report are not part of the non-financial report. To provide the type of framework stipulated in Section 289b in conjunction with Section 315c (3) of the German Commercial Code, we have applied the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (Option: Comprehensive) for this report. Description of business model We describe our business model, corporate structure, governance, and Group strategy under Company profile. Strategic and organizational approach to sustainability Under Governance, we present external guidelines and initiatives to which we’ve committed ourselves, along with Groupwide guidelines that are the cornerstone of our responsible governance. Our CR strategy sets out how we practice corporate responsibility, both in terms of strategy and at the organizational level. 172 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Material aspects and issues To determine the aspects and issues of relevance to the non-financial report, we conducted a materiality assessment that identified several issues that could not be assigned to any of the five aspects defined as minimum contents under Section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code. Along with these five aspects, we have therefore decided to report on the following additional relevant issues: Aspect Issue Environmental matters Environmental stewardship Pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste) Plant and process safety Employee-related matters Recruiting and retaining employees (incl. Employee development, Work 4.0, diversity and equal opportunities, good leadership, employee engagement as well as health and safety) Social matters Patient safety Product-related crime Responsible marketing Data protection Respect for human rights Bioethics (incl. genome editing) Clinical studies Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Compliance Interactions with health systems Chemical product safety (incl. labeling of chemicals) Transport and warehouse safety Prices of medicines Innovation and R & D Digitalization Within our approach to comprehensive risk and opportunity management, we also identify current and potential risks and opportunities in the areas of environment, community and governance. This includes information on the gross risks in terms of potential damage and probability, as well as the residual net risks remaining after mitigation measures have been effected. We did not identify any net risks that fulfill the materiality criteria as set forth by Section 289c (3) no. 3 and 4 of the German Commercial Code. Additional risks are described in the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the combined management report. 173 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Aspect: Environmental matters Within our Group, environmental matters fall under environmental stewardship. In the following section, we report on the measures implemented to further environmental stewardship, enhance plant and process safety, and address pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste). Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Environmental stewOrganizational structure of the Group function EQ ardship Standards and standard operating procedures for environmental stewardship Assessing environmental impacts, auditing our sites and reporting violations ISO 14001 Group certificate and certification of new sites Stakeholder dialogue Goals and progress: Environment Pharmaceutical and Type and amount of provisions for environmental impact mitigation chemical residues in Remediation of contamination at Gernsheim site the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste) Plant and process Organizational structure: Plant and process safety within EQ safety EHS standards and processes Tracking EHS performance indicators „Risk Management Process“ Employee training and sharing lessons learned EHS Incident Rate Substance spills and environmental impacts 174 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Aspect: Employee-related matters Within our Group, employee-related matters fall under the purview of Human Resources (HR). Under this aspect, we report on concepts pertaining to recruiting and retaining employees. (incl. „Employee development“, „Work 4.0“, „Diversity and equal opportunity“, „Good leadership“, „Employee engagement“ as well as „Health and safety“). Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Recruiting and Employer brand and approach to recruiting and retaining employees retaining employees Organization of HR (incl. employee People Development & Learning Policy, Corporate guideline on “flexwork” and global standards development, Work Concept and number of participants: Performance and Potential Management Process 4.0, diversity and Performance-based and gender-neutral pay equal opportunities, Qualified university graduates, number of trainees and apprentices, and hiring rates good leadership, Vocational training employee engageDigitalization of work and use of digitalization ment as well as Finding work-life balance, flexible working models, part-time and parental leave health and safety) Good standing in employer rankings Goals and progress: Employees Indicators: Employees Diversity strategy Organizational structure of diversity Industry-wide diversity initiatives Diversity awareness and trainings on unconscious bias Gender-neutral communication with candidates Networks to bolster diversity and our activities in such areas SpeakUp Line and taking action against discrimination Integration and key figures of international employees Addressing demographic change and health campaigns Indicators: Business ethics Structural organization for engagement and inclusion Employee engagement surveys and improvement of the workplace environment Promoting and rewarding innovative ideas, number of participants in such programs 2018, Merck Awards, HR Innovation Campaign and TED@Merck Innovation center and teams working there Keeping employees informed, encouraging dialogue as well as availability of “pro” and EVA Deepening employee engagement Competency model Management and talent programs for leaders, Merck University and participant numbers Programs in growth markets and number of participants Organizational structure of health and safety Policies and bylaws OHSAS 18001 safety certification Safety culture program “BeSafe!” and initiatives, campaigns and awareness-raising measures for the program in 2018 Workplace health management and health projects Reduce the number of accidents 175 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Aspect: Social matters Social matters encompasses our relationship with consumers. Under this heading, we report on concepts relating to patient safety, product-related crime, responsible marketing, and data protection. Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Patient safety Approach to patient safety Pharmacovigilance Infrastructure for patient safety Patient safety guidelines Pharmacovigilance monitoring through inspections and audits Product labeling and changing product labels Internal and external training Share knowledge and pharmacovigilance campaigns Product-related crime Approach to product-related crime Product-related crime organization Product-related crime guidelines and standards Monitoring and reporting systems Supporting customers and patients: Our approaches Industry-wide exchange Raising awareness of product crime, training sessions and reference book Safety audits for contract manufacturers and distributors as well as findings Goals and progress: Products Responsible Infrastructure for responsible marketing marketing Code of conduct and industry-wide rules Reviewing marketing material Addressing violations of standards and regulations Employee training and number of participants Direct marketing only in certain countries Marketing chemicals and preventing chemical misuse Data protection Organization: Integrated into Compliance Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy as well as European General Data Protection Regulation Data privacy management system Indicators: Business ethics 176 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Aspect: Respect for human rights Under Respect for human rights , we report on concepts related to bioethics (including genome editing) and clinical studies. Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Bioethics (including Organizational structure for addressing bioethical issues genome editing) Current discussions within the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) Genome Editing Technology Principle Stem Cells Principle Fertility Principle Guidelines and standard operation procedures for biosampling and biobanking Guidelines on off-label use Clinical studies Fundamental requirements for clinical studies Organizational structure for clinical studies Clinical study guidelines and agreements Supervision of clinical studies Teaming up to get results, auditing contract research organizations and findings Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups as well as participation in EUPATI Responsible data sharing and data publication Early Access Program and position paper on the program Support of independent human subject research Marketing approval for Avelumab Aspect: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Within our corporate structure, anti-corruption efforts fall under Compliance Management, so we report here on compliance and interactions with health systems. Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Compliance Structural organization: Group Compliance Compliance guidelines and standards Compliance audits Compliance training, e-learning course for our code of conduct and number of participants Inform employees, for example through the initiative “Compliance. Because We Care” SpeakUp Line, reported and confirmed cases of non-compliance Businss Partner Risk Management, risk analysis and training Alliance for Integrity Goals and progress: Business ethics Indicators: Business ethics Interactions with Organizational structure for interactions with health systems health systems Group-wide guidelines and industry-wide standards Transparent reporting, new regulations on transparency and publication of an EFPIA transparency report Collaboration with patient advocacy groups Transparent promotion of research and education Introduction of a new compliance tool 177 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Other matters In the following section, we report on significant issues that are not covered in any of the five minimum aspects stipulated in section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code: Issue Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Chemical product Organizational structure for product safety safety (incl. Labeling Group-wide and industry-wide guidelines of chemicals) REACH registration Supporting our Global Product Strategy Assessing safety during product development Our approach to nanotechnology Standardized product safety information, number and languages of safety data sheets ScIDeEx Goals and progress: Products Transport and wareStructural organization: EQ and dangerous goods manager house safety Globally applicable standards Transport and warehouse safety audits, number and results of audits Strengths and weaknesses profile Employee training and regular discussions Proper transport Transport vehicles Goals and progress: Products Prices of medicines Structural pricing organization Medicine price guidelines and principles Data-based pricing Customer-centric contracting models and examples Pricing schemes to serve low-income patients and examples Low-price second brands and examples Generics and examples Patient access programs and examples Innovation and R & D Continuous innovation process Structural organization of research and development as well as strategic partnerships Our three innovation fields in the Innovation Center Innovation Center and projects Start-ups and cross-industry collaboration “Innospire” and “Innovator Academy” Displaying Futures Award Research and development spending M Venture Fund Digitalization Structural organization of research and development Five strategic focus areas “Inclusive Innovation Challenge” Examples from the strategic focus areas 178 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI content index General disclosures The CR Report 2018 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 'Comprehensive' option. The following GRI content index provides an overview of general disclosures, the GRI Standards and management approaches that were identified to be relevant. It also indicates where the corresponding information can be found. The GRI content index, as a part of the CR report 2018, has received an independent audit certificate after undergoing a limited assurance audit. GRI Content Index: General disclosures GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Company profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company profile Products & Industries 102-3 Location of headquarters Company profile 102-4 Location of operations Company profile List of shareholdings 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company profile 102-6 Markets served Company profile Macroeconomic and SectorSpecific Environment 102-7 Scale of the organization Company profile Indicators: employees Indicators: environment Net sales Capitalization Consolidated Balance Sheet 102-8 Information on employees and other Supervised workers such as temps are Indicators: employees workers not logged in our employee data Attractive employer system. 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain standards Mica supply chain Pharmaceutical supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Company profile and its supply chain Supply chain standards Fundamental Information about the Group 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach CR strategy Environmental stewardship Transport and warehouse safety Health and safety Climate action Plant and process safety Chemical product safety 179 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 102-12 External initiatives CR strategy Governance Compliance Human rights Sustainable Development Goals 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue Compliance Global strategy Environmental stewardship Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Letter from the CEO CR strategy Materiality analysis Goals Report on Risks and Opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms CR strategy of behavior Governance Compliance Human rights Health for all Diversity Good leadership Bioethics Clinical studies Animal welfare Sustainable products Environmental stewardship 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Compliance about ethics Diversity Mica supply chain Human rights Bioethics Clinical studies Animal welfare Governance 102-18 Governance structure CR strategy Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority CR strategy Procedures of the corporate bodies 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for CR strategy economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, CR strategy environmental, and social topics Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Compliance Global strategy Environmental stewardship Employee engagement 180 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Management body and its committees Statement on Corporate Governance The Executive Board The Supervisory Board Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Diversity governance body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance Gender quota Diversity policy Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-25 Conflicts of interest Compliance Information on corporate governance practices 102-26 Role of highest governance body in CR strategy setting purpose, values, and strategy Values and compliance Report of the Supervisory Board 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest goverCR strategy nance body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Company profile performance Board of Partners The Supervisory Board Articles of Association Statement on Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, enviCR strategy ronmental, and social impacts Materiality analysis Stakeholder dialogue Compliance Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Statement on Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management CR strategy processes Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and CR strategy social topics Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board 181 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainReport profile ability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance Values and compliance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical Compliance concerns Values and compliance 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Compensation report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneraAttractive employer tion Compensation report Voting results Annual General Meeting 2018 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Competitive salaries and additional benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Competitive salaries and additional compensation ratio benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis 182 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated finanReport profile cial statements Company profile 102-46 Defining report content and topic BoundReport profile aries Materiality analysis 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 102-48 Restatements of information Report profile 102-49 Changes in reporting Report profile Materiality analysis 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Report profile report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI content index GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Report profile Assurance report GRI content index 183 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Economic Standards GRI Content Index: Economic Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Materiality analysis Boundary Statement on Corporate Governance 103-2 The management approach and its Economic performance components Pension schemes 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Report on Risks and Opportunities 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Indicators: community distributed Indicators: employees Indicators: economics Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Information by business sector /country and region Personnel expenses 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and We report in detail on various aspects Climate action opportunities due to climate change of climate change as part of our particWater management ipation in the CDP (formerly known as Global Compact CoP the Carbon Disclosure Project). CDP Report on Risks and Opportunities 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Indicators: employees retirement plans Pension schemes 201-4 Financial assistance received from governAccounting: Property, plant ment and equipment Property, plant and equipment Research and development costs 184 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attractive employer Boundary Good leadership Diversity 103-2 The management approach and its Employee engagement components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by This indicator is not relevant to us, Attractive employer gender compared to local minimum wage which is why we do not collect data on the ratio of the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. Our Global Rewards Policy applies to all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Both base pay and short-term variable compensation are oriented to the median base pay of the relevant reference market. Our pay brackets are reviewed on an annual basis and reflect market conditions. It goes without saying that we always adhere to local minimum wage levels. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired We encourage both local hiring and Diversity from the local community international appointments across all Good leadership levels of the company. The percentage of local managers is not recorded as it is not relevant to our strategic personnel planning. GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply chain standards GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Interactions with health systems 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Compliance corruption Indicators: business ethics Values and compliance Report on Risks and Opportunities 205-2 Communication and training about antiGovernance corruption policies and procedures Compliance Responsible marketing Indicators: business ethics 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and As applicable, we report on risks from Compliance actions taken litigation and legal proceedings in our Responsible marketing Report on Risks and Opportunities. Indicators: business ethics Report on Risks and Opportunities 185 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Indicators: business ethics behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Additional material topics TECHNOLOGY (Innovation and R&D, Digitalization) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Innovation and digitalization Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach DATA PROTECTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 186 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Environmental Standards GRI Content Index: Environmental Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its In all our endeavors, we attempt to Sustainable product design Boundary efficiently utilize materials and recycle Packaging and recycling as much as possible. Where feasible, Environmental stewardship 103-2 The management approach and its we use recycled materials (in packWaste and recycling components aging, for instance). Overall, our Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach company considers material consumption a major concern. There are few opportunities to use recycled material in our production processes because our business model puts us at the start of the value chain. We therefore do not collect such data at the Group-level. Individual data and measures are reported under the respective chapters. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume See GRI 301: 103 Waste and recycling Sustainable product design Packaging and recycling 301-2 Recycled input materials used See GRI 301: 103 Waste and recycling Sustainable product design Packaging and recycling 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Owing to the multitude of products we Waste and recycling materials supply and the minimal comparability Sustainable product design of our various initiatives, we do not Packaging and recycling collect quantitative data at the Group level. The individual measures taken by our various businesses are reported in the respective chapters. GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Climate action Sustainable product design 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the organizaClimate action tion Indicators: environment 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the orgaClimate action nization 302-3 Energy intensity Climate action Indicators: environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate action Indicators: environment 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Sustainable product design products and services 187 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Water management Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Water management resource Indicators: environment 303-2 Management of water discharge-related Water management impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal The amount of seawater, produced Water management water and other water withdrawn and Indicators: environment discharged is not significant and is therefore not reported separately. 303-4 Water discharge The amount of seawater, produced Water management water and other water withdrawn and Indicators: environment discharged is not significant and is therefore not reported separately. 303-5 Water consumption Water management Indicators: environment GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Biodiversity Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Land use planning takes impacts on Biodiversity in, or adjacent to, protected areas and bioversity into account, with approareas of high biodiversity value outside priate measures being taken on a protected areas case-by-case basis. 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, Biodiversity and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Land use planning takes impacts on Biodiversity conservation list species with habitats in bioversity into account, with approareas affected by operations priate measures being taken on a case-by-case basis. GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Climate action Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Climate action Indicators: environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment CDP 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Indicators: environment 188 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment Sustainable product design Packaging and recycling CDP 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances This disclosure is not material to Indicators: environment (ODS) Merck. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides This disclosure is not material to Indicators: environment (SOX), and other significant air emissions Merck. GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Waste and recycling Packaging and recycling 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destinaPlease note that the effluents-related tion content in the current GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Standard has been updated and can be found in GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste and recycling Packaging and recycling Indicators: environment 306-3 Significant spills Plant and process safety Indicators: environment 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Indicators: environment 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Please note that the effluents-related and/or runoff content in the current GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Standard has been updated and can be found in GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018. GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Environmental stewardship and regulations GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Materiality analysis Mica supply chain 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards environmental criteria Mica supply chain 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Supply chain standards supply chain and actions taken Mica supply chain 189 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Social Standards GRI Content Index: Social Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attractive employer Boundary Diversity Health and safety 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee Indicators: employees turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees At Merck KGaA (22% of the company's Indicators: employees that are not provided to temporary or total workforce), part-time employees Attractive employer part-time employees receive the same job benefits as fulltime workers. Employees with temporary contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits, such as a company pension. 401-3 Parental leave Attractive employer Indicators: employees GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attractive employer Boundary Health and safety Employee engagement 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operaThe regulations on periods of notice tional changes vary worldwide. We apply the rules that are in force locally. There is no need for us to track periods of notice at Group level. 190 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Health and safety Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 403-1 Occupational health and safety manageHealth and safety ment system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Health and safety and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Health and safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Occupational health and safety Health and safety communication on occupational health committees are required by law in and safety Germany. All employees of Merck KGaA are therefore represented by such committees, which operate at the site level. These employees account for around 22% of our total workforce. The majority of facilities outside Germany also have health and safety committees to represent their employees. Each individual site is responsible for arranging and maintaining such committees. Health and safety issues are governed Group-wide by our EHS Policy. The organizational implementation of the policy is the responsibility of our individual sites and is subject to local laws and regulations. Merck KGaA, which accounts for approximately 22% of our total workforce, has bylaws on occupational health and safety in place. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Health and safety and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Health and safety health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational Health and safety health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries We have identified the lost time injury Health and safety rate (LTIR) as a key performance indiIndicators: employees cator for our company. 403-10 Work-related ill health Indicators: employees 191 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attractive employer Boundary Good leadership Diversity 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 404-1 Average hours of training per year per We do not keep track of the average Compliance employee hours our employees spend on vocaResponsible marketing tional training and continuing educaInteractions with health tion because this indicator does not systems have any bearing on the quality or Animal welfare success of our efforts. Patient safety Product-related crime Transport and warehouse safety Attractive employer Diversity Health and safety Good leadership Environmental stewardship Plant and process safety 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Attractive employer and transition assistance programs Diversity Good leadership 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Attractive employer performance and career development Indicators: employees reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity Boundary Attractive employer Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Objectives of the Supervisory components Board with respect to its posi103-3 Evaluation of the management approach tion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Since there is no globally uniform defiDiversity employees nition of the term “minority”, we do Indicators: employees not record this sort of data. Moreover, The Executive Board many countries in which we operate The Supervisory Board have strict data privacy regulations Objectives of the Supervisory governing the recording of personal Board with respect to its posiemployee data. tion 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of The salaries we offer are predicated on Attractive employer women to men the respective job description and are based on our Global Job Catalog, which has fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall under performance-based compensation are paid on the basis of whether mutually agreed targets have been achieved. A performance management system governs this process. 192 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Diversity actions taken GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Attractive employer 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights components Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Supply chain standards right to freedom of association and collecMica supply chain tive bargaining may be at risk Human rights Attractive employer GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Human rights 103-2 The management approach and its Attractive employer components Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Supply chain standards for incidents of child labor Mica supply chain Human rights Attractive employer Indicators: employees GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Attractive employer 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights components Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Supply chain standards for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Mica supply chain Attractive employer Human rights 193 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Human rights Boundary Compliance Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 412-1 Operations that have been subject to Human rights human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights poliHuman rights cies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Human rights contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards social criteria Mica supply chain 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Supply chain standards chain and actions taken Mica supply chain GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Stakeholder dialogue Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 415-1 Political contributions Stakeholder dialogue GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Patient safety Boundary Responsible marketing Interactions with health 103-2 The management approach and its systems components Clinical studies 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Chemical product safety Sustainable product design Plant and process safety Materiality analysis Report on Risks and Opportunities 194 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Patient safety impacts of product and service categories Clinical studies Chemical product safety Sustainable product design Plant and process safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks from Report on Risks and Opportunithe health and safety impacts of products litigation and legal proceedings in our ties and services Report on Risks and Opportunities. GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Patient safety Boundary Chemical product safety Responsible marketing 103-2 The management approach and its Interactions with health components systems 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis 417-1 Requirements for product and service Within our businesses, product labels Patient safety information and labeling are both important and mandatory. All Responsible marketing pharmaceuticals and chemicals are Interactions with health subject to reporting and notification systems requirements that we fulfill. The indiChemical product safety vidual requirements are reported in the respective chapters. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Patient safety product and service information and Chemical product safety labeling Report on Risks and Opportunities 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks from Responsible marketing marketing communications litigation and legal proceedings in our Report on Risks and OpportuniReport on Risks and Opportunities. ties GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Clinical studies Boundary Compliance Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Indicators: business ethics breaches of customer privacy and losses Clinical studies of customer data Compliance GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis Report on Risks and Opportuni103-2 The management approach and its ties components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations As applicable, we report on risks from Indicators: business ethics in the social and economic area litigation and legal proceedings in our Report on Risks and OpportuniReport on Risks and Opportunities. ties 195 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Additional material topics ETHICAL CONDUCT (bioethics, clinical studies, animal welfare) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Bioethics Boundary Clinical studies Animal welfare 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach HEALTH FOR ALL (access to health, prices of medicines, health awareness) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Global strategy Boundary Focus programs Open innovation sharing 103-2 The management approach and its Prices of medicines components Health awareness 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis PRODUCT-RELATED CRIME 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Product-related crime Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community involvement Boundary Global Health Broad Minds 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach WORK 4.0 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attractive employer Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 196 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Global Compact CoP 2018 Communication on progress (CoP) in implementing the ten principles of the Global Compact We have been a UN Global Compact participant since 2005. As a signatory of the initiative, we have committed ourselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the UN Global Compact calls on its signatories to actively engage in propagating the principles within their own sphere of influence. The following table summarizes the key measures we took in 2018, to support and implement the principles of the Global Compact. Link: www.unglobalcompact.org UNGC-Principleien: Key measures in 2018: Relevant GRI Reference: disclosures: Human rights Principle 1: Key measures in 2018: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: and respect the protection Hosted a workshop on modern slavery Compliance of internationally proclaimed 194 people managers took part in the 410-1, 411-1, Human rights human rights. online course on our Human Rights Charter 103-2: 412, Focus programs Donated nearly 200 million praziquantel 412-2, 413-1, tablets to the World Health Organization to 413-2 treat schistosomiasis, a donation that included Burkina Faso, Niger and Sierra Leone for the first time Formed an internal, cross-functional human rights working group Added the topic of human rights to our manual for new managing directors in an effort to heighten awareness at the executive level Started the process of updating our Human Rights Charter 197 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Principle 2: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should make disclosures: sure that they are not Took initial steps in response to the human Human rights complicit in human rights rights self-assessment we conducted at our 412-3, 414-1, Compliance abuses. sites 414-2 Supply chain stan194 people managers took part in the dards online course on our Human Rights Charter Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers regarding corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information Added human rights issues to our compliance risk reporting Labor standards Principle 3: Key measures in 2018: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should uphold disclosures: the freedom of association Took initial steps in response to the human Human rights and the effective recognition rights self-assessment we conducted at our 102-41, 402-1, Compliance of the right to collective sites 407-1 Employee engagement bargaining. Conducted internal audits on workplace Supply chain stanaspects of our Human Rights Charter dards Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers regarding corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information Principle 4: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the elimination of all forms Conducted internal audits on workplace Human rights of forced and compulsory aspects of our Human Rights Charter 409-1 Compliance labor. Took initial steps in response to the human Supply chain stanrights self-assessment we conducted at our dards sites Issued our UK Modern Slavery Statement, which has been endorsed by our Executive Board and is available on our website Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers regarding corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information 198 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Principle 5: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the effective abolition of Took initial steps in response to the human Human rights child labor. rights self-assessment we conducted at our 408-1 Compliance sites Supply chain stanConducted internal audits on workplace dards aspects of our Human Rights Charter Mica supply chain Assumed the presidency of the Responsible Mica Initiative until 2020, and supported its work Engaged with the Indian organization IGEP to conduct monthly inspections of mica mines and processing plants Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers regarding corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information Principle 6: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the elimination of discrimiReviewed and revised our Diversity Human rights nation in respect of employStrategy 102-8, 202-1, Compliance ment and occupation. Conducted internal audits on workplace 202-2, 401-1, Diversity aspects of our Human Rights Charter 401-3, 404-1, Identified key measures to achieve our 404-3, 405-1, 2021 target of maintaining a 30% repre405-2, 406-1 sentation of women in leadership roles (Role 4+) Expanded internal diversity programs Conducted a pilot training program on unconscious bias Environmental stewardship Principle 7: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support a disclosures: precautionary approach to Added two new sites to our ISO Environmental stewenvironmental challenges. 14001:2015 Group certificate (Group 201-2, 301-1, ardship certificate for 81 facilities) 302-1, 303-1, Climate action Annually reduced CO2 emissions (2020 305-1, 305-2, Water management reduction target: 20% versus 2006 base305-3, 305-6, Waste and recycling line) 305-7 Plant and process Implemented more than 360 climate safety impact mitigation projects since 2012 Sustainable product Introduced two new Group-wide water design standards Packaging and recyImplemented measures to ensure product cling safety (e.g. REACH, GHS, Global Product Patient safety Strategy) as well as plant and process Chemical product safety (e.g. risk management process) safety Performed internal and external EHS audits Transport and wareUsed our Waste Scoring System with the house safety goal of reducing the environmental impact of our waste by 5% by 2025 Established two Waste Expert Network Groups 199 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Principle 8: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should underdisclosures: take initiatives to promote Systematically examined potential energy Climate action greater environmental savings at our production facilities 301 308 Water management responsibility. Labeled products to provide information on Waste and recycling their use and disposal Plant and process Launched the online platform Troc@Merck safety at our site in Corsier-sur-Vevey (SwitzerChemical product land) to raise employee awareness for safety waste minimization. Patient safety Commercialized greener products such as TM Transport and wareCyrene house safety Offered employees sustainable mobility Sustainable product options such as Jobtickets and bike sharing design Principle 9: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should disclosures: encourage the development Developed sustainable products such as Sustainable product and diffusion of environliquid crystal technologies, raw materials 302-4, 302-5, design mentally friendly technolofor natural cosmetics and greener alterna305-5 Packaging and recygies. tives to chemicals cling Implemented a new sustainable packaging Performance Materials strategy built on the following four goals: Reduce amount of packaging, achieve zero forestation, improve plastic sustainability, and optimize recycling Expanded a recycling program for our Life Science customers Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should work disclosures: against corruption in all its Performed internal corruption audits Compliance forms, including extortion Integrated our compliance program into 102-16, 102-17, Interactions with and bribery. our business sectors 205-1, 205-2, health systems 11,404 employees and external workers 205-3, 415-1 completed an online anti-corruption course Rolled out business sector-specific elearning programs centered on our Code of Conduct Provided Group-wide SpeakUp Line for people to report corruption anonymously Published annual EFPIA transparency reports 200 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Assurance report 1 Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding Sustainability Information To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We have been engaged to perform an independent limited assurance engagement on the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on sustainability in the “Corporate Responsibility Report 2018” (further “Report”) of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck”) for the fiscal year 2018 published at https://www.merckgroup.com/en/cr-report/2018. It was not part of our engagement to review product or service related information, references to external information sources, expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report. Management’s Responsibility for the Report The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative in combination with the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), the Corporate Value Chain Standard (Scope 3) of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), as described in the section of the Report “Report profile”, as Reporting Criteria (further “Reporting Criteria). The responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We are independent from the company in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the legal provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the report based on our work performed within the scope of our limited assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require that we comply with our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude that the information above is not in accordance, in material respects, with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit activities is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: Inquiries of personnel on Group level responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of Merck. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Merck in the reporting period. 201 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the sustainability disclosures included in the scope of this engagement, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level. Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data and information, as well as carrying out internal control procedures on the data and information, including the explanatory notes. Assessment of local data collection and reporting processes and reliability of reported data via a sampling survey at the sites Darmstadt and St. Louis (USA) as well as Onahama (Japan) as videoconference. Evaluation of selected internal and external documents. Analytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative disclosures which are reported by all sites on group level. Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements. Reviewing the consistency of GRI Standards in-accordance option “Comprehensive” as declared by Merck with sustainability information in the Report An evaluation of the overall presentation of the information, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our engagement. As described in the Report, Merck engaged external providers to perform assessments and audits. The adequacy and accuracy of the conclusions from these external assessments were not part of our limited assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on sustainability for the business year 2018 included in the scope of this engagement and published in the Report are in all material respects not prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Restriction of use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/ bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Frankfurt am Main, March 19, 2019 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Hell Glöckner Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] 1 Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in German language. 202 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Glossary 3R principle CRISPR/Cas The international guiding principle for all animal testing. A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing The number of laboratory animals used as well as the the DNA of an organism (gene editing). Experts think this stress placed on them before, during and after testing are technique has great potential for curing diseases or to be kept to an absolute minimum by using methods to generating plants and animals with new traits. replace animal experiments (replacement), reduce the required number of tests and animals (reduction), and Design thinking improve the test methods (refinement). An approach to developing new ideas. Design thinking uses the designer’s sensibility and methods to match people’s Big Data needs with what is technologically feasible and what a Extremely large data sets that may be analyzed viable business strategy can convert into customer value computationally to reveal patterns, trends and and market opportunity. associations, especially relating to human behavior and interactions. Dual-use products Goods that are normally used for civilian purposes, but that Biodiversity may also have military applications. The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity Due diligence within a biological species or population. A risk analysis exercised with particular care. Biosimilars EHS Officially approved subsequent versions of innovator Short for “Environment, Health and Safety”, this refers to biopharmaceutical products made by a different company environmental management, health protection and after the original product's patent or exclusivity expires. occupational safety throughout a company. Based on guidance from the European Medicines Agency (EMA), biosimilars must demonstrate comparability, or End-user declaration biosimilarity, to an existing approved product. A binding customer statement regarding the intended use of a product. Chatbot A chatbot is a computer program or an artificial intelligence Endemic countries that conducts a conversation via auditory or textual Countries in which a certain disease, in many cases an methods. infectious disease, occurs. Chromatography EQ A technique used to separate mixtures. EQ stands for our Group function “Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality”. CLP Short for “Classification, Labelling and Packaging of ESG ratings Substances and Mixtures”, this is a European regulation ESG ratings are used to assess a company’s financial based on the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of performance through factors that include aspects of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. environmental management, social issues and good governance. CO2 equivalents CO2 equivalents (CO2eq) indicate how much a specified Essential medicines quantity of a specific greenhouse gas has contributed to Defined by the World Health Organization as “those drugs the greenhouse effect, using the global warming potential that satisfy the health care needs of the majority of the of carbon dioxide as a reference. population”. Compliance Exposure assessment Adherence to laws and regulations as well as to voluntary The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines codices that are internal to a company. Compliance is a exposure assessment as the determination or estimation component of diligent corporate governance. (qualitative or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency, duration, and route of exposure between an agent and an organism. This analysis forms part of the chemical safety 203 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures assessment process. Greenhouse gases Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming. FDA They can be either naturally occurring or caused by The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the U.S. humans (such as CO2 emissions caused by burning fossil government agency responsible for protecting and fuels). advancing public health, especially as concerns food and drugs. GxP The general term for good (anything …) practice quality First-line treatment guidelines and regulations that are used in many fields, A therapy regimen that is generally accepted by the including the medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical medical establishment for the initial treatment of a given chemistry industries. disease. If the first-line treatment is not adequately successful, a second-line treatment may be administered. Hackathon Portmanteau from the words hacking and marathon. A Freshwater hackathon is an event attended by people from different Water containing 1,000 mg or less of dissolved solids per professional backgrounds. Teams are given a few hours or liter. days to develop innovative solutions and ideas for predefined issues or challenges. Gene drive technologies Gene drive technologies refer to methods for accelerating HazCom 2012 the spread of genes in populations. In general, the A U.S. OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health technique can employ adding, deleting, disrupting, or Administration) standard pertaining to the safe handling of modifying genes. These can be used, for example, on chemicals in the workplace, with an emphasis on mosquitoes that transmit malaria, dengue, and zika occupational safety and environmental protection. This pathogens in order to stop their spread. standard requires manufacturers and distributors to provide information on the hazards posed by a product as Global Grade well as ways to minimize risks. Merck uses a market-oriented system to rate positions within the company. Until the end of 2016, all positions ICH within the Merck Group were assigned a Global Grade. In The aim of the International Council for Harmonisation of 2017, we replaced this system so that each position is now Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use assigned a role. (ICH) is to promote uniform assessment criteria for product registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The Global Product Strategy ICH develops guidelines for the evaluation of the quality, An initiative of the International Council of Chemical effectiveness and safety of medicinal products. Associations (ICCA) through which participating companies of the chemical industry make a commitment to In vitro comprehensive product responsibility. Procedures involving components of an organism that have been isolated from their usual biological surroundings (e.g. Globally Harmonized System of Classification test tube experiments). and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) An international standard system to classify chemicals that In vivo covers labeling as well as safety data sheets. Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes that take place within a living organism. Good clinical practice (GCP) An international quality standard that enforces tight Investigational drug guidelines on ethical aspects of clinical studies. A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial, Good distribution practice (GDP) including approved as well as unapproved products when An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way medicinal products for human use. different from the approved form, when used for an unapproved indication, or when used to gain further Good manufacturing practice (GMP) information about an approved use. Good manufacturing practice (GMP) is a system for ensuring that products are consistently manufactured and ISO 14001 controlled according to quality standards. These guidelines This international environmental management standard are used in the production of medicines, pharmaceutical sets globally recognized requirements for an environmental active ingredients and cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and management system. feed. 204 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures ISO 50001 include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma, This international standard defines globally recognized lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of requirements for energy management systems. diseases is called neglected because, despite the large number of people affected, they have historically received ISO 9001 less attention and research funding than other diseases. This international standard defines globally recognized requirements for a quality management system. Nucleases Nucleases are a group of enzymes whose primary function Lead substances is to partially or fully degrade nucleic acids. Manufacturers/importers of a certain substance must submit a joint registration according to REACH. In this OHSAS context, the company responsible for collecting the The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series substance data and preparing the registration dossier uses (OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety the term “lead substance”. management system. Least developed countries (LDC) OLED Countries that, according to the United Nations, exhibit the Organic light-emitting diodes are a new technology for lowest indicators of socioeconomic development. displays and lighting. Liquid biopsy Onchocerciasis Sampling and analysis of non-solid biological tissue such as A chronic parasitic infection caused by nematodes that blood. occurs in the tropical regions of Africa and South America. In approximately 10% of those infected, the disease leads Liquid Crystals (LC) to blindness, which is why onchocerciasis is also referred to Liquid crystals are a hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state. as river blindness. In general, molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a solid crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they Organoid move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a An organoid is a miniaturized and simplified version of an hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they organ produced in vitro in three dimensions by means of a exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped cell culture. It shows realistic micro-anatomy similar to an molecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition, organ. Organoids are derived from one or a few tissue they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny cells, embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either cells, which can self-organize in a three-dimensional allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through, culture, owing to their self-renewal and differentiation or they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid capacities. Organoids are, among others, used as model crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal systems in the investigation of diseases and the windows, which can provide shade against sunlight. development of drugs. Liver-stage malaria Orodispersible tablet Certain forms of the malaria parasite (P. vivax and P. A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and ovale) can remain dormant after they have infected the does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient liver cells. In this stage, they persist for many weeks and is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth even years until they relapse into a new disease cycle. and also partly through the lining of the stomach. Currently, it is not possible to treat this dormant form. Other water LTIR Water containing more than 1,000 mg of dissolved solids The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents per liter. resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per one million man-hours. Patent pool A consortium of at least two competing companies that Monoclonal antibodies allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a Monoclonal antibodies are made by identical immune cells particular technology. that are all clones of a unique parent cell. Patient access programs Mutagen Self-sustaining commercial programs with revenue-driven A substance that changes the DNA of an organism. purpose which provide medication for underserved populations, either through free products or a reduced Neglected tropical disease (NTD) treatment fee. Diseases that occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs 205 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Patient support programs Public-private partnership (PPP) Any organized system providing services and direct patient A collaboration between public sector (government) or patient-caregiver interactions that are intended and organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit designed to educate patients about certain diseases, and organizations. help patients with access to and/or the management of prescribed medication and/or disease outcomes and/or Pyrogen offer doctors support for their patients. A foreign substance that causes a fever (temperature elevation) in the body. Pharmacovigilance The continual, systematic monitoring of a drug's safety. REACH A European Union chemical regulation (EC No. 1907/2006) Phase I study that took effect on June 1, 2007. REACH stands for Phase I clinical trials test a new biomedical intervention in Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of a small group of people (e.g. 20-80) for the first time to Chemicals. evaluate safety (for instance to determine a safe dosage range and to identify side effects). Reproductive health The term covers various areas such as pregnancy, sexually Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ transmitted diseases, contraception, and infertility. Phase II study Risk-sharing agreement Phase II clinical trials study the biomedical or behavioral An agreement between the producer or manufacturer and intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred) the payer or provider that allows access to a health to determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety. technology through coverage or reimbursement under certain conditions. Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ Role Phase III study Merck uses a market-oriented system to rate positions Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the biomedical within the company. To facilitate consistency across the or behavioral intervention in large groups of human organization, each position is assigned a specific role, with subjects (from several hundred to several thousand) by an overarching job architecture classifying each role as one comparing the intervention to other standard or of 11 levels, 15 functions and an array of career types experimental interventions as well as to monitor adverse (Core Operations, Services & Support Groups; Experts; effects, and to collect information that will allow the Managers; Project Managers). intervention to be used safely. Schistosomiasis Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by snails that serve as intermediate hosts. Prediabetes A condition regarded as indicative that a person is at risk of Scope 3 progressing to Type 2 diabetes. Scope 3 includes indirect greenhouse gas emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials, Process-related emissions transport-related activities, waste disposal, and employee Greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere during travel. manufacturing operations. Score card Product safety summary A scorecard is an evaluation tool for measuring, Intended to provide a general overview of the chemical documenting and controlling activities using metrics. substance and its use. It cannot take the place of a safety data sheet. Scrum Scrum is a framework for agile project management. It is a PS-VA method that is simple, flexible and quick to deliver results. Abbreviation for polymer-stabilized vertical alignment: A polymer layer pre-aligns the molecules inside the display in Security a certain direction. In the black state, the liquid crystals This term stands for all necessary measures and are not exactly vertical, but slightly tilted, which allows the governance activities to detect, analyze, handle, and liquid crystals to switch more quickly. The light mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the company. transmittance of the display is significantly higher, thus This helps to protect employees as well as the tangible and reducing the backlighting, one of the most costly intangible assets of the company. components to produce. 206 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Signal management Sugar cane bagasse A set of activities performed to determine whether, based A fibrous waste product of sugar refining that is left when on an examination of individual case safety reports, sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice. aggregated data from active surveillance systems or studies, scientific literature information or other data Sunshine Act sources, there are new risks associated with an active The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and substance or a medicinal product or whether known risks Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent have changed, as well as any related recommendations, relationships between manufacturers of drugs, medical decisions, communications and tracking. devices and medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and teaching hospitals on the other. Spontaneous reports on adverse effects If a side effect has occurred while using a medicine and Traces this is being reported, this is called a “spontaneous report”, Substances dissolved in water that are present only in because the adverse reaction is reported spontaneously minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these (for example by doctors or patients) and not in a study or are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging an observational study. from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water. Stakeholder Transfers of value People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a Direct and indirect transfers of value, whether in cash, in company, entitling them to make justified demands. kind or otherwise (e.g. promotional purposes). Stakeholders include people such as employees, business partners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and TRIPS shareholders. The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights is an international legal agreement STEM between all the member nations of the World Trade Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Organization. TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and procedures for enforcing intellectual property rights do not Stem cell lines become a barrier to lawful trade. Stem cell lines are groups of stem cells derived from animal or human tissue. They can be cultivated in vitro and Working out loud multiply indefinitely. This technique is about deliberately sharing and providing knowledge as well as forming relevant working Stem cells relationships. The goal is to discover new topics and ideas. Undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into many different cell types that carry out different functions. 207 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Facts & figures Publication contributors Published on April 15, 2019 by Merck, Group Corporate Responsibility Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 Website: www.merckgroup.com Contact for questions regarding this report: Maria Schaad, Group Corporate Responsibility Concept and implementation of HTML, PDF & Print: nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online sustainability reports Text and consulting: Stakeholder Reporting GmbH www.stakeholder-reporting.com Photos and graphics: Merck, Rüdiger Nehmzow 208
