BT Group plc Digital impact and 01 sustainability report 2018/19 United Nations global compact We have been a signatory to the Global Compact since 2000 and we reaffirm our support This annual Communication on Progress summarises the key sections of our report as they relate to the Global of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, Compact’s principles and our business strategy, culture and operations. There are links to further information labour, environment and anti-corruption. such as measures, lessons learned and our future plans. Principles Information in Digital impact and sustainability report 2018/19 Information in BT Group plc Annual Report and elsewhere Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Everyone’s entitled to basic rights and freedoms – whoever they are, wherever they live. We’re Our commitment, as an original signatory to the United Nations Global Compact principles, is to protection of internationally proclaimed human rights committed to respecting these human rights. embrace, support and respect human rights and ensure we’re not complicit in human rights abuses. Championing human and digital rights, page 13 This year, we launched an overarching human rights policy. It brings together existing policies in one place to explain the human rights we are more likely to affect and how we’re addressing these risks. Championing human and digital rights, page 25 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Championing human and digital rights, page 13 Human rights policy complicit in human rights abuses The Digital Impact & Sustainability Committee, a Board committee, oversees our human and BT Privacy and Free Expression Report 2019 digital rights programme worldwide Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We respect rights to equal opportunities, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Our ethics code is designed to be clear, simple and accessible. It explains how we do things at BT – how association and the effective recognition of the right to Attracting and developing diverse talent, page 30 we work, how we treat each other and how we expect everyone to behave. It applies to everyone who collective bargaining works for, with, or on behalf of BT, anywhere in the world Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our Modern Slavery Act transparency statement, updated in August 2018, sets out our stance on forms of forced and compulsory labour prison labour or child labour. Nor do we demand deposits or hold onto our workers’ identity modern slavery and human trafficking. We are founding partners of the UK’s Modern Slavery Helpline papers, or work with businesses that do. We only work with people who choose to work freely. and Resource Centre Sourcing with human dignity, page 14 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our Sourcing with Human Dignity standard, introduced in 2001, specifies the minimum standards we child labour prison labour or child labour. We only work with people who choose to work freely. expect of our suppliers Sourcing responsibly, page 16 Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of We want everyone to feel able to be themselves at BT. We see the value in diversity and strive We want a diverse workforce that matches our customers and delivers our business goals. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation to provide a fair and inclusive workplace for everyone. Working to improve our diversity, page 24 Attracting and developing diverse talent, page 30 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Our environment policy and management systems are designed to help us comply with The environment, page 26 to environmental challenges environmental legislation and continually improve our performance in these areas. (Appendix) – Environmental management, page 5 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote We take our environmental responsibility seriously. Our group-wide Environmental Policy and Since the early 90s, we’ve made social and environmental responsibility central to our business. greater environmental responsibility environmental management systems (EMS) help us minimise our impacts, manage risks and We have incorporated environmental factors into our procurement processes. Our procurement comply with relevant regulations. standards on Product Stewardship and Climate Change set out our expectations and requirements (Appendix) – Environmental management, page 5 from suppliers BT Group plc Digital impact and 02 sustainability report 2018/19 Principles Information in Digital impact and sustainability report 2018/19 Information in BT Group plc Annual Report and elsewhere Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) highlight the need to create a low-carbon Our Digital impact and sustainability web pages diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies economy and to ensure sustainable consumption of our natural capital. Our ambition is to help customers reduce their carbon footprint by at least three times our own end-to-end emissions. We can help them achieve this through our products and services. Helping customers save emissions, page 23 Our procurement standards for suppliers include criteria on energy consumption and environmental performance Partnering with suppliers to cut our emissions, page 22 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its We don’t tolerate bribery or corruption in any form Our anti-corruption and bribery policy forms, including extortion and bribery Doing business ethically, page 28
