sustainability report 2018/19 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 2 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices introduction At Kingfisher we believe a good home is a sustainable home. With our Sustainable Growth Plan we want to make sustainability the easy choice for our customers and to become a truly sustainable company. 3 Kingfisher at a glance 5 from our chief executive officer 6 introducing GoodHome 7 external perspective 8 our sustainable growth plan 11 performance summary 2018/19 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 3 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Kingfisher at a glance Kingfisher plc is a home improvement company with over 1,300 stores in 1,331 Stores1 10 countries across Europe. We employ 77,3001, 2 people and nearly six million customers shop in our stores 77,300 Colleagues1, 2 and through our websites and apps every week. Russia 20 Our ambition is to become the leading home improvement company. We believe everyone should have a home they feel good about, so our purpose is to make home improvement accessible for everyone. UK & Ireland Poland 9233 76 Germany 19 France Romania 2244 385 1 Total headcount, not full time equivalent. Spain Turkey2 2 Turkey joint venture not Portugal 28 consolidated. 3 3 B&Q UK & Ireland 296, Screwfix 627. 4 Castorama 101, Brico Dépôt 123. 5 Brico Dépôt 15, Praktiker 23. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 4 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices geographic contribution geographic contribution total sales retail profit France France 28% 37% £209m £4,272m UK & Ireland total sales1 retail profit1, 2 43% £5,061m £11.7bn UK & Ireland 53% £753m £399m Other international Other 19% £145m international 20% £2,352m 1 Financial Key Performance Indicator (KPI). 2 Alternative Performance Measure (APM). Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 5 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices from our chief executive officer It is three years since we Last year we published However, change on this That was the start. Now we started our journey to our Sustainable Growth scale is tough. In several will go further by launching become the leading home Plan, showing how we will areas our progress has been our GoodHome Foundation, improvement company. build sustainability into our slower than we would have a network of in country Since then we have been business and our products. liked and challenges with charitable foundations transforming every aspect our data systems mean we located in each of our of our business, working Our aim is to make cannot report this year on key markets – UK, France, together to achieve our sustainability easy for two important KPIs relating Poland, Romania. purpose: to create good customers – and we are to timber sourcing and homes by making home starting to see the results sustainable home products. Climate change has become improvement accessible of this work. Like our new We know how important the big challenge of our time. for everyone. bathroom ranges – design these issues are and we are We have been working to led, high quality products with addressing these challenges cut our footprint for many We believe a good home improved water efficiency as a priority. years and, in early 2019, we should be functional and as standard. 57% of the announced challenging new comfortable, fitting in with kitchen and bathroom basin Looking ahead, we have targets to take us further. family needs, green outside taps we sold in 2018/19 made new commitments on These have been approved and in, resource and energy were water saving products, communities and climate by the Science Based smart, with lasting quality more than double that of the change to continue our Targets initiative, confirming and style. It should be previous year. journey to becoming a truly that they are consistent coordinated to look good sustainable company. with reductions required to and, of course, it must be On energy efficiency, our keep warming to 2°C. We’ve safe and healthy. products such as insulation We know that millions of already made a start – cutting and LED light bulbs, enable people are living in houses emissions by 15% since our That’s why sustainability customers to achieve a 32% and flats that feel nothing like baseline of 2016/17. is one of our five design saving. We aim to go further home. We want to reach out principles – alongside price, and faster, increasing our to those who need it most in We have much to do to quality, form and function focus on creating more our local communities to help reach our targets during a – that shape every range innovative products that everyone have a home they time of great organisational “Our aim is to make we create to help our home improvers realise their achieve the highest levels of savings. can feel good about. 60,000 people benefited from our change. In 2019/20 we will maintain our focus on the sustainability easy for projects. community programmes last year, including through goal of making sustainable, good homes achievable customers – and we our strategic partnerships in the UK and France with for everyone. are starting to see the Shelter and the Abbé Pierre Foundation. Véronique Laury Chief Executive Officer results of this work.” Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 6 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices introducing GoodHome GoodHome is our new international home improvement brand. It will provide a new, simpler way of doing things for home improvers, their helpers and the pros. It will offer unique products and solutions that are design-led, high quality and well-priced, and help to make home improvement accessible for everyone. GoodHome is green inside and out so our products have sustainability designed in from the start. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 7 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices external perspective We live in turbulent The ONE Kingfisher particularly given that this that helps millions more We have a window leading to times and the pace transformation is Kingfisher’s is one of Kingfisher’s key people enjoy a good home 2030 to radically decarbonise response to this rapidly material impacts. Plans are including partnerships to our economy, and shift to low of change continues changing context. Kingfisher in place to address this. tackle poor housing and an carbon lifestyles. Within this to accelerate, with is now mid-way through interesting pilot project with context, I would welcome the global retail this programme, which The adoption of Sciencecommunities in the supply discussion with Kingfisher at its heart is designed to Based Targets for chain. The forthcoming on the timeline for their net sector currently make home improvement greenhouse gas emissions launch of their GoodHome positive aspirations, looking experiencing huge accessible for everyone. The reduction is very welcome. Foundation, which will create to bring this forward from disruption. How and Sustainable Growth Plan I’m also pleased to see charitable foundations in four 2050. Kingfisher is in a sets out a roadmap to 2025 progress on the delivery of countries to tackle poor and remarkable position to play where we shop has to support this overarching products and services that unfit housing, should help to a central role in making low, transformed over a goal, with four ambitious help Kingfisher customers stimulate further progress or even no carbon living very short period goals that are designed to get more from less and and increase the value of a reality for its millions of deliver positive outcomes an increase in sales of donations. customers. But to realise this, of time, with the for both the millions of products that help customers sustainability needs to be global supply chains Kingfisher customers across create a healthier home Ultimately, I would like to see at the heart of the strategic that feed goods into Europe, as well as for broader and connect with nature. greater integration of the decisions and choices communities, and of course, There has also been good ambitions of the Sustainable it makes. retail outlets under the environment. progress on work to phase Growth Plan with the ONE pressure from a out harmful chemicals transformation plan. This Dr Sally Uren OBE range of economic, The pressures on any including new commitments would allow the business to Chief Executive, business to deliver a farto remove phthalates, PFCs scale up the progress already Forum for the Future social and political reaching transformation and halogenated flame achieved in sustainable macro‑forces. plan are intense. So it is retardants. product innovation and perhaps no surprise that the sustainable supply chain time, energy and wholesale Products that reduce energy management. The integration overhaul of systems and and water use in the home of sustainability into processes have contributed are particularly important so Kingfisher’s new GoodHome “Kingfisher is in a to a mixed picture in terms I would like to see an increase brand appears to be a good of the progress reported in the rate of progress in this step in this direction. remarkable position here against the Sustainable area, which did not track Growth Plan targets. It is against target in 2018. The climate emergency is to play a central role disappointing that it has not now better understood than been possible in this report There has been progress ever, and this report is right in making low, or even to share data on sustainably on Kingfisher’s fourth goal to highlight it as one of the sourced wood and paper, to be part of a community defining issues of our time. no carbon living a reality for its millions of customers.” Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 8 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our sustainable growth plan We have a clear purpose – Our Sustainable Growth to create good homes by Plan, launched in 2018, is our Our four making home improvement accessible for everyone. roadmap to 2025. It has four big goals and 12 outcomebig goals Good homes are healthy based targets. It is focused with 12 targets (for 2025 unless stated) homes, they are sustainable on the sustainability issues so we can get more from our customers care most less, use less energy and about, which have been water and they bring us identified through extensive We believe everybody should closer to nature. We want to customer research and our be able to have a home they feel good about make sustainable products materiality process (see more accessible than ever page 83). before, ones that are good for the planet and good for With our Plan, we are 1 2 3 4 the wallet. We want to help improving the sustainability people turn their homes of all our ranges – making into good homes and make it the easy choice for Save money by Live smarter by Create a healthier Be part of a community sure our planet stays a good our customers – while saving energy getting more from home and connect that helps millions home, too. embedding sustainability and water less, re-using or with nature more people improve into our operations and using longer their home supply chain too. For Customers For Customers For Customers For Customers 1. Enable a 50% reduction 4. 20 products or 7. 20% of sales enable 9. Help millions more Our Plan helps us to reduce in customer energy use services that help customers to create people tackle poor and risks and costs to the through our products, customers get more from safer, healthier homes unfit housing through services and advice. less, reuse or use longer. and connect with nature. strategic partnerships business, secure long-term and local action in all access to resources and 2. Enable a 50% our markets. For Us For Us raw materials, improve improvement in customer 5. Ensure sustainable 8. Achieve transparency water efficiency through efficiency, stimulate growth management and efficient of harmful chemicals in For Us our products, services and innovation, and engage and advice. use of key resources (2025), key supply chains (2020), 10. Support our colleagues including 100% responsibly phase out the highest to have a home they can colleagues and, of course feel good about. sourced wood and paper, priority hazardous and customers. For Us and peat-free bagged high-risk chemicals of 3. Reduce scope 1 & 2 growing media (2020). concern and introduce five 11. Ensure suppliers emissions from property green substances (2025). meet our ethical and and transport by 22% in 6. Zero waste to landfill environmental standards absolute terms by 2025, (2020) and 90% of waste (2020) and establish compared to 2016/17; and recycled (2025). strategic community reduce scope 3 emissions programmes to achieve from the supply chain and positive change in key customer use of products sourcing regions (2025). by 40% per £million turnover by 2025, compared to 2017/18. 12. 50% of group sales from products that help create a more sustainable home (2020). Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 9 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices What matters to our Our net positive aspirations Measuring our progress customers The UN Sustainable Development Goals Our plan takes us on the next The targets and Our Sustainable Growth Plan stage of our journey towards measurement methodologies We support the UN We are signatories to was informed by extensive being a net positive business. in our Sustainable Growth Sustainable Development Better Retail, Better World, customer research across Plan have been developed Goals that provide a collaboration led by the five countries that included Our net positive aspirations with sustainability a framework for BRC aimed at supporting in-depth interviews and for 2050 remain: organisation, Bioregional, governments, business the Goals and in 2018 visits to customer homes. who are experts in the and civil society to work we were a partner to The findings showed that —— Every Kingfisher product development of sustainable together to end poverty, the UK Stakeholders for while few customers use the will enable a more communities and in fight inequality and stop Sustainable Development term ‘sustainability’, there sustainable and ultimately measuring and monitoring climate change by 2030. network, which aims to drive are many sustainability net positive lifestyle. sustainability performance. action in the UK. issues that connect with —— Every Kingfisher store and We have reviewed our what customers really care customer home is zero Our targets are based on progress and Plan against For more information about. However, most people carbon or generates more research that identified the United Nations see page 91. find it difficult to make energy than it consumes. our most significant Sustainable Development sustainable choices. Often, —— Kingfisher creates more impacts and opportunities Goals and have identified it feels too complicated or forest than it uses. for improvement. Where the priority Goals for our time consuming, particularly —— Every Kingfisher store possible, they reflect business, where we can when they are grappling and location supports established frameworks have the most impact. with an already complex projects which build local such as the United Nations These include Goal 11 – home improvement project. communities or equip Sustainable Development Sustainable cities and Customers expect us to people with skills. Goals. Goal 12 – Responsible make it easy for them. Ideally, consumption and they’d like to be able to buy Further details of how our production. sustainably without having to targets have been set are think about it. Our ambition is included in our Sustainable to make this possible. Growth Plan launch report. Details on data scope and A summary of the findings calculation methodologies is on page 84. are included in our data collection methodology. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 10 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices 1 Our four big Save money by saving energy and water goals focus on the sustainability 2 issues that matter Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer 3 most to our 4 Create a healthier home and connect customers. Be part of a community that helps millions more with nature people improve their home Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 11 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices performance summary 2018/19 We have improved or maintained We have made good progress Two further products also We published our first performance across nine of our on integrating sustainability passed our circular value science-based target in 2019 into our product ranges chain assessment – Métisse to reduce carbon emissions targets in 2018/19, however our this year, through products insulation made from in our business, products rate of progress has not been fast such as low flow taps and recycled materials and our and supply chain. It has been enough to meet our interim internal new natural garden ranges. Safe by Nature natural plant approved by the independent Sales of our products that food range. This means we Science Based Targets targets. We need to accelerate the enable customers to create now have five products or initiative as consistent with rate of change in some areas and a healthy home or to connect services that help customers climate science. We have address performance gaps if we with nature, reached 9% of get more from less, reuse achieved a 15% reduction our total, on track to our 20% or use longer and we are on in Scope 1 and 2 emissions are to meet our targets by 2025. target by 2025. track towards our target of compared with our baseline 20 by 2025. year of 2016/17 – on track Our products and services to our target. We have enabled customers to reduce We made progress on also reduced the energy home energy use by 32%. sustainable sourcing of intensity of our property This remained constant with high priority raw materials portfolio by 2.6% and the last year since no significant including plastic, cement and carbon intensity by 22% new products were launched. leather. However, there was over the same period. We We need to increase the a decrease in sales of peatare establishing an emissions rate of progress to meet our free bagged growing media reduction programme with target of 50% by 2025. due to continued strong sales our suppliers to enable us to of supplier branded products measure and report progress On water, we made good that contain peat and further on the scope 3 element of progress on embedding work is planned in this area to our target. water saving into our kitchen progress towards our target. and bathroom ranges and the number of water saving products we sold has increased, benefiting more customers. However, although we improved our minimum level We now have five products or of water efficiency, our ranges included fewer products that services that help customers meet the very highest levels of water efficiency, meaning get more from less, reuse performance against our target is not on track. We will or use longer and we are be investing in innovation to help us progress further on track towards our target towards this target. of 20 by 2025. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 12 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices There was a small We have also learned that Further work is needed on Our wood and paper target improvement in waste the chemicals found in our target to help colleagues diverted from landfill and products often vary and to have a home they can As we move to unify our At the same time, we our recycling rate remained a similar product may feel good about. We will be business, we are centralising continue to work to ensure constant. However, we are contain different chemicals reviewing our approach our wood and paper data that all wood and paper in not currently on track to according to the materials, in this area and looking to systems and processes. our products and goods not meet our targets of 90% suppliers, sub-contractors publish a new people strategy Due to the complexity of this for resale complies with the recycling (by 2025) and zero or manufacturing sites used. during 2019/20. change, we are not able to responsible sourcing criteria waste to landfill (by 2020). Achieving transparency is accurately report wood and in our Wood and Paper We are looking to integrate therefore an ongoing process We continued to roll out our paper volumes for 2018/19. Policy towards our target of our targets into our waste which will not be achieved by supplier ethical audits with 100% responsibly sourced contracts as they are a particular date. We will be 66% of suppliers now using This means we are not able wood and paper by the end retendered which we think reviewing the transparency Sedex, up from 40% last year. to report progress on two of of 2020. will speed up progress. element of our target 47% of high-risk production our targets this year relating to ensure it reflects our sites have had an ethical audit to sustainable materials and We made progress on our improved understanding in in the last two years. We also sustainable home products. chemicals target, including this area. We have committed launched a pilot community We cannot report progress defining our watch list to remove phthalates, PFCs project in our ceramics on our overall sustainable which identifies families of and halogenated flame supply chain focusing on homes product sales, since chemicals we will remove retardants from own-brand worker training. This means responsibly sourced timber from our products over products by 2025. we are on track to target in data makes up part of this the next few years. We are both areas. figure. We are working hard piloting different approaches We launched further to resolve this so that we can to increase transparency community projects Progress to targets start to report data again in on chemicals use in our including a new strategic future years. products. In 2018/19 this partnership with the Abbé We track our progress work focused on three Pierre Foundation in France. against quantified interim priority supply chains – Our community contribution targets. This enables us to textiles, plastics and solvents. towards projects relating to assess whether we are on We have improved our home improvement directly track towards our targets for understanding of where benefited at least 60,000 2020 and 2025. See page 13. higher risk chemicals are people. We will be further likely to be used. However, developing our data to with a large supply chain and enable us to report in more many products in our ranges, depth on the impact of our this process is taking time. investments. During the year, we also prepared for the launch of our network of GoodHome Foundations in our key markets, happening during 2019. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 13 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Progress in 2018/19 On track to target for 2020 and 2025? Target 1 Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy use through our 32% estimated reduction in home energy use enabled by our current energy saving products. Not on track products, services and advice (2025). Performance was flat during 2018/19 as no new significant new products were launched. Target 2 Enable a 50% improvement in customer water efficiency 42% improvement in home water efficiency enabled by our current water saving products. Not on track through our products, services and advice (2025). Our focus this year has been on embedding a minimum level of water efficiency across our ranges. In future years we will build on this to launch new innovative products that enable greater savings. Target 3 Reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions from property and transport 15% reduction in our absolute carbon footprint compared with 2016/17. On track by 22% in absolute terms by 2025, compared to 2016/17; and reduce We will begin reporting on our supply chain and customer use target in 2019/20. scope 3 emissions from the supply chain and customer use of products by 40% per £million turnover by 2025, compared to 2017/18. Target 4 20 products or services that help customers get more from 5 products and services so far. On track less, reuse or use longer (2025). Target 5 Ensure sustainable management and efficient use of key n/k Data on sustainably sourced wood and paper not available. See page 12. Not able to resources (2025), including 100% responsibly sourced wood and paper 62% peat-free bagged growing media. We are developing roadmaps for other key materials measure progress. and peat-free bagged growing media (2020). such as cement and plastics. Not on track1 Target 6 Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of waste recycled (2025). 13% waste to landfill. Not on track 72% of waste recycled. Target 7 20% of sales enable customers to create safer, healthier homes 9% of sales from products that help customers create a healthier home or connect On track and connect with nature (2025). with nature. Target 8 Achieve transparency of harmful chemicals in key supply We defined our chemicals watch list and identified three priority supply chains (textiles, Not on track chains (2020), phase out the highest priority hazardous and high-risk plastics and solvents). We have made progress on improving transparency, piloting a range chemicals of concern and introduce five green substances (2025). of approaches. However, with a large supply chain and many products in our ranges, this process is taking time. Target 9 Help millions more people tackle poor and unfit housing Strategic partnerships launched with Shelter, Red Cross and Abbe Pierre Foundation. On track through strategic partnerships and local action in all our markets (2025). Our programmes directly impacted 60,000 people in 2018/19. Target 10 Support our colleagues to have a home they can feel good We conducted an initial survey with B&Q colleagues in 2018 to better understand their Not on track about (2025). views and concerns around housing and have worked with Shelter to signpost advice. However, we are not on track to target. Target 11 Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and environmental 66% of suppliers now using Sedex. 47% of high-risk production sites on Sedex have had an On track standards (2020) and establish strategic community programmes ethical audit in the last two years. Began piloting a worker training programme in one of our to achieve positive change in key sourcing regions (2025). ceramics sourcing communities in Turkey. Target 12 50% of group sales from products that help create a more n/k We are not able to report progress on our sustainable home products target this year due Not able to sustainable home (2020). to problems with our wood and paper data collection system. See page 20. measure progress 1 Not able to measure progress for wood and paper target. Peat target not on track. Key: YOY progress YOY no change YOY no progress n/k Not known 15 % 9 % reduction in our absolute of sales from products that carbon footprint help customers create a healthier home or connect with nature 32%estimated reduction in home energy use enabled by our current energy saving products 72 % of waste recycled We published our first science-based target in 2019 to reduce carbon emissions in our business, products and supply chain. It has been approved by the independent Science Based Targets initiative as consistent with climate science. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 16 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices sustainable homes for our customers 18 what is a sustainable home? 19 our sustainable home product guidelines Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 17 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices We want to make sustainability the easy choice for customers – integrated into each range and product so it comes as standard on every home improvement Function Form project. Sustainability is one of our five core design principles used in Our five design the development of our ranges, principles guide alongside price, quality, form the development and function. As we update of our ranges: our ranges, customers will not Cost Quality need to look for a sustainable product. They will be able to choose any product they want and have sustainability built in. Sustainability Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 18 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices what is a sustainable home? Our sustainable home products Save money by saving Create a healthier home and help customers create the good energy and water connect with nature homes they want. Homes that are —— Energy efficient —— Increases happiness and well-insulated, energy efficient —— Water efficient wellbeing and affordable to run. Homes —— Harnesses free natural —— Maximises light resources —— Clean air without harmful chemicals. —— Comfortable – no draughts —— Supports a healthy lifestyle Homes that use sustainable —— Provides the best —— Safe, especially for old and materials and beautiful, natural economics possible young —— Connected and intelligent —— The right temperature all gardens that also welcome year round birds and wildlife. Homes that Live smarter by getting —— Resilient to changing use fewer and more sustainable more from less, reusing or weather using longer —— Encourages growing plants resources, and are fitted out with and food quality, long-lasting products —— Durable, quality materials —— Maximises the use of inside made in ways that are better for —— Is guilt free (well sourced and outside space materials) people and the planet. —— Low waste —— Low maintenance —— Reflects personality —— Up to date style – achieved in a low impact way —— Practical and useful —— Evolves with family needs —— Available to all (owners, renters, etc) Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 19 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our sustainable home product guidelines We use our Sustainable The guidelines summarise Five levels of products Examples from our ranges Home Product Guidelines, our six-stage process for developed with experts improving sustainability Watchlist In 2018/19, we have been Less sustainable Bioregional, to improve performance with detailed Features or products that looking to replace smoky performance across our guidance and criteria to help cannot be sustainable. These fuels with smokeless ranges and to measure our product developers and products should be phased versions. progress. suppliers. We fully updated out from our ranges. the guidelines in 2018, adding new criteria, and developing Products not yet meeting We are looking to improve a new more user-friendly the guidelines energy efficiency across format and a quick start With improvements, these our ranges of power tools version. We publish the products can meet our and to reduce or remove guidelines on our website standards and become a VOC chemicals from paints. so anyone can read them. sustainable home product. Sustainability is a Expect Our new kitchen and key objective for all Products that have a bathroom basin taps now GoodHome products, sustainable feature or have a maximum flow our new international benefit. This is our minimum of 8 litres per minute as home improvement brand level for a sustainable home standard. (see page 6). We use our product. Sustainable Home Product Guidelines to assess this. Exceed Includes products such as Products that make a more insulation, heating controls Our guidelines use five significant difference to and efficient boilers that levels to help us measure the sustainability of our make customer homes and improve sustainability customers’ homes or the more energy efficient. performance: wider environment. Excite Our respirea paint actually Most sustainable Innovative products that improves air quality in the have the potential to achieve home. significant change. The overall number of “Excite” projects will be low but they will have a big positive impact. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 20 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Measuring progress However, we are able to Engaging customers and Engagement and advocacy —— UK Stakeholders for report figures for some of our our people examples Sustainable Development We are not able to report sustainable home product In 2018 we were members progress on our overall categories. This shows that1: Our sustainability team has We are partnering with of UK Stakeholders for sustainable home products run Q&A sessions and training others to develop our Sustainable Development target this year due to —— 6.1% of our sales came from for our product teams on the approach and explore (UKSSD), a cross-sector problems with our data our energy saving products updated Sustainable Home opportunities for sustainable network of organisations collection system for wood and 1.7% from our water Product guidelines and how product innovation. Recent who work together to and paper. Our data for saving products, compared to embed sustainability into engagement has included: drive action on the UN responsibly sourced timber, with 6.7% and 1.7% in product design. Sustainable Development which makes up part of our 2017/18 —— Aldersgate Group Goals in the UK. sustainable home products —— 5.7% of sales came from We also train colleagues on We are members of figure, is incomplete due to live smarter products that our sustainable products Aldersgate Group and a delay in centralising our help customers get more through our Home attended their roundtable timber reporting system. See from less, reuse or use Improvement Academy, see discussion on the page 40 for more information longer, compared with page 74, and our e-learning environment with the on this. 3.1% in 2017/18 module, ‘Sustainability & You’, Right Honourable Michael —— 9% of sales came from that helps colleagues in our Gove MP products that help Offer & Sourcing function, to —— Forum for the Future customers create understand how sustainability We are a pioneer partner a healthier home or is relevant in different roles. to Forum for the Future connect with nature, the leading sustainability up from 6% last year. For customers, we integrate non-profit sustainability information into —— Innovation Gateway We are working to address point of sale material for key We are partners to the challenges with our products and have developed Innovation Gateway, a timber data so we can start a set of icons to make it platform for crowdsourcing reporting progress against easier to identify products and testing innovation this target again in 2019/20. with sustainable features. ideas to improve resource For example, products that efficiency, focusing on save energy. Sustainability areas such as energy, water information will be further and the built environment. integrated into the design of our products and our We train colleagues on our communications as we roll out our GoodHome brand. sustainable products through our Home Improvement 1 Products may have more than one sustainable attribute and Academy and our e-learning module, ‘Sustainability & You’. therefore be counted in more than one category. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 21 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices 6 principles of sustainability in our sustainable home product guidelines 2 Some products will address more than one principle; although we can record more than one per product, We have developed a set there will be a primary principle for each. of icons to make it easier Health & Wellbeing Making our homes safer and healthier; enjoying our to identify products with homes whatever our age; being active; addressing toxins; adapting to sustainable features. climate change. 1 Connect to Nature: 4 Save Energy 6 Sustainable Materials: Protect the Planet Keeping household energy Protect the Planet bills down; addressing carbon Helping wildlife in our gardens Responsible sourcing; choosing emissions; using renewable and beyond; interacting with the materials with a positive impact; 3 5 energy. natural world; eating produce tackling materials that have a that we’ve grown ourselves. damaging impact. Live Smarter Save Water Reduce, reuse, recycle; Stopping water from being smarter uses of resources; wasted; using rainwater, better product quality; preserving premium tackling waste; pay-to-use drinking water. propositions. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 22 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices save money by saving energy and water 24 saving energy, water and money for customers 26 energy and carbon in our business 27 climate change – governance, strategy and risk management 29 energy efficiency 30 renewables and green energy 32 greener transport and travel Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 23 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices With the right products and Targets support, we can make it easy For our customers: —— Enable a 50% reduction For our business: —— Reduce scope 1 and 2 for customers to create an in customer energy use through our products, emissions from property and transport by 22% in efficient home and save services and advice by 2025. absolute terms by 2025, compared to 2016/17; money on their bills. —— Enable a 50% improvement in customer water —— Reduce scope 3 emissions from the supply chain efficiency through our and customer use of products, services and products by 40% per We’re also reducing energy advice by 2025. £million turnover by 2025, compared to 2017/18. use in our business and have set an ambitious carbon target in line with climate science. 22 % Target reduction of absolute carbon emissions from a 2016/17 baseline by 2025 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 24 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices saving energy, water and money for customers An energy efficient home Using our Sustainable Home Product guidelines, we Water efficiency New taps cut water use is a more comfortable place are improving the energy performance of whole ranges As we redesign our kitchen and bathroom ranges, we’re As we launch our new on their energy and water to live and more affordable so it is easy for customers to make sustainable making water efficiency a priority. Saving water at unified ranges, we’re building in sustainability – bills. We’ve redesigned our toilets too so they’re all to run. So it’s no surprise choices. For example, we are switching all our lighting home is not just good for the environment, it reduces so our customers can make sustainable choices without water-efficient and include a dual flush feature. that saving energy is a top to LED. Sales of our energy saving products were worth water bills and can cut energy use too. In 2018/19, we began having to think about it. We’re also redesigning priority for customers. £718 million in 2018/19, 6.1% of our total. rolling out our new bathroom ranges including water Our new bathroom ranges are one example. Almost all our baths, including smaller tubs that need less We offer a wide range of In 2018/19, our energy saving efficient taps and toilets, see case study. bathroom taps now have a maximum flow of 8 litres per water to fill and looking at how we can reduce products that improve products enabled customers to achieve an estimated 32% In 2018/19, 57% of all the minute, compared with up to 12 litres in previous ranges. water use in showers without compromising the energy performance reduction in energy use in their homes (2017/18: 32%). kitchen and bathroom basin taps we sold were By reducing water use, they help customers save money on performance. of customer homes from We are working towards 50% by 2025. Altogether, water saving products, with a maximum flow below insulation to efficient our customers will save an estimated 43 TWh of energy 8 litres per minute. This is a significant increase from appliances. through the energy saving products purchased from us 26% the previous year. in 2018/19, over the lifetime Our current water-using of the products. products enable an estimated 42% improvement in home water efficiency (2017/18: 45%). Although the number of water saving products we sold has increased, benefiting more customers, our ranges £718m included fewer products that meet the very highest levels of water efficiency. sales of our energy saving products in 2018/19 We aim to help customers improve energy and water efficiency by 50% Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 26 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices energy and carbon Absolute market-based carbon footprint in our business We are cutting energy and carbon in our business – improving efficiency in our Our target means ramping up our efforts to decarbonise our business, while helping 15% reduction in Scope 1 and Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP stores, offices and transport customers and suppliers to 2 emissions compared and investing in renewable cut emissions too. It has two with our baseline year and low carbon energy elements: of 2016/17 sources. —— Reduce scope 1 and 2 308.8 Our science-based targets emissions from property and transport by 22% in In February 2019 we absolute terms by 2025, 276.3 announced ambitious new compared to 2016/17; targets to cut greenhouse —— Reduce scope 3 emissions 261.0 gas (GHG) emissions from from the supply chain our business, products and and customer use of supply chains. products by 40% per 240.0 £million turnover by 2025, The targets have been compared to 2017/18. approved by the Science Based Targets initiative We have achieved a 15% (SBTi), confirming that reduction in Scope 1 and 2 they are consistent with emissions compared with reductions required to keep our baseline year of 2016/17. warming to 2°C. The SBTi We have also reduced the defines best practice in energy intensity of our science-based target setting, property portfolio by 2.6% as well as independently and the carbon intensity by assessing and approving 22% over the same period. companies’ targets. Our absolute reduction since 2010/11 is around 34 %1. We are establishing an emissions reduction programme with our suppliers to enable us to measure and report progress on the second element of 1 Our 2010/11 figure was our target. calculated using a location based methodology. We started using a market based 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* 2025 Target methodology in 2016/17. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 27 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices 2018/19* market-based carbon footprint detail climate change – governance, strategy and risk management Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent We support the Task Force Strategy: Risk management: Property: purchased electricity and heat 104.3 on Climate-related Financial Climate change has the Our Group Sustainability Property: gas and other fuels 98.1 Disclosures and aim to potential to impact our Committee (GSC), a subHaulage: dedicated store and home deliveries 58.6 align our reporting with its strategy through increased committee of the Group * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP recommendations over time. operational and raw material Executive, monitors short The following information costs and reduced demand (1-3 years), and medium and is also integrated into our for goods, as well as long-term (over 3 years) Annual Report and Accounts. commercial opportunities sustainability risks, their associated with the probability, potential impact Governance: transition to a low carbon on our business, and our Governance of climateeconomy. Identification and mitigation measures. The related risks and management of sustainability GSC meets at least twice a opportunities is integrated risks is incorporated in our year and risks are reviewed into our overall sustainability strategic risk assessment at each meeting. Our most 22% governance and risk processes. significant risks are included management structures. in our sustainability risk Our Chief Executive Officer, The most material register (part of our overall Véronique Laury, has opportunity is from the Group risk management ultimate accountability for growing market for energy process). At an asset level, the issues of energy and efficient products and we manage climate-related climate change. Our Board services. The most material risks through our insurance 40% receives regular updates risks include the potential programmes and by on sustainability risks and impact of rising energy incorporating climate change performance against our and insurance costs on our factors into our planning targets, including those business and supply chain. and design of new stores, relating to climate change For all our risks, including refurbishment projects and and energy. climate-related risks, we preventative maintenance assess the recurring or oneprogrammes. off impact on (i) like-for-like sales, (ii) our net margin or (iii) Metrics and targets: cost. We have set numerical We have established targets thresholds for each of these and KPIs to help us manage metrics to define ‘substantive these risks and monitor financial impact’. progress. Our first sciencebased target will help us reduce our greenhouse 38% gas emissions in line with climate science. Our investment in renewables is generating 10 million kWh per year and delivering over £1.1 million in financial benefit including energy cost reductions each year. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 29 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices energy efficiency Property portfolio energy intensity We’re investing in improving Our Screwfix stores will be kWh/m2 reported floor space energy efficiency across fitted with a ‘power down’ * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP our store estate. We have system, that automatically reduced property energy switches off power usage intensity by 2.6% since our and heating overnight. 2016/17 baseline, however there was a 1% increase We have created an energy year on year. We believe blueprint to guide the design this was due to higher gas and fit-out of our stores. This consumption during the provides for three levels of 145.3 colder than average winter efficiency depending on the 140.1 141.5 in the UK and France. store design and whether we are opening a new store Our goal is to rollout LED or refurbishing an existing lighting to all our sites. We building. The basic level have reached an estimated integrates LED lighting and 73% in 2018/19 through an efficient heating, while the investment of £5.8 million second level adds a BMS (2017/18: 56%). The use of system and low carbon LED can cut energy use heating, with a third option for lighting by up to 40% incorporating renewable particularly when combined technology. with automatic controls and sensors. We are reducing energy used for IT by using fewer and Building management more energy efficient data systems that give us greater centres, upgrading software oversight and control of and hardware platforms, and heating and lighting can also virtualising servers. We’ve help to reduce energy use also rolled out a managed by around 7% per store. In print programme across the France we have now rolled Group which reduces energy out building management and paper used for printing. systems (BMS) to 56 stores and will start extending this to UK stores during 2019/20. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 30 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Property portfolio renewables and carbon intensity green energy kg CO2equivalent/m2 reported floor space To help meet our target We have now installed solar We aim to negotiate green * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP we are investing in onPV panels on 20 stores, tariff electricity contracts to site renewable energy offices and distribution encourage wider investment generation as well as centres, biomass boilers in renewable energy and are switching our electricity supplying two distribution reviewing opportunities in supplies to renewable centres and one head office all our markets as contracts 32.5 energy tariffs. building, and air source are renewed. In 2018/19, the heat pump systems at 63 majority of our UK operations locations. We’ve installed a used 100% REGO-backed commercial battery system renewable electricity. We also at one of our distribution purchased some renewable 27.9 centres which is enabling power for our operations us to use more of the solar in Romania. energy generated. 25.2 Zero carbon renewable Our investment in renewables electricity and on-site is generating 10 million kWh renewable generation per year and delivering accounted for around 43% over £1.1 million in financial of total electricity use in benefit including energy cost 2018/19 (2017/18: 31%). Our reductions each year. use of renewable electricity reduces our carbon footprint by around 18%1. Zero carbon renewable electricity and on-site renewable generation accounted for around 43% of total electricity use in 2018/19. 1 Our use of green electricity results in our market based carbon footprint being 18% lower 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* than our location based carbon footprint. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 31 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Zero-energy Trade Counter at Screwfix Our first net zero-energy Our zero-energy stores are Trade Counter store in just one example of how we Peterborough is generating are investing in renewable more energy than it energy generation to reduce consumes. It’s all thanks to costs and our carbon its solar PV installation and footprint. Altogether we now battery storage system which have renewables on 20 stores power a very energy efficient and distribution centres store, fitted with an air source generating 10 million kWh heat pump and LED lighting. per year around 2% of our We’re so pleased with the electricity use. results, we’ve rolled out this approach to five Trade Counters. 10m kWh of energy generated from on-site renewables. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 32 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices greener transport Carbon emissions direct haulage and travel Transporting our products In 2018/19, we have worked Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent from accounts for around 22% to improve how we load dedicated store and home delivery fleets of our carbon footprint. products onto pallets and Home delivery We expect emissions to into vehicles, ensuring we Store delivery increase due to changes in transport the maximum * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP our business such as: sales number on each journey. Our growth; the expansion of our companies use route planning 58.6 unified ranges which means to avoid wasted journeys and 57.3 57.4 we transport more products some have also introduced ourselves; and a growth in telematics systems to help 19.3 home delivery as customers improve driver efficiency. 20.0 18.4 make more purchases online. At B&Q we are using more We are working with our double decker trailers, to logistics partners to improve enable more products to be efficiency and to minimise transported on each journey growth in emissions as far and updating our fleet to the as possible. most fuel-efficient engines. Direct haulage emissions (those from our own dedicated delivery fleets 39.0 39.3 and which are included in 37.3 our carbon target) have increased by 2% against our 2016/17 baseline. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 33 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Carbon emissions direct and indirect haulage Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent Our indirect haulage Our companies have Engagement and advocacy Indirect emissions (from nonintroduced green travel Direct dedicated delivery fleets, measures for colleagues We are working with others and some rail, sea and air such as: encouraging to explore new solutions for transport) decreased by 9% employees to use video improving energy efficiency since 2016/17. This reflects conferencing instead of and cutting carbon. During improvements in planning our travelling to meetings; 2018/19, this included: 188.0 shipments which means we car sharing systems; and have reduced the use of air subsidies for using public —— ADEME, France’s 130.6 freight and some journeys transport or cycling to work. Environment and Energy 170.2 by sea, as well as better Management Agency 161.3 data enabling us to calculate We engaged with ADEME 112.9 emissions from sea freight on our approach to helping more accurately. customers improve home 102.7 energy efficiency. —— CDP Carbon We participate in the investor-led benchmarking initiative and received a score of A-. —— Science Based Targets initiative We worked with the SBTi to develop our new science-based carbon reduction target. 57.3 57.4 58.6 9% reduction in our indirect haulage emissions 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 compared with our baseline year of 2016/17 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 34 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices We have now installed solar PV panels on 20 stores, offices and distribution centres, biomass boilers supplying two distribution centres and one head office building, and air source heat pump systems at 63 locations. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 35 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer 37 our circular products and services 38 principles for circular product design 39 sustainable materials 42 towards zero waste to landfill Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 36 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices We’re rethinking how we Targets source and use resources, For our customers: —— Create 20 product For our business: —— Ensure sustainable integrating circular economy ranges or services that help customers and our management and efficient use of key resources by principles and designing business get more from less, reuse or use longer 2025, including 100% responsibly sourced wood out waste. by 2025. and paper and peat-free bagged growing media by 2020. —— Zero waste to landfill by With this goal we will bring our 2020 and 90% of waste recycled by 2025. customers quality products that are long-lasting, create less waste and are easy to recycle while protecting 90 % resources for the future. Target of waste recycled by 2025 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 37 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our circular products and services We are integrating circular Two more value chains —— Green pallets economy principles into our product passed our assessment Our initiative at B&Q Métisse – our circular insulation during 2018/19, bringing which reuses and recycles design, aiming to use resources our total to five. These are: pallets used to deliver our Castorama’s Métisse is Métisse is our latest product more sustainably. Our target is products. This generated more interesting than your to be assessed as a circular to have 20 product ranges or —— Safe by Nature efficiency savings worth average insulation product. value chain – better for the Our range of plant food £245,000 in 2018/19. environment while helping services that help customers and products that use natural Métisse is made from customers create a more our business get more from less, components and organic easyGrow, Safe by Nature recycled textiles, giving comfortable home. reuse or use longer by 2025. by-products such as and Progrow generated sales some of the 700,000 tonnes beetroot and feather waste of £18.3 million in 2018/19. of textiles discarded in from agriculture, reducing France each year a new the use of synthetic and Services can have a lower lease of life. carbon intensive fertilisers, environmental impact than see page 49. products. We’re exploring The fabrics are collected —— Métisse the potential for services by Le Relais, a social Our insulation product to replace some sales of enterprise, in recycling bins made from waste textiles physical products while across France including by a social enterprise. It improving the customer some located at Castorama includes textiles returned experience. For example, stores. Fabrics that can’t for recycling by Castorama Castorama Poland offers a be reused are pulped into customers at some of our product repair service from fibres and used to create French stores. 76 stores that customers can the insulation panels. —— easyGrow use both during and after a Our bedding plants that product’s guarantee period. replace polystyrene with recyclable PET and peat with sustainable coir. —— Pro Grow Peat free compost and soil conditioner made from garden waste collected from UK households. EasyGrow, Safe by Nature and Progrow generated sales of £18.3 million in 2018/19. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 38 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices principles for circular product design Our Principles for Circular Durability Customer take-back Screwfix partners with iForce Engagement and advocacy Product Design were and recycling to recycle damaged power on circular economy developed with sustainability Long-lasting products are tools returned by customers. experts Bioregional to help better for customers and can We are introducing take-back 383 tonnes of materials were We partner with others to us develop more circular reduce waste and materials and recycling schemes in recycled in 2018/19. Returned share ideas and support the products and services. use. Durability is one of our some stores, including for power tools in good condition systems change needed to They cover six impact areas, priorities in developing our products that aren’t usually are repaired, cleaned and create a circular economy. from materials that are unique and unified ranges. possible to recycle through resold via an auction site. Our partnerships include: easily and widely recycled For example, our Magnusson kerbside schemes. This can to design for longevity, low range of hand tools all come reduce waste to landfill and —— Ellen MacArthur energy and carbon and with either five year or enable more circular use Foundation working conditions in the lifetime guarantees. of resources. We were founding partners supply chain. to the Ellen MacArthur We use the Principles to assess which products and Our Erbauer range of cordless power tools and garden power tools have For example, Castorama France ran take-back campaigns during the We use the Foundation and in 2018/19 we were members of their innovation programme, services can count towards our target. The assessment process is rigorous: products been designed with durability and ease of use in mind. Every tool can use the year for paints, light bulbs and electrical radiators. Customers who took part Principles to the Circular Economy 100 (CE100). —— Forum for the Future assess which must be widely available to same rechargeable Erbauer received a voucher worth We ran a workshop with customers, not in pilot phase, battery, reducing the number between €3 and €30 to spend Forum for the Future in and only products scoring of batteries needed and in store, depending on the 2018 looking at how we can bronze level and above will meaning there is no need to products returned. The paint integrate circular economy count towards our target. Assessments are carried out by Bioregional. charge multiple tools. The batteries use ‘Keep Cool’ technology that stops them campaign ran in 80 stores and resulted in 53 tonnes of waste paint and paint products principles into our paint ranges. —— Green Alliance Circular overheating and means they can run for 25% longer than they would otherwise pots being collected, which were incinerated for energy recovery. We are now trialling and services Economy Task Force We are members of the Green Alliance and can count do and will last up to 100% permanent collection points their taskforce which is longer before they need to be for waste paint in six stores to exploring policy solutions replaced. The garden power understand whether this can for promoting the tools also use brushless generate a useful stream of transition to a circular motors that reduce friction and heat, giving more power and a longer motor life. resources. towards our economy. We participated on a panel event exploring issues relating to plastics target. and China’s waste laws. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 39 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices sustainable materials Reducing carbon The raw materials and Information on our work to With our chemicals roadmap resources we use to make improve the sustainability of we are phasing out harmful our products can have a our paint ranges is on page 48 substances, including several significant impact on the and a project in our ceramics which may be found in plastic emissions associated environment. We aim to source materials sustainably and use them efficiently, supply chain on page 68. We are also addressing products such as phthalates and halogenated flame retardants. See page 51. with our materials use offering our customers products with a lower environmental footprint. human rights risks in the raw materials supply chain including for stone (page 64) We are training our design, sourcing and quality teams on is a priority and forms and minerals (page 64). our approach and developing Reducing carbon emissions tools to help them select associated with our materials Plastics more sustainable plastics use is a priority and forms and to design products that part of our carbon part of our carbon reduction target (page 23). We are focusing on products with We aim to reduce the environmental impact of the plastics we use in use plastic efficiently and are easy to recycle. reduction target. high embodied carbon including cement, peat and plastic. our products, including cutting supply chain carbon emissions associated with Cement We are starting to focus plastics. We are focusing on reducing supply chain We are also developing on: increasing our use of carbon emissions from our sustainability roadmaps for recycled plastics; phasing bagged cement products priority materials that focus out harmful chemicals by switching our own brand on areas such as responsible used in some plastics; ranges to new lower carbon sourcing, embedding designing our products to formulations. circular economy principles use plastic more efficiently; and design for recycling, and exploring innovative improving efficiency in alternatives to plastics. manufacturing and transport, reducing chemicals use, and We are working with substituting with sustainable suppliers of recycled plastic alternative materials. Our to understand how we work on sustainable materials can increase its use in our is closely connected with products. For example, we our commitment to phase launched a new range of out harmful chemicals, recycling bins in 2019, made see page 51. using recycled plastic. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 40 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Wood and paper Our wood and paper Over this time our support Peat and horticulture To help us address these responsible sourcing policy helped efforts to reduce challenges, we plan to focus We have been working on also covers packaging, the incidence of forest Peatlands are an important on increasing sales of 100% responsible timber sourcing timber used in construction, fires by 75%, to replant 150 and unique habitat. Healthy peat-free compost. We for over 25 years and we and paper used across our hectares of cleared land, and peatland also acts as a conducted a tender process were a founding partner operations. Catalogue paper to assist indigenous forestcarbon store, helping to for our peat-free compost to FSC®. accounts for the majority based communities in the mitigate climate change. during 2018/19, including a of paper purchased, and development of agroforestry However, the use of peat for range of quality tests and Our policy is for all goods 100% of this was responsibly plots to support their horticulture has led to the selected a new supplier. containing wood and paper sourced in 2018/19. We are livelihoods. We also explored loss or degradation of many We are working with them that we sell or use to be implementing processes the potential to work with peatland areas. to ensure our peat-free responsibly sourced. This to enable us to confirm Harapan communities compost is of high quality means the wood and paper compliance with our policy to purchase sustainable We aim to phase out peat and will support great plant has been independently among suppliers of other rainforest bamboo and from the growing media and growth. Composts sold under audited by recognised wood and paper. rattan products for sale plants that we sell ahead of our GoodHome brand will be certification schemes, such in our stores. voluntary UK government peat free. We expect this to as FSC® and PEFC, as We will be rolling out updated targets. We have been increase the volume of peatcoming from well-managed training on our approach to working for several years free compost sold. forests, or is recycled. This responsible sourcing and to reduce the percentage requirement is integrated our data collection systems of peat used in our multiWe are also working with our into the contracts with for our buying offices during purpose compost blend. plant suppliers to phase out all suppliers. 2019, including our Sourcing the use of peat in the potted Quality teams. However, in 2018/19, 62.3% of and bedding plants we sell. 62% In previous years, we UK bagged growing media (by However, peat made up 57.3% collected data at an Supporting reforestation volume sold) was peat-free. of growing media supplied operating company level. in Indonesia This is a decrease from 67.4% by B&Q’s plant suppliers an As we move to unify our During 2015-2018, we the previous year. This is due increase from 53.7% the business, we are centralising supported RSPB and to continued strong sales of previous year. our wood and paper data their Birdlife International supplier branded products systems and processes. partner Burung Indonesia that contain peat. We are not Due to the complexity of this in an initiative to protect of UK bagged growing media on track to reach our target change, we are not able to and restore the Harapan (by volume sold) was peat-free of 100% by 2020. accurately report wood and rainforest. This area of paper volumes and origin/ over-logged tropical forest certification for 2018/19. We is almost the size of Greater are working hard to resolve London and home to many this issue and to assure that endangered species such our wood and paper products as the Sumatran tiger. adhere to our responsible sourcing policy. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 41 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Leather Traceability remains a Engagement and advocacy —— PEFC challenge across the leather Our Wood and Paper Parts of the leather industry industry and we are not yet We work with external Specialist is a Board are known for poor practices able to trace the hides we partners on issues relating to member of PEFC UK. including the unsafe use of purchase back to source. responsible timber sourcing. —— Textile Exchange chemicals in the tanning This means we are not This includes: We are members of a process and sourcing of able to assess the impact working group that is leather from cattle raised of our leather sourcing on —— British Retail Consortium looking to develop a on deforested land. We use deforestation. We chair the BRC’s Timber broader standard for relatively small volumes of Working Group. responsible leather leather for products such In 2019 we will be developing —— Growing Media sourcing from farm as gloves and footwear and our leather road map, setting Responsible Sourcing to tannery. we are starting to work out how we will address Steering Group with suppliers to improve sustainability challenges We are members of this standards in our supply chain. in the supply chain and Group, working alongside improve transparency. We industry on UK government It is our policy that tanneries are also a member of a Textile targets for eliminating supplying leather for our Exchange working group peat in growing media unified products should be that is looking to develop and plants. certified to industry best a broader standard for —— Office for Product Safety practice standards and to responsible leather sourcing and Standards Timber undergo regular independent from farm to tannery. This is Expert Panel audits. expected to cover a range We are a member of this of social and environmental group which meets to Leather is covered by our issues from chemicals use discuss topics related to Restricted Substances List to animal welfare. EU Timber Regulation, (RSL) for footwear and CITIES and FLEGT. accessories. This sets out our requirements on the safe use of chemicals. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 42 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices towards zero waste Waste recycled to landfill We don’t like to see We have made most progress % of waste recycled resources go to waste – it is in the UK with Screwfix * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP bad for the environment and sending zero waste to costs our business money. landfill and B&Q at 99.6% Our goal is zero waste to diversion from landfill. We landfill by 2020 and 90% also performed well in France 90% recycling by 2025. and Poland but made less progress in other markets. In 2018/19, we generated 222,253 tonnes of waste, a We are testing out new decrease of 3% year-on-year, solutions for some waste compared to an increase in streams. For example, sales of 0.3%. Our recycling in the UK all waste wood 73% 72% 72% rate was 72% (2017/18: 72%) is now either donated, and we diverted 87% of resold in store, or used to waste from landfill (2017/18: generate energy in one of 86%). However, we are not our own biomass boilers currently on track to meet or, for any treated wood, our targets of 90% recycling at an external waste from and zero waste to landfill. energy plant. B&Q have also We are looking to integrate reduced the frequency of our targets into our waste skip collections from stores contracts as they are which has encouraged staff retendered. to increase recycling. 72% of waste recycled in 2018/19 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* 2025 Target Waste recycling and disposal 2018/19* 3% 12% Thousand tonnes Waste recycled 155 Waste disposed to landfill 28 13% Waste disposed to incineration with energy recovery 26 Waste disposed to incineration without energy recovery 7 * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 72% Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 44 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Waste diverted from landfill % of waste diverted * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP We have made most 100% progress in the UK with 87% Screwfix sending zero 86% 85% waste to landfill and B&Q at 99% diversion from landfill. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* 2025 Target 87% of waste diverted from landfill in 2018/19 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 45 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices We aim to integrate Packaging Guidance on sustainable packaging options is Packaging plays an essential integrated into our role in protecting products in Sustainable Home Product sustainability into transit and in-store. However, it is a major source of waste both for our business and Guidelines Quick Start guide to help our teams improve performance. packaging development our customers. We aim to integrate Reducing packaging volumes is challenging as we increase – designing it to work sustainability into packaging online sales that are delivered development – designing it to our customers’ homes. to work well and look good, We are engaging with to use fewer resources, suppliers to explore how we well and look good, to to be more efficient to transport and store, and to use materials which can improve efficiency and increase recycling for home delivery packaging. use fewer resources, are responsibly sourced and easily recycled. This is set out in our Sustainable to be more efficient to Materials Packaging Policy. transport and store, and to use materials which are responsibly sourced and easily recycled. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 46 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices create a healthier home and connect with nature 48 products for a healthier home and garden 51 removing harmful chemicals Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 47 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices With this goal we’re making it Targets easier for customers to create For our customers: —— 20% of sales from products For our business: —— Achieve transparency of healthy, natural homes that are that enable customers to create safer, healthier harmful chemicals in key supply chains by 2020, free from harmful chemicals. homes and connect with nature by 2025. phase out the highest priority hazardous and high-risk chemicals of concern and introduce five A growing body of research green substances by 2025. shows that being close to nature improves wellbeing so we’re focused on helping customers create a home for nature in their gardens. 20 % Target of sales from products that enable customers to create safer, healthier homes and connect with nature by 2025 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 48 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices products for a healthier Products that enable our customers to create safer and healthier homes home and garden and connect with nature We’re expanding Improving indoor air quality We ran a workshop with % of retail sales our ranges that Forum for the Future in We’re moving increasingly to 2018 looking at how we 20% help our customers water-based paints, reducing can integrate circular to enjoy healthy, air pollution in customer economy principles into toxin-free homes homes and avoiding the need our paint ranges. We will for toxic solvents. We now be developing projects and to connect with require that all paints in to explore this further nature. In 2018/19, our GoodHome range are during 2019. 9% of our sales came water based. Wood burning stoves from these products It is more challenging to are very popular with (2017/18: 6%) against reduce the use of solvents customers and can our target of 20% in some colours and reduce carbon emissions paint ranges, for example compared with other by 2025. metallic and spray paints. heating solutions. However, We are exploring ways we these stoves can be can address this including detrimental to indoor air the potential to introduce quality if the wrong type of water-based spray paints. fuel is used or the stove is inefficient. B&Q has signed Our GoodHome air up to the Ready to Burn purifying white emulsion initiative launched by UK paint actually helps to Government department improve air quality by DEFRA and switched all 9% neutralising formaldehyde. its fuels to lower smoke Formaldehyde is a major versions that meet the cause of internal air ‘Woodsure’ standard. All pollution, found in many firewood is now kept inside home furnishings and B&Q stores to ensure it is textiles. It is now available as dry as possible. 6% in our B&Q, Castorama and Brico Dépôt stores. 5% 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2025 Target Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 49 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Nature friendly gardens and green spaces Safe by Nature Gardens promote wellbeing and can be an important haven for wildlife. We’ve Our Safe by Nature range is making it easier to create beautiful, zero harm gardens We’re phasing out expanded our Safe by Nature garden ranges, that help customers have beautiful that are safe for children, pets and wildlife. harmful chemicals from our garden ranges. gardens that are also good Our natural plant food, for nature, see case study. for example, uses organic ingredients and feather We’re phasing out harmful waste to help customers chemicals from our garden grow flowers and vegetables, ranges. We removed while improving soil health. neonicotinoid pesticides, It’s passed our circular value chemicals that affect bee chain assessment, showing health, several years ago it supports our commitment across all our markets. to a circular economy. Since 2018, all the flowering plants we sell in the UK We’re also finding innovative have been grown without new solutions that are the use of neonicotinoids as effective as chemical too. We’re working with our products. For example, growers to roll this out to wool mats and natural our other markets. pellets that repel slugs while releasing nutrients into the In early 2019, we announced soil, retaining moisture and our commitment to stop protecting plants from weeds. selling products containing metaldehyde, a chemical used to protect plants from slugs and snails which has been shown to pollute rivers and harm wildlife. We’re the first major retailer to make this commitment. create a healthier home and connect with nature Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 51 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices removing harmful chemicals Our customers want healthy High priority chemicals We have made good progress We have committed homes that are free from harmful chemicals. Our chemicals watch list identifies several families of and have improved our understanding of where higher risk chemicals are to remove phthalates, While many chemical substances are regulated under legislation such chemicals that we will remove from our products over the next few years. For example, likely to be used. However, with a large supply chain and many products in our ranges, PFCs and halogenated as EU REACH and the EU we will remove phthalates, this process is taking time. Biocides Regulations, there PFCs and halogenated flame We have also learned that the are many others which are retardants from own-brand chemicals found in products not. This includes chemical products by 2025. often vary and a similar flame retardants from substances that may pose a risk to consumers, workers making products, or the These priority chemicals have been selected through product may contain different chemicals according to the materials, suppliers, subown-brand products environment. Using our Chemicals a hot-spotting exercise which identified higher-risk chemicals and those most contractors or manufacturing sites used. by 2025. Roadmap, we are working likely to be found in important Achieving transparency with suppliers and others supply chains, materials is therefore an ongoing to identify and phase out and products. process which will not be chemicals of concern ahead achieved by a particular date. of regulation. This is complex Increasing transparency We will be reviewing the since any of our products We are piloting different transparency element of our from paints and cleaning approaches to increase target to ensure it reflects products to drills, hammers transparency on chemicals our improved understanding or kitchen units may contain use in our supply chain and in this area. chemical substances. products. In 2018/19 this work focused on three priority We have also been working supply chains – textiles, to improve transparency in plastics (see page 39) and our leather supply chain (see solvents. Approaches we page 41) and have engaged are using include: regular with electroplating factories and direct engagement with in China to ensure they our supply chain; supplier comply with environmental questionnaires; requiring protection legislation and suppliers to disclose more good practice in the use information via product of chemicals. ingredient lists; and working with third-party laboratories to establish new verification processes. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 52 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Engaging our colleagues We are developing more Supporting green chemistry We are collaborating with and suppliers detailed guidance for some others to encourage the product categories. For We are exploring the development of green We are training our example, we have developed potential of green chemistry, chemistry and the phase colleagues on our approach, Restricted Substances Lists replacing potentially harmful out of harmful chemicals. so they understand (RSL) covering categories substances with safer We are members of the our commitment and such as textiles, footwear alternatives or materials. US‑based Green Chemistry can communicate our and accessories. We have Our target is to introduce five & Commerce Council (GC3), expectations to suppliers. communicated these “green chemical alternatives” and during 2018, helped Colleagues in quality, design, to suppliers via tender by 2025. lead the development of sourcing and product teams processes. We also ran two a Statement on Chemical across our key offices were training workshops in 2018/19 During 2018/19, we worked Innovation Priorities and trained in 2018/19. attended by 96 suppliers with manufacturers of green Transparency Road Map. 5 in China. These explained chemicals to understand This will help to encourage We are starting to require our RSL requirements and whether their alternative innovation on safer suppliers to report the provided an opportunity substances have the potential alternatives for priority chemicals used in our new to share examples of good to be used in our products chemicals. The statement own-brand products and practice and discuss common and the costs and benefits of was published in May 2019. We to specify which chemicals challenges. doing so. Pilots are expected also share best practice with should not be used or can to begin during 2019. other businesses through our only be used in quantities We are conducting factory membership of the European below a set threshold. visits and have begun testing NGO ChemSec’s business some high-risk products working group. We have also integrated our to confirm the information chemicals watch list into our provided by suppliers. Where Sustainable Home Product necessary, we work closely guidelines and product with suppliers, providing specifications. advice and support to help them strengthen their chemicals management system. Our target is to introduce five “green chemical alternatives” by 2025. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 53 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Engagement and advocacy We work with others on —— Green Chemistry & Commerce Council (GC3) We are working with GC3 We are collaborating with issues relating to healthy homes, natural gardening and chemicals. Our to identify alternative chemical substances and suppliers. We are a member others to encourage the development of green partnerships include: of its Retail Leadership Council and our Head of —— Butterfly Conservation Sustainable Chemicals B&Q is working with this Management is a member NGO to encourage our customers to help protect butterflies and moths and of the GC3 Advisory Board. chemistry and the phase become citizen scientists by taking part in the Garden Butterfly Survey. out of harmful chemicals. —— ChemSEc We are members of the business working group to share best practice on chemicals management. 9% of sales in 2018/19 from products that enable customers to create a healthy home or to connect with nature Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 55 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their homes 57 partnerships to tackle poor and unfit housing 60 what we gave in 2018/19 62 ethical sourcing 65 supplier ethical assessment and audit results 68 supporting our people to have good homes 68 sustainable livelihoods in our supply chain Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 56 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices We want to make a difference Targets beyond our business, helping For our customers: —— Help millions more people For our business: —— Support our colleagues to more people to improve their tackle poor and unfit housing through strategic have a home they can feel good about by 2025. homes and their lives. partnerships and local action in all our markets —— Ensure all suppliers meet our ethical and by 2025. environmental standards by 2020 and establish Through our community strategic community programmes to achieve investment we are providing positive change in key sourcing regions by 2025. funding and expertise to help tackle poor and unfit housing. We are also working with our suppliers and other partners Target to ensure high standards and improve life for communities Help millions more in our supply chain. people tackle poor and unfit housing through strategic partnerships and local action in all our markets by 2025. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 57 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices partnerships to tackle poor and unfit housing A good home is essential That’s why we’re committed Supporting Shelter’s DIY We get our colleagues to health and happiness. To to helping as many people Skills Advisers – UK and customers involved in building relationships and as we can know what it’s like supporting Shelter, including strengthening communities. to fall asleep feeling safe, Our work with Shelter funds through quarterly fundraising But for people in difficult warm and dry; to wake up a team of specialist DIY events and as volunteers in circumstances – those surrounded by the things Skills Advisers across the Shelter’s network of shops living in poverty or who they love and the colours UK. They provide practical and services. Customers are isolated or vulnerable they’ve chosen; to welcome home improvement help to can make donations in store – having a good home can family and friends to a home people settling into a new and we launched a Festive seem impossible. they feel proud of. property following a period Fairy doll over Christmas of homelessness, as well 2018 with all proceeds going We’ve launched major as helping people at risk to Shelter. We’ve also rolled strategic partnerships in of homelessness to stay out timber offcut boxes, our core markets to tackle in their current home. This enabling customers to help poor and unfit housing. can include basic home themselves to bits of wood We also support many improvement skills such in return for a donation smaller projects that make a as how to put up blinds or to Shelter. difference locally and we’re paint walls, as well as more getting our colleagues and complex tasks such as fitting customers involved too. security locks. With our support, the Skills Advisers The launch of our GoodHome have helped around 1,928 Foundation in 2019 will people since the partnership help us to go further. This began and now operate in is a network of in country six cities: London, Bristol, charitable foundations Birmingham, Manchester, located in each of our Sheffield and Liverpool. We key markets, UK, France, also help to fund some of Poland, Romania. Through Shelter’s frontline advice the GoodHome Foundation services. we will give our money, time, skills and products to help others across the communities where we operate. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 58 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices “Bekah’s visits always left Our partnership with Shelter me uplifted. She left my home with noticeable differences that really made a difference to my level of comfort Our partnership with Shelter is helping people who have Sheila had had to leave all her furniture behind when “Bekah’s visits always left me uplifted. She left my home and wellbeing.” been through very difficult she fled her relationship and with noticeable differences experiences to have a home didn’t have any DIY skills. that really made a difference where they can feel safe Bekah, one of Shelter’s to my level of comfort and and secure. DIY Skills Advisers, helped wellbeing. I have learned Sheila to construct new DIY skills from Bekah that I Sheila Sheila and her daughter ended up homeless flatpack beds and a table, to fit shelves and decorate. can use if I need to, which is really good to know.” Sheila. after fleeing an abusive In the process, Sheila learnt relationship and spent eight new skills and benefited months living in emergency from homewares donated accommodation. With by B&Q. support from Shelter’s legal team, they were finally able to move into a new home and that’s when the DIY Skills Advisers, funded by B&Q, were there to help. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 59 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Helping the Red Cross Fondation Abbé Pierre – Local projects respond to emergencies France We support a range of Through our partnership We have begun a new local projects to benefit with the International Red strategic partnership with the communities near to Cross we are supporting Abbé Pierre Foundation, our stores and where our the Disaster Relief Alliance, a leading French charity customers and colleagues helping communities to devoted to tackling live. The Screwfix Foundation, prepare for, respond to and homelessness. This will for example, raises funds to recover from disasters. see us contribute at least support projects that will fix, We’re also partnering with €250,000 in the first year repair, maintain and improve the Red Cross locally in the through direct financial properties and community UK, France and Poland. In contributions and by facilities for those in need 2018, this included supporting supporting colleague and throughout the UK. It has flood prevention and relief customer fundraising. donated £3.98m since 2013 work in Poland and donating Colleagues will also give their to 1,019 small local charities, products to support time and skills as volunteers Barnardo’s the children’s communities affected by to support the Foundation’s charity and Macmillan Cancer flooding in France. projects. For our first Support. In France, our HOME campaign, we made a programme sees stores donation for every Christmas donating employee time, as tree sold at Castorama well as materials and money France and for a range of to renovate homes. products at Brico Dépôt France, raising €165,000 We are working with several in total. NGOs in Poland, including Piękne Anioły, to help This new partnership builds improve living conditions for on a ten-year commitment people experiencing illness, by Brico Dépôt France to disability, financial problems “Our employees spent support the Abbé Pierre and other challenging Foundation and raise circumstances. over 23,482 working awareness of poor housing amongst the French public. While in Russia, we partnered hours volunteering in This included donating profits with a food bank during 2018, raised through sale of its donating home improvement their local communities.” reusable bags. supplies to help its customers improve their homes. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 60 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Community investment what we gave in 2018/19 £ thousands At least 60,000 people Our community contribution We helped customers and Community gifts and investment directly benefited from our towards projects relating colleagues raise a further Fundraising and other leverage community contributions to home improvement was £1,029,000 for charity * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP during the year. We believe worth £1.69 million in 2018/19. through in-store collections, the actual figure may be This includes cash donations, payroll giving, fundraising higher and we are further employee time and in-kind events and using our contact developing our reporting contributions, with product centres to take pledges from 2,382 mechanisms to enable us to donations valued at cost the public during charity disclose progress in greater price. This is equivalent to fundraising appeals. detail. Our progress so far 0.2% of underlying pre-tax and our plans to scale up profits (2017/18: 0.3%). In our Annual Report and our reach, mean we are on Accounts we reported a track to our target of 1 million During 2018/19 year much community contribution by 2025. of our focus has been on of £2.3 million. This figure setting up the GoodHome includes corporate donations 1,785 Foundation and this as well as customer and resulted in a reduction in colleague donations made 1,690 our donations. We expect via the Screwfix Foundation. our community investment Since the publication of to increase in 2019/20 as the Annual Report we have our GoodHome Foundation identified further leveraged 1,387 becomes active. funds giving a total figure of £2.7 million. 1,240 We encourage employees to give their time as volunteers and organise many group volunteering 1,029 events to improve homes and community spaces for those in need. Our employees spent over 23,482 working hours volunteering in their local communities, with 1,203 employees volunteering during work hours. The total value of employee time £1.69m community contribution (including volunteering hours and management costs) was £852,000 (2017/18: £303,000). towards projects relating 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* to home improvement in 2018/19 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 61 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Community investment: details of company giving 2018/19* £ thousands Our employees Cash donations £670 In-kind contributions £168 Value of employee time and spent over 23,482 management costs £852 * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP working hours volunteering in their local communities, with 1,203 employees 40% volunteering during 50% work hours. 10% Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 62 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices ethical sourcing We want to do Our supply chain We aim to work with business with suppliers who meet Our products are sourced globally from around 2,800 suppliers to raise high standards on the environment, labour practices and human suppliers and there are around 3,700 production sites that supply us with finished standards in our goods. The number of rights. We aim to suppliers this year is around work with suppliers one-third lower than in 2017/18, reflecting progress supply chain and to raise standards in our supply chain and to collaborate to on our ONE Kingfisher transformation strategy and the unification of our to collaborate to address sustainability challenges. product ranges. There are many more address sustainability indirect suppliers in our extended supply chain, Read more in our including suppliers of raw Modern Slavery materials and component challenges. Act Transparency Statement. parts used in the products we sell and buy. We also source goods and services not for resale (GNFR). Around 400 key suppliers account for approximately 75% of our GNFR spend. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 63 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Our policies and standards Contracts with suppliers include clauses on Whistleblowing and grievance mechanisms Modern slavery We do not tolerate any form Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct provide the compliance with our supply chain policies and standards. Our independent and confidential whistleblowing We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery. However, of modern slavery. However, framework for our approach to protecting human rights We summarise the key requirements in our Vendor service, In Touch, is available to all employees we recognise that no supply chain is without risk of we recognise that no supply in our business and supply chain, see page 80. Manual for goods for resale. We also launched a Factory (intouchfeedback.co.uk/ kingfisher) and suppliers modern slavery and it is our responsibility to ensure we chain is without risk of They are supported by our Handbook for our suppliers in Asia during 2018. (intouchfeedback.co.uk/ kfsupplier). All reports to the understand these risks and work in partnership with modern slavery and it is our Supply Chain Workplace Standards which explain the We run training and helpline are fully investigated and followed up, and the our suppliers to identify and mitigate them. responsibility to ensure we ethical standards we require from suppliers. These are awareness sessions for suppliers. For example, 484 outcome is reported to the Audit Committee of the Our Modern Slavery Working understand these risks and aligned with the code used by Sedex (the online supplier people attended two supplier seminars in China during 2018 Board of Directors. See Ethical Conduct, page 81. Group oversees due diligence and disclosure on work in partnership with data exchange – www. sedexglobal.com) in the to discuss topics such as overtime, health and safety, We also require suppliers human rights and modern slavery. It meets three our suppliers to identify and Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which includes carbon and environmental management. to maintain a means by which workers can times a year and brings together ethical sourcing mitigate them. the Ethical Trading Initiative openly communicate and representatives from our (ETI) Base Code. share grievances with group functions including management, without fear procurement (products and Our Ethical Sourcing and of reprisal, intimidation or GNFR), logistics, property, Supplier Workplace Ethical harassment. human resources, legal and and Environmental Assurance compliance. The Working (SWEEA) Policy sets out our Group reports to our Group approach to ethical audits. Sustainability Committee, a It requires all high-risk sub-committee of our Group production sites of finished Executive. goods to have an ethical audit by 2020. A detailed account of our approach is provided in our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 64 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Risks and due diligence We are now also using EcoVadis, a sustainability Case studies We have an extensive global ratings platform, to help supply chain, so we take a us assess and manage risk Assessing risks in our Addressing audit findings In Taiwan and Malaysia, Overtime project pilot risk based approach, focusing in our GNFR supply chain. extended supply chain we stopped orders to the on the highest risk countries Our suppliers are required During 2018, as part of factories while we worked Excessive overtime remains and sectors for modern to complete the EcoVadis In 2018, we started a our ethical compliance with them to resolve the a challenge in China, which slavery and human rights questionnaire covering four research project into the programme, we identified issue. In Malaysia, the factory is bad for workers but can issues. We assess risk on themes – labour and human potential use of conflict three cases of employers contacted its workers, giving also have a negative impact an ongoing basis using data rights, environment, ethics minerals in our products, withholding the passports them the option to leave on supplier productivity from Maplecroft and Sedex. and sustainable procurement. such as natural diamonds, of migrant workers. The their passports voluntarily in and staff turnover. We have We aim for all suppliers of cobalt and tungsten. We production sites were a designated secure facility, launched a project to raise goods for resale to be using We train our colleagues identified suppliers and located in Malaysia, Taiwan accessible at any time. It awareness among suppliers the Sedex platform by the on our approach to ethical sub-suppliers using these and the United Arab obtained written consent about the need to address end of 2020. We are currently sourcing and reducing minerals and have begun to Emirates. We worked with for all the passports stored excessive overtime and at 66%. modern slavery risks. This engage with them to identify these suppliers to ensure in the facility and returned the business benefits of includes incorporating where these materials are that clear processes are in passports to any workers doing so. We are trialling this We are working on a number awareness of modern sourced from. place to safeguard worker who did not want to use approach with one of our of projects to identify and slavery into our Code of rights and to ensure that the service. The factory in garden furniture suppliers. address salient human rights Conduct training through an We found that the diamonds documents are only held Taiwan returned all passports issues in our extended e-learning module that all used in the supply chain for if the workers specifically to its workers. supply chain including among employees will be required to Kingfisher branded products, request and consent to this raw material suppliers. complete in 2019. Our buying for example for drill tips and on a voluntary basis, for We verified that the new These include our work on offices carry out training saw blades, are synthetic example for safekeeping. procedures had been responsible timber sourcing for appropriate employees diamonds manufactured in implemented through follow (page 40), participation in on ethical sourcing. In 2018, two factories in China. We In the United Arab Emirates, up audits. the TFT Responsible Stone this included training 339 do not yet have full visibility we engaged with the Programme, research on employees in our offices in of the cobalt and tungsten factory management to conflict minerals (see right) Shanghai, Hong Kong and supply chains and are implement a new consent and work on leather (page 41). Vietnam. continuing to engage with form procedure, giving the relevant suppliers to workers the option to keep 66% address this. documents themselves or to store their passports with the factory in a secure, fire proof facility, which is accessible at any time. of all suppliers of goods for resale are using the Sedex platform Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 65 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Top five non-conformances supplier ethical assessment by category (%) and audit results We aim to drive up During 1st February 2017– We are also using supplier 56% 31st January 2019, our visits and audits to help us ethical standards buying offices identified 54 better understand risks in Health, safety & hygiene in our supply chain production sites that did not our GNFR supply chain. So through our supplier comply with our minimum far, this has included auditing 14% engagement and standards (i.e. they achieved selected cleaning and a business critical grade). logistics suppliers. ethical audits. 995 We were able to work with Working hours production sites have 52 of these sites to resolve had an ethical audit the non-conformances. One 11% in the past two years. factory was discontinued for business reasons. This is 47% of highThe remaining factory Wages & benefits has submitted corrective risk production sites actions which are pending 7% on Sedex. auditor approval. During 2018/19, ethical Environment audits identified 21 nonconformances under the 6% 7% heading ‘employment is freely chosen’. These included Management systems three cases of employers illegally withholding worker passports, see Addressing 7% 6% audit findings. There were two instances of Other employers withholding wage payments to workers which were resolved. The majority of non-conformances relate to health and safety, which include fire safety issues such as provision of fire extinguishers. Other common non-conformances include working hours, wages and benefits, and environmental management. The % of nonconformances in the chart are from ethical audits carried out in the past two years (2017/18 and 2018/19). The data covers production sites registered so far on Sedex. Supplier production sites by grade (%) 6% 4% 5% We aim for all high-risk production sites (as 4% identified through Sedex) to be audited by 2020 and we are currently at 47%. Grade 1 Grade 2 24% Grade 3 Grade 4 Grade 5 Grade Business Critical 57% The chart shows the audit grades with suppliers to improve factory for the production sites that have performance grades over time. A had an audit in the past two years. total of 995 production sites had It includes the results from the an audit in the past two years. The latest full audit at each site. chart shows audit grades for 978 of these production sites. We are It therefore does not reflect any unable to report audit grades for 17 corrective actions taken or results of the sites audited. This is because from follow up audits. We work with their Sedex membership has sites graded as business critical expired and therefore the grades to resolve the issues (see Audit were not available to download results). During 2019, we plan to from Sedex when our end of year review how we monitor and work reports were generated. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 67 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Engagement and advocacy —— Indirect Procurement —— British Retail Consortium We are members of the Human Rights Forum We helped establish this Forum to promote We aim to drive up British Retail Consortium (BRC) Working Groups on Ethical Labour and collaboration with other businesses and Sedex on ways to understand and ethical standards in our supply chain Responsible Sourcing address risks associated and we are signatories to with goods and services Better Retail, Better World, not for resale. For example, a collaboration led by the it has developed a set BRC aimed at supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals in of standards for labour providers. We are working with our UK logistics through our supplier areas including modern slavery and decent work; —— European DIY Retail suppliers to encourage labour providers in our logistics network to sign engagement and ethical audits. Association (EDRA) up to these standards. We are a member of an EDRA working group, which aims to develop a collaborative approach to responsible sourcing within the home improvement sector; Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 68 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices supporting our sustainable people to have livelihoods in our good homes supply chain We are exploring ways we can support our colleagues We want to have a positive impact on the We have piloted a worker training programme with In 2019 and 2020 we will focus on scaling-up We have piloted a worker to create their own good homes. lives of the people who make our products and 93 workers from one of our ceramics suppliers in projects across our Turkish supply chain. We will also training programme with We conducted an initial their communities. Ethical sourcing is the first step Turkey. This saw participants completing modules covering investigate other supply chains and geographies 93 workers from one of our survey with B&Q colleagues in 2018 to better understand but we want to go further. a range of life and technical skills from communication, where these projects can add value for communities, ceramics suppliers in Turkey. their views and concerns We have started engaging financial literacy and workers and suppliers where around housing. More than with key suppliers and entrepreneurship to ceramics Kingfisher operates. 10% of B&Q colleagues stakeholders in Turkey and craft skills, coding and participated and we have and China, where many computer literacy. Topics worked with Shelter to of our products are made, such as gender equality signpost tailored good to understand the issues and sustainability were also home advice covering they face and identify integrated. We’ve also begun housing issues and home where we can make a a pilot high school student improvement. We will further difference. This has included training programme at local develop our approach in 2019. undertaking research schools in the area to support within our supply chain future generations to develop Our GoodHome Academy and its local communities; life and technical skills. 125 is providing training and meeting with key suppliers, students and 25 teachers are development opportunities workers, community groups, participating so far. for our colleagues to improve education organisations and their home improvement trade unions. In China, we are engaging expertise. See page 74. with suppliers of metal hand In Turkey we identified tool products, looking at how We will be reviewing this three key challenges in our we can help support the target during 2019/20. ceramics supply chain: a skills development of workers and gap, with not enough workers our suppliers. having the technical skills the industry needs to meet future challenges; an ageing population with fewer young people joining the workforce; and the future impact of automation on workers and businesses. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 69 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our people 70 our people 71 a place where you can be yourself 74 building skills for life 75 i feel i get more than i give Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 70 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our people Our colleagues play We aim to provide a great About our workforce We’re a team of over an essential role in the transformation of working experience where all our colleagues get back more than they put in, where We employ 77,300 people across 10 countries and 77,300 people and 130 Kingfisher, helping to achieve our ambition to be the leading they gain skills for life in a place where they can be themselves. During 2018/19, 1,331 stores. Our employee turnover rate was 34% (2017/18: 33%). This includes nationalities, working we have been looking at how voluntary and involuntary home improvement we can develop and sustain leavers. business. At the same a workplace culture where all our colleagues can thrive, together to make home time, they want more from us than just a job. They look for building on our values of curiosity, simplicity, humility, excellence and working improvement accessible rewarding work in a place where they together as one. We expect to publish further information on our priorities for action for everyone. can perform at their during 2019. individual best. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 71 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices a place where you can be yourself We want our teams to Creating an inclusive culture is equally important. Inclusion at B&Q have a mix of different We want everyone who works at Kingfisher to By creating a safe, In 2018, B&Q partnered with backgrounds, outlooks and feel comfortable being themselves at work. This comfortable and inclusive working environment where Stonewall, the UK’s leading LGBT rights charity, and experiences – as diverse as makes us more productive and effective, so we serve colleagues are able to grow, thrive and be all they can they’re working together to champion diversity and the customers we serve. We our customers better and get more satisfaction from be, B&Q aim to be a good home for everyone. They inclusion projects in 2019. believe diversity is a source our work. partner with a range of organisations to constantly of creativity and contributes We have taken a number of steps to help embed diversity review and adopt best working practices. to business success. and inclusion in our culture. This includes the introduction For example, B&Q is a of our Licence to Hire Level 2 Disability Confident training which managers in Employer and is working the UK and France will need with the Business Disability to complete before they Forum (BDF) to ensure can recruit new colleagues they provide facilities, work to their teams. This covers environment adjustments bias awareness and will help and tech solutions to ensure a more inclusive make their workplaces as recruitment process. We’ve inclusive and accessible also made more senior jobs as possible. B&Q also open to flexible working and support Pluss, a Social reduced hours and integrated Enterprise who help people inclusion into our leadership with disabilities to gain programmes. meaningful employment. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 72 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Gender balance We published our second We have changed the way Gender balance gender pay report in we report our data on % of female colleagues based on headcount We aim to achieve gender February 2019. This showed gender. We now calculate 2018/19* balance at all levels of a median pay gap of 3.3% and percentages using our total our workforce. Women mean pay gap of 8.8% for headcount figure, whereas Total workforce 42 accounted for 55% of our all UK group and operating in previous years we used Board, well above the company employees. the number of full-time Senior management** 23 average for the FTSE 1001. The mean pay and bonus equivalent employees. We 18% of our Group Executive figures are affected by the believe this more accurately All management positions 36 were female at 31st January higher pay for our senior reflects the number of 2019. This is lower than the management, many of women in our workforce * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 50% reported last year due whom are male. In contrast, since women may be more ** Senior management covers Board, directors and heads of department to changes in personnel the median gap reduces likely to work part-time. It also and the expansion of our the impact of this and is aligns with how this data is Group Executive from six therefore much lower at reported in our Annual Report to 11 members. 3.3% and similar to last year. and Accounts. However, it While our gender pay gap means we are not able to is considerably below the compare performance with national average for the UK2, previous years. we recognise that there is work to be done to reduce it further. We do not collect data on ethnic diversity in our While our gender pay gap is considerably workforce. We have also reviewed the gender pay gap across all our geographies and are using the findings when reviewing pay in our different markets. below the national average for the UK, we 1 The Cranfield University Female FTSE Board Report 2018 reports recognise that there is work to be done to the percentage of women on FTSE 100 boards as 29% in June 2018. 2 The Office for National Statistics reduce it further. quotes a national median pay gap of 17.9% and mean pay gap of 17.1% for 2018. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 73 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Disability Managing change They help our colleagues Employee survey results to understand the emotions We aim to create accessible We are two years into our they may experience and to Each of our colleagues The results also showed workplaces and to support five-year transformation to develop the skills they need has a role to play in the that there is an opportunity colleagues affected by become ONE Kingfisher. This to prepare for change and transformation of our to keep improving disability. As well as improving is a period of change for our make it happen. We have business and their views communication and to accessibility in our stores colleagues and our business trained 37 internal trainers help to shape what we do demonstrate to colleagues and offices, we provide as we reorganise ourselves. to deliver the sessions across and how we do it. that we respond to their training and guidance for HR We need to manage these all our markets and over 200 feedback. managers and partner with changes carefully to minimise colleagues have already Our Colleague Experience disability organisations. negative impacts on our participated. Platform enables colleagues Our overall engagement people. to provide feedback on life score was 78 out of 100. We collect data on disability Our operating companies at Kingfisher and provides This is above the score in France, where this is a To support our leaders also offer support to our managers and HR teams of 66 for the benchmark legal requirement. 9.8% of and colleagues, we have colleagues affected by with valuable insights. This of international retail workers employed directly developed a series of learning business change including includes two all-colleague companies. or indirectly by Brico Dépôt programmes that help people any redundancies. surveys per year. France have a disability deal successfully with change (8.2% of full-time equivalent at work. These include seven Around 78% of our employees) and 7.3% of bite-sized modules (four colleagues provided their workers employed directly for all colleagues and three feedback through seven or indirectly by Castorama for people leaders) and a questions in our check-in France (5.5% of full-time one-day programme for our survey in July 2018. This equivalent employees), senior leaders. showed that 72% feel a sense compared with the French of belonging in Kingfisher national target of 6% of and 77% would recommend workers employed directly Kingfisher as a great place to or indirectly1. work. 71% also reported that they feel comfortable being themselves at work. 1 Indirect employment includes partnerships with organisations 9.8% of workers employed directly or indirectly by Brico Dépôt who specialise in providing work for people with disabilities. France have a disability Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 74 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices building skills for life We want everyone who GoodHome Academy GoodHome Academy events are attended by colleagues Apprenticeships and local training programmes —— Castorama Poland’s, ‘Leaders’ School’ prepares works at Kingfisher to By developing our colleagues’ home improvement from around the business. For example, in February We run many training colleagues for Store Director or Administration be able to keep learning, knowledge, we can help more people to have a good home. 2019 we held events for over 300 colleagues in Poland programmes at the local level to help colleagues develop and Logistics Director roles while its ‘Captain’s School’ improving and growing – We launched our GoodHome and the UK that focused on our outdoor ranges through their career with us. We also support apprenticeships that is aimed at preparing colleagues for Department building skills for life. Academy in 2018/19, to help us to equip colleagues with customer insights, practical sessions and business help young people to kickstart their career. Examples Manager roles. 16 colleagues were promoted the confidence and expertise problem solving exercises. include: after completed these they need to help customers The sessions integrated courses during 2018/19. We’re investing in our succeed in their projects. It includes physical and digital information on sustainability features such as sustainable —— Castorama and Brico Dépôt France partner Leadership training Home Improvement learning experiences for store colleagues supported solutions to weeds and garden pests, natural plant with universities and business schools to recruit Our leadership programmes Academy experiences and by an online information portal. Colleagues learn care and growing your own fruit and vegetables. apprentices for storebased undergraduate – Leadership Development and Advanced Leadership development opportunities about our ranges and gain insights into customer needs The physical events were supported by line manager and Masters degree placements. In 2018/19, 632 Development – help to inspire and equip senior colleagues to enable colleagues and key home improvement projects. led team talks and digital learning back in store for over apprentices were recruited across both businesses. from across the business to lead and to navigate complex to develop their home 2,000 outdoor colleagues in the UK, Poland, France and —— B&Q’s apprenticeship programmes provide change. They include a series of learning workouts and a improvement knowledge Romania. in-role development opportunities for hundreds one-day programme that have been delivered to over and to gain new skills and As the Academy develops, we plan to share some of of colleagues each year. For example, our retail 200 participants. qualifications. these resources with our customers both in-store team leader level 3 programme currently has 632 apprentices were recruited and online. 368 colleagues enrolled. —— Screwfix launched its first apprenticeship across Castorama and programmes in 2018. It Brico Dépôt France now has 300 colleagues enrolled on its ‘Trade Up’ 368 colleagues enrolled in programmes completing Level 3 and Level 4 Retail apprenticeships. B&Q’s retail team leader level 3 programme Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 75 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices i feel i get more Kingfisher wellness wheel than i give We want to be a company Health and wellbeing With our Framework we For each of us to experience that helps all our colleagues will provide new services, positive wellbeing we need to feel well and to thrive – at To help us create a wellness information, learning to ensure we manage our home and at work. Wellness culture at Kingfisher, we’ve modules and support energy in these five areas is about helping each developed our Wellness to colleagues as well as and find our balance. individual to find the right Framework. The Framework improving awareness of balance and encompasses aims to prevent ill health our existing programmes. good physical and mental by creating a better These vary by location and health and financial understanding of what keeps can include: promoting wellbeing. us and our teams well. It healthy lifestyle choices; is being rolled out across Employee Assistance Mind the Group through our Programmes for leadership programmes and colleagues who may need team meetings. It is designed counselling, financial and to help managers create legal advice or specialist a positive culture in their support; occupational teams and to support all health services; and colleagues to look after their discounted rates on wellbeing and to feel valued healthcare and medical and purposeful. benefits for colleagues and their families. Soul Body Safety Heart Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 76 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices employee accident rate Number of ‘all work-related’ accidents per health and safety Our Group Safety and We believe this improvement 100,000 full-time equivalent employees management Compliance Risk Officer reflects our work to increase oversees our Kingfisher safety awareness and Every colleague should be H&S management system. strengthen our processes for able to go home safely at We are in the process identifying and addressing the end of the day. We have of rolling out an updated safety issues. For example, implemented safety policies Group management we have reduced accidents 11,611 and procedures to make sure system to ensure we take relating to manual handling of we’re meeting high standards a consistent approach to large products such as doors, across the business. occupational health and garden furniture and shower safety management across screens by updating our 10,193 We have a senior our locations. procedures, improving our management safety training for colleagues, and 9,536 committee in each operating Our Group-wide accident investing in new equipment. company and a network of management reporting This includes rolling out safety professionals. We run system tracks accidents Teflon coated panels that Kingfisher Safety Network (including minor accidents) make it easier to remove meetings and training and near misses and helps us large items from warehouse sessions twice a year. These to identify the root causes storage racks. During 2019, bring our H&S professionals of accidents and reduce we will be focusing on how together over two days to safety risks. We audit our we can reduce accidents discuss changes in legislation stores against our mandatory relating to human error. and best practice and to hear minimum H&S standards and from external speakers. each company has an action There was one health and plan to address areas for safety related prosecution Our H&S Dashboard improvement. this year in Russia, summarises performance concerning a colleague who at each operating company Our total employee accident sustained a head injury after and is reviewed at every rate (number of all workclimbing up and falling from meeting of our Group related accidents per racking in one of our stores. Board and Group Executive 100,000 full-time equivalent This was investigated and we Committee. The dashboard is employees) was 9,536, a were found not to be at fault. regularly reviewed to ensure decrease of 6% year on year. We were required to carry we are reporting the most There were no work-related out further safety training for relevant data. fatalities. colleagues to reinforce the correct procedure for taking products off racking. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 77 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Engagement and advocacy We partner with others to We want everyone who support progress on skills development and diversity. Recent examples include: works at Kingfisher to —— Supporting the creative sector: We support the New Designers exhibition be able to keep learning, and awards, which provide a platform for students seeking to develop their improving and growing – design careers. —— 30% Club: Our CEO and chairman are members of building skills for life. the 30% Club which aims to increase representation of women on boards and executive committees. We hosted a breakfast during 2018 attended by a range of business leaders to discuss diversity. 300 colleagues enrolled in the Screwfix ‘Trade Up’ apprenticeship programmes in 2018 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 78 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices governance and management 79 roles and responsibilities 80 risk management 80 human rights 81 ethical conduct 82 stakeholder engagement 83 our materiality assessment 85 public policy 87 pensions Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 79 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices roles and responsibilities Our Group Sustainability Our Board receives regular Our central sustainability Sustainability policies Fines and prosecutions Committee (GSC), a subupdates on our performance team, led by our Group and sustainability risks, Director of Corporate Our policies guide our There were no fines relating committee of the Group including those relating to Affairs, is responsible for approach to sustainability to health, safety or the Executive, leads and oversees climate change. developing strategy and for and help ensure consistency environment and safety delivery of our sustainability reporting and communication across the business. We during 2018/19. We also have an advisory on sustainability. We have review our sustainability strategy, monitors performance panel that meets twice a a sustainability team in our policies annually and update There was one health and against targets and reviews year to review strategy, Offer & Sourcing function them where necessary. safety related prosecution sustainability risks and targets and performance. which is responsible for Significant updates to our this year in Russia, Its members include two embedding sustainability policies are approved by our concerning a colleague who opportunities. It includes senior external experts who into our product ranges. Group Executive. Our Code sustained a head injury after executives from our digital, provide challenge and insight of Conduct was updated in climbing up and falling from purchasing, property, people and into sustainability trends. All colleagues can contribute 2018, see page 81. We also racking in one of our stores. These are Sally Uren OBE, to our work on sustainability made minor updates to our This was investigated and we community functions as well as Chief Executive, Forum and we run training, policies on animal welfare, were found not to be at fault. our operating companies. The for the Future and Dame awareness campaigns human rights and ethical We were required to carry GSC meets at least twice a year. Polly Courtice DBE, LVO, and events to inform and sourcing. out further safety training for Founder Director, University motivate them. For example, colleagues to reinforce the of Cambridge Institute for our e-learning module, See www.kingfisher.com/ correct procedure for taking Sustainability Leadership. ‘Sustainability & You’, that SustainabilityPolicies to products off racking. Internal members are our helps colleagues in our read our policies. Chief Offer & Sourcing Offer & Sourcing function, to Officer, Group Quality & understand how sustainability Sustainability Director and is relevant in different roles. members of our central We also have topic specific sustainability team. Our training including in areas Chief Customer Officer also such as modern slavery and attended during 2018. The ethical sourcing. panel discussed a range of topics in 2018/19 including science-based carbon reduction targets, zero harm gardens and embedding sustainability into our GoodHome brand. Our advisory panel includes two external experts who provide challenge and insight into sustainability trends. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 80 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices risk management human rights Identification and Our most significant Audit and assurance We respect human rights signatory to ‘Better Retail, management of risks are included in our and take steps to protect Better World’, the British sustainability risk register We have governance the rights of our employees, Retail Consortium (BRC) sustainability risks (part of our overall Group risk processes in place to workers in our supply chain commitments on the goals. are incorporated management process). These ensure the completeness, and others affected by our We are also a member of in our strategic include risks relating to: accuracy and reliability of our business activities. the UN Global Compact and sustainability performance report progress against its risk assessment —— Sustainability regulation data. These include the use Our Human Rights Policy 10 principles annually, see processes. Our GSC —— Supply chain ethical and of in-house and third-party sets out our commitment page 97. monitors short, environmental impacts experts to review data to respect human rights, —— Chemicals use and qualitative statements in line with international For more information on how medium and long—— Modern slavery and human included in our Annual Report agreements and guidelines we manage human rights term sustainability rights risks and sustainability reporting. including: the United Nations and modern slavery risks in risks, their potential —— Climate change risks For example, sustainability Guiding Principles on our supply chain see page 63 —— Resource costs and experts Bioregional Business and Human Rights; and our Modern Slavery Act impact on our scarcity. coordinate our head office the International Bill of Human Transparency Statement. business, and our data review process across Rights (which includes the mitigation measures. Read more on our approach all our targets. Universal Declaration of We recognise the importance to risk management in our Human Rights); the UN Global of transparent reporting in These are reviewed Annual Report and Accounts. Group Internal Audit Compact; the International relation to human rights and we at each GSC meeting. performed testing over a Labour Organisation’s were pleased that our Modern Our approach to managing selection of performance Declaration on Fundamental Slavery Act Transparency climate change risks and data at each of our operating Principles and Rights at Statement 2017/18 was ranked opportunities is outlined on companies. In addition, we Work; the Children’s Rights 11th in the Business & Human page 27. conduct topic-specific internal and Business Principles; Rights Centre’s report – FTSE audits or risk reviews where and UN conventions on the 100 & the UK Modern Slavery required; for example, Group elimination of discrimination. Act: From Disclosure to Action. Internal Audit conducted a It summarises our Kingfisher was identified Chain of Custody (FSC® and commitment to implement as ‘one of a small cluster of PEFC) audit in B&Q for wood due diligence procedures to leaders that stand out’ and and paper sourcing. avoid infringing on the rights one of the three companies of others. that improved the most in the We appointed Deloitte LLP to assessment. Our statement provide a limited assurance We support a number of was also ranked 12th in the opinion on selected external initiatives that aim to Global Governance FTSE 100 information within this report. protect and promote human League Table compiled by Further details on the work rights. We are committed to the non-profit Development they performed and their playing our part in working International (DI). conclusion are set out in towards the United Nations their independent assurance Sustainable Development statement on page 116. Goals (SDGs) and are a Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 81 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices ethical conduct Our Code of Conduct helps We embed the requirements We encourage employees We are committed to to promote a culture where transparency, honesty and fairness are the norm. It sets of our Code of Conduct into our procurement processes and supplier contracts. to ask questions or raise concerns via their line manager or member of meeting high ethical out our personal and shared responsibilities for meeting high ethical standards. It Potential new suppliers are informed during the tender process of our Code of the legal and compliance team. They can also report any concerns via our standards in the states that all employees Conduct, policies and ethical whistleblowing hotline In have a duty to report any requirements so they can Touch (intouchfeedback. potential breaches of the take these into account when co.uk/kingfisher) or get Code. The Code was fully quoting to provide products advice via a dedicated conduct of our business updated in 2018. This included adding sections on modern slavery and tax evasion. or services. We have a compliance email address. All reports are investigated and if an employee is found to activities and we do not We have also updated and strengthened our processes in areas such as third party network which includes a compliance officer in each operating company to help have breached our Code of Conduct, appropriate disciplinary action is taken. tolerate bribery and due diligence, gifts and us implement our Code The number of open and hospitality and conflicts of of Conduct. Our internal resolved cases and the interest, introducing a new audit function monitors outcomes are reported online approval and reporting compliance of all businesses to the Audit Committee corruption. procedure. We communicate the Code within Kingfisher to the requirements set by our Code of Conduct, using of the Board of Directors. In 2018/19, there were 152 cases opened of which 144 of Conduct to all employees, a risk-based approach to were investigated and closed including through our plan their work. The Audit during the year. Operating training and awareness Committee of the Board of companies are required to programmes. It also forms Directors receives regular raise employee awareness of part of the contractual terms updates on the outcomes the hotline and email address. and conditions for all new from our internal audits. employees. We are rolling out We also operate a a new compulsory e-learning whistleblowing service for module to all employees in suppliers (intouchfeedback. 2019 on the updated Code, co.uk/kfsupplier). as well as more detailed face to face training sessions for Download our Code of colleagues in higher risk roles. Conduct. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 82 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices stakeholder engagement Sustainability issues Our main stakeholders Investor engagement We have received the are complex and include our customers, following rankings from investors, colleagues, Our sustainability and IR responsible investment often systemic. To suppliers and regulators teams collaborate closely benchmarks and indices: tackle them we need as well as NGOs, the media to communicate our to work closely with and other organisations approach to ESG risks and working on sustainability performance to investors. CDP Climate Change We disclosed our climate change performance through others across our and business issues. In 2018/19, this included an CDP Climate Change and received a rating of A-. business and beyond. investor roadshow in France We value stakeholder Our customers are and disclosure via our Annual Dow Jones Sustainability Index We have been included in the DJSI World and Europe our most important Report, Sustainability Report, Indices since 2010. feedback which stakeholder group and we Final Results announcement helps us to develop have carried out research and benchmarks and indices. FTSE4Good Index We are listed in this index with a rating of 4.4 out of 5. and improve our to better understand their views in relation to Our ESG presentation for Legal & General Investment We received a score of 72 in LGIM’s Global ESG Score of approach, including sustainability. These have investors is published on Management 2,000 companies. The scoring system is based on LGIM’s our Sustainable been incorporated into our our website. voting and engagement policy. Growth Plan and materiality assessment. Our approach to engaging our MSCI-ESG We received a AAA ESG rating for our ability to manage targets. We aim to colleagues is summarised on ESG issues. communicate openly page 73, suppliers on page 63 and regulators on page 85. STOXX® Global ESG Leaders We are included in this Index of the leading global with stakeholders companies in terms of environmental, social and and to share regular We engage with governance criteria. updates on our governments, NGOs Sustainalytics We received a positive view of our ability to manage performance. and industry partners to ESG issues. help catalyse progress on sustainability issues. Examples of advocacy and partnership are included throughout the report including on pages 20, 33, 38, 41, 53, 67 and 77. You can read DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION a perspective from Sally Uren, Chief Executive of Forum for the Future, on page 7. FTSE4Good Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 83 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our materiality assessment We want to make We identify and prioritise In the last three years our Our material issues sure we focus on our material issues through materiality analysis has been a continual process that regularly updated through Climate change the issues and includes: research and engagement Sustainable lifestyles impacts that are with a wide range of Waste most significant to 1. Internal review: internal stakeholders, including: Resources engagement and Traceability our business and our research to identify —— Customer research across Labour standards stakeholders and issues of importance to five markets including inCommunity cohesion and engagement where we can make our business including depth interviews and visits commercial, operational to customer homes. the most difference. and reputational risks and —— Interviews with key Equality and diversity Deforestation opportunities. external stakeholders and Transparency Materiality + 2. External review: sustainability experts. Circular economy benchmarking and —— Interviews with senior Partnership with stakeholders engaging directly with colleagues from our group priority stakeholders functions and operating through channels such as companies and research Health and safety customer visits, face-towith our colleagues in the Business models face meetings, research UK and France. Ethical conduct and membership of —— Analysis of our key product Skills organisations such as impacts, see below. Chemicals Forum for the Future. —— Benchmarking against Accessibility From steps one and two the UN Sustainable Water we create a shortlist Development Goals, Rewards and recognition of issues. investor questionnaires and Advocacy 3. Prioritisation: working other external frameworks. Biodiversity with key internal and —— Analysis of external social Human rights external stakeholders and environmental trends. Data management and customer privacy to prioritise issues. We use the results of this analysis to develop our Sustainable Growth Plan, targets and key performance indicators and to define which information should be included in our sustainability reporting. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 84 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Customer research findings 1. Saving energy and water 3. Connecting to nature is a Assessing product-related We identified eight are top of mind concerns massive need impacts sustainability issues of Our latest customer Energy bills are a major In every market, customers particular importance. The sustainability research expense. Yet planning spoke passionately about In 2018, we commissioned a most significant product covered five markets and and completing energy their desire to connect materiality assessment which sustainability impacts relate included in-depth interviews efficiency projects can with nature – whether considered 25 raw materials to climate change and the and visits to customer be complicated and through their own garden present in our products. health, safety and wellbeing homes. It identified four expensive. Some people or window box, community This assessed their level of of customers, colleagues common themes that don’t know which products green space, or simply risk for human rights and and workers in our supply guided the creation of our will save them energy. through including more environmental practices. chain. Other significant Sustainable Growth Plan Water efficiency is a natural materials in their We are currently reviewing issues include waste, and are integrated into our growing priority for many homes. the findings. water, ethical policy and materiality assessment. customers too. traceability. Deforestation These are: 4. Customers want healthy, This builds on research and biodiversity were also 2. A move to smarter and toxin-free living conducted in 2017, assessing important. more thrifty consumption Customers are motivated material issues associated is growing by products that are with our main product The findings have been Customers value longbetter for their health categories in both the supply integrated in to our lasting products and dislike and wellbeing and that chain and product use phase. materiality assessment and waste. There is growing of their family. There is Issues were rated according our sustainability strategy. interest in ‘upcycling’ – growing concern around to their environmental repairing, restoring and issues such as air quality or social significance as customising old products. and chemicals in food, well as their relevance to For some customers, cosmetics and the home. our product portfolio and actual ownership is less sales volumes. important – they are happy to share or rent the tools they need. The most significant product sustainability impacts relate to climate change and the health, safety and wellbeing of customers, colleagues and workers in our supply chain. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 85 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices public policy Government policy can help stimulate Examples of our engagement and advocacy Approach and standards We work with a number of external lobbying companies, All our public policy progress on on sustainability issues are included throughout this Our Group Director of Corporate Affairs manages which are all members of recognised self-regulatory work must meet the sustainability issues and on business report including pages 20, 33, 38, 41, 53, 67 and 77. We our public policy activities and reports to our Chief organisations such as the Association of Professional ethical standards issues more generally. also engage in the political process in our markets and Customer Officer. The Board of Directors reviews the Political Consultants in the UK and the European Public set out in our Code We work with non-governmental at EU level to inform the development of policy that key aspects of our public policy activity at least twice Affairs Consultancies’ Association (EPACA) in the of Conduct and our organisations has a material impact on our business and the retail sector. a year. All our public policy work must meet the ethical EU and governed by their codes of conduct. The Group Corporate and regulators at the national and standards set out in our Code of Conduct and our lobbying companies we use in the EU are also listed on the Affairs Policy. Group Corporate Affairs EU Transparency Register. regional level to Policy and reflect our public encourage legislation sustainability commitments. In line with EU and UK that incentivises We are registered on the corporate governance best EU Transparency Register practice and as stated in our sustainable business of lobbying activities. Code of Conduct, it is our practices and creates Our policies are available policy not to make donations a level playing field to at www.kingfisher.com/ directly to political parties sustainabilitypolicies. or politicians. support investment in sustainable business We follow government and innovation. guidelines in relation to employing former public officials (the “revolvingdoor”). Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 86 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Public policy priorities Membership of trade —— Ireland: Retail Excellence associations Ireland Examples of public policy activity from 2018/19 We engaged with —— Russia: AKORT, the Russian governments on a range Some of our public policy retail association; the —— Brexit – UK and Europe: —— Home energy efficiency – of policy issues during work is conducted via trade Franco Russian Chamber We are engaging with France: 2018/19 including: the associations and industry of Commerce and the governments in our major We are engaging with impact of Brexit; changes groups which can help to Foreign Investment markets directly and via the French government to property taxes; planning increase the impact of our Advisory Council (FIAC) organisations such as the and key opinion leaders policy (UK); employment policy messages. These —— Poland: The Polish BRC, CBI and Greener to simplify the incentive policies including the UK’s relationships are overseen Confederation of Private UK. Our priority is that the mechanisms for helping National Living Wage and by our Group Director of Employers and the Polish Brexit negotiations are people improve home Apprenticeship Levy; housing Corporate Affairs with Organisation of Commerce conducted in a way that energy efficiency. We policy; the circular economy; trade associations in the & Distribution (POHID) avoids negative impacts seek to promote an and Sunday Trading laws UK, France and Brussels —— Portugal: Portuguese on trade and the economy aligned approach for all (Poland). and, in other markets, by Association of Retail and on our customers stakeholders involved the relevant local CEO. Our Companies (APED) both in the UK and Europe. in energy renovation, memberships include: —— Spain: Association of We believe that the Brexit that supports both the Distributors of Hardware process should not result commercial sector and —— EU: The European DIYand DIY (ADFB) in a weakening of the UK’s individual home improvers. Retail Association (EDRA) —— Turkey: Chain Stores environmental protection and EuroCommerce Association (KMD), Turkish laws. We believe that EU —— Renters’ rights – UK: —— UK: The British Retail Industry and Business colleagues working for us We supported our Consortium (BRC), Association (TÜSİAD). and in our supply chain charity partner Shelter’s Confederation of British in the UK should be given submission to the Industry (CBI), London the opportunity to stay government’s consultation First and the GC100 – the beyond Brexit. Our internal on introducing longer Association of General Brexit steering committee tenancies in the private Counsel and Company continues to oversee our rented sector, calling for Secretaries working in engagement. longer tenancies to provide FTSE 100 Companies more security for our —— France: The French customers and colleagues Association of Private who rent their homes. Businesses (AFEP), and the French Federation of DIY Retailers (FMB) Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 87 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices pensions The Kingfisher Pension Scheme Principles Investments The KPS also offers (KPS) manages the pensions participants in its Money Investment decisions at The KPS Trustees have Purchase scheme the of past and present employees. KPS are governed by the explored opportunities opportunity to select Reflecting our commitment to Scheme’s Statement of to invest in specific funds an Ethical Fund for their sustainability, the KPS integrates Investment Principles that support progress on pension. This fund aims to (SIP). This sets out KPS’s sustainability issues, such as provide long-term growth responsible investment principles commitment to act as renewable energy. Existing by investing in the shares into its work and communicates a responsible investor investments include a £20 of companies that meet a with stakeholders on its approach and states the Trustee million stake in a global set of ethical criteria. Board’s belief that all farmland fund which invests to environmental, social and companies should be in farmland operated The KPS aims to make its governance (ESG) issues. run in a responsible way. according to sustainable pension provision inclusive farming methods and a £20 so that it meets the needs of Investment managers acting million investment in a global all employees. For example, on behalf of the KPS are renewable energy fund. the Money Purchase required to take account of scheme offers a Shariah social, environmental and The Trustees take into fund which invests in shares ethical considerations where account the potential risks of companies around the these may have a financial and opportunities associated world whose practices are impact on investment with climate change and the consistent with Shariah performance. They are transition to a low carbon principles. encouraged to engage with economy. The investment investee companies on these strategy for their passive issues, including exercising equity holdings aims to voting rights where hedge climate change risk appropriate. by prioritising companies who invest in low carbon Investment managers must innovation and reducing disclose their investment investment in carbon approach to KPS and state whether this integrates intensive industries. The Trustees take into ESG factors. account the potential risks and opportunities associated with climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 88 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices about our reporting Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 89 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Our sustainability Sustainability information is integrated into our Annual Our sustainability data covers our wholly-owned operating Progress against targets We indicate on page 13 how Reporting frameworks We are members of the report explains our Report and Accounts to provide investors with companies and does not include joint ventures, we are progressing against our targets. United Nations Global Compact and include an progress in the financial a holistic view of the financial, economic, social except where stated. Data for our joint venture Koçtaş Our targets and index on page 97. year 1 February 2018 and environmental value our business generates, is included in the following areas: methodologies have been developed with Bioregional. We aim to support progress on the United Nations – 31 January 2019. We see www.kingfisher.com/ annualreport. —— Community projects and Wherever possible they reflect established Sustainable Development Goals and include an index on also publish a highlights About our data community investment data (as Koçtaş is included frameworks such as the United Nations Sustainable page 97 indicating where we can have the most impact. website with key Sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate our in our pre-tax profit and our community investment Development Goals. Details of how our targets have Our Report references information and stories head office data review process. They monitor our is stated as a % of pre-tax profit) been developed and our methodology for assessing selected Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards. from the year. progress on sustainable home product innovation —— Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, progress are included in our Data Collection Methodology We provide a GRI Index on our website: kingfisher.com/ and calculate our figure for category ‘Investments’ and in the launch report for sustainabilityreport. customer energy savings. (see page 104). our Sustainable Growth Plan. Our detailed performance For both areas, 50% of External assurance data is provided on pages Koçtaş data is included, in line We appointed Deloitte 100 – 115 of this report. with our 50% equity share. LLP to provide limited Detailed information on assurance over selected the scope of the data and information within our the methodologies used Sustainability Report for the to calculate our data are year ended 31 January 2019. explained in our Sustainability The information marked Data Collection Methodology throughout the report with document. the symbol * indicates the scope of their work. Please see page 116, for their full independent limited assurance report which includes details on their scope, work performed and conclusion. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 90 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices appendices 91 our business and the sustainable development goals 97 United Nations Global Compact index 100 detailed performance data 116 assurance Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 91 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices our business and the sustainable development goals We support the UN The Goals have informed Sustainable Development the development of our Goals that provide a Sustainable Growth Plan and framework for governments, we have identified priority business and civil society Goals, where we can have to work together to end the most impact. These are poverty, fight inequality and outlined below. stop climate change by 2030. We are signatories to Better Retail, Better World, a collaboration led by the BRC aimed at supporting the Goals. Sustainable homes for our customers Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 50% of Group sales from products that help SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying —— Increase sales from products create a more sustainable home (2020) special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management that help customers to create better, more sustainable homes SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources using our sustainable home product guidelines SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 92 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Save money by saving energy and water Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution Enable a 50% reduction in customer SDG 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency —— Promote energy-efficient energy use through our products, services products and advice (2025) SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production —— Increase our range of energy and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with saving and low carbon energy the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed generation products countries taking the lead —— Increase the proportion of our save energy range that meet SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying our exceed or excite criteria special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Enable a 50% improvement in customer SDG 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable —— Promote water-efficient water efficiency through our products, withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of products services and advice (2025) people suffering from water scarcity —— Increase the proportion of our save water range that meet SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production our exceed or excite criteria and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions from SDG 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency —— Our science-based carbon property and transport by 22% in absolute reduction targets terms by 2025, compared to 2016/17; and SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying —— Energy efficiency measures reduce scope 3 emissions from the supply special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management for new and existing stores chain and customer use of products by 40% —— Increase energy purchased per £million turnover by 2025, compared SDG 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning from renewable sources to 2017/18 —— Clean alternatives to solid fuels Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 93 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 20 products or services that help SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production —— Integrate circular economy customers get more from less, reuse and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with principles in product design or use longer (2025) the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed —— Focus on smarter consumption countries taking the lead solutions —— Promote our circular products SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying such as Métisse, Safe by Nature, special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management ProGrow and easyGrow SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources Ensure sustainable management and SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production —— Sustainability roadmaps for efficient use of key resources (2025), and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the key materials such as wood and including 100% responsibly sourced wood 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries paper, plastic, cement, paint and paper, and peat-free bagged growing taking the lead and peat media (2020) —— Responsible sourcing of wood SDG 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased and paper from well-managed resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and forests industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities —— Commitment to provide peatfree growing media SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources —— Our peat-free easyGrow bedding plants SDG 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from landbased activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution SDG 15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally SDG 15.5 Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying —— Commitment to eliminate waste waste recycled (2025) special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management to landfill —— Commitment to increase our SDG 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling recycling rate and reuse —— Renegotiation of waste contracts to include our targets Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 94 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Create a healthier home and connect with nature Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 20% of sales enable customers to create SDG 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through —— Promote our Connect to Nature safer, healthier homes and connect prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being products, which encourage with nature (2025) customers to get outdoors, SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying produce their own food and special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management support wildlife in their gardens —— Explore ways to have a positive SDG 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters impact on health and wellbeing in all countries —— Flowering plants sold in the UK grown without neonicitinoid pesticides —— Development of a new ownbrand paint range rated A+ for VOC emissions Achieve transparency of harmful chemicals SDG 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals —— Working with suppliers and in key supply chains (2020), phase out the and air, water and soil pollution and contamination others to identify and phase out highest priority hazardous and high-risk chemicals of concern ahead of chemicals of concern and introduce five SDG 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing regulation green substances (2025) release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and —— Piloting different approaches substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally to increase transparency on chemicals use SDG 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 95 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their home Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution Help millions more people tackle poor and SDG 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in —— Strategic partnerships launched unfit housing through strategic partnerships poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions with Shelter, Abbe Pierre and local action in all our markets (2025) Foundation and the Red Cross SDG 10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average SDG 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums Support our colleagues to have a home they SDG 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in —— Exploring new ways to help can feel good about (2025) poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions colleagues create their own good homes SDG 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship SDG 10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average SDG 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and SDG 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and —— Onboarding of suppliers onto environmental standards (2020) and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including the SEDEX platform (and establish strategic community programmes recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms Ecovadis for suppliers of goods to achieve positive change in key sourcing not for resale) regions (2025) SDG 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, —— Ethical audits for supplier including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment production sites —— Briefings and training to SDG 10.4 Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and social protection policies, and progressively achieve build supplier knowledge and greater equality understanding of human rights issues and how to address them —— Modern Slavery Working Group overseeing due diligence and disclosure on human rights and modern slavery Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 96 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices SDGs outside the scope of our sustainable growth plan SDG targets UN SDG targets Our targets do not contribute directly to this SDG. However, work on sustainable sourcing and labour practices in the supply chain can influence food security We value difference within our company and are committed to equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion. Our work on diversity indirectly contributes to the following SDG target: SDG 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life By encouraging our suppliers to meet ethical and environmental standards and through our Code of Conduct and training for colleagues, we have an indirect influence on the following SDG targets: SDG 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence against and torture of children SDG 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms SDG 16.6 Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels Through our work with suppliers in a range of developing countries, we indirectly contribute to the following SDG target: SDG 17.11 Significantly increase the exports of developing countries, in particular with a view to doubling the least developed countries’ share of global exports by 2020 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 97 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices United Nations Global Compact index We joined the United Nations This Report is our fifth Principles Summary of approach Location in reporting Global Compact in 2014, Communication on Progress and are committed to its against the Global Compact Human rights and labour 10 principles covering the Principles, covering our areas of human rights, financial year 2018/19. Principle One We take steps to protect the human rights of people affected Ethical sourcing, labour, environment and Businesses should support by our business, including employees and suppliers. We page 62 anti‑corruption. This table summarises our and respect the protection respect the rights of our employees and suppliers in areas approach and shows where of internationally proclaimed such as freedom of association, the right to collective Human rights, information on our targets human rights; and bargaining, no child labour or forced or compulsory labour. page 80 and progress for each We work to eliminate discrimination, to promote diversity and principle can be found in Principle Two to protect the health and safety of employees, customers Ethical conduct, the report: make sure they are not and contractors. page 81 complicit in human rights abuses. Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct provide A place where you can the framework for our approach. These are supported by be yourself, Principle Three our Supply Chain Workplace Standards which explain the page 71 Businesses should uphold ethical standards we require from suppliers. Our policies the right to freedom of reﬂect international human rights frameworks including the Health and safety “I am pleased to reaffirm association and the effective recognition of the right to UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International management, page 76 Kingfisher’s support for collective bargaining; Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Modern Slavery Statement the United Nations Global Principle Four www.kingfisher.com/ Compact and its principles the elimination of all forms We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery. Our modern-slavery of forced and compulsory Modern Slavery Working Group oversees due diligence and on human rights, labour labour; disclosure on human rights and modern slavery and reports practices, the environment to our Group Sustainability Committee, a sub-committee Principle Five of our Group Executive. We are rolling out a programme of and anti-corruption. We will the effective abolition ethical audits for high-risk production sites. continue to strengthen our of child labour; and Employees and suppliers can report concerns via our approach in each of these Principle Six independently managed hotline. The number of open and important areas over the eliminate discrimination in respect of employment resolved cases and the outcomes are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. year ahead and to share and occupation. our progress with our stakeholders.” Véronique Laury Chief Executive Officer Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 98 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Principles Summary of approach Location in reporting Environment Principle Seven We aim to be restorative to the environment, going beyond Sustainable homes for our Business should support a zero impacts to create positive change. We have set customers, page 16 precautionary approach to ambitious targets and report progress annually. Our approach environmental challenges; is summarised in our Sustainability Policy. Saving energy, water and money for customers, Principle Eight We invest in innovation to improve the environmental page 24 undertake initiatives performance of our products and help customers adopt to promote greater more sustainable lifestyles, using our Sustainable Home Our science-based targets, environmental Product Guidelines. page 26 responsibility; and We have set ambitious targets to cut greenhouse gas Our circular products and Principle Nine emissions that have been approved by the Science Based services, page 37 encourage the Targets initiative (SBTi). We are also working to reduce development and diffusion waste, use resources efficiently and source sustainable Sustainable materials, of environmentally raw materials. page 39 friendly technologies. We support a precautionary approach, for example through Towards zero waste to our work to identify and remove chemicals of concern. landfill, page 42 Removing harmful chemicals, page 51 Sustainability Policy, www.kingfisher.com/ sustainabilitypolicies Sustainable Home Product Guidelines, www.kingfisher. com/shpguidelines Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 99 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Principles Summary of approach Location in reporting Anti-corruption Principle 10 We will not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. Our Ethical conduct, Businesses should work Code of Conduct, updated in 2018, promotes a culture where page 81 against corruption in all its transparency, honesty and fairness are the norm. It helps us forms, including extortion to comply with regulation such as the UK’s Bribery Act. Code of Conduct, and bribery. www.kingfisher.com/ Our Code of Conduct forms part of the contractual terms sustainabilityresources and conditions for all new employees. We are rolling out a compulsory e-learning module to all employees on the Code, as well as more detailed training for colleagues in higher risk roles. We have a compliance network which includes a compliance officer in each operating company to help us implement our Code of Conduct. Our internal audit function monitors compliance of all businesses within Kingfisher to the requirements set by our Code of Conduct, using a risk-based approach to plan their work. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives regular updates on the outcomes from our internal audits. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 100 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices detailed performance data This appendix contains our performance Deloitte LLP has provided —— Sustainable homes for our data. We also publish a Sustainability limited assurance over customers; page 101 selected performance data —— Save money by saving data methodology document, for the year 2018/19 marked energy and water; available online at www.kingfisher. with an asterix (*). page 102 com/datamethodology. This provides —— Live smarter by getting Their full assurance statement more from less, reusing or further details on the methodology is published on page 116. using longer; page 108 we use to calculate our sustainability —— Create a healthier home data, including conversion factors and Where data is unavailable this and connect with nature; has been indicated with “u/a”. page 110 definitions. —— Help millions more people improve their homes; page 111 —— Our people; page 113 Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 101 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Sustainable homes for our customers Target: 50% of Group sales from products that help create a more sustainable home (2020) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Sustainable home product categories Connect to nature % retail sales 0.4 1.4 Health & wellbeing % retail sales 5.8 7.3 Live smarter % retail sales 3.1 5.7 Save energy % retail sales 6.7 6.1 Save water % retail sales 1.7 1.7 Sustainable materials % retail sales 14.8 u/a Products may have more than one sustainable attribute and if so, will be included in multiple categories. The total of all categories is therefore not the same as the total sustainable home products % listed in the table below. Sustainable home product sales ‘Exceed’ products – products that can sales £ million £448.3 £484.2 £503.9 £366.9 £573.5 £619.4 £836.0 u/a make a more significant difference to the (% retail sales) (4% of retail (4% of retail (4% of retail (3% of retail (6% of retail (6% of retail (7% of retail sustainability of our customers’ homes and/or sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) the wider environment ‘Expect’ products – products that have a sales £ million £1,746.4 £1,585.3 £1,770.9 £2,024.0 £2,314.2 £2,520.2 £2,946.7 u/a sustainable feature and/or benefit (% retail sales) (16% of retail (15% of retail (16% of retail (19% of retail (22% of retail (22% of retail (25% of retail sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) All sustainable home products sales £ million £2,194.7 £2,069.5 £2,274.8 £2,390.9 £2,887.7 £3,139.6 £3,782.7 u/a (% retail sales) (20% of retail (19% of retail (20% of retail (22% of retail (28% of retail (28% of retail (32% of retail sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) sales) New categories ‘Expect’, ‘Exceed’ and ‘Excite’ replace ‘compliant’ We are not able to report progress on our sustainable home products We cannot report progress on our overall sustainable home product and ‘best practice’ product categories. We will start reporting on this year. As we move to unify our business, we are centralising our sales, since responsibly sourced timber data makes up part of this our ‘Excite’ products in 2019/20. wood and paper data systems and processes. Due to the complexity figure. We are working hard to resolve this so that we can start to of this change, we are not able to accurately report wood and paper report data again in future years. u/a unavailable volumes and origin/ certification for 2018/19. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 102 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Save money by saving energy and water Target: Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy use through our products, services and advice (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Customer energy Reduction in customer energy use through % 31 32 32 products, services and advice Target: Enable a 50% improvement in customer water efficiency through our products, services and advice (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Customer water Improvement in customer water efficiency % 44 45 42 through products, services and advice Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 103 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Target: Reduce absolute market-based carbon emissions from buildings and transport by 22% from a 2016/17 baseline (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Carbon footprint – by source Key carbon emissions included in the scope of our absolute carbon reduction target Property: gas and other fuels tonnes CO2e 79,637 92,068 98,864 81,758 89,090 87,186 89,678 98,061 Property: purchased electricity and heat (market-based) tonnes CO2e 164,299 129,238 104,282 Property: purchased electricity and heat (location-based) tonnes CO2e 234,603 243,528 230,760 258,392 246,775 212,592 184,996 162,965 Haulage: dedicated store and home deliveries tonnes CO2e 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 58,617 Total market-based carbon footprint tonnes CO2e 308,807 276,284 260,960 Total location-based carbon footprint tonnes CO2e 365,833 387,638 385,294 396,092 393,928 357,100 332,042 319,643 Carbon footprint – intensity Property market-based footprint relative to floor space kg CO2e/m2 reported 32.5 27.9 25.2 floor space Total market-based carbon footprint relative to floor space kg CO2e/m2 reported 39.9 35.2 32.5 floor space Total market-based carbon footprint relative to sales tonnes CO2e per 27.5 23.7 22.3 £m retail sales We calculate both our market-based and our location-based emissions from electricity consumption. Our carbon reduction target is based on the market-based emissions. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 104 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Carbon footprint – breakdown by Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope Wider carbon footprint including additional carbon emissions to those included in our absolute carbon reduction target Scope 1 Property: gas and other fuels tonnes CO2e 79,637 92,068 98,864 81,758 89,090 87,186 89,678 98,061 Haulage: dedicated store and home deliveries tonnes CO2e 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 58,617 Scope 2 Property: purchased electricity and heat (market-based) tonnes CO2e 164,299 129,238 104,282 Scope 3 Haulage: 3rd party non-dedicated fleet deliveries from tonnes CO2e 30,941 32,513 33,643 34,907 37,598 44,686 43,580 44,434 distribution centres to stores Haulage: deliveries by rail tonnes CO2e u/a u/a u/a u/a 1,236 2,166 3,771 2,891 Haulage: Estimated exports arranged by Kingfisher Offer tonnes CO2e 75,281 64,116 62,541 81,248 74,331 65,985 83,330 55,384 & Supply Chain Waste tonnes CO2e 6,350 10,796 13,786 12,463 8,407 9,937 7,351 6,860 Water and effluent tonnes CO2e 956 1,025 1,029 1,092 1,218 1,164 1,168 n/a Investments: proportional scope 1 and 2 emissions from tonnes CO2e 10,972 11,672 9,900 10,108 10,652 11,148 10,311 8,385 investments† Transmission and distribution (purchased electricity and tonnes CO2e 22,473 22,551 22,407 24,218 22,963 21,570 18,654 12,704 district heating) Well-to-tank emissions from energy tonnes CO2e 47,933 53,064 54,566 53,898 51,667 47,885 45,691 41,480 u/a unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP † Data covers 50% of scope 1 and 2 emissions from our Koçtaş joint venture. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 105 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Carbon footprint – totals by Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope Scope 1 total tonnes CO2e 131,231 144,110 154,534 137,699 147,153 144,508 147,046 156,678 Scope 2 total (market-based) tonnes CO2e 164,299 129,238 104,282 Scope 3 total tonnes CO2e 194,906 195,737 197,872 217,934 208,072 204,541 213,856 172,138 Scope 1 and 2 total tonnes CO2e 308,807 276,284 260,960 Scope 1, 2 and 3 total tonnes CO2e 513,348 490,140 433,098 Emissions outside of Greenhouse Gas Protocol scopes Outside of scope‡ tonnes CO2e 1,240 1,235 1,998 2,275 3,009 1,279 3,055 2,834 The total scope 1 emissions (property gas and other fuels, haulage) Details on the data scope: Details on the data scope of rail deliveries: increased by 7% in 2018/19 compared to 2017/18. —— From 2018/19 data from our offices is no longer included as energy Five operating companies (representing 60% of Group turnover consumption and emissions were not material at Group level. for 18/19) reported data for deliveries by rail: B&Q, Brico Depot Total market-based scope 2 emissions decreased by 19% compared —— For all years, emissions from business travel from road and air were Romania, Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia and Screwfix. Data for to 2017/18. This is driven by an increase in purchased zero carbon removed from our footprint as they are not material at Group level. Castorama France was unavailable in 2018/19. Brico Depot France and renewables (now 42% of purchased electricity) and a small reduction Screwfix Germany do not transport any goods via rail. in electricity consumption (2% YOY). * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP ‡ Data covers forecourt fuels containing biofuel (UK and France operating companies) Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 106 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Energy use Property energy GWh 1,053 1,124 1,159 1,105 1,144 1,124 1,099 1,135 Logistics energy GWh 231 232 235 Total energy GWh 1,355 1,331 1,370 Property energy intensity kWh/m2 reported 152.6 166.5 165.2 145.2 147.3 145.3 140.1 141.5 floor space Total energy intensity kWh/m2 reported 175.1 169.7 170.8 floor space Property electricity and heat – breakdown Onsite renewables % 1 1 2 Purchased zero carbon renewables % 2 28 38 Purchased electricity with a tariff-specific conversion factor % 45 9 4 Purchased electricity for which a national residual mix carbon % 39 48 41 conversion factor is available (countries inside Europe) Purchased electricity for which a grid-average conversion % 13 14 15 factor has been used (for countries outside of Europe). Also includes a small element of purchased heat for which the same conversion factor has been used as in our locationbased emissions. We continue to work with our suppliers to obtain tariff-specific carbon conversion factors to further improve the accuracy of our marketbased scope 2 emissions. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 107 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Haulage direct impacts – dedicated fleet vehicles Store deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Fuel: Diesel thousand litres 14,965 14,483 12,718 13,043 14,237 14,259 15,002 14,965 Fuel: Biofuel and gas (LNG and CNG) thousand litres 0 111 1,400 1,604 1,223 33 32 27 Carbon emissions tonnes CO2e 38,602 37,736 35,094 35,812 37,999 37,305 38,996 39,288 Distance travelled thousand km 47,020 45,578 43,570 45,240 48,119 46,606 48,814 49,319 Volume of products delivered thousand m3 3,720 3,650 3,710 3,999 4,083 3,670 3,632 2,771 Loading efficiency litres of fuel used per m of 3 4.02 4.00 3.81 3.66 3.79 3.89 4.14 5.41 product delivered to stores Home deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Fuel: Diesel and petrol thousand litres 5,020 5,501 7,825 7,559 7,544 7,501 6,999 7,342 Fuel: Gas (LPG) thousand litres 0 0 38 183 221 183 76 0 Carbon emissions tonnes CO2e 12,991 14,307 20,576 20,129 20,064 20,017 18,372 19,329 Total store and home deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Carbon emissions tonnes CO2e 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 58,617 Details on the data scope of store deliveries: Details on the data scope of home deliveries: The following operating companies use dedicated store delivery The following operating companies use dedicated home delivery fleets: B&Q, Castorama France, Castorama Poland, Screwfix UK fleets: B&Q, Castorama France and Castorama Poland (60% of and Screwfix Germany (75% of Group turnover). Group turnover). Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Property water use Total water use million m3 1.04 1.10 1.10 1.16 1.30 1.24 1.25 u/a Water intensity litres/m2 reported floor space 151 162 157 153 167 160 159 u/a u/a unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 108 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Target: 20 products or services that help customers get more from less, reuse or use longer (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Product ranges and services Number of product ranges or services that help customers Number 3 5 to get more from less, reuse or use longer Target: Ensure sustainable management and efficient use of key resources (2025) including 100% responsibly sourced wood and paper and peat-free bagged growing media (2020) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Responsibly sourced wood and paper products We are not able to report progress on our wood and paper in products and paper volumes and origin/ certification for 2018/19. We expect this data this year. As we move to unify our business, we are centralising to be resolved by the end of the year so that we can report this data our wood and paper data systems and processes. Due to the for 2019/20. complexity of this change, we are not able to accurately report wood Responsibly sourced wood and paper in catalogues Total catalogue paper purchased million m3 RWE 0.129 0.148 0.232 0.212 0.207 0.190 0.112 Responsibly sourced catalogue paper purchased million m RWE 3 0.128 0.131 0.227 0.170 0.199 0.189 0.112 Responsibly sourced catalogue paper purchased % of total 99 89 98 80 96 99.6 100 Details on data scope: Our 2018/19 Group data only includes catalogue paper as this accounts for the majority of paper purchased. Data prior to this year covers paper used in catalogues, customer marketing materials and office paper. Peat alternative in bagged growing media Peat in bagged growing media % of total 44 39 39 36 38 32 33 38 Peat alternative in bagged growing media % of total 56 61 61 64 62 68 67 62 Details on data scope: The peat in bagged growing media KPIs cover the volume of peat supplied to us in the financial year. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 109 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Target: Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of waste recycled (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Waste recycling and disposal Total waste generated (disposed + recycled) thousand tonnes 223 241 230 231 238 207 222 216 Waste disposed to landfill thousand tonnes 50 43 47 32 32 28 Waste disposed to incineration thousand tonnes 20 27 25 24 30 33 Waste recycled thousand tonnes 147 164 160 162 166 151 160 155 Landfill diversion rate % of total waste generated 78 81 80 85 86 87 Recycling rate % of total waste generated 66 68 70 70 70 73 72 72 Recycling – breakdown of materials recycled Wood thousand tonnes 78 80 77 72 80 72 75 71 Cardboard/paper thousand tonnes 36 36 37 39 39 37 39 36 Plastic thousand tonnes 5 8 6 7 7 7 7 6 Metal thousand tonnes 4 6 5 7 7 4 4 5 Rubble (recorded from 2013/14. Included in thousand tonnes 30 29 26 19 19 24 ‘other’ data up until 2012/13) Other (including rubble up until 2012/13) thousand tonnes 24 34 5 8 7 12 16 13 * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 110 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Create a healthier home and connect with nature Target: 20% of sales enable customers to create safer, healthier homes and connect with nature (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Product sales Product sales that will enable our customers to create safer % of retail sales 5 6 9 and healthier homes and connect with nature Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 111 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Help millions more people improve their homes Target: Help millions more people tackle poor and unfit housing through strategic partnerships and local action in all our markets (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Community investment – how we contribute Cash donations £ thousand 1,197 1,535 1,862 1,581 1,001 1,353 1,501 670 In-kind contributions £ thousand 279 389 332 218 441 109 579 168 Employee time £ thousand 135 191 366 309 172 70 59 281 Management costs £ thousand 71 69 238 222 53 253 243 571 Total community contributions £ thousand 1,682 2,184 2,798 2,330 1,667 1,785 2,382 1,690 Community investment – why we contribute Charitable gifts £ thousand 702 Community investment £ thousand 417 Commercial initiatives in the community £ thousand 0 Total community investment £ thousand 1,119 ‘Why we contribute’ excludes management costs (£571,000 in 2018/19). Community investment – value of employee and customer giving Fundraising and other leverage £ thousand 617 1,021 1,068 669 774 1,240 1,387 1,029 Employee and customer giving: In addition to our own giving, we encourage and facilitate customers and employees to raise money for charities. Our data on employee and customer giving includes money raised through in-store collections, payroll giving and fundraising events. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 112 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Target: Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and environmental standards (2020) and establish strategic community programmes to achieve positive change in key sourcing regions (2025) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Supplier assessments Total number of suppliers Number 4,310 2,841 Total number of finished goods production sites † Number 5,504 3,657 Production sites that have completed an audit at some stage Number 1,178 995 in the past two financial years Production sites that have completed an audit at some stage % 21 27 in the past two financial years Supplier assessments – site grades Grade 1 Number 187 38 Grade 2 Number 44 52 Grade 3 Number 272 43 Grade 4 Number 367 239 Grade 5 Number 294 552 Grade Business Critical Number 14 54 Audit grades are for the production sites that have had an audit in A total of 995 production sites had an audit in the past two years. the past two years. It includes the results from the latest full audit at The table shows audit grades for 978 of these production sites. We each site. It therefore does not reflect any corrective actions taken or are unable to report audit grades for 17 of the sites audited. This is results from follow up audits. We work with sites graded as business because their Sedex membership has expired and therefore the critical to resolve the issues. grades were not available to download from Sedex when our end of year reports were generated. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP † Data covers production sites that our Buying Offices source from directly, and those disclosed to us by suppliers through the Sedex platform. We aim for all our suppliers to be using Sedex by the end of 2020, and to disclose to us all production sites that supply us with finished goods. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 113 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Our people Health & safety Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Employee accidents – fatalities Work-related fatalities Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work-related employee accidents Accident numbers All work-related employee accidents/injuries Number 7,430 7,531 8,136 7,580 7,403 6,525 6,234 Accident rate Rate for ‘all work-related’ accidents Number per 100,000 full-time 12,450 12,812 13,405 12,160 11,611 10,193 9,536 equivalent employees Work days lost Total number of work days lost as a result of all Number 66,769 59,485 u/a 90,547 80,670 93,713 74,686 work-related employee accidents/injuries Work days lost: This year we have experienced some difficulties with our Group accident reporting software. This has meant that in some cases social security data had to be used as back-up (Castorama France and Brico Depot France) and in other cases estimates were made based on prior year accident to lost days ratios (B&Q and Screwfix UK, representing 43% of Group turnover). * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 114 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices People Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19* Diversity – senior management Gender Board – men % 73 73 60 56 56 56 55 Board – women % 27 27 40 44 44 44 45 Senior management total – men (FTE) % 79 79 81 80 80 80 Senior management total – men (headcount) % 77 Senior management total – women (FTE) % 21 21 19 20 20 20 Senior management total – women (headcount) % 23 Diversity – all employees Total employees – men (FTE) % 60 60 61 61 61 61 60 Total employees – men (headcount) % 58 Total employees – women (FTE) % 40 40 39 39 39 39 40 Total employees – women (headcount) % 42 All management positions – men (FTE) % 71 71 71 71 69 67 66 All management positions – men (headcount) % 64 All management positions – women (FTE) % 29 29 29 29 31 33 34 All management positions – women (headcount) % 36 We have changed the way we report our data on gender. We now women in our workforce since women may be more likely to work Details on data scope: calculate percentages using our total headcount figure as at year-end, part-time. This also ensures alignment with our financial reporting and Senior management covers Board, directors and heads of department. whereas in previous years we used the number of full-time equivalent reflects the Financial Reporting Council’s guidance on how companies employees. We believe this more accurately reflects the number of should report diversity data under the Companies Act 2006. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 115 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Employee turnover Employees who left Number 15,516 15,644 14,748 17,379 18,376 24,717 25,320 27,192 Rate of employee turnover % 22 21 21 24 24 32 33 34 Data covers employees who left voluntarily and involuntarily. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 116 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices assurance Independent assurance statement Our assurance opinion perform substantive testing Logistics Suppliers and partners by Deloitte LLP to Kingfisher plc on for these KPIs and as a result, —— Carbon emissions from —— Supplier Ethical and Based on the assurance we were not able to provide direct haulage (dedicated Environmental Assessment selected information for inclusion in work performed, nothing has an opinion on these two KPIs. store and home delivery results (#) the Sustainability Report 2018/19. come to our attention that For further information on fleets) (tCO2e) causes us to believe that the issue, please see page 12 Sustainability Targets the selected information of Kingfisher’s 2018/19 Communities —— Kingfisher followed its described below has not Sustainability Report. This —— Community investment – stated process (as detailed been prepared, in all material finding does not modify, or company giving (cash, gifts in Kingfisher’s Data respects, in accordance detract from, our assurance in kind and time) (£’000) Collection Methodology) with Kingfisher’s Reporting conclusion as stated above. —— Community investment – to determine progress Criteria, as disclosed within company, employee and towards its Sustainability the Data Methodology Scope of our work1 customer giving (£’000) Targets Document set out at www. kingfisher.com/sustainability. Kingfisher plc (‘Kingfisher’) People engaged us to provide limited —— Gender diversity (% Emphasis of Matter assurance2 over the following female employees (Board, During the course of our selected information for the senior management, all work, Kingfisher notified us year ended 31 January 2019: management)) of concerns regarding the —— Total number of work quality and completeness Innovation days lost as a result of all of data relating to —— Household energy savings work-related employee responsibly sourced timber, – estimated lifetime saving accidents/injuries and determined that the from products purchased Sustainability Report would Environment not include values for the Property —— Waste recycling and related KPIs, which originally —— Property portfolio energy disposal waste recycled, formed part of our Scope intensity (kWh/m2 reported waste disposed to landfill, of Work. The impacted KPIs floor space) waste disposed to are: i) Sustainable Home —— Absolute carbon footprint incineration with energy Products (% of retail sales), (Scope 1 and 2) (tCO2e) recovery (‘000 tonnes) and ii) Responsibly sourced —— Property portfolio carbon —— Waste recycling (% of 1 After removing the two KPIs timber products (% of intensity (tCO2e/m2 waste recycled) noted in Emphasis of Matter responsibly sourced timber reported floor space) above. 2 The levels of assurance sold, by volume). We did not engagement are defined in ISAE 3000 (Revised). A reasonable level of assurance is similar to the audit of financial statements; a limited level of assurance is similar to the review of a half year financial report. Kingfisher Sustainability report 2018/19 117 Introduction Save energy & water Healthy homes Our people Our reporting Sustainable homes Live smarter Our communities Governance Appendices Basis of our work and level testing procedures over —— Understood the role Responsibilities of Directors ownership positions which Our responsibility is to of assurance the model used to produce of internal validation and independent assurance might affect, or be perceived independently express reported information. processes, including the provider to affect, our independence conclusions on the subject We carried out limited role of Kingfisher Internal and impartiality, and matters as defined within assurance on the selected To form our conclusions Audit, in supporting the Kingfisher’s responsibilities from any involvement in the scope of work above to information in accordance we undertook the following quality of data submitted The Directors are responsible the preparation of the Kingfisher in accordance with with the International procedures: by operating companies for the preparation of Sustainability Report 2018/19 our letter of engagement. We Standard on Assurance prior to its consolidation the Sustainability Report and the Data Collection have confirmed to Kingfisher Engagements 3000 (Revised) —— Interviewed the Group at group level; 2018/19, the Data Collection Methodology 2018/19. The that we have maintained our (ISAE 3000). To achieve Sustainability Team —— Re-performed a sample Methodology 2018/19 and firm applies the International independence and objectivity limited assurance ISAE 3000 and other members of of Internal Audit’s work, for the information and Standard on Quality Control throughout the year and in requires that we review Kingfisher Management to testing the key structures, statements contained within 1 and accordingly maintains particular that there were no the processes, systems understand the governance systems, processes, them. They are responsible a comprehensive system events or prohibited services and competencies used to and review process for data procedures and controls for determining the of quality control including provided which could impair compile the areas on which management and collection, related, but not limited to, sustainability targets and for documented policies and our independence and we provide assurance. It the organisational and the collation, validation and establishing and maintaining procedures regarding objectivity. does not include detailed operational boundaries of reporting of sustainability appropriate performance compliance with ethical testing of source data or data collection, the internal information; and management and internal requirements, professional Our work has been the operating effectiveness validation procedures —— Reviewed the content of control systems from which standards and applicable undertaken so that we might of processes and internal and the effectiveness of the Sustainability Report the reported information legal and regulatory state to the Firm those controls. Therefore the these, the interpretation 2018/19 and the Data is derived. requirements. matters we are required to level of assurance obtained of reporting guidance Collection Methodology state to them in this report in a limited assurance and the methodologies document 2018/19. Deloitte’s responsibilities, Our team consisted and for no other purpose. To engagement is substantially and assumptions used to independence and team of a combination of the fullest extent permitted lower than the assurance calculate the data; competencies Chartered Accountants by law, we do not accept that would have been —— Interviewed Kingfisher’s We complied with Deloitte’s with professional or assume responsibility to obtained had a reasonable Subject Matter Expects independence policies, which assurance qualifications anyone other than Kingfisher assurance engagement been (SMEs) and those with address and, in certain cases, and professionals for our work, for this report, performed. operational responsibilities exceed the requirements of with a combination of or for the conclusions we for, or key accountabilities the International Federation environmental, corporate have formed. With respect to the in, the data collection of Accountants’ Code of responsibility and Innovation information process for the subject Ethics for Professional stakeholder engagement Deloitte LLP described above, our testing matters as shown in Accountants in their role experience, including London, United Kingdom was limited to the review the ‘Scope of our work’ as independent auditors, many years’ experience of model assumptions and section; and in particular preclude in providing sustainability 12 June 2019 product classification. We us from taking financial, report assurance. did not perform substantive commercial, governance and Read more Contacts Our sustainability website What do you think about our www.kingfisher.com/ performance? sustainability We’d love to hear your Annual Report and Accounts views on sustainability at www.kingfisher.com/ Kingfisher at annualreport sustainability@kingfisher.com Our data collection methodology www.kingfisher.com/ datamethodology Our Sustainable Home Product Guidelines www.kingfisher.com/ shpguidelines
