COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Contents 3 • Introduction from the CEO 5 • Our Company 10 • Our Commitments 17 • Measurement of outcomes 22 • Human Rights 32 • Labour 37 • Environment 40 • Anti-Corruption Introduction from the CEO October 2019 Marc Desjardins CEO TGS Global Dear TGS Global Members and wider TGS This year we have successfully launched Ecosystem, our measurements as well as our first four targets that we have aligned with the SustainI am pleased to confirm that TGS Global able Development Goals that are closest to continues its support of the Ten Principles of our business activity. We are also proud to the United Nations Global Compact in the present you the TGS Success Stories, which areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment are short articles on successful projects inside and Anti-Corruption. This year we have also our network. successfully integrated the 17 Sustainable Development Goals into our core business We also commit to sharing this informastrategy. tion with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As you know, ‘sustainability’ is more than something TGS members aspire to include in their day to day actions, it’s why TGS was creSincerely yours, ated, it’s what we do, it’s in our DNA and it’s in our name: Think Global Sustainability. In our second Communication on Progress, we describe our continued actions to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. 3 COP 2019 TGS at a glance 3400 54 professionals worldwide countries 10% top 25 growth between international network 2017 and 2018 ranking More than 50 members Worldwide 189 360 millon euro turnover offices around the globe Our Company TGS is a dynamic global business network Our pragmatic vision of business, expeof independent firms providing accounting, rience in the field and feedback from memaudit, tax, business advisory and commercial bers enables us to continuously improve our legal services. We are multidisciplinary and methods and solutions to suit unique client interdisciplinary and focused on SMEs. Curenvironments. rently operating with 57 members from 54 countries. TGS Vision Our DNA We think of ourselves as a living ecosysDriven by an entrepreneurial spirit, our tem in which our members communicate, international business network supports share ideas and apply their expertise and member firm development in diverse ways. know how to understand and adapt to disEach TGS network member firm is committed ruptive technologies and emerging business to transforming ideas into value, promoting practices. We are committed sustainably to boldness and creativity and daring to be difserving the needs and interests of our memferent to satisfy the best interests of clients bers and encourage a spirit of cooperation, and employees. with a focus on local relationships and innoWith over 3400 professional staff in 54 vation. countries, multidisciplinary TGS member Making sense out of volatility, uncertainfirms support clients by designing global, ty, complexity and ambiguity is our strength. sustainable solutions and providing a oneAs a dynamic new network and a keen obstop-shop for business advisory, audit, tax, server of tomorrow’s changes, we are key legal and accounting services. Their expertise players in supporting the future of our memfuels local and international growth, informs ber firms and the long-term development of innovation, safeguards businesses against ficlient projects. nancial and organizational risks and helps to maintain the value of assets. 5 COP 2019 Our values TGS was founded on a robust and sincere set Each member firm is peer reviewed before of values: ethical behavior, agile working pracmembership and after a period of 4 years. tices, a client-centered approach to business and Do they uphold the TGS Values? What actions collaboration. should they be taking to better adhere to TGS ValTGS values are working tools, far beyond a ues and the SDGs? simple marketing proposition. TGS Values and how they translate into day-to-day actions are reaffirmed by members in their initial and ongoing TGS Peer Reviews. AGILE CLIENT-CENTRED Each member firm of TGS network is drivA pragmatic vision of business, experience en by the desire to transform ideas into valin the field and feedback from members alue, to promote boldness and creativity and lows us to constantly adapt our approach. to dare to be different to satisfy the best Our methods and solutions are continuinterests of clients or collaborators. ally improved to suit unique client environments. COLLABORATIVE ETHICAL TGS is a family and new ideas go hand in Quality and ethics are at the heart of evhand with cross-functional teams. Memerything we do. We nurture transparent, bers are always closely involved in the projhonest relationships with our members. ects they entrust to us and this is how we We work with integrity and accountability. actively encourage a spirit of openness, innovation and collaboration. 6 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Network Member Services Business Advisory Accountancy The well-being and longevity of busiAt TGS we guide SMEs through complexness is our primary concern. It is impority, removing barriers to working internationally. tant to us that our work provides businessWe help firms comply with tax and aces with useful insights that add real value. counting obligations and overcome financial and international development challenges. Audit Tax TGS member firms have the experEach TGS member firm has spetise and breadth of knowledge that will cialist tax advisers in their own localprovide companies with the tailored asity to guide firms safely through the complexsurance and audit services they need. ity of national and international tax regulations. TGS can provide services to parent and subLegal services sidiary companies, ensuring a coordinated auTGS member firms can support busidit process across a whole corporate platform. ness in national and international legal issues. 7 COP 2019 TGS and Sustainability At TGS, sustainability is at the heart of everyIn addition, we are deeply committed to imthing we do. Think Global Sustainability. plementing responsible business practices and developing solutions with a positive impact on society. Accordingly, we support the ten principles We aim to deliver sustainable, long term excelof the Global Compact on Human Rights, Labour, lence in service delivery. As such, we build quality Environment and Anti-Corruption. with our members at the center of the process. We Our culture, strategy and operations are aligned nurture transparent, honest relationships with our with universal principles of corporate sustainability. members and work with integrity and accountability. Think Global Sustainability TGS constantly reaching to meet the SDGs 8 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TGS Corporate Governance We endeavor to respect the values of the UNGC in every structural decision we take as the network grows from 50 to 100 members and onwards. TGS is a network of independent member frms, but unlike other comparable networks, each of our members can become a shareholder and access to the network’s fnancial data. Our goal is to achieve a fully Percentage of members transparent, member-owned network. Each TGS Global member firm is who are shareholders of involved, is responsible and participates in the decisions affecting strategy the TGS Global network and day-to-day operations. Each member has a strong voice in the direc21% tion of the network and this is reflected in the network structure. TGS is made up of: • Members • Active Members • Founding Members TGS Governance • TGS Board • Strategic Council • Supervisory Board • TGS Assembly 9 COP 2019 Our Commitments 1.Our Goals & Progress In our first Communication of Progress, and with the commitment and support of the TGS We now have clearly defined and measurPresident, Board, Members and Executive team, able targets established for each of these goals. we gave a clear statement of our objectives for In addition, we decided to follow the UN’s participation in the United Nations Global Com2030 horizon for the sustainable development pact. In this, the second year of our participation goals: The 2030 Agenda. We have implemented we begin the process of aligning and measuring the necessary tools to obtain the data we need our objectives with regard to the SDGs. to report on our progress. The most fundamental and closest objecEach and every one of the objectives are of tives to our activity are 4, 5 and 8 that correspond great importance both for the TGS Network and respectively to quality of education, gender for the stakeholders with whom we work: public equality and decent work. and private institutions, business organizations, educational institutions, international institutions. • Other sustainable development objectives that are important for TGS and correspond to our work are : 10 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Goal 1 : TGS member initiative : Womennovator project “Womennovator” is a project that was founded by Tripti Somani in India in 2018 with the aim of creating a platform whose purpose is to encourage and promote inspiring women entrepreneurs. Tripti wishes to launch this initiative internationally for women in financial services. We have launched “Womennovator Global 2019” to celebrate inspirational women and to encourage more women to consider Womennovator is a work in progress, howcareers in the financial services and fintech secever, we believe that we have taken a major step. tors. Womennovator Global 2019 is a ‘gap closing’ We have acknowledged the problem and are initiative whose objectives are: aware that things need to change. • National and international visibility for womWomennovator Global will provide transparen entrepreneurs. ency about gender inequality and provide inspiring role models in the financial sector (and hope• Empowering women in sectors where men fully beyond). TGS will increase awareness and have historically dominated. contribute to better business behaviuors. • Sensitizing TGS members to continue working on gender equality. During our annual conference, Tripti Shinghal explained that we can’t just accept that there are no women to hire in the accountancy sector. We are responsible to find women in financial services and celebrate them/put them in the spotlight. If Womennovator project can be a global success, this will help reduce the gender imbalance. 11 COP 2019 The womennovator project meets to the following UN SDG Targets 12 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Goal 2 : Grow our presence outside of Europe We want to be there where it counts. As you Central to growing the network is ensurcan see in our map “TGS at a glance”, we are well ing quality assurance, similar services, and value established in Europe and in some countries of alignment. TGS has, in 2019, put forth both a pull the other continents, however, we want to conand push strategy to expand the network. tinue expanding our experience and our way of During Q1, the TGS operation team develworking in Latin America, Asia Pacific, the Middle oped a “finders fee” project in which TGS comEast and Africa. This year, for example, we participensates the Member Firms’ efforts to increase pated in ACOA (African Congress of Accountants global coverage. At TGS, our members have the 2019) in Marrakech. This was an opportunity for opportunity to build the network. TGS to become known to different local actors and to foster links with public and private entities. The SDGs are the TGS Code Through our AFRICA 2022 objective: we will Additionally, TGS Global and TGS Member be the ‘go to’ network for global SMEs in, into and Firms are actively participating in international out of Africa, helping African firms thrive nationevents in all regions to promote the network, ally and internationally and promoting the SDGs. encourage prospective firms to join and create long-term relationships thanks to face to face inExpanding the network teraction. TGS strategy is partly focused on expanding the network. By 2024, the network aims to have 100 members worldwide. Increasing the number of members will have a positive effect for the existing firms within the network by providing a wider range of resources, business opportunities and networking capacity. 13 COP 2019 Our efforts in developing international regions is a fit with the following UN SDG Targets 14 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Goal 3: Member Engagement We believe that we are in a unique position, compared to businesses in other sectors. Our members are present all over the globe. Our member firms are the business advisors to local companies. Our objective will be to bring the UNGC and our participation to the attention of all our member firms and inform them/engage them. They will be able to lead local business and to integrate sustainable action and reporting into their portfolio of services. This year we have decided to work with a Selection of partners we select our partrecruitment agency/advisory firm in the United nerships with the SDGs in mind. Kingdom, BTA (Bruce Tait Associates), because of By 2020 we want all of our members to actheir efforts towards non-discriminating/equal tively participate in the program and fully unopportunity hiring. Equality is the core value of derstand the principles and SDG’s. They must be this company and the TGS network shares this able to transmit sustainable development and value. reporting to our clients. This objective is in line with the UNGC's Target 17.9 BTA is a one-stop shop that cares deeply about the charity sector in Scotland and throughout the UK. Their mission is to help charities with expert consultancy and recruitment services that allow them to grow, work with great people and be more successful. BTA are the market leader in Scotland and one of the biggest agencies of their kind in the UK. As we develop our network, we always seek out the most sustainable partners. We actively look for equality-minded business partners to grow our engagements to the UN Global Compact. 15 COP 2019 What’s unique about BTA is that their • help firms increase their profitability recruitment practices are firmly tied to the whilst also maintaining a positive soSDGs and this benefits, not only charities but cial impact. also for firms in the private sector. Sustain• act as the first step in any sustainabilable recruitment is an issue for all our memity compliance regulation. ber firms and for their clients. Through the • ensure that firms can sustainably restrength and current positive impact of aligncruit and retain quality staff and work ing recruitment strategy with the SDGs, BTA effectively with a multi-generational have started a collaboration with TGS to exworkforce. plore the creation of an SDG diagnostic tool that can be used to: BTA will also be present this year to coanimate the TGS Global conference in Singapore. Our 2019 global conference has a solid • help firms gain awareness of the benfocus on the SDGs. efits of incorporating the SDGs into day to day business. 16 COP 2019 Measurement of outcomes • Participation by country 2018/2019 We are glad to report an increase in motiva35 out of 54 members participated this tion amongst our members. At the current rate year in our COP Survey. This translates to a parof increase in member participation, we will be ticipation level of 61%. Last year 25 out of 56 at 87% in the third year of our adhesion to the members participated (44%). Global Compact program. Global Presence vs. Participation Members COP 2019 Regional participation in 2019 Regions with higth participation in 2019: Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. Our engagement team will try to spread this regional success to the regions where contribution could be increased. Percentage of TGS member participation by region. Goal 4 : #TGSMadeMeDoSomething At TGS, we believe that, as our core business is positioned in the financial services sector, our member firms have a pivotal role in the dissemination and incorporation of the SDGs worldwide. Francesca Sharp, Sustainability Manager at the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales (ICAEW), helped us explore ways we could work together to promote the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals among accountants, auditors and business advisors. Francesca’s key advice to accountants was that every little counts and that it is time to change our ways of doing business. TGS agrees, SDGs are in our lifeblood and they are in our name: Think Global Sustainability. Do something. Care about the SDGs and start thinking more broadly about what you can do in Read more about this topic in our website. your business. Francesca Sharp, ICAEW Sustainability Manager The #TGSMadeMeDoSomething campaign is a project that works on all 17 Sustainable Development Goals. However the “UN Target 12.8: Promote universal understanding of sustainable lifestyles” is #tgsmademedosomething is a signal of our the closest aligned. wider committment to the SDGs and a signal of our Follow our live links in 2020 to see our progress change of approach to the creation of our COP in on the 3500 target: 2020. • LinkedIN: #tgsmademedosomething • Instagram: #tgsmademedosomething • Youtube: #tgsmademedosomething 18 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1. Progress on our commitments DEADTGS GOAL SDG HOW PROGRESS LINE 2 out of global The project started successfully in India. We have started laying Womennovator 2025 down the fundamentals for scaling the project on a global level. We want to propose 54 out of 100 our services in 100 countries by 2024. This Presence year we put a focus on 2024 increasing our presence in Africa, with participation at the ACOA 2019. As we continue our par35 out of 57 ticipation in the UNGC program, we are glad to Participation 2020 observe an increasing participation from our member firms. 0 out of 3500 # TG S M a d e M e D o S o mething campaign. All communication #TGSMadeMe channels shall be used 2020 DoSomething to achieve a total of 3500 #-actions amongst TGS staff. 19 COP 2019 2. Stakeholder engagement/Our stakeholders At TGS we are surrounded by many stakepriorities are set without forgetting the best inholders. From governments to suppliers, we alterests of every one of our stakeholders. ways keep them in our minds during the daily business that we do. We also make sure that our 20 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3. Reporting prioritization/Materiality During the Conference in Brussels in 2018 we Votes were cast and the the data used to crecarried out a live survey amongst the members on ate the following materiality matrix. In the matrix what they find material topics for TGS Global and we selected the 9 key topics that more highlightits stakeholders. ed. These will be the topics that we will report on in our sustainability report. We asked them to define in two dimensions what is significant for their business on one side as well as what is significant for their stakeholders on the other. 21 COP 2019 Human Rights TGS Global members respect and support ues in the network. We work with respect, valuinternational human rights. We encourage and ing diversity among our clients and in our workadopt relevant principles into practices and valplaces. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1. Business Ethics At TGS, an ethical business culture is one of our core values. Quality and ethics are at the clients. We work with integrity and accountabilheart of everything we do. We nurture transparity. ent, honest relationships with our members and a. Code of Conduct At TGS, we work to ensure that all members and employees within the firms comply with a code of quality. For example, our ISQC1 is a quality control and review checklist we use as the basis for peer reviews. We are aiming to perform annual peer reviews to make sure that all of our member firms comply with this code of conduct, as well as an initial review on this matter for all prospective member firms. 22 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The aim of the our code of conduct is to relevant laws and regulations and avoid serve the public interest via high-quality ethical any conduct that the professional acstandards, with a long-term objective of concountant knows or should know might verging with international ethical standards for discredit the profession. professional accountants issued by regulators and national standard setters. Promoting an ethical code of conduct It is not always required to be a member A framework that establish the standard of of the institute of chartered accountants to bebehaviour expected of a professional accouncome an accountant. Ethical business is a core tant is indispensable for a sustainable network value for our network. Spreading an ethical of high quality, principled firms. The fundamencode of conduct will be a topic to work on in tal principles we consider should be included in our upcoming COP. such a code of conduct are as follows: TGS Global was the only international net• Integrity: to be straightforward and work to sponsor the 2019 African Congress of honest in all professional and business Accountants (ACOA) and will be a sponsor at relationships the 2021 ACOA in Mozambique. In these events • Objectivity: not to compromise profeswe met many CEOs of African Institutes of Charsional or business judgment because of tered Accountants. bias, conflict of interest or undue influTGS have the commitment to be the ‘go to ence of others. network’ for sustainable business in, into and • Professional Competence and Due out of Africa. We are committed to help achieve Care: Attain and maintain professional Africa 2063 “The Africa We Want” https://au.int/ knowledge and skill at the level required en/agenda2063/overview for attaining inclusive to ensure that a client or employing orand sustainable economic growth and developganization receives competent profesment. sional service based on current stanIn particular, we are in discussion with the dards and relevant legislation. Institute of Chartered Accountants In Malawi • Confidentially: to respect the confito explore how TGS can help lobby the Malawi dentiality of information acquired as a government to legislate for an accredited body. result of professional and business relaIf you want to be a chartered accountant in tionships Malawi, you do not currently need to be a mem• Professional behavior: to comply with ber of an accredited body and this can have a 23 COP 2019 b. Customer Privacy and GDPR Our core business encompasses a broad protect and empower citizens’ data privacy and range of services such as Audit Legal & Tax Serreformulate companies’ approach to data provices that are highly linked to client privacy. Our tection. Within our network, we believe that the network handles client data and information in GDPR is embedded in our business, and it is for everyday transactions and it is our responsibility all our member firms to protect and empower to ensure that our clients’ sensitive information is citizens and companies alike. Following these protected. Client confidentiality is a crucial prinprinciples allows our network to be accountable ciple to conform with corporate social responvia honest and transparent relationships. sibility practices and safeguard clients’ interests Complying with rules and regulations for and needs for long-term success. data protection is more about business and added-value. It is incorporated within our ethics and willingness to act with integrity. Additionally, TGS Global and all Member Firms aim to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR is a common set of rules on data protection for all businesses operating in the EU as well as those beyond the borders that have direct or indirect contact with European citizens. This law aims to c. Responsibilities of a network The TGS Network is in a unique position. As our member firms build the network As a multidisciplinary network we act upon and their future, the added-value of our netour values and sustainable business model to work lies in the quality of our Member Firms. spread our practices through our members The TGS added-value increases reputation, lefrom a global level to local communities and gitimacy and visibility and in turn positively imclients. We also have an extensive understandpacts each Member Firm. ing of markets as well as clients’ needs and inEach member firm has to behave responsiterests to better harmonize best practices in bility to uphold the overall sustainability of the line with our business ethics. network. 24 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS To what extent does your firm contribute to the development of significant infrastructure investments and services? 35 responses Not participatory Very active investor What is the nature of these investments and services? * 35 responses *multiple answers New service for our member firms TGS works to construct coherent and compractice framework for each Member Firm. We prehensive shared services, Sustainability is a believe that sustainable reporting is becoming crucial goal for all member firms. Being a parincreasingly important for corporate strategies as ticipant in the UNGC, TGS Global believes it is customers are more and more conscious of the our responsibility to provide key strategies for pressing needs to change business. It is our reMember Firms to adopt and act upon sustainsponsibility to provide transparent, accountable able business practices. As TGS Global learns and practices with integrity. However, we believe the improves, we share our knowledge with all firms sustainable reporting extends above the notion and stakeholders and encourage active particiof business, but incorporates a larger shift to pation in these matters. transparent, accountable and sustainable practices on a social and economic level. TGS Global in collaboration with Member Firms and external institutions is working to propose a “Sustainable Reporting” standard and best 25 COP 2019 Values that have emerged from the survey of our members Helping our members and their clients to be more sustainable As Member Firms increase their knowledge on increase clients’ competitive advantage and be sustainable reporting as well as the risks and opcrucial for long-term success. portunities of transforming business models in line This offer will contribute to differentiating with sustainable development goals, these firms Member Firm’s services while better answering clican provide a new service to their clients. This ument needs and interests. brella offer can allow TGS Member Firms to advise and develop clients’ strategies from defining sustainable development goals to reporting annually on their actions. TGS Global believe that this will 26 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2. Diversity and Inclusion a. Gender Equality The world of accounting, auditing and business advisory is a traditionally male-dominated work environment. Each of our members is engaged to achieve a 50/50 gender split, equal pay for equal work and to provide opportunities for minority groups. The TGS team reflects this ambition and has an international team with a 50/50 gender balance. The TGS Equality & Diversity Census is currently being designed and will provide figures for monitoring this engagement. Average Wages per Gender and Maturity Percentage of female managing partners in TGS Global member firms : 25% 27 COP 2019 b. Ethnic Diversity TGS has always believed that diversity is crubring to the table. At TGS, everyone has a voice cial for business and our diversity is a catalyst for and the capacity to build the network they want growth and expertise. Our diversity is a source to be part of. As part of an international network, for innovation, collaboration and continually having global and grassroot impacts , it is our reimproving our processes. Behind our one color sponsibility to encourage and promote all qualis a team of multicultural and multi-disciplinary ity professionals and lift the barriers for potential experts. We place diversity at the heart of our intalent pools. clusion policies, and beyond, to ensure mutual respect and recognition of what everyone can c. Non-discrimination and disabilities In accordance with our code of conduct, TGS practices, TGS Global has chosen to put forth an Member Firms work towards ensuring peaceful initiative from our French Member TGS France. work environments for all employees. Following Socia 3, a subsidiary of TGS France, specialan inclusive vision, we protect our professional izes in payrolling. With over 80% of employees and administrative staff from workplace harasswith physical disabilities, Socia 3 is the first comment, including physical, verbal sexual or psypany in France that has developed this business chological harassment, abuse or threats. Not only model. This project has been a success and is a do we closely follow a global code of conduct, positive example for many other European comwe actively promote and encourage diversity, inpanies. clusion as well as increasing the well-being of our employees worldwide. As it is so difficult to stress how important diversity and inclusion is in our business ethics and 28 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3. Human Rights Success Stories TGS a. GDPR – TGS France TGS France has focused efforts on GDPR Enhances employer brand, by reassuring compliance in the last few years and is today a acquired and potential talent pools of company nationally recognized expert on data protection. data protection policies; Professionals such as Florian Barrault, specialist on Refines marketing strategies and advertisGDPR, TGS France, and Caroline Belotti, External ing campaigns, by ensuring effective manageData Protection Officer and Partner at TGS France, ment of customer databases, and better targetare incorporating respectful and responsible ing customers. practices into TGS France’s core business and rePotential benefits also include cleaner data, shaping the way data is handled in the firm. higher engagement from stakeholders and Data protection and increasing pressure from valuable relationships for long-term strategies. data authorities can appear a threat to businessAs TGS Global moves towards a shared seres throughout the world notably for SMEs. TGS vice, our members are developing a network of France, however, concentrates on the opportunispecialized professionals on key issues in line with ties in complying with new rules and regulations client privacy and sensitive data protection notacan bring. TGS Global believes it is our role and rebly with the GDPR. The objective is to create an sponsibility to encourage and promote corporate international compliance pack and ensure globefforts on protecting clients’ data. al assistance for all member firms and clients to TGS Global interviewed Florian Barrault ensure international GDPR compliance for data What benefits can adopting the GDPR transferred within and beyond European Borders. bring for internationally based SMEs? Read more about this topic on our website. Complying with the GDPR: Improves company image, by showing awareness and placing customers’ interests at heart; 29 COP 2019 b. Womennovator – TGS KG Somani Encouraging women in business An event dedicated to women entrepreneurs in India and beyond. While some women are struggling to esWomennovator aims to: tablish themselves in the business world, many • Identify ways to make women entrepreothers have managed to make their way through neurs more visible. essentially male-dominated sectors, such as • Extend opportunities to women first. banking and finance. • Select women as spokespeople and In 2018, a hundred Indian women were leaders. asked to present a project to give them a voice, so that they could tell their story and inspire • Support & promote visible businesswomen all around the world. This new project, women. 100 Women Faces, is actually the first initiative of Womennovator, a platform whose purpose is to encourage and promote inspirational women entrepreneurs. Fifteen out of the hundred women who participated were rewarded on International Women’s Day, March 8th. Encouraging women in business This event put individual stories in the spotlight: Where do these women come from? What Womennovator uses an online and print did they achieve? How did they manage to propublication strategy to promote women’s sucmote their ideas? cess stories in business. The Womennovator campaign aims to proWomennovator also has a highly media-covmote the excellent work of women in India. It ered award ceremony where influential people, wants to change the rules of the game by creand an international committee help the particiating an infrastructure that will assure women pants establish new contacts, resources and exmore visibility and encourage a new generation posure on a global scale. of women entrepreneurs who lead the way to greater gender equality. 30 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS c. Socia 3 – TGS France : An example of diversity and inclusion The company is considered a valuable springboard as it 1. effectively integrates differently-abled within the firm, Socia 3 is an innovative firm based in France, 2. successfully guides them to an ordinary, with a staff base of 80% handicapped workers. The normalized work environment. core business is centered on externalized payroll Socia 3 is aligned with our values and vision of and follows a corporate social responsibility model what is sustainable and how to work towards an into increase diversity and inclusion in the work enviclusive yet profitable society. It’s about doing busironment. The firm is continually adapting its stratness, but with a clear direction and meaning. egy to fit best the needs and interests of workers and their client-base. Socia 3 has served as a national and european reference in the domain and has shown that such projects are not only possible but also scalable. 31 COP 2019 Labour TGS is committed to upholding the UN Globdaily working environment and experience. We al Compact Principles in relation to labour. implement policies and practices that encourage the adoption of such standards. The network is dedicated to ensuring that all labour standards are an active component of our Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 1. Our people Our network consists of over 3400 professionals in more than 50 countries. TGS Member Firms do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour and comply to national minimum wage standards. TGS Global verifies our members’ commitment and work environments yearly during the peer review. In line with our engagement to the sustainable development goal ‘Gender Equality and Inclusion’, our network confirms that employment-related evaluations and decisions are based on relevant and objective data and criteria. 32 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS To better comprehend the age representation within our network, we study both professional and administrative staff according to: Gender These indicators allow us to evaluate our Age groups available labour capacity and talent pools. Employment type The network thus identifies areas of improveGeographical location ment and transfers best practices between members. *For all information concerning gender equality, please refer to the section “Human Rights” Which benefits below do you provide to your full-time employees but do not provide to temporary or part-time employees? 35 responses 33 COP 2019 2. Education and Training TGS is a response to a rapidly changthe shifts within the international laing and uncertain environment where bour market. We commit to professional our clients are looking for standardised development by providing traineeships global quality assurance and individualand development programs. ised local responses to their need. TGS As a network, we engage in the delivers quality services to our clients Amongst our members transfer of know-how and expertise 1112 employees have and commits to high performance. Our between Member Firms via regional received regular perforteam of experts is agile and dynamic, mance and career developand international conferences, internal and provide forward thinking solutions ment reviews. This means exchange platforms, and webinars on for success. TGS Global strives for profesan average of 31 employprevalent topics. The knowledge of spesional development of our employees ees per firm, receiving a cialized experts from around the globe review. and supports our people on their jouris freely available to all the professionals ney to excellence. inside our network. TGS Global and the Member Firms invest in improving employee skill sets and knowledge bases, notably to follow Amongst our members 74% propose employee skill set improvement programs 35 responses Amongst our members 34% propose transition assistance programs 35 responses Total of 124 interns amongst 25 firms 31 Average of 5 interns per firm in the network. 34 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3. Health and Safety Our network complies with relevant health have access to crucial information and complete and safety regulations to assure safe work entraining programs concerning their health and vironments for all employees. We identify and safety in the work environment. eliminate any harm or threat in the workplace. Each member firm ensures that their employees Safety committees Are there work health and safety committees in your firm? 35 responses Have you any reported incidents of discrimination in your firm during the year 2018? 35 responses Work-life balance TGS Member Firms place employee satisfaction among others that can impact employee physical as core to our business model and highly encourand mental health. Member Firms strive to alleviate age a healthy work-life balance. We deem it crucial these pressures. We hold employee feedback dearfor our professional and administrative staff to find ly and provide guidance for workers accordingly. their individual equilibrium between their personal It is also important to note that a good worklife and time at work. We have worked hard for a life balance increases employee motivation and structure that promotes relationship building withproductivity hence increasing corporate producin the company and overall happiness. tivity. Positive results improve the well-being for At TGS we understand that there are continual our employees. pressures from external factors such as technological advancements, competitive environments 35 COP 2019 4. Labor Success Stories TGS a. Kutsaca – TGS Portugal Associaçao Kutsaca is an association whose aim is to ensure children in Mozambique have access to education via a sustainable framework. The project was initiated by Alberto Soares, Managing Partner of TGS Portugal. The association “Kutsaca” is deeply rooted in social responsibility practices and creates added value for the local community in Mozambique. The opportunities are remarkable for the people of Mozambique for Kutsaca, beyond provided education also creates strong relationships between countries, and improves the long-term socio-economic stability. Many Member Firms have taken interest in the project and have recently invested in the building of a new school. 36 COP 2019 Environment TGS and TGS Member firms care about the our environmental impact through our operawork we do for our clients; the way we treat our tions and services. people and the impact we have on our society We continually review and change the way and environment. we work so we can make a positive difference in We support the UN Global Compact Envithe world around us. ronment Principles and are committed to the protection of the world around us, including the prevention of pollution and the minimization of Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 1. Environmental Engagement Our engagement towards developing our projects in line with the development and diffusustainable business model involves addressing sion of eco-friendly initiatives. the network’s environmental impact and proThe TGS Network is conscious that we have moting ecological initiatives. The TGS Network a long way to go. We are making it a focus to supports environmentally responsible practices encourage and develop environmentally sound to ensure our Member Firms’ positive impact via projects throughout the members of our nettheir resource efficiency. work and share our motivation and actions with We firmly adhere to the advancements put our clients. Today we support and choose ecoforth via the UNGC and the Paris agreement to responsible hotels, we give priority to the use of limit the global average temperature increase to technologies for work meetings. Videoconfer1,5°C. We firmly believe that we all have a responences that allow us to connect ecologically with sibility in fighting climate change and we, as an our members or clients in different countries. Our international network, have a privileged position improvement targets will encompass tangible to communicate and encourage corporate and initiatives within our business operations and adindividual efforts. Our network uses communicadress issues that are linked to our sectors of activtion channels (website and linkedIn) to promote ity. 37 COP 2019 Videoconferences to connect with our members. Work meetings from October 2018 to October 2019 257 Total participants from October 2018 to October 2019 782 *Example September 2019 Zoom : platform for audio & video conferencing 2. Running efficient operations As positioned in the professional service sector efficient operations. the TGS Network and our members focus on day It's easy to say but often easy to forget in practo day actions to reduce our impact on the envitice but moving towards a paperless environment, ronment. Our offices encourage thoughtful usage our firms engage in decreasing paper usage. The of energy consumption, materials and a precauslogan “Think before you print” is becoming intionary approach to overall business operations. creasingly embedded in employee action. We The TGS Network understands that it is important place employee awareness of energy consumpto identify energy consumption to objectively act tion, such as water and electricity, as a high priority upon these measurements. Putting in place key action for each and everyone to act upon. performance indicators for all firms across the globe will be an interesting addition to developing Does your firm propose recycling programs? 34 responses Does your firm propose programs for reducing energy or water consumption? 34 responses 38 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3. Environment Success Stories TGS a. WTP Advisors, Virtual and Carbon footprint In line with our focus on environmentally re“WTP wants to sustainably provide global sponsible practices, the new addition to our nettax services to our clients. We fully embrace the work is an example of the importance TGS places sustainability model because we are a virtual firm in thinking global sustainability. WTP Advisors, and have already reduced our carbon footprint an international tax consulting and transfer pricdramatically – it almost doesn’t exist.” ing firm in the United States, has a global carbon Brian Schwan, Managing Director WTP ADVISORS footprint approaching 0. WTP has representation in 14 states in the USA but do not use planes and have no physical offices, in this way they have a dramatically reduced environmental impact compared to traditional offices of their size. b. Offsetting our carbon footprint Within the TGS Network we work firmly toAs an international network we are required to wards ensuring a positive impact. To support local travel around the world. In the hope to offset our community development in Africa, TGS planted carbon footprint, we have decided to plant trees 100 trees to honour our participation in the African for each survey completed during our time at the Congress of Accountants, 2019. This initiative was ACOA conference in Marrakech. Did you know that to contribute to local biodiversity and reinforce the planting 11 trees can negate emissions of a New environment for local communities. York Berlin flight? 39 COP 2019 Anti-Corruption TGS Global believes in business but we take fully committed to ensuring that as soon as areas risks with care. What’s more, day after day we try of corruption are identified, appropriate and necto fight the risks associated with corruption in essary corrective action is taken. all its forms, including extortion and bribery exAs a network of professional service firms intremely seriously. cluding lawyers, certified auditors and other acOur members work to improve and apply countancy and advisory professionals, TGS Globhave established procedures to assist in the deal is well-placed and especially committed to the tection of fraudulent activities within our busiUN Global Compact Principle No.10. nesses We work so that all our member firms are Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1. Our Commitment The TGS Network is a crucial player on internaternational framework, are increasingly working tional markets to combat fraudulent activity and to incorporate and implement these policies and bring forth actions to identify, assess and work procedures internally that guarantee high quality against corruption in all forms across businesses. and reliable control systems. It remains our duty to continually improve internal processes to fight Integrity, transparency and accountability are corruption, including extortion and bribery, and key to our Member Firms’ business ethics. We, as a to communicate with integrity around issues that network, fully commit to the tenth principal of the can impact our society. UNGC and wholeheartedly believe it is our responsibility to promote trust, transparency and security The TGS Network works towards a respectful for all. environment for our people, as we strongly believe that a culture of support will increase employees’ Our business ethics follow the strict standards sensitivity and ethical behavior. of the code of conduct established by the IESBA, thus confirming our “zero-tolerance” position towards corruption, and our willingness to encourage ethical behavior within our network and our client base. Our Member Firms, guided by this in40 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS a. TGS Kazakhstan The SDGs are the guiding principles and vision ing the notoriety of TGS with a demonstrable focus of the TGS network. Each decision made and each on sustainability compared to our competitors. We communication released is viewed through a lens do this through publishing sustainable success stoof the SDGs. ries. The major part of TGS development strategy There are no quick wins in this kind of strategy centres on the concept of 'say what we do, do but we were delighted this year to have seen a diwhat we say, do good and show what we do’ this rect positive response. TGS was identified by a firm will attract the right members and promote the in Kazakhstan, shortlisting TGS as the only network positive social impact of the SDGs worldwide. they had thought of joining who promoted and supported a focus on sustainable development. They are now our newest member and we are deInstead of using aggressively ‘outbound’ marlighted to be working with them to promote the keting tactics such as mass mailing and cold calling UNGC principles of Labour, Environment, Anti-Corto recruit new members, at TGS we decided to inruption and Human Rights in Kazakhstan. vest our energy on sustainable inbound marketing. Our inbound marketing strategy relies on developDo you communicate your anti-corruption policies and procedures to your client firms? 32 responses 41 COP 2019 2. Whistleblowing In line with our business ethics, our network 4. Policy highly encourages trust and transparency within each Member Firm. It is crucial for each and every member to be conscious of their responsibilities Policy implementation is crucial to encourat a firm and individual-level, and to make a disage and support the UNGC’s tenth principal. On closure of any wrongdoing encountered. an annual basis, TGS Global completes peer reviews in which we assess the risk of corruption The TGS Network ensures procedures for and monitor employee compliance and progress professional and administrative staff to whistletowards quality control and assurance. blow. Additionally, our Member Firms understand the risk of peer pressure and respect the Peer reviews are also useful for our network need for confidentiality concerning such issues. to communicate to employees and partners on We strongly believe that whistleblowing is more key issues surrounding the risk of corruption and efficient when employees are in an honest work the need for carefully thought out processes in environment which allows them to commit fully limiting the impact of such risks. TGS Global’s to the corporate ethics. leadership verifies firm quality and ethical standard compliance and their overall understanding of regulatory policies via internal auditing and 3. Bribery and Fraud peer reviews. It is central to our sector to respect internaTotal number of incidents tional legislation and procedures against bribery declared linked to corruption and fraud. Our network, specialized in financial 0% services and fintech has a legal obligation towards our people, clients and the society to safeguard them against such activities. 42 COP 2019 TGS GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5. Training Member Firms have the obligation to ensure strongly believe that it is crucial for employees to that their employees are aware and completely consult each other and discuss issues and areas of understand the code of conduct of our network.. improvement, whether it be within their firm or Thus, each employee is required to comply with across the network. the communicated business ethics and practices of each firm and confirm their understanding. Member Firms also provide training and online education platforms for employees to understand and improve their knowledge on the policies and procedures they have adopted on topics such as bribery, security and due-diligence. We also Anti-corruption: informed & trained employees 31 responses 43 COP 2019 6. Anti-Corruption Success Stories TGS` a. Sustainable BPO – TGS Bangladesh BPO is outsourcing, subcontracting subsets TGS is seeking to increase awareness around of business-related operations and responsibiliresponsible business practices and ethical BPO in ties to external parties. Our aim, as a network, is particular. Our member Howlader Maria & Co in to promote win-win business models. Carefully Bangladesh has engaged in developing ethical used, BPO can result in a more interconnected practices internationally. This member firm is a and integrated business world where we can crespecialist in sustainable BPO. ate prosperity for all. 44 COP 2019 #TGSMadeMeDoSomething www.tgs-global.com © 2019 TGS Global. All rights reserved.
