ANNUAL REPORT 2O18 CONTENTS 1. 2018 in brief Revenue amounted to SEK 7,951 M (6,000). EBIT amounted to SEK 407 M (522) and the EBIT margin amounted to 4. 5 per cent (9). 2. This is Mekonomen Group We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for an easier and more affordable car life. 4. CEO’s comments With doubled size as a company, we will advance our positions, gain market shares and improve the customer offering. Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO Mekonomen Group. 6. Our business model Our business model comprises purchasing, stock-keeping and sales of spare parts and accessories. REPORTS 8. Market and trends Administration report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 The primary driving forces in the aftermarket for cars is the • Proposed appropriation of profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 number of cars on the roads and their mileage. Corporate Governance Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 • Member of the Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 10. Strategy, targets and target fulfillment • Group Management Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with Financial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 high profitability and create value growth for shareholders. • Consolidated income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 • Consolidated statement of comprehensive income . 50 14. Risks and uncertainties • Consolidated balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is an integrated • Consolidated statement of changes in equity . . . . . . 52 part of Mekonomen Group’s operations. • Consolidated cash-flow statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 • Income statement for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . 54 16. Our segments, brands and customers • Statement of comprehensive Differentiated businesses and concepts, together with a income for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 strong shared purchasing function enable us to meet our • Balance sheet for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 customers’ needs and generate growth. • Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 22. Sustainability • Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company . . . . 56 We take responsibility and shall be at the forefront when it Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 comes to sustainability in our industry. Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Auditor’s report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85 32. The share and shareholder information Five-year summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Quarterly overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90 Mid Cap segment and traded under the short name MEKO. Sustainability information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 • Auditors’ statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93 • GRI index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94 10. Glossary, definitions and alternative performance measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96 Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 Mekonomen Group’s formal Annual Report comprises pages 35-87. Only the original version of the formal Annual Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. Regarding the sustainability report, the auditors made a statement that the report had been prepared correctly, see page 93. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version represents the original version, and has been translated into English. Please visit our website at www.mekonomen.com. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 2018 IN BRIEF 2018 IN BRIEF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR Revenue amounted to SEK 7,951 M (6,000). Adjusted for the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, currency effects and calculated on a comparable number First quarter: of workdays, revenue rose 3 per cent. Sales in comparable units decreased by • Implementation began of the Godkänd Bilverk1 per cent in local currency. stad (Approved Workshop) quality standard in Mekonomen Group’s affiliated workshops in EBITA amounted to SEK 553 M (649) and the EBITA margin amounted to Sweden. 7 per cent (11). EBITA was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability • Intensive test period of both hardware and of SEK 89 M (positively: 9). ­software in the new automated part of our central warehouse in Strängnäs. EBIT amounted to SEK 407 M (522) and the EBIT margin amounted to 5 per cent (9). EBIT was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 89 M (0). Second quarter: • Bileko Car Parts was appointed the new supplier The gross margin amounted to 49.9 per cent (54.6). of car accessory products to St1’s Shell stores in Sweden. Earnings per share, before and after dilution, amounted to SEK 6.56 (10.05). • ProMeister Solutions AS was approved as the training provider for PKK (vehicle inspectors) in Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 331 M (496). Norway, where 10,000 inspectors are in need of undergoing training before autumn 2021. Net debt amounted to SEK 4,098 M (1,444). • Mekonomen Group divested Marinshopen, the boat accessory business. The Board of Directors proposes no dividend (previous year SEK 4.46)1). • Adaptations were implemented throughout the Group to the new General Data Protection Acquisition of FTZ in Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland. ­Regulation for the handling of personal data. Third quarter: • Mekonomen Group almost doubled in size and FINANCIAL SUMMARY took the step into Continental Europe through the acquisitions of FTZ in Denmark and Key figures 2018 2017 2016 ­Inter-Team in Poland. Revenue, SEK M 7,951 6,000 5,937 • A decision was made on a rights issue in connecEBITA, SEK M 553 649 594 tion with the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. EBIT, SEK M 407 522 481 • A new cohort started the upper-secondary Profit for the year, SEK M 268 368 342 vocational training program to vehicle technicians Earnings per share, SEK 6.56 10.05 9.32 at ProMeister Education. EBITA margin, % 7 11 10 • Mekonomen’s and MECA’s workshops in EBIT margin, % 5 9 8 Sweden became Trygg-Hansa’s new cooperative Cash flow per share, SEK2) 8.3 13.8 15.1 partners for automotive damages. Dividend per share, SEK1) 4.46 4.46 • The automation in the central warehouse Return on shareholders’ equity, % 10 16 15 Equity/assets ratio, % 35 43 43 in Strängnäs was completed. Tests of the Net debt/EBITDA, multiple 6.44 2.03 2.19 ­equipment with low stock volumes began. Fourth quarter: Revenue and operating profit3) Working capital3) • The rights issue was fully subscribed and SEK M SEK M SEK M % Mekonomen Group received SEK 1.6 bn. 8,000 1,800 800 25 • In the autumn, use of the new automatic part of 1,600 7,000 700 the central warehouse in Strängnäs began gradually. 1,400 20 6,000 600 • 65 per cent of the daily order lines in the central 1,200 5,000 500 15 warehouse in Strängnäs go through the new 1,000 4,000 400 automated warehouse. 800 3,000 300 10 600 2,000 200 “DOUBLED SIZE THROUGH 400 5 1,000 100 200 0 0 0 0 2014 Revenue 2015 EBIT 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 Working capital 2016 2017 2018 % of net sales ACQUISITION OF FTZ IN DENMARK AND INTERTEAM IN POLAND.” 1) T  he Board’s proposal for 2018. The dividend for 2016 and 2017 is restated with the number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2018, 56,353,372. The actual dividend paid was SEK 7 per 35,901,487 shares for both 2016 and 2017. 2) From operating activities. 3) The acquired companies FTZ and Inter-Team are included in the above tables for the period 2018-09-03 – 2018-12-31. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 1 THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP Mekonomen Group consists of the leading car service chains in Northern Europe with a proprietary wholes­ale operation, more than 460 branches and over 3,400 affiliated workshops operating under the Group’s brands. We make car life easier and more affordable for our customers. We do so through a broad and accessible range of affordable and innovative solutions and products for consumers and companies. VISION BUSINESS CONCEPT Mekonomen as an investment We are the car ownWe offer consumers and companies solutions er’s first choice and for an easier and more affordable car life by using • The market leader in Denmark, Norway strive for an easier clear and innovative concepts, high quality and an and Sweden, and number four in Poland. and more affordable efficient logistics chain. • Strong brands and well-known concepts. car life. • Broad customer offering and efficient logistics chain. • Size advantage/purchasing power. • A portfolio of proprietary brands. • Own academies for continuous compeOUR MARKET SHARES tence development among the auto­ motive technicians of affiliated workshops. • Entrepreneurship and high level of expertise among our employees. Market share1) Market share1) Market share1) Market share1) • Ambition to lead the development of the Denmark, approx. Poland, approx. Norway, approx. Sweden, approx. industry. 28% 4% 25% 15% • Participates in the transformation for more environmentally friendly car fleet through service and products for electric cars. 1) Proportion of spare part sales to workshops. Net sales divided by segment KEY FIGURES 2018 Revenue, SEK M EBIT, SEK M Number of employees in the Group, 31 December 7,779 SEK M 7,951 407 5,569 FTZ – 14% Number of affiliated Number of Responsible Inter-Team – 8% MECA – 26% workshops branches purchasing1) Mekonomen – 35% 3,416 467 93% Sørensen og Balchen – 9% Other segments – 8% 1) Acquired FTZ and Inter-Team are included from 3 September 2018. 1) M  ain suppliers of products that account for more than 93 per cent (92) of our purchases have signed our agreement clause on compliance with the UN Global Compact by 2020 or presented their own corresponding policy. 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 Finland Number of branches 11 Number of affiliated workshops 23 No. of employees 26 Norway Number of branches 130 Number of affiliated workshops 980 No. of employees 1,188 Sweden Number of branches 193 Number of affiliated workshops 1,027 No. of employees 1,802 Denmark Number of branches 51 Number of affiliated workshops 921 No. of employees 1,192 Poland Number of branches 82 Number of affiliated workshops 465 No. of employees 1,361 OUR BRANDS INTER data service Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 3 CEO’S COMMENTS STRENGTHENED POSITION DESPITE A TOUGH YEAR 2018 was one of the most important years ever in Mekonomen’s nearly 50-year history. After the acquisitions of Danish FTZ and Polish Inter-Team, Mekonomen Group is in many ways a new company. We have doubled in size which creates significant advantages for us and, in extension, for our affiliated workshops and their customers. The acquisitions of FTZ in Denmark and Inter-Team also affecting what our market will look like in the Prior experience: in Poland influenced a large part of 2018. But it is now next few years. Senior positions in MECA since when the acquisitions are done the most imporOur organisation will also be developed to effectively 2001 and before that the tant work begins. Although FTZ and Inter-Team will govern the new, larger, Mekonomen Group. At the same President of Swecar AB. continue to work under their respective brands, we time that we cooperate in the areas in which we benefit Number of shares: 70,457. have a lot to learn from each other. I am convinced most from the Group’s overall size, our businesses are that the exchange of knowledge will go both ways. The also differentiated and active in markets with different implementation of the new companies in the Group’s conditions. To ensure an offering at the forefront that purchasing collaboration began immediately after the meets the trends in the market and the customers’ acquisition and is proceeding according to plan. The needs, the decisions must be made quickly and close to collaboration and experiential exchanges are initiated the customers. Since we now are represented in councontinuously with great commitment and high-priority tries that have made varying progress in their developfocus by the Group’s managers and employees. ment, the need for local management is extra important. Our core markets being in different phases and Rapid market development requires local more geographically spread also reduces risk in our management business. This applies both to the risk of weaker Our industry is in the midst of a major transition. market development in individual countries and the Forces come from several directions. Electrification weather, where geographical spread is an advantage. and digitalisation are two strong well-known forces In 2018, for example, we were negatively impacted by that drive the market. However, people’s view of the long, hot summer and mild autumn we had in the transport­ation and their relationship to the car are Nordic region. 4 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CEO’S COMMENTS More than 6,000 I look forward to further developing the decentralThere is extensive interest in our own ProMeister employees are needed ised management that was implemented in the Group Automotive upper-secondary school programme and for the industry in the before the acquisitions of the new companies FTZ high admission grades are needed to get in. I hope coming years. and Inter-Team. that the interest in the profession – which today is a varied profession with a high technical content – will 2018 was a challenging year continue to grow so that the industry’s needs can Besides the weather being negative for our business, be met. Having skilled automotive technicians in our 2018 began with a challenge when we were struck by workshops is a prerequisite to be competitive and a strong drop in sales of DAB (Digital Audio Broadprovide a good customer experience. casting) in Norway. Excluding FTZ and Inter-Team, Recruiting, training and skills development of and newly acquired smaller businesses in Sweden and automotive technicians is strategic and an area where Norway, sales only increased marginally during the we can contribute to society by creating jobs and year. In turn, profitability was negatively impacted ­contributing to the industry’s continued develop­ by acquisition costs and the weak SEK’s effect on ment. Sustainability must be an integrated part of purchasing costs. There is still a lot to work on in the ­our b­ usiness where we contribute to the global Group that involves streamlining of operations, which ­sustainability goals and comply with the principles of is high on my and management’s agenda for the next the UN Global Compact, which we signed in 2013. few years. The work on a shared central warehouse for MECA and Mekonomen in Sweden is c­ ontinuing according to plan and, as previously announced, is expected to provide annual savings of SEK 50 M beginning in 2020. “DOUBLED SIZE – INCREASED A changing market PURCHASING VOLUMES The traditional automotive aftermarket for spare parts has been impacted by low growth, which has AND BETTER NEGOTIATING been a challenge in our market-leading operations in the Nordic region. As a compensatory effect in the POSITION” future, I believe the high new car sales that we have had for a number of years will have a positive effect. I am convinced that with our size and strong position we will be among the future winners in our industry. Acquisitions make us stronger in the market An industry that is experiencing a fundamental change We see several advantages in being a larger company. in many ways. The clearest trends are the digitalisation Not least, it makes us stronger on the purchasing side. and electrification of the automotive fleet. Our industry involves large volumes, and naturally We have come far in terms of digitalisation. Both in larger volumes create a better negotiating position. terms of the industry and within Mekonomen Group. We also strengthen our position as a leading player in The large majority of Mekonomen Group’s sales take the Nordic region, while taking the step out in Europe. place digitally, especially sales to workshops and other As a stronger and more competitive player, it is now companies. time to advance our position and further improve the Mekonomen is far ahead in terms of electrification offering to our customers. In 2019, we will focus on as well. We have a major advantage from having been developing our concepts with improved range and seractive in Norway for a long time, since Norway is the vice offering to all customer groups. We are ready to country with the most electric cars per capita worldmeet the challenges of the future, focus on profitability wide. Now we can take this knowledge with us to our in all business areas and take shares in our markets. other markets. With our size we have the necessary I would like to express my thanks to our shareholdstrength to invest in expertise and equipment needed ers for entrusting us to carry out the large acquisition in to position ourselves in the electric car aftermarket, in 2018 and thanks to all colleagues for the commitment line with the growth in each market. and good work during the year. I also want to welcome all of our new colleagues in Denmark and Poland to the More vehicle technicians are needed – fast! Group and I am looking forward to shared successes in As a leading player in the industry, we have a the coming years. ­responsibility to ensure that our business is ­sustainable. Sustainability is an integral part of our business, where we contribute to the global ­sustainability goals and comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact that we signed in 2013. The absolutely greatest challenge for our industry, as I have pointed out many times, is the shortage of skilled automotive technicians. Together with the other players in the industry, we see a need for more then 6,000 employees in the next few years. Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model comprises purchasing, stock-keeping and sales of spare parts and accessories. We create value for our customers and shareholders by offering affordable, high-quality products and services. Our sustainability efforts cover the three dimensions of social, environmental and financial responsibility. 1. 2. 1. Suppliers 2. Wholesale business 3. Branches Purchases of spare parts take place from In our central and regional warehouse in The majority of the Group’s sales take place the same suppliers that supply the car the Nordic region, articles for more than through the Group’s five branch concepts. manu­facturers. Purchases are made 15,000 car models are kept in stock. In The customer groups are affiliated concept through a common purchasing function Sweden, a project is under way where workshops, other workshops, other for all companies in the Group. Around 80 MECA and Mekonomen are obtaining a ­companies and consumers. per cent of the product supply is obtained highly automated central warehouse in through purchases from 160 suppliers. Strängnäs. Important sustainability areas EnvironEmissions to air, soil and water EnvironOptimisation of transports. EnvironSorting of waste. Handling of mental in production. The products’ mental Right vehicles and fuel. Handling of mental chemical and flammable products. responsicontents, such as chemical and responsiflammable and chemical products. responsiRight vehicles and fuel. Optimibility conflict minerals. Transports. bility Sorting of waste. Energy use. Size bility sation of routes and filling ratio. if packaging. Hazardous goods. Energy in the building. Hazardous Producer responsibility. goods. Corporate Working conditions, health and Corporate Working conditions and working Corporate Working conditions and the worksocial rethe working environment for the social reenvironment for employees, e.g. social reing environment for employees. sponsibility suppliers’ employees. sponsibility heavy lifts/ergonomics. Possibility sponsibility Possibility of skills development. of skills development. Financial Adequate compensation to obtain Financial Optimisation of stock, right Financial Right spare part at the right time responsithe right quality and so that workresponsi­products being sent out so responsito the right workshop. bility ing conditions can be maintained. bility returns are unnecessary. bility 6 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 3. 4. 5. 4. Workshops 5. Car owners Our affiliated concept workshops offer We offer workshop services and car ­service and repairs of cars and light trucks, ­accessories to car owners in the Nordic Distribution of financial value1) to consumers and companies. The workregion and Poland. We seek to provide clear With our business, Mekonomen Group shops service and repair most car makes value to our customers and to be affordable creates financial value that is distributed out and models in the Nordic market. and innovative with high quality and a high to our stakeholders. level of service. Important sustainability areas Environmental responsibility Emissions to soil and water ­Handling of chemical and flammable products. Oils and batteries. Environmental responsibility Properly serviced and repaired vehicles have fewer emissions to the air. The vehicle is whole and 7,721 SEK M Sorting of waste. Tyres. Right resource-efficient throughout its service minimises environmental lifespan. impact in vehicle operation. Corporate Working conditions, working enviCorporate Safety and safe vehicles. Properly Suppliers, spare parts & accessories 51% social reronment and health of employees, social reserviced and repaired vehicles Suppliers, other products & services 21% sponsibility e.g. heavy lifts and chemicals. sponsibility provide greater road safety. Employees 20% Possibility of skills development. Society 6% Shareholders 0% Lenders, financial partners -1% Kept in the operations 3% Financial Right spare part at the right Financial Warranties and the right advice responsiresponsiand service provide lower costs for 1) R  evenue less depreciation and impairment, time optimises the workshop’s totalling SEK 7,721 M bility resources. bility the car owner. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 7 MARKET AND TRENDS MARKET OVERVIEW Primary driving forces in the aftermarket for cars and light trucks is number of cars on the roads and their mileage. The Nordic region is a mature and consolidated market with an annual growth of 1-2 per cent, while the Polish market is fragmented and grows by about 4 per cent yearly. The aftermarket for car parts and workshop services is mainly affected by the number of cars older that four-five years. This is when the car parts begin to wear out and need to be repaired or replaced. Trends that affect the aftermarket • The value of big data and analytics – we are well positioned to benefit from the for cars and light trucks tailored customer offerings and more prevailing trends. The core of our busiThe global macrotrends – from greater efficient logistics in the industry. ness is the attractive workshop concepts, digitalisation to higher standards and initia• Future car fleets – new customer needs a broad spare parts range and efficient tives for a sustainable society – change the through car pools and other kinds of logistics and distribution. The core business conditions on the aftermarket for cars and car ownership are creating business is highly digitalised. Approximately 80 light trucks even if development to-date opportunities. per cent of our sales take place through has not been as strong as in many other digital channels, mainly through digital industries. A good understanding of how the Next generation of vehicles spare parts catalogues. The development changes affect the needs of our workshops • Electric cars include fewer moving parts of new services and solutions, in addition and car owners combined with a good and require new expertise in the industry to a well-functioning core business, is a adaptive ability are prerequisites for being a • A higher share of software in the cars must in order to attract new customers strong actor in the future as well. A trend on requires new expertise in the industry. and keep existing customers. In 2018, the European aftermarket for cars and light • Connected cars better maintenance we have among other things begun the trucks is to acquire actors to leverage synerforecasts for the car. launch of new digital spare parts catalogue gies, and Mekonomen Group’s acquisition of within Mekonomen, started the use of our FTZ and Inter-Team are successful examples The shift in competitiveness ultramodern and fully automated central of this. Different countries have achieved • New actors are being established on warehouse in Strängnäs, continued the ­differing levels of consolidation and the the market. further training of automotive technicians Nordic market has progressed considerably • A higher pace in the industry’s consoli­ and expanded our assortment to meet the while the Polish market is still fragmented. dation and integration. demand for service, parts and accessories for electric and hybrid cars. We see major Changed customer expectations and Mekonomen Group well positioned to opportunities for consolidation in the Polish new possibilities create added value benefit from the market trends market in the next few years, which would • Digitalisation increased transparency For Mekonomen Group, it is strategically benefit Mekonomen Group as an active and simplicity for both workshops and important to be on the forefront of the player in this development. car owners through e-commerce and development in the industry and through more rational logistics for wholesalers. our investments in business development, 8 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 MARKET AND TRENDS MEKONOMEN GROUP’S POSITION IN THE MAIN MARKETS Mekonomen Group is the Denmark Norway market leader in all of the company’s main markets The Group company FTZ is the market leader The Norwegian market consists of a few larger in the Nordic region and in Denmark, which is the most consolidated actors where Mekonomen Group is the market has a clear positioning on market in which the Group is active. The leader through the Group companies MECA, the Polish market. ­market size is estimated at just below Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen. The SEK 9 billion and FTZ’s market share in 2018 Norwegian market has the fastest development was around 28 per cent. Market growth is in the world in terms of the transition of the estimated at around 1–2 per cent per year. car fleet from fossil-powered to electricity. The market size is estimated over SEK 8 billion and Mekonomen Group’s market share in 2018 was around 25 per cent. Market growth is estimated at around 1–2 per cent per year. 2018 2018 Population:  5.8 million Population:  5.3 million GDP growth:  1.4% GDP growth (Mainland Norway):  2.2% Number of cars:  2.5 million Number of cars:  2.8 million Growth in number of cars:  2.6% Growth in number of cars:  1.1% Percentage cars ≥4 years old:  69% Percentage cars ≥4 years old:  82% Percentage of pure electric cars:  0.3% Percentage of pure electric cars:  7.1% Market structure:  High consolidation Market structure:  High consolidation Market share:  28% Market share:  25% Competing independent actors: Competing independent actors: CAC Carl Christensen, Auto-G and AD Hellanor, Romnes and KG Knutson, and a Danmark, and a number of brand actors. number of brand actors. Poland Sweden The Group company Inter-Team is the Through the Group companies MECA and fourth largest actor in the fragmented Polish Mekonomen, Mekonomen Group is the market, which is characterised by a high price market leader in the consolidated Swedish competition. The market consists of one large aftermarket. The total market size is estimated actor and a number of medium sized actors at around SEK 14-15 billion and Mekonomen of the same size as Inter-Team. The market Group’s market share in 2018 was around size is estimated at around SEK 39 billion and 15 per cent. Market growth is estimated at Inter-Team’s market share in 2018 was around around 1–2 per cent per year. 4 per cent. Market growth is estimated at around 4-5 per cent per year. 2018 2018 Population:  38.4 million Population:  10.2 million GDP growth:  5.1% GDP growth: 2.3% Number of cars:  22.5 million Number of cars:  4.8 million Growth in number of cars:  3.9% Growth in number of cars:  0.5% Percentage cars ≥4 years old:  93% Percentage cars ≥4 years old:  81% Percentage of pure electric cars:  <0.1% Percentage of pure electric cars:  0.3% Market structure:  Fragmented Market structure:  High consolidation Market share:  4% Market share:  15% Competing independent actors: Largest competing actors: Inter-Cars, Moto-Profil, Auto Partner, Gordon Autoexperten, AD Bildelar and BDS, Source: SCB, SSB, Statistics and ELIT (owned by Mekonomen Group’s and a number of brand actors. Denmark, Statistics Poland and PSPA, except assumplargest shareholder, LKQ Corporation). tion of market size and market share which is the company’s own. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 9 STRATEGY, TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILLMENT STRATEGY FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH Mekonomen Group’s overall strategy is to grow with good profitability. The strategy is based on the three main areas of customer focus, leveraging economies of scale and continuous development of our business to be able to offer our customers solutions for an easier and more affordable car life. We create long-term profitable growth by constantly adjusting our business based on the customers’ needs and drive the development of the industry forward. The strategy is the action plan we constantly follow brands. To create profitable growth, it is i­mportant to continue to be competitive, achieve our long-term that we quality assure the customer experience goals and create value for our stakeholders. It is based and are deemed to have an affordable offering. To on our foremost assets, which are our committed ensure long-term sustainable growth, it is important employees and differentiated businesses, brands that Mekonomen Group is involved in leading the and concepts. The Group’s operations are built up industry’s development of future product and service of strong individual cultures and values, which is a offerings. strength we cherish and will retain. Common to the In 2018, sales growth was 33 per cent (1), Group is that we as a company and our employees strongly impacted in a positive direction by our act on the basis of respect, commitment and cusacquired businesses FTZ and Inter-Team. Excluding tomer focus. FTZ and Inter-Team, sales increased by 4 per cent. The Group reported a lower profitability during the Profitable growth year and the EBIT margin amounted to 5 per cent (9). Mekonomen Group’s main focus is generating profitThe EBIT m ­ argin was negatively impacted by generally able sales growth in all of our Group companies. Our lower margins in acquired Inter-Team than the Group strategy builds on the conviction that we have a betas a whole, initially rising costs in connection with ter possibility of meeting the customers’ varying needs acquisitions, higher purchasing expenses and items through the companies’ differentiated concepts and affecting comparability. 10 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 STRATEGY, TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILLMENT VISION Our vision is to be the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more aﬀordable car life. BUSINESS CONCEPT Mekonomen Group’s business concept is to oﬀer consumers and companies solutions for a simpler and more aﬀordable car life by using clear and innovative concepts, high quality and an eﬃcient logistics chain. CUSTOMER ECONOMIES OF SCALE BUSINESS GROWTH IN FOCUS AND EFFICIENCY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTED MANAGERS STRONG AND EMPLOYEES BRANDS VALUES ▪ Respect ▪ Commitment ▪ Customer focus Customer focus in areas were we can gain synergies. The acquisition of Entrepreneurship, The customer is always the focus of Mekonomen FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018 paves the way for more business development Group. With our various concepts, we want to opportunities. We gain purchasing advantages that give and innovation have attract car owners to our branches and workshops, us more room for competitive offers to our customers, characterised the Group both proprietary and affiliated. Being sensitive to and it gives us the potential to invest in the customer for almost half a century. what car owners demand and being on the forefront offers of the future, logistics and support systems. of develop­ment are crucial to Mekonomen Group’s During the year, we worked intensively on complet­success. Being a good partner to our affiliated working MECA’s and Mekonomen’s future shared central shops is equally important. It is primarily through ­warehouse in Strängnäs and started the implemen­ value creation for our affiliated and proprietary worktation of a new e-commerce platform. shops that we can be successful ourselves. One of our most important focus areas is therefore to support Business development our workshops to jointly offer added value, availa­ In an increasingly changing world, it is important for us bility, affordability and provide solutions for the needs to be sensitive and continuously develop our business of the car owners. In 2018, we began to implement to remain competitive. Since Mekonomen Group was the industry’s quality standard, Godkänd Bilverkstad founded at the beginning of the 1970s, then under the (Approved Workshop), in all of our concept workname Bileko, entrepreneurship, business d­ evelopment shops in Sweden. We are also continuously training and innovation have been strong characteristics that are vehicle technicians in, for example, electric and hybrid deeply rooted in the corporate culture – a culture that cars and new technology to be able to keep up with still permeates the Group today. It is just as important the development of the gradually increased need for for us to be innovative and develop new products and service and repair of the cars of the future. services for our customers as it is for us to constantly develop our way of working, such as by analysing Economies of scale and efficiency and adapting our business structures and business Mekonomen Group has a major advantage from being flows. In 2018, for example, we continued to train one of the larger actors in the aftermarket for car parts auto­motive technicians in our affiliated workshops and workshop services in Northern Europe. Even if the to handle ­electric and hybrid vehicles. Another various Group companies are largely run as their own strate­gically important step during the year was businesses, we have strategically focused on leveraging the ­commissioning of the automation in the central our economies of scale and creating a shared platform ­warehouse in Strängnäs. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 11 STRATEGY, TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILLMENT GOALS AND GOAL FULFILLMENT Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with high profitability and thereby generate value growth for the shareholders. Sales growth EBIT margin Equity/assets ratio The target is to achieve an annual The target is to annually achieve an The target is that the equity/assets sales growth of at least 5 per cent, EBIT margin in excess of 10 per cent. ratio shall not in the long term be less as a combination of organic and than 40 per cent. acquired growth. >5% >10% >40% Outcome Outcome Outcome In 2018, sales growth was 33 per The EBIT margin decreased to 5 per The equity/assets ratio amounted to cent (1), positively impacted by cent (9) for 2018. The EBIT margin 35 per cent at 31 December 2018 the acquired businesses FTZ and was negatively impacted by generally compared with 43 per cent at 31 Inter-Team. Sales excluding FTZ and lower margins in acquired I­nter-Team December 2017. Inter-Team increased by 4 per cent, than the Group as a whole, initially positively affected by a number of rising costs in connection with smaller acquisitions, but negatively acquisi­tions, higher purchasing impacted by the occasionally weak expenses and items affecting demand for car parts and workshop comparability. services in the second half of the year. Sales growth1) EBIT margin1) Equity/assets ratio % % % 40 12 50 10 40 30 8 30 20 6 20 4 10 10 2 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1) Adjusted goal as of 2016. 12 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 STRATEGY, TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILLMENT Net debt/EBITDA Dividend ratio Responsible purchasing The target is that net debt/EBITDA The Board’s intention is that Meko­nomen The goal is that main suppliers of shall not in the long term exceed 2.0. Group will pay dividends ­corresponding ­products that account for 95 per cent to not less than 50 per cent of profit of the Group’s purchasing volumes after tax. When deciding on dividend have signed the agreement clause proposals, consideration is primarily taken on compliance with the UN Global to investment needs, but also to other ­Compact by 2020. factors deemed significant by the Board. <2.0 >50% >95% Outcome Outcome Outcome Net debt/EBITDA was 6.44 (2.03) The Board proposes no dividend Main suppliers of products that for 2018. The increase is mainly for 2018 (SEK 4.46 per share 2017). account for more than 93 per cent attributable to an increase in the Consideration has then been taken to (92) of our purchases have signed our net liability to SEK 4,098 M (1,444) how to best prioritise between the agreement clause or presented their ­attributable to the acquisition of FTZ company’s goals to reduce debt and own corresponding policy. and ­Inter-Team. pay dividends. The Board continues to support the long-term goal of paying not less than 50 per cent of the earnings as dividends. Net debt/EBITDA1) Dividend ratio Responsible purchasing2) % % 7 250 100 6 200 80 5 4 150 60 3 100 40 2 50 20 1 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1) New goal as of 2016. 2) The goal includes agreements in Mekonomen Group excluding FTZ and Inter-Team. FTZ and Inter-Team became part of Mekonomen Group during the third quarter of 2018. The goal will be updated in 2019. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 13 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Mekonomen Group’s operations are, like all business operations, Mekonomen Group continuously maps the Group’s risks where associated with risks that can affect the Group and our stake­ the Board of Directors bears the utmost responsibility for the holders to varying degrees. A well-balanced risk management can Group’s risk management. For a description of the Board’s risk add value and business benefit, at the same time that risks that are assessment, refer to the section Board’s report on internal control not managed effectively can lead to damage and losses. for the financial reporting in the Corporate Governance Report. Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the operations to proactively be able to control, limit and handle prioritised risks. Market and competitors Reduced overall market Description: The aftermarket for cars and light trucks is primarily dependent on Handling: Mekonomen Group works continuously to ensure the strength of the the number of cars in the fleet and the mileage on the cars. In recent years, there concepts and maintain a high rate of innovation to keep or increase our sales even has been a stable increase in the number of cars and their mileage in our main in a declining market. The geographic expansion in 2018 through the acquisitions markets. A decrease in the number of cars and mileage could negatively impact the of FTZ and Inter-Team made Mekonomen Group less sensitive to how the market Mekonomen Group’s operations. The fact that the spare parts’ quality and lifespan develops in a single country. are increasing over time is compensated by the parts becoming more expensive and the lifespan of the cars increasing. Larger percentage of electric cars Description: Sweden and above all Norway are two countries where the transforHandling: To future-proof our affiliated workshops to be the first choice of mation to fossil-free engine alternatives have come the furthest, where the share electric car owners, we have gradually adapted the workshops, especially in of pure electric cars accounted for 2.8 per cent of the total car fleet at the end ­Norway, to be able to accept rechargeable cars since 2016. For example, auto­ of 2018. Weighted share of electric cars on our main markets Denmark, Norway, motive technicians are trained in electric and hybrid vehicles through our own Poland and Sweden was 0.7 per cent. The transition to new engine alternatives training centres. Development is proceeding at varying rates in our main markets mean that the industry needs to gradually be adapted to meet customer demand. and the automotive technicians are trained at a pace to match the growing However, a significant increase in the number of electric cars from today’s level is demand. We are also increasing our assortment with spare parts and accessories necessary to have a substantial effect on our total market. for electric vehicles in pace with the growing demand. Competition Description: The competition regarding car part sales to workshops is extensive. Handling: The operations in Mekonomen Group have a strong customer The assortment of the largest players in the brand-independent trade, including focus and continuously revise and ensure a competitive customer offering both Mekonomen Group, covers most car makes. In addition, a number of smaller to workshop customers and car owners. As approximately 80 per cent of actors, digital actors and brand-dependent actors also compete in the market. In ­Mekonomen Group’s sales take place digitally, investments in our e-commerce terms of accessories, Mekonomen Group competes with a large number of players, offer are of major importance. In 2018, the launch of a new digital spare parts including the retail trade, petrol stations, the convenience-goods trade and online catalogue continued in our Mekonomen concept. The catalogue builds on the actors. A significantly increased competition from one or more actors may entail a next generation e-commerce platform and offers new possibilities for greater risk of reduced market shares for Mekonomen Group. purchasing loyalty and other added value for our workshop customers, other companies and in extension to consumers. Product offering and services Description: Mekonomen Group’s long-term success is dependent, among other Handling: Mekonomen Group’s ambition is to lead the industry’s development of things, on the ability to adapt to the customers’ needs and changed industry future product and service offers. We invest central and local resources to antici­requirements and to introduce attractive new products and services, at the pate and understand future trends. In order to continue to offer our customers same time that it maintains competitive pricing. To maintain its competitiveness, a competitive and affordable customer experience, we continuously adapt our ­Mekonomen Group must foresee the customers’ needs and purchase and also product and service offering and our internal processes. We secure our product develop products and services that are accepted by these customers. Mekonomen responsibility through purchasing agreements with suppliers in the automotive Group is also subject to product liability if the products do not work as expected industry and through careful quality controls of our own brands, supplemented or are defective. with Group-wide insurance coverage. Shortage of vehicle technicians Description: There is a shortage of vehicle technicians in the market, which affects Handling: With strong brands and concepts, our training centre and our own Mekonomen Group’s affiliated and proprietary workshops. The shortage of vehicle upper-secondary school programme ProMeister Education in Sweden, we are technicians with relevant training and experience can in the long term constitute working continuously to attract people to the vehicle technician profession. At a factor that limits the possibilities of continued growth in our industry or reduce the same time, we contribute to increasing the level of expertise among existing profitability through higher personnel costs. and new vehicle technicians. We also offer our affiliated workshops staffing and recruitment services. 14 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Operational risks Employees Description: Mekonomen Group’s success depends on attracting, keeping and Handling: We believe that committed employees and managers create efficiency developing committed managers and employees. We work for diversity and equal and increased sales. An important prerequisite for commitment is a clear direction treatment of all employees. With different competencies and experiences among for the Group and clear assignments for our managers and employees. The work the employees, we will reflect the diversity of our customer groups and thereby of identifying, analysing and minimising work environment risks in the operations is develop our customer offering. A good physical and psychosocial work environ­ done at every level of the Group. Our Code of Conduct, whistle-blower system, ment and good social conditions are fundamental for our employees. If ­Mekonomen work environment policy, together with employee talks, employee surveys and Group does not attract relevant expertise or if there are bad conditions at the continuous dialogue, identify irregularities, improprieties and other risk areas. Also workplace, it can affect the Group’s operations and earnings negatively. refer to pages 26–28. IT Description: The company is highly aware that a coordinated IT structure within Handling: An outage in the systems for order and stock management would certain parts provides the Group major benefits. At the same time, this entails ­negatively impact the deliveries to our customers. To ensure operations and greater risks in the form of, for example, operating outages in the Group’s systems ­prevent outages in data communication, doubled connections, among other for orders and stock management and external attacks on the IT structure through measures, are used. In order to minimise the risk of external attacks on the IT viruses, hacking, digital trespassing and information theft. structure, Mekonomen Group is protected by firewalls and we are continuously working to update antivirus protection and analyse threats and risks. Mekonomen Group is connected to the credit management institutes’s rules regarding Payment card industry data system security. Damage to central warehouse or regional warehouses Description: Any damage, such as fire or technical disruption, at any of the Group’s Handling: Fire safety and protection from technical disruptions are a prioritised central or regional warehouses would entail significant negative consequences for area at all of our facilities and extensive emphasis is assigned to prevention efforts. the company’s sales and delivery possibilities to our customers, which can in turn The Group has consequential-loss insurance if a fire were to occur or other harm the Group’s reputation. ­damage were to arise that disrupts the operations at our facilities. Losses and value handling risks Description: The Group’s operations include sales and stock-keeping of a large Handling: At Mekonomen Group, work is continuously in progress to combat number of products, of which many are considered theft-prone. The Group’s losses and to define what is scrapping, internal consumption and actual theft. This ­operations also include cash management, which entails a risk of theft, both in work is based on it being important to focus on all types of losses, for example, branches and during the transportation of cash from the branch to the bank. by reviewing order procedures, delivery checks and unpacking of goods. In terms of value handling risks, Mekonomen Group strives to provide the same level of ­solutions for security services, security systems and cash management for all companies within the Group. Merger of central warehouses Description: Merger of the Group’s two central warehouses in Sweden is under Handling: We evaluate the risks continuously throughout the course of the project. way and investments have been made in Mekonomen’s central warehouse in A project organisation is responsible for minimising risks and delays, and makes Strängnäs with an expansion of a fully automated part. The project is proceeding ­rapid responses to potential problems possible. Through expanded work on masaccording to plan and the automation was put into operation in autumn 2018. In ter data and product harmonisation, we ensure that we have the right assortment 2019, MECA’s central warehouse operations were gradually included. We see major in the new warehouse. Risks in the merger are minimised through an action plan strategic gains coming from the merger at the same time that the project is business for various scenarios that may arise upon unforeseen events. critical and associated with risks. Problems can arise during the transfer of MECA’s operations that lead to operating outages or to the project not resulting in the expected positive effects. Environmental risk Description: Mekonomen Group’s impact on the environment and climate mainly Handling: Our proprietary operations in MECA Sweden, MECA Norway and occurs through energy use in premises, transports and waste and chemicals manaMekonomen Sweden have come the furthest in the environmental efforts. These gement. If our stakeholders do not have confidence in our environmental efforts, operations work systematically on environmental issues and have certified manage­ our operations can be negatively impacted. Possible violations of rules would have ment systems in accordance with ISO 14001. In 2019, Mekonomen Group will a legal impact and harm our brands. Good environmental and sustainability work is analyse the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions to then set relevant targets to reduce also becoming an increasingly important factor for young people when they choose our climate impact. A more detailed description of our environmental efforts is on an employer. Our business is to some extent affected by weather conditions. The pages 29-30. warm summer of 2018 caused several of our workshop customers to close for a longer period that in a normal summer, which negatively impacted our sales. Supplier risks Description: A large number of products and suppliers at a company is usually Handling: To facilitate control of the supplier level and the supply chain, all major associated with higher risks in the form of, for example, quality and delivery time, purchasing agreements are controlled by Mekonomen Group’s joint purchasing as well as sustainability risks. Mekonomen Group stocks more than 100,000 part organisation. Purchasing takes place mainly from European suppliers, which also numbers in different warehouses in the Group and has access to over 1 million deliver to the car makers. Suppliers that account for more than 93 per cent of our items for ordering. This makes control and follow-up of quality of spare parts and purchases have signed our clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact or product content as well as checks of suppliers in relation to corruption or human presented their own corresponding policy. For more information, see page 31. rights violations an extensive effort for us. Financial risks Description: Mekonomen Group’s financial risks mainly comprise currency, credit, interest-rate and liquidity risks. See Note 35 for a description of the financial risks. In the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46-47, there is a description of the internal control and risk assessment that aim to prevent misstatements in the financial statements. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 15 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS GROUP OVERVIEW We are convinced that the combination of differentiated businesses and concepts, as well as a strong shared purchasing function enable us to meet our customers needs with a broad offering, and thus we create good conditions for profitable growth. FTZ Inter-Team MECA FTZ is the leading car part distributor in Inter-Team is a well-established car part MECA is a leading actor in the Swedish and the Danish market with B2B sales of spare distributor in the Polish automotive Norwegian aftermarket for spare parts, parts, consumables and tools to customer ­aftermarket with sales of spare parts, tools and workshop equipment. Sales are groups such as workshops, car dealers and consumables and tools to workshops, car primarily made to B2B customers. This other wholesalers. dealers, retailers and other wholesalers. includes the own workshop concept MECA Inter-Team conducts export business to Car Service, the cooperating workshop Germany, the Czech Republic and Ukraine, chain Bosch Car Service, and the branch among others. and petrol chain OKQ8. Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Other business areas Mekonomen’s strong brand and concept Sørensen og Balchen sells spare parts Within the Group, we have started up is well-established in the Swedish and and car accessories and operates the or invested in businesses with the aim of Norwegian markets. Through branches, branch and workshop concept BilXtra broadening and complementing our core e-commerce and the workshop concepts in the N ­ orwegian market. Sørensen og business. The Group is part owner in Mekonomen Bilverkstad and MekoPartner, Balchen is the leading actor in Norway the technology company Swedspot, the affordable compete solutions are offered for car ­accessories for consumers through e-commerce actor Mekster and the digital for both companies and consumers. branches and e-commerce. booking portal for workshop services ­L asingoo. Through ProMeister Solutions, the Group develops services for professional workshops and trains and recruits automotive technicians. 16 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS FTZ Number of workshops Market leader in Denmark Competitive advantages in the market FTZ: FTZ was founded in 1962 and has been a part of With well-developed logistics, FTZ meets the custom921 Mekonomen Group since 2018. ers’ needs for availability through deliveries of spare The company has a national network of 49 branches parts between 4-10 times a day. in Denmark, two branches on the Faeroe Islands and The company’s business system FTZ+ serves as both a central warehouse in Odense. The broad geographic management system and business system for the worknetwork enables rapid deliveries of products to the shop customers and is continuously developed to meet workshops. the customers’ needs for a comprehensive ­business tool. FTZ has four workshop concepts with franchise Through its own academy, expertise is continuously ­agreements under the brands AutoMester, HELLA developed among the company’s employees and the Servce Partner, Din Bilpartner and CarPeople with a workshop’s automotive technicians. Skills development total of more than 900 franchise workshops. Through is strategic in order to meet customer demand, develop the four workshop concepts, customers are offered the company based on new trends in the market and differentiated high-quality products and services. master new technology in pace with automotive tech­ Besides its own franchise concepts, FTZ also has nical development. co­operation with the workshop chain Bosch Car To benefit from the company’s size, the shared ­Service and has a car dealer concept for pre-owned ­knowledge is gathered in a competence base where cars under the brand 100 procent Autotjek. automotive technicians are offered support to solve technical challenges over a hotline. FTZ – key figures 2018 and 2017 20181) 2017 FTZ is the leading car part distributor in the Net sales (external), SEK M 1,088 Danish market with B2B sales of spare parts, EBITA, SEK M 50 consumables and tools to customer groups EBIT, SEK M 49 such as workshops, car dealers and other EBITA margin, % 5 wholesalers. Website: www.ftz.dk EBIT margin, % 5 Number of branches/of which proprietary 51/51 Number of AutoMester 423 1) FTZ is included in this report from 3 September 2018. Number of Din BilPartner 136 Number of HELLA Service Partner 336 2) The average number of employees in full-year 2018 is Number of CarPeople 26 calculated for the period 3 September 31 December Average number of employees2) 389 2018. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 17 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS INTER-TEAM Number of workshops Well-established actor in Poland Competitive advantages in the market Inter-Team: Inter-Team was founded as a family company in 1989 With its wide network of branches, professional staff 465 in Poland. The company’s headquarters are located in and deep knowledge of the demanding Polish market, ­Warsaw and the central warehouse only 40 km away. ­Inter-Team is a one stop shop for all aftermarket players. With a strong B2B focus the company delivers a wide Owning all its branches, Inter-Team takes full control range of car spare parts and workshop equipment to of the business chain. The investment in a wide range customers in Poland as well as in neighboring countries. of s­ ervices constitutes real value for the customers Constatly growing Inter-Team’s sales network includes and ­creates further growth opportunities. Inter-Team’s about 80 branches nationwide and a subsidiary in the Technical Academy is a training center for car mech­ Czech Republic. The two workshop concepts, O.K. anics. It offers professional and practical training Serwis and Inter Data Service, are Inter-Team’s answers programs as well as latest knowledge about car mainto the growing expectations of the Polish market. O.K. tenance. The Technical Hotline is Inter-Team’s response Serwis is a garage network that meets the need of to car mechanics’ needs in terms of quick access to professional workshops seeking the best assortment, various vehicle issues. full marketing support and access to the latest training More than 15 years of cooperation with Asian and programs. Inter Data Service is the concept dedicated to European suppliers together with understanding of the car workshops wishing to reach their full potential in the market expectations have contributed to the strong future when given necessary support and advice. ­position of Inter-Team’s private labels in the company’s Approximately 70 per cent of the turnover is product portfolio. Kraft Automotive comprises a wide ­generated in the domestic market, the remaining range of car parts for European cars, while Sakura 30 per cent comes mainly from Czech Republic, includes batteries for all types of cars. Germany, Slovakia and Ukraine. Inter-Team – key figures 2018 and 2017 20181) 2017 Inter-Team is a well-established car part Net sales (external), SEK M 638 distributor in the Polish automotive after­market EBITA, SEK M 0 with sales of spare parts, consumables and EBIT, SEK M -1 tools to workshops, car dealers, retailers and EBITA margin, % 0 1) Inter-Team is included in this other wholesalers. Inter-Team conducts export EBIT margin, % 0 report from 3 September business to Germany, the Czech Republic and Number of branches/of which proprietary 82/79 2018. Ukraine, among others. Number of O.K. Serwis 175 2) The average number of Website: www.inter-team.com.pl/ employees in full-year 2018 Number of INTER-DATA SERVICE 290 is calculated for the period Average number of employees2) 449 3 September 31 December 2018. 18 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS MECA Number of workshops Strong position in Sweden and Norway shops affiliated to MECA Car Service gain access to IT MECA: MECA was founded in 1967 under the name Malmö Bil­ solutions, business systems, training, technical support, 717 detaljer and became a part of Mekonomen Group in 2012. results-oriented marketing support and fast and precise The company has 85 branches in Sweden and Norway deliveries through MECA’s distribution network. In that supply affiliated workshop customers with spare order to offer good service to the customers, MECA parts, and a central warehouse in Eskilstuna and a regional sets certain requirements on affiliated workshops and warehouse in Gjøvik. the workshops must share MECA’s values and live up In the future, the company’s supply chain will be run to a high level of quality. through the Group’s new automated central warehouse Besides focus on the workshop customers, MECA in Strängnäs, Bileko Car Parts. The warehouse is under also focuses on improving service to the end customconstruction and will serve as a shared central warehouse ers, the car owners. In 2018, an extensive work was for Mekonomen’s and MECA’s Swedish operations and initiated to develop the workshop concept, the offering continued support for the regional warehouse in Gjøvik. and clarify the positioning of the MECA brand. MECA provides workshop concepts for individual Besides being a supplier, MECA is a partner to the workshops that can join as members under the brand workshops and understands the end customers’ needs. MECA Car Service. MECA also has a cooperation with Building value in every stage creates a win, win, win the workshop chain Bosch Car Service in Sweden and ­situation good solutions for the end customer and Norway, and cooperation with the store and petrol chain profita­bility for both the workshops and MECA. OKQ8 in Sweden. As a complement to the core business, MECA is ­making investments in the Heavy Vehicle area with Competitive advantages in the market a product range and equipment for vehicles over MECA offers its B2B customers high availability and 3.5 tonnes. effective distribution up to five times a day. WorkMECA – key figures 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 MECA is a leading actor in the Swedish and Net sales (external), SEK M 2,008 1,907 Norwegian aftermarket for spare parts, tools EBITA, SEK M 260 273 and workshop equipment. Sales are primarily EBIT, SEK M 249 265 made to B2B customers. This includes the own EBITA margin, % 13 14 workshop concept MECA Car Service, the EBIT margin, % 12 14 cooperating workshop chain Bosch Car Service, Number of branches/of which proprietary 85/80 86/76 and the store and petrol chain OKQ8. Number of MECA Car Service Website: www.meca.se, www.meca.no 717 722 workshops Average number of employees 628 567 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 19 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS MEKONOMEN Number of workshops Market leader in Sweden and Norway services to their workshop customers include business Mekonomen: Mekonomen was founded in 1973 under the name Bileko. systems and business support to improve the work945 The company changed name to Mekonomen in 1996. shops’ profitability, financing solutions and marketing. Under the Mekonomen brand, there are over 170 Skills development of the workshops’ automotive techbranches in Sweden, Norway and Finland and a central nicians is strategically important to maintain a high level warehouse in Strängnäs. The central warehouse in of expertise and develop the knowledge in line with the Strängnäs is being modernised with a new automation technical development of the car manufacturers. and changing name to Bileko Car Parts, to in the future Car owners is safe knowing that the new car supply both MECA and Mekonomen with spare parts ­warranty always applies. They get a three-year and accessories. ­warranty on spare parts and a one-year assistance Mekonomen operates two workshop concepts under insurance after a car service is made. For maintenance the brands Mekonomen Bilverkstad and MekoPartner. and repairs, spare parts equivalent to original quality Mekonomen Bilverkstad is the premium concept with are used and the work is done according to the manuhigher standards of quality and concept compliance. facturer’s specifi­cations. In addition, there is a price High quality is also an important requirement in the guarantee that means that the customer will get double MekoPartner concept. However, MekoPartner is not as the difference in a price reduction if he or she finds a tied to profiling or concept compliance. less expensive service or repair alternative at ordinary price at a brand-dependent workshop. Competitive advantages in the market Upcoming business development in Mekonomen The Mekonomen concept offers complete solutions for focuses on further broadening the comprehensive companies and consumers for an easier car life. Availoffering, soon with car wash and car glass services. ability and high quality are keywords. Mekonomen’s Mekonomen – key figures 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 Mekonomen’s strong brand and concept is Net sales (external), SEK M 2,684 2,683 well-established in the Swedish and Norwegian EBITA, SEK M 295 325 markets. Through branches, e-commerce and EBIT, SEK M 290 313 the workshop concepts Mekonomen BilverkEBITA margin, % 11 12 stad and MekoPartner, affordable complete EBIT margin, % 11 11 solutions are offered for both companies and Number of branches/of which proprietary 172/143 175/145 consumers. Website: www.mekonomen.se, Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 721 746 www.mekonomen.no, www.mekonomen.fi Number of MekoPartner 224 236 Average number of employees 939 955 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 OUR SEGMENTS, BRANDS AND CUSTOMERS SØRENSEN OG BALCHEN Number of workshops Leading actor in car accessories in Norway Competitive advantages in the market BilXtra: Sørensen og Balchen was founded in 1904 as a car Sørensen og Balchen has a strong focus on and is 258 part wholesaler and importer of cars. Since 1992, the the market leader in car accessories to consumers in company has focused solely on spare part ­distribution ­Norway. The company stands for the largest share of car and branch and workshop concepts. Sørensen og accessory sales among the Group’s companies, including ­Balchen became a part of Mekonomen Group in 2011. the Group’s own range of accessories, Carwise. The company’s branch and workshop concepts are Through the BilXtra Service offering, BilXtra has run under the BilXtra brand. The company has more taken over the role of the petrol stations in terms of than 60 branches with a central warehouse in Oslo. assisting car owners who need fast help with their car. Workshops under the BilXtra brand are run mainly The branches serve as pit stops for car owners who through franchise agreements and the concept has a get help in replacing windscreen wipers, replacing light strong local focus, with control of quality requirements, bulbs, installing roof boxes, installing child car seats or concept compliance and a shared basic assortment. The washing the car. workshops primarily purchase products from Sørensen og Balchen through BilXtra’s branch network, which also includes Mekonomen Group’s own product brands ProMeister and Carwise. Sales of spare parts and car accessories to car ­owners take place through branches and online. Sørensen og Balchen – nyckeltal 2018 och 2017 2018 2017 Sørensen og Balchen sells spare parts and Net sales (external), SEK M 739 778 car accessories and operates the branch and EBITA, SEK M 107 120 workshop concept BilXtra in the Norwegian EBIT, SEK M 106 120 market. Sørensen og Balchen is the ­leading EBITA margin, % 14 15 actor in Norway for car accessories for EBIT margin, % 14 15 ­consumers through branches and e-commerce. Number of branches/of which proprietary 64/36 68/39 Website: www.sogb.no, www.bilxtra.no Number of BilXtra workshops 258 258 Average number of employees 256 253 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 21 SUSTAINABILITY MEKONOMEN GROUP – A PART OF SOCIETY Mekonomen Group’s operations affect our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and the environment. As the industry leader, we have a particular responsibility for sustainability. Sustainability must be an integrated part of our business operations and generate value for the company and our stakeholders. Mekonomen Group has “WE SHALL BE AT THE Transports of people and goods are necessary and signed the UN Global Mekonomen Group’s operations play an important role Compact’s principles here. Through service, maintenance and repairs, the regarding human rights, labour, environment and vehicle can be driven as efficiently as possible during is lifespan. Our operations contribute to the vehicles on FOREFRONT WHEN IT COMES anti-corruption. the road being as fuel efficient as possible. The right maintenance and service of cars increases traffic safety TO SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR on our roads. The transport sector is transitioning from using fossil INDUSTRY” fuels to biofuels and electricity, and to greater automation. Car owners need to be able to service and repair Governance of the sustainability work their vehicles regardless of how they are powered. The responsibility for the strategic sustainability work, As the industry leader, Mekonomen Group has an including targets and follow-up, rests with the Group important role in the transition to a less fossil-depenManagement Team of which the Director of Legal Affairs dent society. and Sustainability is a member. To further strengthen the Besides our products and services generating value, Group’s strategic sustainability work, a sustainability manwe also create jobs for employees and suppliers and ager was hired in 2018. The Board of Directors follows pay taxes. up the work in the Group Management Team’s reportWe are dependent on our employees. As employers, ing. The operational work is driven by the manager or we are present in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland president of the respective segments in collaboration and Poland, some other parts of Europe and Hong with the managers for the environment and quality in Kong. In a changing world, the right expertise is importthe respective Group companies. Mekonomen Group ant for us. This is about maintaining and developing the has signed the UN Global Compact’s principles regarding expertise of existing employees. We need to ensure human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. that opportunities exist for competence development for staff in our affiliated workshops. We must also promote the development of future expertise in the Vision until 2020 workshop area. 1. Enable recruitment of 500 automotive We work to reduce our operations’ impact on the technicians. environment, mainly in the areas of chemicals, waste 2. Committed employees 82 (EI) and leadership and energy and fuel consumption. (LSI) 851). We purchase spare parts and accessories from sup3. 35 per cent women in management positions. pliers mainly in Europe, but also in Asia. Consequently, 4. 95 per cent of the Group’s automotive the sustainability work in the supply chain is of central technicians annually participate in ProMeister importance to us. Academy courses. Read more about sustainability in the business model 5. All employees have undergone training in on pages 6-7 and the materiality analysis on page 91. the Group’s Code of Conduct, the whistle-­ Due to changed measureThrough the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in 1) ment methods, the previous blowing function and corruption policy. measurement Employee Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in the third quarter 6. Main suppliers of products that account for Satisfaction Index (ESI) has been discontinued.. Instead, of 2018, they became a part of Mekonomen Group. 95 per cent of the Group’s purchasing volindexes for committed Our current vision in the sustainability area applies umes have signed the UN Global Compact. employees and leadership are measured. New goals up to 2020. Because of this and the acquisitions, the were set in 2018. Group’s strategy and vision will be revised during 2019. 22 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY THE GLOBAL GOALS AND MEKONOMEN GROUP The member countries of the United Nations have adopted 17 global sustainable development goals that are to be achieved by 2030. Among other things, the goals are to contribute to ending extreme poverty, reducing inequality and injustice in the world, promo­ ting peace and justice and combat climate change. Mekonomen Group’s operations contribute to and affect many goals and targets either directly or ­indirectly in the supply chain, for example. In 2018, an analysis was done of which goals are most relevant to the Group. This analysis supplements the earlier ­materiality analysis and forms a platform for the Group’s further development of the sustainability work (read more about the materiality analysis on page 91). UN Global Goal 7. UN Global Goal 8. UN Global Goal 12. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Promote sustained, inclusive and Ensure sustainable consumption and sustainable and modern energy for all sustainable economic growth, full and production patterns productive employment and decent work for all The right maintenance and service of Our overall goal is to develop with A properly maintained vehicle convehicles reduces energy consumption. high profitability and thereby generate tributes to traffic safety and that the For car owners, it is key to be able value growth for the shareholders. vehicle has as small an environmental to service and repair their vehicles Good profitability means that we impact as possible during its lifespan. regardless of how they are powered. can continue to work and create jobs Our operations entail the handling We make it possible for car ownand contribute to society through e.g. of chemicals. We take responsibility ers to service and repair their vehicles the payment of taxes. for the right marking and handling regardless of whether they run on As employers, we have a responaccording to current legislation. The fossil fuels, biofuels or electricity. By sibility with regard to the terms of waste that arises in our value chain developing our products and services employment, working environment, is sorted and recycled. We report for the growing share of vehicles run gender equality, diversity and incluto the authorities according to set on alternative fuels, we contribute to sion. Our operations are constantly requirements. a transformation in society. developing and it is therefore of We influence through our Internally, we work to reduce our central important that our employees supply chain through, for example, energy use in premises and lower fuel develop to be able to meet the cusproper payment and requirements consumption. tomers’ needs and the expectations with regard to human rights, terms of our surroundings. We also invest of employment and environmental resources in the training of future impact in the manufacturing process. vehicle technicians to increase the In this respect, there is also a connecsupply of trained labour. tion to Goal 8. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 23 SUSTAINABILITY COLLABORATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS CREATES VALUE The customers, which are corporate customers and individuals, are our most important stakeholders. To maintain confidence and develop the company, the dialogue with our stakeholders is key. Mekonomen Group conducts continuous dialogues with customers, employees, owners and investors, suppliers and society. Customer The relationship between Mekonomen Group’s operations and our customers is crucial regardless of whether it concerns companies or consumers. Quality is a critical success factor for continued positive development of the company, our products and our service to our customers. Dialogue and follow-up: Continuous dialogue in the customer interaction, customer service, through consumer surveys and customer satisfaction surveys, the website, newsletters and in social media. Issues in focus in 2018: Customer service level, workshop quality, affordability and availability, Godkänd Bilverkstad (Approved Workshop). 24 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Offering a workplace with the possibility of competence development Employees Owners and analysts and career paths is the Our employees are a prerequisite for the Mekonomen Group is listed on Nasdaq foundation to attract and operations’ development and growth. Our Stockholm. Mekonomen Group’s overall retain skilled managers employees having the right expertise is crucial goal is to develop with high profitability and employees. to having satisfied customers. We therefore and thereby generate value growth for have a major responsibility to offer a safe and the shareholders. developing workplace and to be an attractive employer for future colleagues. Dialogue and follow-up: Dialogue and follow-up: Annual employee talks and continuous dialogue Annual General Meeting, annual and sustainduring the year, employee surveys, workplace ability report, interim reports, capital market meetings, the intranet, newsletters, and diadays, road shows and individual meetings with logue with union organisations. investors and analysts. Issues in focus in 2018: Issues in focus in 2018: Physical and psychosocial work environment, A long-term financially sustainable developcommitment, leadership and development, ment, growth opportunities, governance and terms of employment, possibility to influence transparency, as well as new share issues. the local workplace. Diversity, gender equality and inclusion. Having skilled automotive technicians in our workshops is a prerequisite Suppliers Society and authorities to be competitive and Mekonomen Group mainly purchases spare Mekonomen Group’s operations entail an enviprovide a good customer parts and accessories from the large Euroronmental impact from both operations and experience. pean suppliers in the automotive industry. products. The work environment is affected by, Through our own ProMeister brand, we also for example, heavy lifts and the use of chemihave suppliers in Asia. In addition, we have cals. These areas are regulated by authorities, suppliers of indirect materials and services. which is why an open and transparent dialogue is important. To increase the supply of labour with the right expertise, the Group established cooperation with upper-secondary schools. Dialogue and follow-up: Dialogue and follow-up: Continuous meetings, follow-up during the Meetings and cooperation with industry organcontract period and audits. isations. Collaboration with NGOs and schools. Dialogue with supervisory authorities regarding permits and inspections (including those in the environment, working environment, chemicals handling and fire safety). Issues in focus in 2018: Issues in focus in 2018: Product quality and safety, signatures and Godkänd Bilverkstad (Approved Workshop), compliance with the UN Global Compact’s training and expertise, fulfilment of legislation in principles. e.g. environment, work environment, chemicals and fire safety. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 25 SUSTAINABILITY WE HAVE COMMITTED AND COMPETENT EMPLOYEES Mekonomen Group works to offer a developing and safe workplace. In the Group, there is a distinct culture where the customer is in focus. Commitment and respect for duties, colleagues and our surroundings are the foundation of a successful development for the company. We have committed and competent employees Committed employees 78% Committed managers and employees are a ­necessity Gender distribution for attracting customers, future employees and developing the company. Offering a workplace with the possibility of ompetence development and career paths Goal: Committed is the foundation to attract and retain skilled managers employees (EI) 822) and employees. Outcome: 78 (75)1) The strategic work has been led by the Director of HR, who has been a member of the Group Management Team, in collaboration with the companies’ HR managers and HR coordinators. They ensure that the Leadership 77% strategy is implemented in the operational work. The Group conducts regular employee surveys. The most recent was done in 2017 with a result for employee commitment (EI) of 78 (75) and the leaderGoal: Leadership ship index (LSI) of 77 (73)1,2). The response rate was (LSI) 852) high at 82%. The survey shows that the commitment Outcome: 77 (73)1) Men 83% among managers is high and that they provide good Women 17% leadership. The cooperation in the work teams functions well and the possibility of influencing one’s own Age distribution employees work situation is good. Identified areas of improvement are internal communication, follow-up and feedback. The results are discussed both Group-wide and in the respective companies. Each group has formulated a unique action plan based on their results. The next employee survey will be done in autumn 2019. A safe and healthy work environment A positive and safe work environment is a strategically important part of Mekonomen Group’s development 1) FTZ and Interteam are not and is important to our employees. The Group’s work included in the survey as they were acquired in 2018. environment efforts aim to create a physically, psychologically and socially sound and developing workplace 2) Due to changed measurement methods, the previous for all employees, where risks of occupational injuries measurement Employee 4% less than 20 years Satisfaction Index (ESI) has and work-related illness are prevented. The Group’s been discontinued. Instead, 23% between 21–30 years 40% between 31–45 years view of the work environment efforts is based on the indexes for committed 25% between 46–59 years employees and leadership work environment policy. are measured. New goals 8% more than 60 years were set in 2018. 26 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Our managers and employees get the development necessary Our operations are continuously developed to meet the customers’ and surrounding world’s requirements and expectations. Competence development takes place continuously – in daily work, through meetings and through courses. We encourage internal mobility and advertise the majority of available positions internally. Internal mobility is a way to develop both employees and organisation. Internal mobility provides new perspectives and possibilities to learn from each other. During the year, Mekonomen Group carried out a special effort in communicative leadership. The majority of managers and leaders have undergone step one in the training programme that will continue with step two in 2019. The goal is for everyone in the target group to participate in the initiative. education for prospective vehicle technicians in StockIn connection with GDPR becoming enforcible, an holm and Lund. The programme is being conducted in internal web-based course in two steps was done by cooperation with the school actor Lärande i Sverige. The all employees. programme now has around 40 students per year group. In 2019, a common Learning Management S­ ystem To increase interest in the automotive technician (LMS) will be introduced in the Group’s Nordic profession, the Group also cooperates with industry ­operations. The system includes unique skills profiles organisations and we arranged study visits for eg. the and training packages per position. Swedish Public Employment Service to show what it Mekonomen Sweden started a pilot in 2018 for a looks like at a modern workshop. talent programme for future managers in the branch operations. The aim is to make use of and develop Diversity contributes to greater business value Women in senior positions 10% skilled employees in the company with the conditions Mekonomen Group’s work on diversity is based on and desire to become future managers. MECA Sweden the view that people’s differences contribute to an had a clear employee focus in its strategic efforts. The attractive and dynamic workplace. We strive for our message “One MECA” emphasises that we are stronger workplaces to reflect the diversity of our customer Goal: 35% women in together. An inclusive working atmosphere where groups and society in general. With employees and management positions everyone’s skills are put to use, regardless of where in ­managers with varying experience and expertise, we by 2020 the organisation they work, is necessary for MECA’s have better possibilities of meeting the customers’ needs. Outcome: 10% continued success. Diversity is also important in order to create renewal and change in a traditional industry. For us, diversity We ensure the competence is about the value of differences among our employof the workshop technicians ees when it comes to gender, ethnic background, age, Our core business depends on us supporting affiliated ­education and experience. workshops with training of existing staff and potentially A major challenge for us is to create an even new employees. Vehicle technology is changing in pace ­gender distribution in a traditionally male industry. with the development of society, which is why securing The ­proportion of women in Mekonomen Group is the right expertise is of central importance. ­currently about 17 per cent. Our goal for 2020 is to For existing workshops, we offer training through have 35 per cent women in management positions. ProMeister Academy in e.g. technology, customer To achieve a more even distribution, there are clear ­service and areas such as electric and hybrid cars. processes in recruitment. We strive to identify both male During the year, more than 4,000 training days were and female final candidates when filling positions and we held for automotive technicians in Norway and Sweden use competence-based recruitment tests in recruitment. within the framework of ProMeister Academy. Of ProMeister Solutions, which supports the workshops these training days, 75 per cent were carried out by with recruitment, participates in the Double Vocational workshops affiliated to our concepts. Education project, which is a collaboration between the In the Swedish upper-secondary schools, too few City of Malmö, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry vehicle technicians are graduating. This is due both to of Southern Sweden, the Swedish Public Employment a lack of interest in the profession as such and the fact Service and Region Skåne. ProMeister Solutions is also that traditional automotive programmes do not maincooperating with “Äntligen Jobb” (Finally Work), which has tain an adequate level of quality in the training. been developed in collaboration with the Swedish Agency In autumn 2017, Mekonomen Group took an initial for Economic and Regional Growth to find a faster way to step towards modernising the image of the automotive employment for recently arrived immigrants. technician profession by starting its own upper-secondary Employee KPIs: See page 92. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 27 SUSTAINABILITY WE HAVE A BUSINESS ETHICS APPROACH Code of Conduct Today, we make purchases from some markets The Code of Conduct Mekonomen Group’s Code of Conduct provides where corruption is a well-known problem, which states how we are to act guidance on how we are to act and treat each other requires that we actively distance ourselves from these with regard to human and our stakeholders. Among other things, the Code practices. Through a common purchasing organisation rights, working condistates how Mekonomen Group and our employees are that secures all major purchasing agreements for our tions, environment and to act with regard to human rights, working conditions, Group companies, we have better control over supplianti-corruption. external environment and anti-corruption. There is also ers and the flow of products. Our supplier agreements information about the Group’s whistle-blower function contain clauses that refer to the United Nations Global in the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct was Compact. approved by the Board and has been translated to In 2018, there were no reported cases of corruption every Nordic language as well as English. A review in Mekonomen Group. is done annually and any updates are communicated to all employees by e-mail and published on intranet Whistle-blower system ­platforms and the external website mekonomen.com. The purpose of the whistle-blower system is to give In 2018, extensive work was begun to update the all employees in the Group a possibility of reporting Group’s Code of Conduct. The work will be completed suspicions of people in management or people in key in 2019 and the Code will cover all companies and positions in the Group committing serious impropriemployees in Mekonomen Group. As a part of the eties that conflict with Mekonomen Group’s Code of implementation, an online course will also be prepared. Conduct or law. The whistle-blower system is to be used only in the cases the circumstances mean that Anti-corruption it is not appropriate to report according to the usual Although the risk is considered higher in certain reporting channels, such as to the immediate manager. markets and certain industries, corruption is not Information on the Group’s whistle-blower system geographically limited. Mekonomen Group applies is in the Code of Conduct and detailed information zero tolerance to corruption. The Group’s view of is in a Group policy that is available on the Group’s corruption is presented in the Code of Conduct. intranet. The Group’s anti-corruption policy has clear rules regarding, for example, benefits, gifts and arrangements. The policy is available to all employees on the Group’s intranet. The rules apply to all employees and build on parts of the Swedish “Business Conde” that is managed by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute (IMM). 28 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REDUCE OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Our largest environmental impact is in the areas of transports, energy use and chemicals and waste management. We have a responsibility for our impact branches in MECA as well as Mekonomen in Sweden. Our largest environmenon the environment and the climate In 2017/2018, FTZ conducted an analysis of energy tal impact is in the areas Mekonomen Group’s largest environmental impact is improvements at selected departments. This resulted in of transports, energy use in the areas of transports, energy use, chemicals and LED lighting being installed at several workplaces. and chemicals and waste waste management. The operations have rules and In the on-going work with automation of the central management. procedures to manage their environmental impact. In warehouse in Strängnäs, continuous improvements are 2019, the Group will conduct a more thorough analysis made to achieve the best possible efficiency. During the to quantify the operations’ environmental and climate year, all lighting in the warehouse was replaced by LED impact to then set relevant targets. lighting. This reduces energy use by around 524,000 The strategic environmental efforts rests with the kWh/year, which corresponds to an energy saving of Group’s sustainability manager, who reports to the more than 66 per cent. ­Director of Legal Affairs and Sustainability, who represents these issues in the Group Management Team. Handling of chemicals The operational work is the responsibility of the manager Mekonomen Group puts a large number of chemical or president of the respective business areas in collaboraproducts on the market. This entails a responsibility to tion with the managers for the environmental work. check labelling, ensure that the right information exists in the form of e.g. safety data sheets, ensuring that Transports certain kinds of chemicals are only sold to professionals Our operations require transports both with our own and that storage is correct in warehouses and branches. vehicles and through subcontractors. Products and Proper handling and the right protective equipment are goods are transported from our large warehouses to of central importance to our workshops. the Group’s branches and our e-commerce customers. To further strengthen the handling of chemicals, From the branches, transports are made with delivery an effort is under way to prepare an online course vehicles to our own and affiliated concept workshops. for the branch operations for companies active in To reduce the environmental impact from the transSweden. The training will be implemented in 2019. ports, consideration is taken to fuel consumption in the A course for chemicals handling in workshops will purchase of vehicles. also be d­ eveloped in 2019. A new cardboard machine has been installed in the Reporting is done to authorities according to current central warehouse in Strängnäs. The new machine legislation. Supervisory authorities conduct inspections senses the fill level of the boxes with goods that are sent with regard to chemicals handling and labelling. out. Based on the contents, the machine automatically Despite a systematic check of chemicals, it occurs creates an optimal box size. This way, the transport of air that incorrectly labelled products reach the market. If from the warehouse to our customers is minimised. this happens, we act as soon as we are apprised of it. The products are stopped centrally for further sales Energy use and a recall is made when necessary. We have warehouses, branches, workshops and offices. Energy mapping was done according to the requirements incorporated in the respective countries regarding the EU Energy Performance Directive. Handling of oil emissions Branches in Mekonomen Sweden regularly receive During the year, an affiliated workshop had information about their energy use and advice on how an oil leak that polluted the soil. The leak was they can reduce consumption. In autumn 2018, MECA caused by trespassing and sabotage in the began so-called “night walks”. When the operations are area where the oil is stored. The soil has been closed and it is dark outside, the premises are checked cleaned and there are no indications that oil in terms of lighting, equipment (eg. computers, screens spread to the surrounding area. and printers), ventilation, temperature and outer doors. Green electricity is purchased for a large number of Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 29 SUSTAINABILITY Waste management Systematic environmental work We work systematically In our operations, waste and hazardous waste arise. The and certified management systems with the environment conversion of the warehouse in Strängnäs has given rise MECA’s express warehouse and departments in and several parts of our to larger amounts of waste in 2018. The greater autoSweden and Norway have environmental m ­ anagement operations have certified mation of the warehouse in Strängnäs has also resulted systems certified according to ISO 14001. A certified management systems in some increase in corrugated board in the waste flow. management system according to ISO 14001 means, according to ISO 14001. This is expected to decrease once the fine tuning of the among other things, that the operations have an system is done. In the workshops, hazardous waste also environmental policy, have identified their significant arises in the form of e.g. oils, batteries and chemicals. environmental aspects, have procedures for handling The waste is sorted and handled according to legislation environmental aspects and relevant legal requirements, and collected by a waste contractor with a permit to as well as set environmental targets. transport waste and hazardous waste. Mekonomen Sweden’s branches and several workshops have certified management systems according to environment (ISO 14001), quality (ISO 9001) and work environment (OHSAS 18001). Certification of the management systems entails regular internal evaluations and external audits, which are an important part in the improvement work. In the industry initiative, Godkänd Bilverkstad Waste (Approved Workshop), requirements are also set on systematic quality, environment and work environment efforts, which will be checked by an external party. Environmental legislation, environmental permits and inspections The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits according to the respective national environmental legislation. Car washes that requires notification of activity are conducted within the Group. The permits required by the respective authority for handling certain amounts of chemicals are handled by the respective company and locally. Supervisory authorities in the respective countries in which Mekonomen Group is active inspect our operations. Mekonomen Group complies with current environCombustible 14% Recycling 74% mental legislation, which also means that we apply the Hazardous waste 12% Landfill 0% precautionary approach about taking necessary steps to reduce our negative impact on the environment. 30 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY WE HAVE REQUIREMENTS AND EXPECTATIONS ON OUR SUPPLIERS Goal: The main suppliers of products that account for 95 per cent of the Group’s purchasing volumes have signed the agreement clause on compliance with the UN Global Compact by 20202). 93% Outcome: Main suppliers of products that account for more than 93 (92) per cent of our purchases have signed our agreement clause or presented their own corresponding policy. Spare parts constitute the majority of the Group’s Suppliers for our own brand products (OBP), purchases and sales and account for a large part of ProMeister and Carwise, are deemed to be the largest the Group’s sales. Purchases mainly take place from quality and sustainability risk. The Group therefore the same suppliers that supply the car makers. Nearly conducts internal audits of all new ProMeister suppliall suppliers have their base in Europe, while the ers. The audits take place through factory visits and ­production of products takes place in both Europe tests of products based on checklists that encompass and Asia. Around 20 per cent of our articles are the review of product quality, environmental and social 1 Direct imports from Asia mean that a delivery is made purchased through direct imports from Asia1). requirements. The product range is quality audited directly from Asia to the Through the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in through independent actors and in our test laboratory Group’s wholesale warehouse, without the products Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in the third quarter Intermeko in Poland. The test laboratory is jointly being kept in stock by a of 2018, they became a part of Mekonomen Group. owned with the Polish car part company Inter Cars. supplier in Europe. Direct import comprises both purThe acquisitions entail possibilities of synergies with Through the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in chases directly from Asian regard to suppliers. Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in the third quarter suppliers and purchases from European suppliers as of 2018, they became a part of Mekonomen Group. In they are not always stocked Sustainable supply chain light of this change, and that the current vision extends in Europe before delivery. Since 2013, all supplier agreements at Bileko Car to 2020, the Group’s vision and processes for a sustain2 The goal covers agreParts, Mekonomen Group’s wholesale company have able supply chain will be revised. This work has begun ements in Mekonomen Group excluding FTZ included a clause on compliance with the principles of and will continue in 2019. and Interteam. FTZ and the UN Global Compact. Around 80 per cent of the The Group will continue to work on a common Interteam became a part of Mekonomen Group in product supply is obtained through purchases from agreement base for the main suppliers and thereby the third quarter of 2018. 160 suppliers. At the end of 2018, 93 per cent (92)2) ensure continued compliance with the UN Global The Group’s vision for a sustainable supply chain will of all suppliers have signed our agreement clause or Compact. be updated with regard to presented their own corresponding policy. this in 2019. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 31 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE SHARE Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Mid Cap segment and is traded under the MEKO ticker. The Mekonomen share the company’s cash flow between the comHolding per ownership category1) At 31 December 2018, the total market pany’s goal of both reducing the debt and value of the company was SEK 5.2 billion. pay dividend. In light of recent rights issue The share’s highest price in 2018 was and higher debt level, the Board believes it to quoted at SEK 166.2 on 1 August. The be wise to paus the dividend for 2018. The ­lowest price was quoted on 10 December Board continues to support the long-term at SEK 88.4. The number of shareholders on goal of paying not less than 50 per cent of 31 ­December 2018 was 12,310 (10,707). As the earnings as dividends. per 31 December 2018, Mekonomen’s share capital amounted to SEK 141 M (90) and Communication to the capital market comprised 56,416,622 shares (35,901,487) Mekonomen Group’s communication to the at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share capital market aims to provide the market (2.50). Each share carries one vote at the reliable, accurate and current information Annual General Meeting and all shares regarding the company’s position, operaSwedish owners of which: carry equal entitlement to a share in the tions and development. The information Swedish fund managers 19.3% Swedish private individuals 20.2% company’s profits and assets. shall increase the knowledge and interest Swedish pension and insurance companies 10.4% Each shareholder is entitled to vote for of the company. Mekonomen Group parti­ Other Swedish owners 3.8% all their shares with no restrictions and cipated in a number of conferences in the Foreign owners, 46.3% the shares are not included in any transfer Nordic countries and organising meetings restrictions. with investors and analysts in Stockholm and London in 2018. Some of the topics New share issue with preferential right that were of particular interest to investors The acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team in and analysts were market growth, the com2018 was partially financed by a rights issue. petitive situation, the weak SEK’s impact on The rights issue was oversubscribed and purchasing prices, the effect of increased Mekonomen’s share capital increased by share of electric cars on our roads, and the SEK 51.2 million to SEK 141.0 million and the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. number of shares increased by 20,515,135 shares. For more information, page 40. Buyback of own shares Share history1) In December, Mekonomen AB carried Nominal value, Shares, Share capital, total, out a buyback of 63,250 own shares to Year Transaction SEK total SEK cover the company's commitment under 1990 Formation of company 100.00 1,000 100,000.00 the “LTIP 2018” approved by the Annual 1998 Bonus issue 100.00 400,000 40,000,000.00 ­General Meeting on 9 May 2018. Shares 1998 Split 10:1 10.00 4,000,000 40,000,000.00 in own custody do not entitle to dividends 1999 New share issue 10.00 5,434,444 54,344,440.00 and are not entitled to vote. For more 2000 New share issue 10.00 7,252,626 72,526,260.00 2001 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,286,626 72,866,260.00 information, page 40. 2002 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,385,226 73,852,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,397,326 73,973,260.00 Dividend 2003 Split 2:1 5.00 14,794,652 73,973,260.00 The Board of Directors proposes that no 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 14,869,150 74,345,750.00 dividend for 2018 to be paid. The dividend 2004 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 15,304,618 76,523,090.00 actually paid in the previous year was SEK 2004 New share issue 5.00 15,434,411 77,172,055.00 7.00 per 35,901,487 shares (SEK 4.46, trans2005 Split 2:1 2.50 30,868,822 77,172,055.00 lated with a number of shares outstanding at 2011 New share issue 2.50 32,814,605 82,036,512.50 2012 New share issue 2.50 35,901,487 89,753,717.50 31 December 2018, 56,353,372). With this 2018 New share issue 2.50 56,416,622 141,041,055.00 recommendation, the Board has balanced 1) Source: Modular Finance. 32 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The 15 largest shareholders, 31/12/20181) Number Votes and Name of shares capital, % LKQ Corporation 15,001,046 26.6 Didner & Gerge Fonder 4,992,616 8.8 Fjärde AP-fonden 4,617,503 8.2 Swedbank Robur Fonder 2,497,754 4.4 Eva Fraim Påhlman 2,009,176 3.6 Catella Fonder 1,193,852 2.1 Vanguard 1,082,541 1.9 Ing-Marie Fraim 1,000,000 1.8 Kempen Capital Management 973,485 1.7 Dimensional Fund Advisors 959,120 1.7 Avanza Pension 764,628 1.4 Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring 718,267 1.3 Försäkringsbolaget PRI 600,864 1.1 Norges Bank 516,911 0.9 BlackRock 460,421 0.8 Total 15 largest shareholders 37,388,184 66.3 Other 19,028,438 33.7 Holding per size class, 31 December 20181) Number of known shareNumber Votes and Size class holders Owner (%) of shares capital, % 1 – 100 5,650 45.9% 198,221 0.4% 101 – 200 1,625 13.2% 259,279 0.5% 201 – 500 2,030 16.5% 721,858 1.3% 501 – 1 000 1,451 11.8% 1,103,056 2.0% 1 001 – 2 000 752 6.1% 1,135,555 2.0% 2 001 – 5 000 503 4.1% 1,636,556 2.9% 5 001 – 10 000 133 1.1% 956,711 1.7% 10 000 – 20 000 76 0.6% 1,097,104 2.0% 20 001 – 50 000 40 0.3% 1,296,059 2.3% 50 001 – 100 000 14 0.1% 884,155 1.6% 100 001 – 200 000 11 0.1% 1,558,113 3.0% 200 001 – 500 000 11 0.1% 3,636,556 6.4% 500 001 – 1 000 000 7 0.1% 5,533,275 9.8% 1 000 001 – 20 000 000 7 0.1% 31,394,488 55.6% Anonymous ownership 5,005,636 8.5% Total 12,310 100.0% 56,416,622 100.0% Data per share1) Amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings, continuing operations 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 12.80 Earnings, discontinued operations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 -9.46 Earnings 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 3.34 Cash flow 8.3 13.8 15.1 12.2 11.5 Shareholders’ equity 67.9 65.8 64.4 59.7 57.5 Dividend2) 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 Share of profit paid, % 0 70 75 59 210 Share price at year-end 91.5 149.3 171.5 173.0 204.0 Share price, highest for the year 166.2 191.0 207.0 234.5 207.0 Share price, lowest for the year 88.4 139.8 150.5 170.0 139.0 Direct yield, % 0.0 4.7 4.1 4.0 3.4 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.0 14.9 18.4 14.7 61.1 Average number of shares after dilution effects3) 39,718,604 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period 56,416,622 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 12,310 10,707 9,484 9,373 9,664 1) Source: Modular Finance. 2) The Board’s proposal for 2018. 3) No dilution is applicable. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 33 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INFORMATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting The shareholders of Mekonomen Aktiebolag (publ), corporate Financial calendar 2019 identity number 556392-1971, are hereby invited to attend the Annual General Meeting at 4:00 p.m. on 2 May 2019 at Vasa­ Information Period Date teatern, Vasagatan 19, Stockholm, Sweden. Registration for the Interim report January–March 2019 2 May 2019 Annual General Meeting will open at 3:00 p.m. Interim report January–June 2019 23 August 2019 Interim report January–September 2019 8 November 2019 Year-end report January–December 2019 7 February 2020 Registration Shareholders wishing to participate the Annual General Meeting must: • be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB not later than Thursday, 25 April 2019, and • notify the company of their intention to attend the meeting no later than Thursday, 25 April 2019. Investor relations contacts Notification may be made in writing to Mekonomen Aktiebolag, Pehr Oscarsson ”Årsstämman”, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 191, SE-101 President and CEO 23 Stockholm, Sweden or by phone + 46 8 402 90 47 between Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: pehr.oscarson@mekonomengroup.com 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on weekdays. Shareholders who are natural persons may also register on Mekonomen’s website, ­ Åsa Källenius www.mekonomen.com. When registering, name, personal or CFO corporate identity number, address, phone number and number Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 of any assistants must be provided. E-mail: asa.kallenius@mekonomengroup.com Helena Effert Nominee-registered shares Head of Investor Relations Shareholders who have nominee-registered shares must, in Mobile: +46 (0) 72 234 29 58 addition to register participation in the Meeting, temporarily E-mail: helena.effert@mekonomengroup.com re-register the shares in their own name in the shareholders’ register in order to be entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting. Such re-registration must be carried out by Analysts Thursday, 25 April 2019 and should be requested at the bank The analysts below continuously monitor Mekonomen. Please note or trustee well in advance of this date. that these analysts’ estimates, forecasts or other opinions do not represent Mekonomen or its company management. Proxies Company Name Shareholders who participate by proxy or representative should ABG Sundal Collier Andreas Lundberg send authorisation documents (power of attorney and/or registraCarnegie Mikael Löfdahl tion certificate) to the company at the above postal address well in Handelsbanken Mika Karppinen advance of the Meeting. Power of attorney forms are available on Kepler Cheuvreux Mats Liss Nordea Stellan Hellström Mekonomen’s website, www.mekonomen.com. SEB Nicklas Fhärm Dividends The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2018 to the Annual General Meeting. The dividend actually paid in the previous year was SEK 7.00 per 35,901,487 shares (SEK 4.46, translated with a number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2018, 56,353,372). Printed Annual Report Printed Annual Reports will be distributed only to shareholders requesting them approximately one week before the Annual General Meeting. 34 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT ADMINISTRATION REPORT General in extension, for our affiliated workshops and their customers. The Board of Directors and CEO of Mekonomen AB (publ.) corpoGrowth did not materialise in 2018 in our Swedish and ­Norwegian rate identity number 556392-1971, hereby submit the Annual Report core business – sales of spare parts for workshops – which is essenand consolidated financial statements for the 2018 financial year. tially a stable and profitable business. When there is no market growth, Mekonomen Group consists of the leading car service chains in our costs are too high. In addition to this, we conducted a number of Northern Europe with a proprietary wholesale operation, more than smaller business acquisitions in Sweden and Norway, which indeed 460 branches and over 3,400 affiliated workshops operating under increased our revenue, but further diluted the EBIT margins. the Group’s brands. We have one thing in common: we make car life Revenue rose to SEK 7,951 M (6,000). Adjusted for positive cureasier and more affordable for our customers. We do so through a rency effects of SEK 88 M and effects of the acquisition of FTZ and broad and accessible range of affordable and innovative solutions and Inter-Team of SEK 1,726 M, revenue increased by 2 per cent. Sales in products for consumers and companies. comparable units decreased 1 per cent. EBIT amounted to SEK 407 M In 2018, Mekonomen Group’s business is conducted through five (522) and the EBIT margin amounted to 5 per cent (9). Earnings were segments: FTZ (Denmark), Inter-team (Poland), MECA (Sweden negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 89 M (0). and Norway), Mekonomen (Sweden and Norway) and Sørensen 2018 was a challenging year. Besides occasionally weak demand og ­Balchen (Norway). Our growth potential lies in a combination of for car parts and workshop services, 2018 began with a challenge strong common purchasing functions and differentiated concepts and when we were struck by a strong drop in sales of DAB in Norway. brands in the eyes of our customers. Our segments have their own Excluding FTZ and Inter-Team, and newly acquired small workshops business model with unique concepts and solutions to meet their in Sweden and Norway, sales decreased marginally during the year. In customers’ needs. At the same time, we make use of our size advanturn, profitability was negatively impacted by acquisition costs and the tage through consolidated organisations in such areas as purchasing, weak SEK’s effect on purchasing costs. There is still a lot to work on logistics and supply chain. in the Group that involves streamlining of operations, which is high on FTZ, Inter-Team and MECA have a B2B focus on their respective management’s agenda for the next few years. markets and cater mainly to the workshops as business partners. The work on a shared central warehouse for MECA and In addition to its relationship with affiliated concept workshops Mekonomen in Sweden is continuing according to plan and, as previand other business customers, Mekonomen has a clear positioning ously announced, is expected to provide annual savings of SEK 50 M towards the consumer market – with a focus on complete solutions beginning in 2020. for all kinds of car owners. Sørensen og Balchen, which operates the The extremely warm summer, the mild start to winter and the BilXtra spare-parts chain, has a strong consumer focus and a leading long Christmas break were contributing causes of an unusually weak position in car accessories. The target group includes young drivers demand for car parts and workshop services in all of our main who want to personalise the appearance of their cars. markets in the second half of 2018. A development that characterised The Group’s three branch chains in Sweden and Norway are large parts of Europe. We assess that the market will again grow by ­operated under the brands MECA, Mekonomen and BilXtra. The 1-2 per cent in the Nordic region and 4-5 per cent in Poland for the branch chains largely consist of proprietary branches, a smaller first half of 2019. number are operated through partnerships or franchise cooperation. The total number of branches in the chains at the end of the year Branch sales in Denmark and Poland are mainly B2B sales and are was 467 (336), of which 396 (263) were proprietary branches. The made in the brand FTZ in Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland. Our number of affiliated workshops totalled 3,416 (2,045), of which 75 workshop chains in the Nordic region are mainly operated under (45) were proprietary workshops. the five brands BilXtra, MECA Car Service, Mekonomen Bilverkstad, MekoPartner and Speedy. Mekonomen Group owns a small number Revenue of workshops under our brands. In Denmark, the Group operates Revenue rose to SEK 7,951 M (6,000). Adjusted for positive currency the workshop concepts Automester, Hella Servicepartner, Din effects of SEK 88 M and effects of the acquisition of FTZ and InterBilpartner and CarPeople through the FTZ segment. In Poland, the Team, revenue increased by 2 per cent. The number of weekdays was Group operates the workshop concepts O.K. Serwis and Inter Data one fewer in Sweden and Finland and two fewer in Norway during Service through the Inter-team segment. the year compared with the previous year. Calculated on comparable The Parent Company has its registered office in Stockholm. The workdays and adjusted for currency effects, revenue increased 3 per address of the head office is Box 19542, SE-104 32 Stockholm, cent. Sales in comparable units decreased 1 per cent. The decrease ­Sweden. Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 11th floor. The Parent in sales of DAB products negatively impacted the revenue by around ­Company’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap segment. SEK 136 M compared with the previous year. The three largest owners in the Parent Company as per 31 DecemOther operating revenue mainly comprises rental income, marketber 2018 are LKQ Corporation with 26.6 per cent, Didner & Gerge ing subsidies and exchange-rate gains. Fonder with 8.8 per cent, and Fjärde AP-Fonden with 8.2 per cent. Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible Financial year assets, EBITA 2018 was one of the most important years ever in Mekonomen’s EBITA amounted to SEK 553 M (649) and the EBITA margin nearly 50-year history. After the acquisitions of Danish FTZ and Polish amounted to 7 per cent (11). Earnings were negatively impacted Inter-Team, Mekonomen Group is in many ways a new company. We by items affecting comparability of SEK 89 M (positive: 9), of which have doubled in size and this creates significant advantages for us and, SEK 20 M was attributable to impairment of DAB product stock Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 35 ADMINISTRATION REPORT for the Norwegian market, SEK 23 M was attributable to costs of During the period September to December 2018, FTZ reported the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, SEK 6 M was attributable to sales in line with the same period in 2017 (before the acquisition date), the divestment of Marinshopen and SEK 15 M for handling of spare negatively affected by a weak aftermarket for car parts and workshop parts in 2017 that were returned to suppliers for reconditioning and services in Denmark during the second half of 2018. Operating profit integration costs of SEK 25 M. Currency effects on the balance sheet was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 18 M negatively impacted EBITA by SEK 3 M (negative: 1). The decrease in regarding costs related to the integration work. sales of DAB products negatively impacted EBITA by around Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 1,088 M (-). EBIT amounted SEK 18 M compared with the previous year. to SEK 49 M (-) and the EBIT margin amounted to 5 per cent (-). The number of branches amounted to 51 (-), of which 51 (-) were Operating profit, EBIT proprietary. There were 921 (-) workshops. EBIT amounted to SEK 407 M (522) and the EBIT margin amounted to 5 per cent (9). Earnings were negatively impacted by items affecting Inter-Team segment comparability of SEK 89 M (0), of which SEK 20 M was attributable to The Inter-Team segment primarily includes wholesaling and branch impairment of DAB product stock for the Norwegian market, operations in Poland and export operations and is included in the SEK 23 M was attributable to costs of the acquisition of FTZ Group from September 2018, in other words only four months. and Inter-Team, SEK 6 M was attributable to the divestment of The operations in Inter-Team generally have lower margins than Marinshopen and SEK 15 M for handling of spare parts in 2017 that Mekonomen Group as a whole. were returned to suppliers for renovation and integration costs of During the period September to December, Inter-Team reported SEK 25 M. a sales increase of around 5 per cent compared with the same period Currency effects on the balance sheet negatively impacted EBIT in 2017 (before the acquisition date). Sales in Poland were negatively by SEK 3 M (negative: 1). The decrease in sales of DAB products impacted by a somewhat weaker market than the expected 4-5 per negatively impacted EBIT by around SEK 18 M compared with the cent annually during the second half of 2018, but was counterbalprevious year. anced by new customers and exports to new markets. Operating profit was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK Operating profit (EBIT) adjusted 7 M regarding costs related to the integration work. for items affecting comparability, Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 638 M (-). EBIT amounted to SEK M 2018 2017 SEK -1 M (-) and the EBIT margin amounted to 0 per cent (-). Operating profit (EBIT), excluding items affecting comparability 496 522 The number of branches amounted to 82 (-), of which 79 (-) were Impairment of stock of DAB products -20 proprietary. There were 465 (-) workshops. Divestment Marinshopen -6 Acquisition costs FTZ and Inter-Team -23 MECA segment Handling of reconditioned spare parts -15 The MECA segment mainly includes wholesale and branch operations Costs related to integration of FTZ and Inter-Team -25 in Sweden and Norway, and fleet operations in Sweden. Items affecting comparability 2017 total 0 MECA showed a good sales trend in 2018 despite a weak afterItems affecting comparability, total -89 0 market for car parts and workshop services in Sweden and Norway Operating profit (EBIT) 407 522 in the second half of 2018. Net sales was positively impacted by a number of smaller acquisitions and a strong NOK against the SEK. Profit after financial items The operating profit was negatively impacted by high purchasing Profit after financial items increased to SEK 477 M (475). Net interest costs, due to a strong EUR, and initially low EBIT margins in the expense amounted to SEK 47 M (25) and other financial items to SEK acquired operations. 117 M (-23). Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 2,008 M (1,907), of which net sales in the Swedish operations were SEK 959 M (949) and in the Profit for the year Norwegian operations were SEK 1,049 M (958). The currency effect Profit after tax amounted to SEK 268 M (368). The tax expense was on net sales against the NOK was a positive SEK 35 M. The number negatively impacted by an amount of SEK 93 M (positive: 17) by the of weekdays was one fewer for Sweden and two fewer for Norway. impairment of deferred tax assets for Group deductions for earlier The underlying net sales increased 4 per cent. deficits in Denmark due to the acquisition of FTZ. Corporate tax in Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible Sweden will be reduced in two steps from 2019, which have an effect fixed assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 260 M (273) and the EBITA maron the calculation of deferred tax in the balance sheet, which posigin amounted to 13 per cent (14). Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to tively affected the tax expense by SEK 7 M. Earnings per share before SEK 249 M (265) and the EBIT margin amounted to 12 per cent (14). and after dilution amounted to SEK 6.56 (10.05). The number of branches amounted to 85 (86), of which 80 (76) were proprietary. There were 717 (722) workshops. Seasonal effects Mekonomen Group has no actual seasonal effects in its operations. Mekonomen segment However, the number of workdays affects both sales and profit. The Mekonomen segment primarily includes wholesale, branch and fleet operations in Sweden and Norway. FTZ segment The weak aftermarket for car parts and workshop services in The FTZ segment primarily includes wholesaling and branch operaSweden and Norway in the second half of 2018 had a negative tions in Denmark and is included in the Group from September 2018, effect on the Mekonomen segment’s net sales, which is partially in other words only four months. The operations in FTZ generally compensated by a positive effect from a strong NOK against the have lower gross margins than Mekonomen Group as a whole, which SEK. The operating profit for 2018 was negatively impacted by high is compensated by generally lower operating expenses. purchasing costs due to a weak SEK and items affecting comparability of SEK -28 M (negative: 7). The items affecting comparability refer to 36 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT SEK -13 M attributable to impairment of DAB product stock for the Investments Norwegian market and SEK -15 M attributable to an incorrect hanInvestments in fixed assets for the year amounted to SEK 221 M (164). dling of spare parts in 2017 and 2018 that were returned to suppliers Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets amounted to for reconditioning. SEK 84 M (60). Investment in construction in progress for the central Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 2,684 M (2,683), of which net warehouse in Strängnäs was made in an amount of SEK 104 M (77). sales in the Swedish operations were SEK 1,800 M (1,816) and in the The investments in the central warehouse now total SEK 194 M. Norwegian operations were SEK 884 M (867). The currency effect Company and business combinations amounted to SEK 4,406 M (68), on net sales against the NOK was a positive SEK 29 M. The number of which SEK 3 M (13) relates to the estimated supplementary purchase of weekdays was one fewer in Sweden and two fewer in Norway. considerations. During 2018, supplementary purchase considerations Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intanwere also paid in an amount of SEK 5 M (4). Acquired assets totalled gible fixed assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 295 M (325) and the SEK 2,850 M (25) and assumed liabilities SEK 1,385 M (10). In addition EBITA margin amounted to 11 per cent (12). Operating profit (EBIT) to goodwill, which amounted to SEK 1,865 M (22), surplus values on amounted to SEK 290 M (313) and the EBIT margin amounted to intangible fixed assets of SEK 829 M (34) were identified with regard 11 per cent (11). to customer relations. Deferred tax liabilities attributable to acquired The number of branches amounted to 172 (175), of which 143 intangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 300 M (3). (145) were proprietary. There were 945 (982) workshops. Acquired non-controlling interests amounted to SEK 1 M (8). Divested non-controlling interests amounted to SEK 1 M (0). Sørensen og Balchen segment Divested operations amounted to SEK 6 M (10). The Sørensen og Balchen segment primarily includes wholesale and branch operations in Norway. Financial position and cash flow Net sales in Sørensen og Balchen were negatively impacted by the Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 331 M (496). Tax weak Norwegian aftermarket for car parts and workshop services in paid amounted to SEK 199 M (66). Cash and cash equivalents amounted the second half of 2018, which was partly positively counterbalanced to SEK 205 M (254). The equity/assets ratio was 35 per cent (43). by a strong NOK against the SEK. Sørensen og Balchen is the segLong-term interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 3,232 M (1,453). ment in the Group that has the largest share of sales directly to the Current interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 1,081 M (255). consumer and is thereby more exposed to the higher competition in Net debt amounted to SEK 4,098 M (1,444), which is an increase retailing and to the declining sales of DAB products. In 2018, Sørensen of SEK 2,653 M. The increase of the net debt is mainly attributable to og Balchen continued to show effective cost control. However, operloans raised in connection with the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team ating profit was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 4,564 M, dividend of SEK 260 M, and an effect of repayments, of SEK 7 (0), attributable to impairment of stock of DAB products for investments and a positive operating cash flow. SEK 1,997 M (139) in the Norwegian market. loans was repaid during 2018. At 31 December 2018, net debt/EBITDA Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 739 M (778). The currency amounted to 6.44 (2.03). effect on net sales against the NOK was a positive SEK 24 M for the full-year. There were two weekdays fewer. The underlying net sales Employees decreased 7 per cent. The number of employees at the end of the year was 5,569 (2,286) and Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intanthe average number of employees during the year was 3,181 (2,231). gible fixed assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 107 M (120) and the Mekonomen Group has well-developed HRM (Human Resource EBITA margin amounted to 14 per cent (15). Operating profit (EBIT) Management) work that includes equal opportunities plans, action proamounted to SEK 106 M (120) and the EBIT margin amounted to grammes against discrimination in the workplace, clear goals and goal 14 per cent (15). follow-ups, reporting and explicit segregation of responsibilities. The number of branches amounted to 64 (68), of which 36 (39) were proprietary. There were 258 (258) workshops. Managers and employees Committed managers and employees are a prerequisite for successAcquisitions and start-ups ful growth and development of our operations. We believe that a On 6 July 2018, Mekonomen entered an agreement to acquire all clear direction for the Group and clear missions for our managers shares in the car part distributors FTZ Autodele & Verktøj A/S and employees are important conditions for this commitment. Skills (“FTZ”) in Denmark and INTER-TEAM Sp.z.o.o. (“Inter-Team”) in development takes place in daily work, through meetings and courses Poland. After approval by relevant authorities was obtained, the A fundamental approach at Mekonomen Group is to capitalise on the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team was completed on 3 September skills available in the Group and develop them through further training 2018. Payment for the shares was fully made in cash and the total and opportunities for new challenges within the Group. Internal recruitpurchase consideration amounted to EUR 404 M, translated at the ment takes place within and between Group companies. During the rate on the transaction date to SEK 4,284 M. FTZ and Inter-Team are year, Mekonomen Group carried out a special effort in communicative included in Mekonomen’s financial statements from the acquisition leadership. The majority of managers and leaders have undergone step date 3 September 2018. one in the training programme that will continue with step two in 2019. In addition to the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, the Group acquired 18 workshops in Sweden and four workshops in Norway Diversity and gender equality during the year. Acquisitions also took place of 65 per cent of the Mekonomen Group has participated in several external projects relating shares in Allt i Bil AB with seven workshops in Sweden, which in to issues in such areas as diversity and the labour market for a number of turn acquired Bilglascentralen with operations in Gothenburg and years. The intention is for Mekonomen Group’s workplaces to reflect the 51 per cent of the shares in Mekster AB with sales of spare parts over diversity of our customer groups and society in general. Diversity is also the Internet. In addition, seven branches and three car wash facilities important in order to create renewal and change in a traditional industry. were acquired in Sweden. In addition, four new workshops were By having employees and managers with varying experience and experestablished in Sweden. The effect of them on consolidated sales and tise, we improve the possibility of meeting the customers’ needs. earnings was marginal. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 37 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Employee surveys amount corresponding to 30 per cent of basic salary. Pensionable The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisfacsalary comprises basic salary. The period of notice for the President tion and working conditions, and whether individual employees are is 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, and six able to influence their work situation. The employee survey captures months if terminated by the President. The period of notice for other opinions from all employees. The results are discussed Group-wide members of the Group Management Team is a maximum of 12 and within the respective companies with the aim of implementing months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months improvements in the operations from an overall perspective to one’s if terminated by the employee. In addition, severance pay of a maxiown group/unit. mum of 12 months salary may be paid in the event of termination of employment by the company. Competence of the workshop technicians In December, Mekonomen AB also carried out a buyback of 63,250 Mekonomen Group’s skills and development initiatives are intended own shares to cover the company's commitment under the “LTIP not only to meet today’s needs but also to anticipate the future 2018” approved by the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018. As challenges of tomorrow’s society: a fossil-independent car fleet, a a result of the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, the targets in LTIP service society, urbanisation and a shared economy. Through our own 2018 were not achieved. The Board of Directors has decided to not training efforts that ensure quality and competence of our vehicle change the targets, but rather discontinue LTIP 2018 in its entirety technicians in the Group’s workshop chains, skills development is and instead propose to the Annual General Meeting to pass a resoluoffered in e.g. new technology, customer service and professionalism. tion on a new programme for 2019. Remuneration of senior executives Sensitivity analysis Remuneration of senior executives is presented in Note 5. The Board Mekonomen Group’s earnings are affected by a number of factors, of Directors will propose the following guidelines for remuneration of such as sales volume, currency fluctuations on imported goods and senior executives to the 2019 Annual General Meeting. sales to foreign subsidiaries, margins on purchased products, salary The Board considers it very important to ensure that there is a changes, etc. Imports mainly take place from Europe, mainly in the clear link between remuneration and the Group’s values and financial currencies EUR, DKK, SEK and NOK. Purchases in EUR comprised goals in both the short and the long term. The Board’s proposals approximately 35 per cent of the purchased volumes. The table for guidelines for remuneration entail that the company is to offer below shows the currency effects on the net flow for each curmarket-based remuneration that allows the Group to recruit and rency. NOK impacted internal sales from Bileko Car Parts AB and retain the right executives, and entail that the criteria for determining from MECA CarParts AB to each country and profit for the year in remuneration is to be based on the significance of work duties and Norway. Refer to Note 35 for more detailed information on how the employees’ competencies, experience and performance. RemuneraGroup manages currency risk. tion is to comprise: • fixed basic salary, Impact of factors on profit before tax • variable remuneration, Factors pertaining to profit before Change, Impact, SEK • pension benefits, tax % M1) • other benefits and severance pay. Sales volumes +1 39 (32) Exchange-rate fluctuations The guidelines encompass the Group Management Team, which NOK +10 83 (80) currently comprises five individuals including the President. EUR +10 -143 (118) Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration DKK +10 6 (0) Committee. However, remuneration of the President is determined USD +10 -7 (0) Gross margin +1 unit 78 (58) by the Board in its entirety. Personnel costs +1 -20 (-15) The company is to offer an attractive basic salary in the market, in Interest rate2) +1 -36(-10) the form of a fixed cash monthly salary. This comprises remuneration for dedicated work performance at a high professional level that All things being equal, profit before tax for the 2018 financial year. 1) 2) The effect is based on the Group’s net debt of SEK 4,098 M as per 31 December 2018 adjusted for creates added value for Mekonomen Group’s customers, owners and the interest-rate swap of SEK 450 M. employees. In addition to basic salary, short-term and long-term variable cash The Group’s currency exposure in the translation of assets and liabilremuneration is to be offered, both of which are based on fulfilment ities in foreign currencies (excluding translation of foreign subsidiaries of Mekonomen Group’s goals for: and net investments in foreign operations) was mainly against EUR, • the Group’s earnings, and NOK and PLN. The effects on earnings in the translation of financial • individual qualitative parameters. assets and liabilities that existed at 31 December 2018 are presented below: The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration is • If EUR had strengthened by 10 per cent, keeping all other variables to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and constant, profit before tax would have been negatively impacted by authorities. SEK 43 M (negative: 8), largely as a result of losses in the translation The short-term variable remuneration is maximised to a certain of accounts payable. percentage of fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the • If NOK had strengthened by 10 per cent, keeping all other variables position of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage constant, profit before tax would have been positively impacted by points for members of the Group Management Team. SEK 3 M (positive: 7), largely as a result of gains in the translation of Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums accounts receivable. are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a correspond• If PLN had strengthened by 10 per cent, keeping all other variables ing system for employees outside Sweden. For the President, pension constant, profit before tax would have been positively impacted by provisions according to the employment agreement are paid in an SEK 4 M (0), largely as a result of gains in the translation of accounts receivable. 38 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT The above estimated effect as of 31 December 2018 vary from Environment month to month, depending on the size of the balance-sheet items at The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits the closing date. according to the respective national legislation. Operations requiring permits in the form of car washes are conducted within the Group. Risks and uncertainties The permits required by the respective authority for handling certain Mekonomen Group’s operations are, like all business operations, assoamounts of chemicals are handled by the respective company and ciated with risks that can affect the Group and our stakeholders to locally. Supervisory authorities in the respective countries in which varying degrees. A well-balanced risk management can add value and Mekonomen Group is active inspect our operations. Mekonomen business benefit, at the same time that risks that are not managed can Group complies with current environmental legislation, which also effectively lead to damage and losses. Mekonomen Group continumeans that we apply the precautionary approach about taking necesously maps the Group’s risks where the Board of Directors bears the sary steps to reduce our negative impact on the environment. utmost responsibility for the Group’s risk management. Continuously Mekonomen Group’s largest environmental impact is in the areas identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the of transports, energy use and chemicals and waste management. The operations to thereby be able to control, limit and handle prioritised operations have rules and procedures to manage their environmental risks in a proactive manner. impact. In 2019, the Group will conduct a more thorough analysis For a more detailed description of the Group’s prioritised risks and to quantify the operations’ environmental and climate impact and risk management, see page 14-15 and Note 35 Financial risks. identify relevant environmental objectives. The strategic environmental efforts rest with the Group’s sustainParent Company, “Other segments” and “Other items” ability manager, who reports to the Director of Legal Affairs and The Parent Company’s operations comprise mainly the Group Sustainability, who represents these issues in the Group Management Management Team and finance management. The Parent ­Company’s Team. The operational work is the responsibility of the manager or profit after net financial items amounted SEK 54 M (loss: 49), excludpresident of the respective business areas in collaboration with the ing dividends of SEK 612 M (315) from subsidiaries. The average managers for the environmental work. number of employees was 5 (5). Mekonomen AB sold products and For further information on the Group’s environmental efforts, refer services to Group companies totalling SEK 30 M (34). to pages 29-30. “Other segments” include business activities and operating segments for which information is not provided separately. This includes Events after the end of the year Mekonomen’s wholesale and branch operations in Finland, Meko On 11 January, in a separate transaction, the acquisition of Nordic Service Nordic with the workshop operation BilLivet, the workForum Holding was concluded as previously announced. The acquisishop operation Speedy, the workshop operations in Allt i Bil, the tion is not material. operations with Heavy Vehicles, ProMeister Solutions, Preqas, the Mekonomen Group’s earnings will be reported in four segments operation in Mekster, the service Mekonomen vehicle leasing, the joint as of the first quarter of 2019. The new reportable segments will be venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), Lasingoo Norway and GroupMECA/Mekonomen, Sörensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team. The wide functions also including Mekonomen AB (publ). Mekonomen’s MECA/Mekonomen segment also includes Preqas, Speedy and Meko branch operations in Iceland were divested in the first quarter and Service Nordic. Marinshopen was divested in the second quarter. Mekonomen Group’s management structure was changed as of The operations with Heavy Vehicles, ProMeister Solutions, Preqas 14 February 2019 to be better adapted to the new Group’s structure. and MECA Scandinavia AB were previously reported as a part of As of 14 February 2019, the Group Management Team comprises the MECA, but as of the first quarter of 2018, as a part of “Other segfollowing people: ments”; the comparative figures have been translated. – Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO The units reported in “Other segments” do not achieve quan– Åsa Källenius, CFO titative limits to be reported separately and the benefit is deemed – Tobias Narvinger, Director for Purchasing & Supply Chain to be limited for the users of the financial statements for them to – Gabriella Granholm, Director for Communication & Marketing be reported as independent segments. EBIT for “Other segments” – Robert Hård, Director for Legal Affairs & Sustainability amounted to a loss of SEK 184 M (loss: 98). “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related year. items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA, Sørensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team Future development in an amount of SEK -103 M (-77) for the full year. In 2019, our focus will continue to be driving profitable growth in all of our Group companies, with an emphasis on profitability. The Sustainability Report Group’s gross margin will also in the future be lower than previous The Group’s 2018 Sustainability Report was prepared in observance years due to FTZ and Inter-Team, which is in line with our calculations of the requirements in the Annual Accounts Act and refers to the prior to the acquisition. Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards core. The Sustainability We are no taking strong measures to increase efficiency and adjust Report is prepared based on the significant areas prioritised based our cost structure in the entire Group. A cost savings programme on internal and external stakeholders’ view of which sustainability has been initiated that will result in cost reductions of SEK 65 M on issues are the most important for Mekonomen Group. The 2018 an annual basis, of which SEK 30 M will be achieved as of the third Sustain­ability Report also constitutes our Communication on Progress quarter of 2019, and full effect as of the fourth quarter of 2019. As a Report to the UN Global Compact. Mekonomen Group’s Sustain­ part of the programme, we will act on unprofitable operations and ability Report is available on page 93 and more on the sustainability enhance the efficiency of our organisation and prioritise projects work is available at mekonomen.com. that contribute to us being able to increase the rate of our strategic projects that comprise the platform for the core operations and our Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 39 ADMINISTRATION REPORT future growth. Since year-end, we have also raised the sales prices on Share dividends our Swedish and Norwegian markets to compensate for the higher The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2018. The dividend purchasing costs, as a result of a strong EUR. actually paid in the previous year was SEK 7.00 per 35,901,487 shares The work of integrating FTZ and Inter-Team and generating pur(SEK 4.46, translated with a number of shares outstanding at 31 chasing synergies of SEK 100 M as of 2021 is proceeding according December 2018, 56,353,372). to plan. The merger of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s central warehouses in Board of Directors’ work 2018 Sweden is also proceeding according to plan and will generate cost The Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018 resolved that the Board savings of SEK 50 M as of 2020. was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, The share the Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect John S. Quinn (also Share capital and ownership structure re-elected as the Chairman), Helena Skåntorp (Executive Vice ChairThe Board of Directors of Mekonomen AB decided on 24 August man), Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten, Malin Persson and Magnus 2018, on condition of the General Meeting’s approval, to increase the Håkansson to the Board and to elect Evor Andersson as a new Board company’s share capital through a new share issue with preferential member. rights for Mekonomen’s shareholders. The Board’s decision was Due to the significant acquisition and its financing, the Board held approved by the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting 32 meetings (14) in 2018 of which one was a statutory meeting. The on 26 September 2018. The subscription price was set at SEK 79 per Board meetings during the year addressed the fixed items of each share. meeting agenda, such as business situation, financial reporting and The results of the rights issue, where the subscription period ended investments. Other issues discussed in the Board during the year were 18 October 2018 showed that the rights issue was oversubscribed. market development, risk analysis, formal work plans, policies, acquisiThrough the rights issue, Mekonomen obtained around SEK 1,621 M tion of FTZ and Inter-Team, as well as financing of the acquisitions. In before emission expenses and tax. The net amount was SEK 1,588 M. addition, selected Board meetings discussed issues relating to annual Through the rights issue, Mekonomen’s share capital increased by accounts, interim reports and budget. SEK 51,287,837.50 to SEK 141,041,055.00 and the number of shares The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an increased by 20,515,135 shares. Audit Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparAs per 31 December 2018, the share capital of Mekonomen ing issues and providing consultation, although the Board can delegate AB (publ) amounted to SEK 141 M (90) and comprised 56,416,622 authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members and shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory Board Each share (excluding treasury shares) carries one vote at the Annual meeting held directly after the election of Board members. For more General Meeting and all shares carry equal entitlement to a share in information, refer to page 44. the company’s profits and assets. Each shareholder is entitled to vote for all their shares with no restrictions and the shares are not included Auditors in any transfer restrictions. The auditors of the company are elected annually at the Annual In December, Mekonomen AB also carried out a buyback of General Meeting. According to a resolution of the Annual General 63,250 own shares in accordance with the Annual General Meeting Meeting, auditors’ fees are paid according to approved invoices. The resolution. Treasury shares do not entitle to dividends and are not Group’s auditors report to the Board as required, but at least once a entitled to vote. year. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetings of LKQ Corporation represents 26.6 per cent of the number of votes. the Audit Committee. For information about the 15 largest shareholders as per 31 DecemAt the 2018 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ber 2018, refer to the table on page 33. (PwC) was re-elected as the auditing firm until the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The Auditor-in-Charge is Authorised Public Authorisation Accountant Lennart Danielsson and with Authorised Public AccountThe Annual General Meeting in May 2018 resolved to authorise the ant Linda Corneliusson as co-signing auditor. Board, for the period until the next Annual General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with or without preferential rights for shareProposed appropriation of profit holders, to make decisions on new share issues of not more than Parent Company 3,590,149 shares. At the end of the financial year, no new shares were The following profit is at the disposal of the Annual issued under this authorisation. General Meeting, SEK 000s: Profit brought forward 2,466,906 Dividend policy Share premium reserve 1,536,815 It is the Board’s intention that Mekonomen Group will pay dividends Profit for the year 616,732 corresponding to not less than 50 per cent of profit after tax. When TOTAL 4,620,453 determining future dividends, consideration is primarily given to investment needs, but other factors deemed significant by the Board The Board of Directors proposes that profits be are also considered. appropriated as follows: SEK 000s: To be carried forward 4,620,453 Shareholder agreements TOTAL 4,620,453 As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, no shareholder agreements exist or other agreements between Mekonomen’s For further information regarding the company’s and the Group’s shareholders for joint influence over the company. As far as the Board earnings and financial position, refer to the following income stateof Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, there are no agreements or simiment, balance sheet, cash-flow statements and accompanying notes. lar that may result in a change in the control of the company. 40 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Mekonomen Group comprises approximately 190 companies that conduct business operations primarily in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland and Sweden. The Parent Company of the Group is the Swedish public limited liability company Mekonomen AB, whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. Both internal and external regulations are used as a foundation for the Principles for corporate governance governance of Mekonomen Group. Mekonomen Group’s corporate governance concerns how the operations are governed, managed and controlled in order to create External regulations Internal regulations value for the company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The Swedish Companies Act Articles of Association aim of corporate governance is to create the conditions for active Annual Accounts Act Board’s and committees’ rules of procedure and responsible company bodies, to clarify roles and segregation of Other relevant laws Board’s instruction for the President Nasdaq Stockholm AB’s Rule book Policies, guidelines and instructions responsibilities and to ensure true and fair reporting and information. for issuers Policies, guidelines and instructions Swedish Corporate Governance Code Code of Conduct and Core Values (the Code) EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) Overall Corporate Governance Model Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee President & Group Management Team Internal audit FTZ Inter-Team MECA Mekonomen SØrensen og Balchen Other segments Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Application of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code eral Meeting is to be held within six months of the close of the financial Mekonomen Group applied the Swedish Corporate Governance year. The Annual General Meeting approves the income statement and Code (“the Code”) with the following deviation in 2018: balance sheet, the appropriation of the company’s earnings, decides on discharge from liability, elects the Board of Directors and auditors, and approves fees, addresses other statutory matters as well as making Deviation from the Code (rule 2:4): decisions pertaining to proposals from the Board and shareholders. According to the Code, a Board member shall not be the Nomination The company announces the date and location of the Annual General Committee’s chairman. Meeting as soon as the Board has made its decision, but not later than Explanation: in connection with the third-quarter report. Information pertaining to Chairman of the Board John S. Quinn is also the chairman of the Nomination Committee as it is a natural choice considering the ownership structure of the location and time is available on the company’s website. ShareMekonomen. holders that are registered in Euroclear’s shareholders register on the record date and have registered participation in adequate time are entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting and vote according to Sustainability governance in Mekonomen Group their shareholdings. All information concerning the company’s meetings, The sustainability work within Mekonomen Group is an integrated such as registration, entitlement for items to be entered in the agenda part of the operations as a part of the ongoing business activities. in the notification, minutes, etc., is available on the company’s website. The basis of the work is comprised of the company’s core values and With regard to participation in the Annual General Meeting, the Board code of conduct together with a running stakeholder dialogue and has deemed it is currently not financially justifiable to allow shareholders materiality analysis. to participate in the Annual General Meeting through any means other The responsibility for the strategic sustainability work, as well as than physical presence. It is the company’s aim that the General Meettargets and follow-up rests with the Group Management including ing be a consummate body for shareholders, in accordance with the Director of Legal Affairs & Sustainability. To further strengthen the intentions of the Swedish Companies Act, which is why the objective Group’s strategic sustainability work a Head of Sustainability was is that the Board in its entirety, the representative of the Nomination employed in 2018. The Board of Directors follows up the work in the Committee, the President, auditors and other members of the Group Group Management Team’s reporting. The operational work runs by Management Team must always be present at the Meeting. the head or president of the respective segment together with manager of environment and quality within each Group company. Annual General Meeting 2018 Mekonomen Group has signed the UN Global Compact’s principles The Annual General Meeting was held in Stockholm on 9 May 2018. in the areas of human rights, working conditions, the environment and The complete minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available anti-corruption. This means that the Group commits to the UN Global on the Mekonomen website at mekonomen.com. In brief, the Annual Compact’s ten principles. A clause regarding fulfilment of the UN General Meeting resolved: Global Compact is included in all new and renewed supplier agree• to adopt the income statement and balance sheet, the consolidated ments. The principles are also a part of the Group’s Code of Conduct. income statement and the consolidated balance sheet Mekonomen Group’s Sustainability Report is available on page 93 • to pay a dividend of SEK 7.00 per share to shareholders in the 2018 Annual Report and more on the sustainability work is • to discharge the members of the Board and the presidents from liability available at mekonomen.com. • that the number of members of the Board elected by the Annual General Meeting be seven with no deputy members Shareholders • to pay total Board fees of SEK 2,345,000, of which SEK 590,000 The Mekonomen share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, relates to fees to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 330,000 relates Mid Cap segment since 29 May 2000. Share capital amounted to to the Executive Vice Chairman, and also SEK 285,000 relates to fees SEK 141,041,555 on 31 December 2018, represented by 56,416,622 to each of the other Board members elected by the Annual General shares. At year-end, Mekonomen AB had 63,250 treasury shares. Meeting who are not employed by the Group. Furthermore, fees Treasury shares do not entitle to dividends and are not entitled to for Committee work are to be paid as follows: SEK 70,000 to the vote. The total market value for the company on 31 December 2018 Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 40,000 to each of the other amounted to SEK 5.2 billion, based on the closing price of SEK 91.50. members of the Audit Committee, SEK 40,000 to the Chairman of All shares (excluding treasury shares) provide the same voting rights the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other and equal rights to the company’s profit and capital. members of the Remuneration Committee. The company’s Articles of Association do not include any restrictions • to re-elect John S. Quinn as the Chairman of the Board on how many votes each shareholder can cast at a General Meeting. • to re-elect Board members John S. Quinn, Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. The number of known shareholders on 31 December 2018 was Holsten, Malin Persson, Helena Skåntorp and Magnus Håkansson and 12,310 (10,707). On the same date, the ten largest shareholders to elect Eivor Andersson as a new Board member controlled 60.8 per cent (63.2) of the capital and voting rights and the • to re-elect the auditing firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers AB as the participation of known foreign owners accounted for 37.8 per cent company’s auditor for the period until the close of the 2019 Annual (44.7) of the capital and voting rights. General Meeting Shareholders which directly or indirectly represent at least one• to adopt a proposal on instructions for the Nomination Committee’s tenth of the voting rights for all shares in Mekonomen are LKQ composition and work Corporation and subsidiaries, whose shareholding on 31 December • to adopt the Board’s proposals for guidelines regarding remuneration 2018 amounted to 26.6 per cent (26.5). For further information on of senior executives Mekonomen’s share and shareholders, see pages 32–33. • to adopt the Board’s proposal to establish a long-term incentive programme (LTIP 2018) and in conjunction with this to authorise the Board General Meeting to decide on acquisition of own shares and transfer of own shares The General Meeting is Mekonomen Group’s highest governing body, • to adopt the Board’s proposals concerning employees’ acquisition of at which every shareholder is entitled to participate. The Annual Genshares in subsidiaries 42 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • to adopt authorisation for the Board, for the period until the next Mekonomen Group has not established any specific age limit for Annual General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with or withBoard members or time limits pertaining to the length of time Board out preferential rights for shareholders, to make decisions on new members may sit on the Board. Auditors are elected annually when share issues of not more than 3,590,149 shares the matter is submitted to the Annual General Meeting. Information from the Extraordinary General Meeting on 26 September 2018 Annual General Meeting 2019 The Extraordinary General Meeting was held on 26 September 2018 The Annual General Meeting will be held at 4:00 p.m. on 2 May 2019 at and the Meeting resolved in brief: Vasateatern, Vasagatan 19, SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden. • to approve the Board’s decision on 24 August 2018 on a rights issue of shares comprising around SEK 1,650 M • to approve the Board's proposal on a change to Section 3 of the Specific information about the Board’s work Articles of Association, whereby the limits for share capital and the Size and composition number of shares are changed to a minimum of SEK 100,000,000 According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is to and a maximum of SEK 400,000,000 kronor and a minimum of comprise three to seven members and not more than three deputy 40,000,000 share and a maximum of 160,000,000 shares. members. The company’s Articles of Association have no specific provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of Board members Nomination Committee or amendments to the Articles of Association. The Board of Directors In accordance with the guidelines established at the Annual General is to be elected annually at the Annual General Meeting. Meeting on 9 May 2018, Mekonomen Group has established a NomiThe Board of Directors shall consist of a well overall mix of the nation Committee. The company is to have a Nomination Committee competencies that are important to govern Mekonomen’s stratecomprising four members. The largest shareholders of the company gic work in a responsible and successful manner. Examples of such were contacted by the company’s Board based on the list of registered competencies include knowledge of retailing, the automotive industry, shareholders on 31 August 2018 as provided by Euroclear Sweden AB. corporate governance, compliance to rules and regulations, financing The Nomination Committee for the 2019 Annual General Meeting and financial analysis as well as remuneration issues. Earlier Board is comprised of John Quinn, LKQ Corporation, Caroline Sjösten, experience is another important competency. Swedbank Robur Fonder, Arne Lööw, Fjärde AP-fonden and Kristian The Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018 resolved that the Board Åkesson, Didner & Gerge Småbolagsfond. In accordance with the was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. guidelines, John Quinn has been appointed the Chairman of the In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Annual Nomination Committee. Mekonomen’s Board member, Helena General Meeting resolved to re-elect John S. Quinn (also re-elected ­Skåntorp, was co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Fees are not as the Chairman), Helena Skåntorp (Executive Vice Chairman), Kenny paid to members of the Nomination Committee. Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten, Malin Persson and Magnus Håkansson to the In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Board and to elect Eivor Andersson as a new Board member. Nomination Committee is to have at least three members, one of All ordinary members are independent in relation to the company whom is to be appointed Chairman. The majority of these members and its management in accordance with the definition in the Swedish are to be independent in relation to the company and company manCorporate Governance Code. Five of the Board members are indeagement and at least one of the Nomination Committee members is pendent also in relation to major shareholders. The President is not a to be independent in relation to the company’s largest shareholders member of the Board and neither is any other member of the Group in terms of the number of votes. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Management Team. A more detailed presentation of the Board memCommittee comprises four members, all of whom are deemed to be bers and their participation in Board meetings is provided on page 48. independent in relation to the company and company management. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Committee also meets other indeBoard members pendence requirements. In the opinion of the Nomination Committee, the Board has a suitable composition considering the company’s operations, financial position, The Nomination Committee’s task is to present proposes to the stage of development and circumstances otherwise. An important Annual General Meeting concerning: starting point for the proposal of Board members was that the • election of Chairman of the Meeting, Board’s composition should reflect and provide space for the different • number of Board members and deputy Board members, knowledge and experience that the company’s strategic development • the election of the Chairman of the Board and other members of and governance may demand. The company has a diversity policy for the company’s Board of Directors, the Group that includes the company’s Board and management. The • Board fees and any remuneration for committee work, company’s diversity policy, which was prepared in accordance with the • the election and remuneration of auditors, and Code’s rule 4.1, aims to achieve an even distribution of people in the • any changes to the instructions for the Nomination Committee company in terms of age, gender, education and professional background. The diversity policy forms the basis of the Nomination ComIn conjunction with its task, the Nominating Committee is to perform mittee’s proposal to the Board at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. the duties incumbent on nomination committees in accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and at the request of the Chairman Nomination Committee, the company is to provide human resources, The Chairman of the Board, John S. Quinn, is not employed by the such as a secretary function for the Committee, to facilitate its work. company and does not have any assignments with the company If necessary, the company is also to pay reasonable costs for external beyond his chairmanship. It is the opinion of the Board that John S. consultants deemed necessary by the Nomination Committee for it Quinn ensures that the Board conducts its assignments efficiently and to perform its duties. also fulfils its duties in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board’s working procedures 2018, the Chairman organised a written questionnaire for all Board The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and managemembers. The collective opinion based on the 2018 evaluation is that ment and also to make decisions pertaining to strategic issues. Due to the Board’s work functioned well and that the Board fulfilled the Code’s the significant acquisition and its financing, the Board of Directors held requirements regarding assignment of the Board. 32 (14) meetings, of which one was a statutory meeting, during 2018. The Annual General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the The minutes of the meetings were recorded by the Board’s secretary, proposal from the Nomination Committee, to allocate Board fees who is the Group’s CFO. amounting to SEK 2,345,000, of which SEK 590,000 to the Chairman of Relevant meeting documentation was sent to all members prior to the Board and SEK 330,000 to the Executive Vice Chairman, and SEK each meeting, which were then held in accordance with the approved 285,000 to each of the other Board members. Furthermore, fees for agenda. On occasions, other senior executives participated in Board Committee work are to be paid as follows: SEK 70,000 to the Chairman Meetings in a reporting capacity, as necessary. No dissenting opinions of the Audit Committee, SEK 40,000 to each of the other members of to be recorded in the minutes were expressed at any of the meetings the Audit Committee, SEK 40,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneraduring the year. The Board meetings during the year addressed the tion Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other members of the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as the year-end financial Remuneration Committee. statement including establishment of dividends, interim reports, ­budgets, strategies, business situation, financial reporting and investBoard Committees ments. In addition to this, at selected Board meetings, issues concernThe Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit ing market development, risk analysis, rules of procedure, policies, the Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing issues acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team and the financing of the acquisitions and providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority were addressed. to make decisions in specific cases. The members and Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory Board meeting held directly Assignments after the election of Board members. In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board’s aim was to devote particular attention to establishing overall goals for the Audit Committee operations and decide on strategies by which to achieve these goals The Audit Committee’s duties comprise: and to continuously evaluate the operating management, with the aim • monitoring the company’s financial statements and making recommenof ensuring the company’s governance, management and control. The dations and proposals to ensure reporting reliability and to be responBoard is responsible for ensuring that suitable systems are in place sible for the preparation of the Board’s work on quality assuring the for the monitoring and control of the company’s operations and the company’s financial statements, including making proposal on the risks to the company associated with its operations, that control is “Board’s report on internal control” regarding the financial reporting implemented of compliance with laws, internal guidelines and other for the respective financial year regulations and that the provision of external information is open, • with regard to the financial reporting, monitoring the efficiency of the objective and relevant. The tasks of the Board also include establishing company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management necessary guidelines for the company’s conduct in society with the • staying informed of the audit of the annual accounts and the consoliaim of securing its long-term value-creating ability. dated accounts and the result of the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ There are written instructions that regulate the internal rules of quality control procedure in the Board and the distribution of assignments between • informing the Board of the results of the audit and the manner in the Board and the President, and for the reporting process. The which the audit contributed to the reliability of the financial reporting instructions are reviewed annually and are primarily: the rules of and what role the Audit Committee had in the process procedure for the Board’s work, instructions for the President and • performing annual risk analyses together with the President and Group authorisation regulations. CFO to govern the resources of the internal audit towards key risk areas The Board evaluates its work every year and it is the duty of the • establishing an audit plan for internal audits and preparing an audit plan Chairman of the Board to ensure that evaluation is performed. In for the Board for external audits and ensuring coordination between them Overview of all points on the Board’s agenda in 2018 • Q4, year-end report. • Approval of the annual report. Statutory Board meeting: • Dividends. • Proposals to the Annual General • Board’s rules of procedure and • External auditors’ report. Meeting. instructions for the President. • Risk analysis. • Committees’ rules of procedure. • Election of Vice Chairman. • Election of committee members. • Q1, interim report. • Company signatories. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Ordinary Board meetings 2018 At each ordinary Board meeting, the Group’s position and performance and the outlook for the upcoming quarter were discussed. 44 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • meeting the auditors on a running basis to keep informed about the As of 9 May 2018, the Remuneration Committee consists of Board audit’s emphasis and scope as well as discussing the coordination members Malin Persson (Chair), John S. Quinn, Joseph M. Holsten and between the external and internal audits and the view of the Eivor Andersson. Company's risks The Remuneration Committee held six meetings in 2018, of • inspecting and monitoring the auditor’s impartiality and independwhich four were before 9 May and two after 9 May. The respective ence and preparing guidelines for the other non-audit services member’s participation is presented in the table on page 48. The that the company may procure from the company’s auditors and, company’s president, Pehr Oscarson, was also present at six of these where necessary, grant pre-approval when the company’s auditors meetings. The Group’s CFO was the committee secretary at five are engaged for assignments other than audit assignments meetings and the Corporate HR Director at one meeting. • annually following up audit costs against budget and the share of costs that pertain to the audit and assignments other than auditing Group Management Team services President • evaluating the audit effort and informing the company’s NominaThe President is appointed and may be discharged by the Board and tion Committee of the results of the evaluation his work is regularly evaluated by the Board, which occurs without the • studying the audit report to the Audit Committee as per Article 11 presence of the Group Management Team. of the Audit Regulation and taking any requisite action due to it Pehr Oscarson has been the President and CEO of Mekonomen • assisting the company’s Nomination Committee in the preparation Group since 1 March 2017. Prior to that, he served as the acting of proposals on auditors and remuneration of the audit effort, President and CEO of Mekonomen Group since 6 October 2016. In whereby the Audit Committee shall ensure that the auditor’s manaddition to his assignment for Mekonomen Group, Pehr is the Vice date period does not exceed applicable rules, procuring the audit Chairman of SBF (Sveriges Bilgrossisters Förening Swedish Autoand providing a recommended motivation in accordance with what motive Wholesalers’ Association), and a Board member of Fresks is stated in Article 16 of the Audit Regulation Holding AB and Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Pehr Oscarson has no • annually evaluating the Audit Committee’s formal work plan shareholdings or partial ownership in companies that the Mekonomen • preparing other matters the Board assigns the Audit Committee to Group has significant business ties with. handle Group Management Team As of 9 May 2018, the Audit Committee consists of Board members In 2018, Group Management consisted of the Group’s CEO, the Helena Skåntorp (Chair), Magnus Håkansson and John S. Quinn. In Group’s CFO, the Group’s HR director, President of Sørensen and 2018, the Audit Committee held six meetings. The respective memBalchen, President of MECA Sweden, President of MECA Norway, ber’s participation is presented in the table on page 48. The Group’s President Mekonomen Sweden, President Mekonomen Norway and external auditors, the Group’s CFO and Head of Accounting also directors for Purchasing & Product Supply, Marketing & Communicaparticipated at the meetings. tion, Legal Affairs & Sustainability and Head of the Group’s Venture operations. Remuneration Committee From 14 February 2019, Mekonomen Group’s management strucThe task of the Remuneration Committee is to discuss, decide on and ture has changed in order to better adapt to the structure of the new present recommendations on the salaries, other employment terms Group. As of February 14, 2019, Group Management consists of the and incentive programmes for company management. However, following persons: the Board in its entirety determines the remuneration and other • Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO employment terms for the President. The work of the Remuneration • Gabriella Granholm, Director of Marketing & Communication Committee is based on resolutions by the Annual General Meeting • Robert Hård, Director of Legal Affairs & Sustainability pertaining to guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. • Åsa Källenius, CFO Until the end of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Remuner• Tobias Narvinger, Purchasing Director ation Committee consisted of Malin Persson (Chair), John S. Quinn, A more detailed presentation of the current Group Management Joseph M. Holsten and Christer Åberg. Team is found on page 49. • Q2, interim report. • Q3, interim report. • Budget. • Strategy meeting. • Updating policies. • Workforce planning. • Evaluation of the Board’s work. Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration of senior executives Auditors It is considered very important to ensure that there is a clear link The auditors are appointed at the Annual General Meeting and are between remuneration and the Group’s distinct values and financial charged with reviewing the company’s financial reporting and the goals in both the short and the long term. The guidelines for remuBoard’s and President’s management of the company. At the 2018 neration of senior executives approved by the 2018 Annual General Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC) was Meeting entail that the company is to offer market-based remuneraappointed as the auditing firm until the 2019 Annual General Meeting. tion that allows the Group to recruit and retain the right executives, Auditor in charge is Authorised Public Accountant Lennart ­Danielsson and entail that the criteria for determining remuneration is to be based and with Authorised Public Accountant Linda Corneliusson as on the significance of work duties and employees’ competencies, co-signing auditor. PwC has an organisation comprising broad and ­experience and performance. specialised competency that is well-suited to Mekonomen Group’s operations and has been the company’s auditing firm since 2014. Remuneration is to comprise: • fixed basic salary, Fees to auditors, SEK M • variable remuneration, 2018 2017 • pension benefits, PwC • other benefits and Fees for audit assignments 8 6 • severance pay. Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 1 0 Tax consultancy 0 0 Other services 6 0 The guidelines encompass the Group Management Team, including Total PwC 15 7 the President. Remuneration is determined by the Board’s RemuOther auditing firms 1) neration Committee. However, remuneration of the President is Fees for audit assignments 1 determined by the Board in its entirety. Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 The President Pehr Oscarson has a fixed cash basic salary per Tax consultancy 0 month and a short-term cash variable salary portion, which is based Other services 1 on the company’s earnings and individual qualitative parameters and Total other 1 that can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual Total fees to auditors 16 7 salary. The President receives a pension benefit amounting to a 1) Other auditors refer mainly to KPMG in Inter-Team (Poland) and EY in FTZ (Denmark). maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice for the President is PwC submits an auditor’s report for Mekonomen AB (publ.) and 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, and six for the company’s subsidiaries excluding Inter-Team, FTZ and a few months if terminated by the President. In addition, severance pay of a other smaller subsidiaries. The auditors also perform a review of the maximum of 12 months salary may be paid in the event of terminathird-quarter interim report. The audit is conducted in accordance tion of employment by the company. with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration auditing standards in Sweden. The audit of annual report documents is to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and for legal entities outside Sweden is conducted in accordance with authorities. The short-term variable remuneration for other senior statutory requirements and other applicable rules in each country. executives is based on the Group’s earnings and on individual qualitative parameters and can amount to a maximum of a certain percentThe Board report on internal control regarding financial age of the fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the position reporting of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage points Under the Swedish Companies Act, the Board shall ensure that the for members of the Group Management Team. Other benefits refer company’s organisation is structured so that accounting, financial primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount management and the company's financial affairs otherwise can be that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employadequately controlled. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code ees outside Sweden. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. (“the Code”) clarifies this and prescribes that the Board is responsible The company applies a period of notice of no more than 12 for internal control. This report is prepared in accordance the Annual months. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months Accounts Act and the Code. The reporting is limited to addressing salary may be paid in the event of termination of employment by the internal control concerning financial reporting in accordance with the ­company. Upon resignation, a six-month period of notice applies. Code, item 7.4. The 2018 Annual General Meeting also resolved to establish a longThe Board supervises the quality of the financial reporting through term incentive programme (LTIP 2018), in accordance with the Board’s instructions to the President. It is the President’s duty, jointly with proposal. LTIP 2018 comprises a maximum of 16 employees consisting the Group’s CFO, to review and quality-assure all external financial of the Group Management Team of Mekonomen Group and some reporting including financial statements, interim reports, annual other key individuals in the Group. For information on the complete reports and press releases with financial content, as well as presentaproposal, see the Annual General Meeting minutes 2018 on the comtion material in connection with meetings with the media, shareholdpany’s website. As a result of the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, ers and financial institutions. the targets in LTIP 2018 were not achieved. The Board of Directors The rules of procedure decided annually by the Board include has decided to not change the targets, but rather discontinue LTIP detailed instructions on, for example, the financial reports and the 2018 in its entirety and instead propose to the Annual General Meettype of financial information to be submitted to the Board. In addition ing to pass a resolution on a new programme for 2019. to financial statements, interim reports and annual reports, the Board In connection with the approval of the long-term share-based examines and evaluates comprehensive financial information that incentive programme (LTIP 2018) by the AGM, the earlier propertains to the Group as a whole and to the various units included in gramme that ran during the financial years 2016-2018 ceased to apply. the Group. No payments regarding this programme have yet been made. There are no ongoing share-based incentive programmes. 46 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board also examines, primarily through the Board’s Audit Risk assessment Committee, the most significant accounting policies applied to the Mekonomen Group conducts continuous surveys of the Group’s financial reporting by the Group, and significant changes to policies in risks. In these surveys, a number of items are identified in the financial the reporting. The Audit Committee’s duties also include examining statements and administrative flows and processes where there internal and external audit reports regarding internal control and the is an elevated risk of error. The company works continuously to processes for financial reporting. reduce these risks by strengthening controls. Furthermore, risks are The Group’s external auditors report to the Board as required, addressed in a special forum, including questions related to start-ups but at least once a year. At least one of these meetings, the Presiand acquisitions. For a more detailed description of risks, refer to dent and CFO leave after presenting their formal reports to enable Risks and uncertainties in the Administration Report and in Note 35 Board members to conduct discussions with auditors without the Financial risks in the 2018 Annual Report. participation of senior executives. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetings of the Audit Committee. The Audit Control activities Committee reports back to the Board after every meeting. All Audit Risks of errors in the financial reporting are reduced through a high Committee meetings are minuted and the minutes are available for level of internal control over the financial reporting, with specific focus all Board members and the auditors. on significant areas defined by the Board. Within Mekonomen Group, the control structures comprise an organisation with clear roles that Control environment enables effective and, from an internal control perspective, suitable The control environment represents the basis for the internal division of responsibilities, specific control activities that aim to identify control over financial reporting. An important part of the control and prevent risks of misstatements in the reporting in time. environment is that decision paths, authorities and responsibilities Examples of control activities include clear decision-making must be clearly defined and communicated between various levels in ­processes and decision orders for significant decisions, results analyses the organisation and that the control documents are available in the and other control activities within significant processes. Control form of internal policies, handbooks, guidelines and manuals. Thus, ­activities within these processes include analytical follow-up, spot a key part of the Board’s work is to prepare and approve a number checks, account reconciliation, inventory checks in stock and branches of fundamental policies, guidelines and frameworks. These include, and engagement reviews. among other things, the Board’s rules of procedure, Instructions for the ­President, Investment policies, Financial policies and the Insider Internal audit policy. The aim of these policies is to create a basis for sound In 2018, Mekonomen Group hired the auditing firm Deloitte to internal control. conduct the internal audit in the Group. The internal audit function Furthermore, the Board focuses on ensuring that the organisaas an independent and objective assurance and advisory function, tional structure provides distinct roles, responsibilities and processes which creates value and increases certainty in internal control. This is that benefit the effective management of the operation’s risks and done by evaluating and proposing improvement in such areas as risk facilitate goal fulfilment. Part of the responsibility structure includes management, compliance with policies and efficiency in the internal an obligation for the Board to evaluate the operation’s performance control over the financial reporting. The function works throughout and earnings on a regular basis, through appropriate report packages the Group. Reporting is done to the Audit Committee, the President containing income statements, balance sheets, analyses of important and the CFO and information is provided to management in each key figures and comments pertaining to the business status of each business area and other units on the results of the audits performed. operation. The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist the Board specifically in the financial reporting. To help strengthen Information and communications the internal control, Mekonomen Group has prepared a financial Policies and guidelines are particularly important for accurate accounthandbook that provides an overall view of existing policies, rules and ing, reporting and dissemination of information. Policies and guidelines regulations and procedures within the financial area. This is a living on the financial process are continuously updated at Mekonomen document, which is updated regularly and adapted to internal and Group. Such updates mainly take place in each Group function for external changes. In addition to the financial handbook, there are the various operations through e-mails, but also at regular CFO instructions that provide guidance on daily work in branches and the meetings in which representatives from the Group finance function rest of the organisation, for example, pertaining to stock taking and participate. For communication with internal and external parties, a cash-register reconciliation, etc. communications policy is in place that states guidelines for conducting communication. The aim of the policy is to ensure that all information obligations are complied with in a correct and complete manner. Follow-up The Board evaluates the information submitted by the Group Management Team and auditors. In conjunction with this, the Audit More information is available on mekonomen.com Committee was responsible for the preparation of the Board’s work to quality assure the Group’s financial reporting. The CEO and CFO • A rticles of association hold monthly reviews of financial position with each Head of Opera• Code of Conduct • Information from previous General Meetings, from 2006 tions. Group finance function also cooperates closely with the Group • Information about the Nomination Committee company finance managers and controllers of Group companies on • Information about principles of remuneration of senior executives • The Board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of programmes for matters pertaining to accounting and reporting. The follow-up and variable remuneration feedback concerning possible deviations arising in the internal controls • Corporate Governance Reports from 2006 • Information about the 2019 Annual General Meeting are a key part of the internal control work, since this is an efficient manner for the company to ensure that errors are corrected and that the control is further strengthened. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEKONOMEN ANNUAL REPORT 2018 – MEMBERS OF THE BOARD John S. Quinn Helena Skåntorp Eivor Andersson Kenny Bräck Joseph M. Holsten Magnus Håkansson Malin Persson Board position Chairman of the Executive Vice Board ­member. Board member. Board ­member. Board ­member. Board member. ChairBoard. Member of Chairman. Chairman ­Member of ­Member of ­Member of man of M­ ekonomen’s Mekonomen’s Audit of Mekonomen’s ­Mekonomen's Renu­Mekonomen’s Remu­Mekonomen’s Audit Remuneration Committee. Member of Audit Committee. meration Committe. neration Committee. Committee. Committee. Mekonomen’s Remuneration Committee. Education M.B.A, Bachelor of Graduate in Business Marketing specialist Upper secondary M.B.A, Bachelor of BSc, Stockholm School MSc in Engineering, Business Administration Administration, and studies in Busischool education. Arts and certified of Economics. Chalmers University and certified public Stockholm University. ness Management at public accountant. MSc, MIT Sloan School. of Technology. accountant. Certified IHM Business School AMP, Harvard Management as well as board of Business School. Accountant. directors training at Michaël Berglund AB. Elected in 2017 2004 2018 2007 2017 2017 2015 Born 1958 1960 1961 1966 1952 1963 1968 Position and Board assignments CEO and M ­ anaging Self-employed. CoChairman of the Board Chief Test and Chairman of the Board CEO of RNB Retail Member of the Director of LKQ founder and Chairman of SkiStar Aktiebolag ­Development of LKQ Corporaand Brands AB (publ). Boards of Getinge Europe. Member of the of the Board of (publ) and Svanudden Driver for McLaren tion. Member of the Chairman of the AB, HEXPOL AB Boards in a number Nielstorp AB. Board AB. Board member Automotive. ­Minority Board of Covanta Boards of Tenant & and Peab AB. of LKQ subsidiaries. member of ByggPartner of AB Svenska Spel owner and Board Holding Corporation. Partner Group AB i Dalarna Holding AB and Unlimited Travel member of Motorsport and GS1 Sweden AB. (publ). Chairman of the Group UTG AB (publ). Auctions Ltd. Board and President of Skåntorp & Co AB. Board member of Storyfire AB. Work experience EVP and CFO of LKQ President of Lernia President and CEO Former professional President and CEO of CEO of Expert President of Volvo Corporation for six AB, President and of TUI Nordic race car driver. LKQ Corporation for Sverige AB, CFO of KF Technology AB and the years. SVP, CFO and CEO of SBC Sveriges (Fritidsresor AB, Star 13 years. Active for 17 Group and consultant Chalmers University Treasurer of Casella BostadsrättsCentrum Tour AS Norway/ years in the U.S. and at McKinsey & Co. of Technology Waste Systems, Inc., AB, President and CEO Danmark, Finnmatkat international operations Chairman of the Board Foundation. Many SVP of Finance at Allied of Jarowskij, CFO of OY, TUIfly Nordic of Waste Management, in RNB Retail and years of experience Waste Industries, Inc. Arla and authorised AB), Chairman of the Inc., most recently as Brands AB (publ) from large Swedish and held several financial public accountant Board of TUI Nordic EVP and COO. Prior 2010-2011. industrial companies, and operating roles at at Öhrlings/PwC. Holding AB, CEO to that auditor at a including SKF, ASG Waste Management, Inc. COOP Marknad and public accounting firm. and the Volvo Group. CEO Ving Sverige AB & Thomas Cook Sweden. Total remuneration, SEK 655 000 400 000 310 000 285 000 310 000 325 000 325 000 Attendance at Board meetings 23/241) 32/32 23/23 30/32 24/241) 31/32 31/32 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings 6/6 6/6 6/6 Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings 6/6 2/2 6/6 6/6 Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties None. 3 142 None. 1 571 None. None. 1 571 Independent of the company/company management Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Independent of major shareholders No, dependent in Yes. Yes. Yes. No, dependent in Yes. Yes. relation to major relation to major shareholders of shareholders of the company. the company. 1) Due to the presence of LKQ’s subsidiary in Poland and the independence of the Board and the interests of all shareholders, a number of the meetings that concerned the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team were held excluding John S. Quinn and Joseph M. Holsten. Changes in the Board Christer Åberg withdrew from the Board in connection with the 2018 AGM. Christer Åberg participated in seven out of ten Board meetings before the 2018 AGM. He was a member of the Remuneration Committee until the 2018 AGM and participated in four of four meetings. He was also a member of the Remuneration Committee and participated in two of three meetings until the 2018 AGM. Remuneration and compensation set by the AGM are expensed every calendar year. Remuneration for Board and committee work during 2018 to Christer Åberg was therefore reported under 2017. 48 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM FROM 14 FEBRUARY 2019 Pehr Oscarsson Gabriella Granholm Robert Hård Åsa Källenius Tobias Narvinger Role President and CEO. Director of Marketing Director of Legal Affairs CFO. Purchasing Director, and & Communication. & Sustainability. President, Bileko Car Parts. Born 1963 1982 1966 1967 1974 Education Technical upper-secondary Jurisprudence civil law, Luleå Master of Laws, Lund University. Graduate in Business Master of Science in Engineering school, supplemented University of Technology, PR Administration, Stockholm Physics, Chalmers University with short economics and and Communication, Berghs University. of Technology. MBA Master’s management courses. School of Communication. Course in International Business Administration, Chalmers University of Technology. Employed 2001 2010 2003 2017 2011–2016, 2017– Work experience President of MECA Scandinavia Director of Communications, Director of Legal Affairs, HR CFO of Tele2 Sweden, CFO Various positions in development, and before that held senior Mekonomen Group, Information and Environment, MECA Inflight Service. Financial Manager sales and purchasing Scania positions in MECA since 2001, Manager, IMA Sport. Group. Attorney-at-law, Spendrups Bryggerier. CV AB in Södertälje. President of Swecar AB. Advokatfirman Vinge. Clerk of Helsingborg District Court. Board appointments Deputy Chairman of Association Green Landscaping, Källenius of Swedish Wholesalers of Invest AB, KAAX Investment Automotive Parts and Accessories AB, KAAX Fastigheter AB. (SBF). Member of the Board of Fresks Holding AB and Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 70,457 1,317 1,625 16,582 4,000 Changes in the Group Management Team Throughout 2018, the Group management has consisted of the Group’s CEO, the Group’s CFO, the Group’s HR director, President of Sørensen and Balchen, President of MECA Sweden, President of MECA Norway, President of Mekonomen Sweden, President of Mekonomen Norway and responsible for Purchasing & Supply, Market & Communications, Legal & Legal. & Sustainability and Business Area Manager for the Group’s Venture Company. From 14 February 2019, Mekonomen Group’s management structure has changed in order to better adapt to the structure of the new Group. As of February 14, 2019, the Group Management consists of the Group’s CEO, CFO, Purchasing Director, Communications & Marketing Director and Legal Affairs & Sustainability Director. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2018 2017 Net sales 3 7,779 5,850 Other operating revenue 172 150 Total revenue 7,951 6,000 Operating expenses Goods for resale 17 -3,901 -2,654 Other external costs 4 -1,581 -1,249 Personnel costs 5 -1,832 -1,386 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets (EBITDA) 637 710 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 6 -84 -60 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 553 649 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 6 -146 -127 Operating profit (EBIT) 9 407 522 Financial income and expenses Interest income 6 4 Interest expenses -53 -29 Other financial items 9 117 -23 Profit after financial items 477 475 Tax on profit for the year 10 -209 -107 Profit for the year 268 368 Profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 260 361 Non-controlling interests 8 7 Total profit for the year 268 368 Earnings per share attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Earnings per share, SEK1) 6.56 10.05 Average number of shares1) 39,718,604 35,901,487 1) No dilution is applicable. For further information on data per share, refer to pages 32-33. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2018 2017 Profit for the year 268 368 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses -2 0 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries -129 -51 Hedging of loans against net investment1) 4 Cash-flow hedging2) 1 3 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax3) -125 -48 Comprehensive income for the year 143 320 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 135 313 Non-controlling interests 8 7 Comprehensive income for the year 143 320 1) Loans raised in connection with an acquisition in Denmark hedge the currency risk in the net investment and the currency translation is hedge accounted. 2) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 3) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 15. 50 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Assets Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 12 Goodwill 3,688 1,872 Brands 855 324 Franchise contracts 10 14 Customer relations 1,046 360 Capitalised expenditure for IT systems 146 116 Total intangible fixed assets 5,745 2,686 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings 14 55 Improvement costs, third-party property 13 33 23 Equipment and transport 14 402 231 Total tangible fixed assets 490 254 Financial fixed assets Investments accounted for using the equity method 22 22 Other financial fixed assets 11, 16 54 39 Total financial fixed assets 77 62 Deferred tax assets 15 0 93 Total fixed assets 6,312 3,095 Current assets Goods for resale 17 2,816 1,382 Current receivables 11, 18, 19 1,530 823 Cash and cash equivalents 11, 20 205 254 Total current assets 4,551 2,459 Total assets 10,863 5,554 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 27 Share capital 141 90 Other capital contributions 2,993 1,456 Reserves -307 -182 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 1,001 1,000 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 3,828 2,363 Non-controlling interests 25 16 Total shareholders’ equity 3,853 2,379 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 3,228 1,451 Deferred tax liabilities 15 474 168 Provisions 22 24 21 Total long-term liabilities 3,726 1,640 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 1,081 255 Tax liabilities 86 84 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 11, 23, 24 2,088 1,182 Provisions 22 29 14 Total current liabilities 3,284 1,535 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 10,863 5,554 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 51 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Total attributcapital Profit able to Parent NonTotal shareShare contribubrought Company controlling holders’ SEK M capital tions Reserves forward shareholders interests equity Opening balance on 1 January 2017 90 1,456 -134 900 2,311 14 2,324 Profit for the year 361 361 7 368 Other comprehensive income: -48 0 -48 0 -48 Comprehensive income for the year -48 361 313 7 320 Transactions with shareholders: Dividends -251 -251 -7 -258 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -9 -9 2 -7 Total transactions with shareholders -261 -261 -5 -265 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 90 1,456 -182 1,000 2,363 16 2,379 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 90 1,456 -182 1,000 2,363 16 2,379 Profit for the year 260 260 8 268 Other comprehensive income: -124 -2 -125 0 -125 Comprehensive income for the year -124 258 135 8 143 Transactions with shareholders: New share issue 51 1,570 1,621 1,621 New share issue costs, net after tax1) -33 -33 -33 Buyback of own shares -6 -6 -6 Dividends -251 -251 -9 -260 Shareholders’ contribution from minority 3 3 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests 0 0 6 6 Total transactions with shareholders 51 1,537 -257 1,331 0 1,331 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 141 2,993 -307 1,001 3,828 25 3,853 1) For information about tax recognised directly against equity, refer to Note 27. 52 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash-flow statement SEK M Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit after financial items 477 475 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 29 175 200 652 675 Tax paid -199 -66 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 453 609 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in inventories -336 -127 Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables 78 -74 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities 135 88 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital -123 -113 Cash flow from operating activities 331 496 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 30 -4,196 -59 Divestment of subsidiaries and operations 6 9 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13, 14 -178 -130 Divestment of tangible fixed assets 1 2 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets 12 -43 -34 Acquisition/sale of participations in associated companies and joint ventures -20 Purchase of financial fixed assets 0 -1 Decrease in long-term receivables 4 4 Cash flow from investing activities -4,407 -229 Financing activities 29 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 30 -1 -8 Divestment of non-controlling interests 30 1 0 Received shareholders’ contributions from minority 3 New share issue 27 1,580 Buyback of own shares 27 -6 Change in overdraft facilities 161 -148 Loans raised 21 4,564 258 Amortisation of loans -1,997 -139 Dividends paid -260 -258 Cash flow from financing activities 4,044 -295 Cash flow for the year -32 -27 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 254 291 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -18 -9 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 205 254 Interest received amounted to SEK 6 M (4) and interest paid amounted to SEK 53 M (29). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 53 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2018 2017 Net sales 3, 31 30 34 Other operating revenue 51 47 Total revenue 81 81 Operating expenses Goods for resale -2 -1 Other external costs 4 -92 -86 Personnel costs 5 -26 -25 Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 6 0 0 EBIT -39 -31 Financial income and expenses Result from participations in Group companies 7 612 315 Interest income 37 26 Interest expenses -56 -31 Other financial items 9 111 -13 Profit after financial items 666 267 Appropriations 8 73 171 Profit before tax 738 438 Tax on profit for the year 10 -122 -11 Profit for the year 617 427 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2018 2017 Profit for the year 617 427 Other comprehensive income, net after tax Comprehensive income for the year 617 427 54 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Assets Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 0 0 Equipment and transport 0 0 Total tangible fixed assets 0 0 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 26 7,363 3,030 Receivables from Group companies 688 121 Deferred tax assets 15 4 96 Total financial fixed assets 8,055 3,248 Total fixed assets 8,055 3,248 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 5 9 Receivables from Group companies 1,338 1,502 Other receivables 14 11 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 9 9 Total current receivables 1,365 1,531 Cash and cash equivalents 20 79 152 Total current assets 1,444 1,683 Total assets 9,499 4,931 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 27 Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 141 90 Statutory reserve 3 3 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 144 93 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Share premium reserve 1,537 Profit brought forward 2,467 2,297 Profit for the year 617 427 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 4,620 2,724 Total shareholders’ equity 4,765 2,817 Untaxed reserves 247 252 Provisions 22 3 3 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 21 3,224 1,446 Total long-term liabilities 3,224 1,446 Current liabilities Overdraft facilities 21 278 117 Other liabilities to credit institutions 21 800 136 Accounts payable 35 1 Liabilities to Group companies 123 145 Current tax liabilities 2 4 Other liabilities 1 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 21 11 Total current liabilities 1,260 414 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 9,499 4,931 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company Restricted shareholders’ Non-restricted equity share­holders’ equity Profit Total shareStatutory Share premibrought holders’ SEK M Share capital reserve um reserve forward equity Opening balance on 1 January 2017 90 3 2,549 2,642 Profit for the year 427 427 Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income for the year 427 427 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 90 3 2,724 2,817 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 90 3 2,724 2,817 Profit for the year 617 617 Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income for the year 617 617 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 51 1,570 1,621 New share issue costs, net after tax1) -33 -33 Buyback of own shares -6 -6 Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders 51 1,537 -257 1,331 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 141 3 1,537 3,084 4,765 1) For information about tax recognised directly against equity, refer to Note 27. The number of shares as at 31 December 2018 amounted to 56,416,622 (35,901,487) with a quotient value of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share. Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit after financial items 666 267 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 29 -124 -6 542 261 Tax paid -23 31 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 519 292 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables 321 18 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities -64 -9 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital 257 9 Cash flow from operating activities 777 301 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries 26 -4,305 Divestment of subsidiaries and operations 2 Capital contributions paid 26 -28 -20 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 0 Increase in long-term receivables -568 -16 Cash flow from investing activities -4,901 -34 Financing activities New share issue 27 1,580 Buyback of own shares 27 -6 Change in overdraft facilities 161 -148 Loans raised 21 4,564 258 Amortisation of loans -1,996 -136 Dividends paid -251 -251 Cash flow from financing activities 4,051 -278 Cash flow for the year -73 -11 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 152 163 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 79 152 Profit after financial items includes dividends received from subsidiaries of SEK 612 M (315). Interest received amounted to SEK 37 M (26) and interest paid amounted to SEK 56 M (31). 56 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTES NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES the leases that pertain to rent of premises and leasing of vehicles. The Group chose the prospective method and in accordance with the standard will not restate the comparison year. Equity will not be affected as the size of the right of use is valued as Accounting and measurement policies equivalent to the lease liability, adjusted for any prepaid or accrued leasing fees related The most important accounting policies that were applied to the preparation of these to the lease, recognised as of 31 December 2018. consolidated financial statements are stated below. These policies were consistently The Group has chosen to apply the majority of the relief rules available in applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. connection with the transition to IFRS 16 of which the most significant pertain to The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Annual excluding leases that at the transition date have an outstanding term of no more than Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved by 12 months. In addition to the relief rules in connection with the transition, the Group the EU and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that apply will continuously apply the practical exceptions that mean that leases with a lease term for financial years beginning on 1 January 2018. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial of no more than 12 months and leases where the underlying asset has a low value Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Regulations for are excluded from the calculation of the lease liability and asset. These will instead Groups was applied. be expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. The Group expects The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), which the liability for leasing commitments as of 1 January 2019 will amount to around SEK is also the Group’s presentation currency. All amounts are stated in SEK M, unless 2,000 M and the right of use at around SEK 2,000 M. Equity will not be affected at the otherwise stated. transition to IFRS 16. For more information, refer to Note 36. The items in the Annual Report are measured at cost, with the exception of certain financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. Other new standards, amendments or interpretations of existing standards that have The Parent Company’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with the not come into effect are not relevant to the Group at present or are deemed to not Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. have any material effect on the Group’s earnings or financial position. Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain key estimates for accounting purposes. Furthermore, management is required to make Consolidated financial statements certain assessments in the application of the consolidated accounting policies. The Subsidiaries ­areas that include a high degree of complicated assessments or areas where assumpThe consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and all companies tions and estimates are of material significance to the consolidated financial statements (including structured companies) over which the Parent Company has a controlling are stated in Note 2. influence. The Group controls a company when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect Amended and new accounting policies for 2018 those returns through its power over a company. Subsidiaries are included in the The Group applies a number of new standards and interpretations as of 1 January consolidated financial statements from the point in time at which controlling influence 2018, which primarily concerns IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and is achieved and excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the point in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. None of the new standards and interpretations applied time at which the controlling influence ceases. by Mekonomen Group as of 1 January 2018 has had any significant effect on the The purchase method was used for recognising the Group’s business combinations. consolidated financial statements, except expanded disclosure requirements. The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at fair value on transferred assets, liabilities arising in the Group from previous owners of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers the acquired company and the shares issued by the Group. The purchase consideraIFRS 15 regulates how recognition of revenue shall take place and replaces IAS 18 tion also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and associated SICs and IFRICs. on contingent consideration. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a The principles on which IFRS 15 is based are to provide users of financial statements business combination are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For with more informative, relevant disclosures of the company’s revenue. The expanded each acquisition meaning, acquisition by acquisition the Group decides whether the disclosure requirements entail that information is to be provided about the nature, non-controlling interests in the acquired company are measured at fair value or amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with proportionate to the holding’s share of the carrying amount of the acquired a customer. Under IFRS 15, revenue is to be recognised when the customer controls company’s identifiable net assets. the sold good or service and can use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. The introduction of IFRS 15 has not had a significant impact on Mekonomen If the business combination is a step acquisition, the earlier equity shares in the Group’s financial statements besides expanded disclosure requirements. acquired company are re-measured to its fair value on the date of acquisition. Any Revenue recognition for the Group is essentially unaffected. Total assets increased gains or losses arising are recognised in profit or loss. by small amounts due to the gross recognition for returns of goods. The Group has Each contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is measured at fair chosen to use the modified retrospective approach which is why the comparative value on the date of acquisition. The subsequent changes in fair value of contingent figures have not been restated. For information on applied accounting policies in the consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as previous year, see the 2017 Annual Report. shareholders’ equity is not re-measured and the subsequent adjustment is recognised in shareholders’ equity. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase considerThe standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial ation and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifi­ assets and financial liabilities. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that addressed the able acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than ­classification and measurement of financial instruments and introduces a new impairthe fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly ment model. The new standard requires more disclosures on expected credit losses in profit or loss. from financial instruments and risk management in hedge accounting. Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting is adjusted to comply with the same The introduction of IFRS 9 has not had an impact on Mekonomen Group’s financial policies applied by the other Group companies. Transactions between Group comstatements besides expanded disclosure requirements. Financial instruments recogpanies take place on commercial grounds and thereby at market prices. All internal nised at amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss under IAS 39 are classified transactions between Group companies and Group intermediaries are eliminated and also recognised at amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss under IFRS when preparing the consolidated financial statements. 9. Impairment of accounts receivable and loan receivables takes place according to the Transactions with non-controlling interests that will not result in a loss of control simplified model in IFRS 9. The Group has chosen to use the modified retrospective are recognised as shareholders’ equity transactions – meaning, transactions with approach which is why the comparative figures have not been restated. For informashareholders in their roles as owners. In acquisitions from non-controlling interests, tion on applied accounting policies in the previous year, see the 2017 Annual Report. the difference between the fair value of purchase consideration paid and the actual acquired portion of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in Amended accounting policies 2019 and later shareholders’ equity. Profits or losses from divestments to non-controlling interests A number of new standards and amendments of interpretations and existing standare also recognised in shareholders’ equity. ards come into effect for financial years beginning after 1 January 2018 and were not When the Group no longer has controlling influence, each remaining holding is applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most impormeasured at fair value on the date controlling influence ceases. The change in the tant amendment for Mekonomen Group is: carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is used as the initial carrying amount and is the basis for continued recognition of the remaining holding in IFRS 16 Leases associated companies, joint ventures or financial assets. All amounts pertaining to the IFRS 16 Leases is a new accounting standard that enters into effect as of 1 January divested unit previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised as 2019 and replaces IAS 17. According to the new standard, virtually all leases are to be if the Group had directly divested the assets or liabilities in question. This may result recognised with a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability in the balance sheet and in the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income being reclassified as an expense in the income statement divided into depreciation in operating profit to profit or loss. and interest expenses in net financial items. The Group will mainly be affected by Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 57 NOTES Associated companies The right of regress for product sales usually exists towards the supplier, whereby Associated companies are all companies over which the Group has significant influence the Group’s costs for warranty commitments normally only constitute small amounts but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and for the Group. Where applicable, the Group’s commitments for warranties are recog50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies are recognised nised as a provision; see Note 22. using the equity method. Mekonomen Group has only one associated company with a marginal impact on the Group. Revenue – other Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognised in the period in which the Joint arrangements service took place. Revenue is recognised based on the degree of completion on the Under IFRS 11, holdings in a joint arrangement are to be classified as either a joint balance-sheet date (percentage of completion). operation or a joint venture depending on each investor’s contractual rights and obliRevenue from licensing agreements is allocated over the term of the agreement. gations. Mekonomen Group has only one joint arrangement with a marginal impact on Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing subsidies the Group and has determined that it is a joint venture. Joint ventures are recognised and exchange-rate gains. in accordance with the equity method. Interest income is recognised over the term by applying the effective interest method. Translation of transactions in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish Kronor (SEK) based Leasing on the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary items (assets and A financial lease agreement is an agreement according to which the financial risks and liabilities) in foreign currencies are translated into SEK according to the exchange rate benefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transferred from the on the balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate gains and losses that arise in connection with lessor to the lessee. Leasing objects mainly comprise company vehicles and distribution such translations are recognised in profit or loss as Other operating revenue and/or vehicles. Other operating expenses. Exchange-rate differences that arise in foreign long-term Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises and vehicles. loans and liabilities, and in the translation of bank accounts in currencies other than the accounting currency, are recognised in financial income and expenses. Exchange Group as lessee rate differences on loans that are classified as hedging instruments in a hedge of a net Assets held under financial lease agreements are measured as fixed assets in the investment in foreign operation are recognised insofar as they constitute an effective consolidated balance sheets at fair value at the beginning of the leasing period or hedge in other comprehensive income. at the present value of minimum leasing fees if this is lower. The liability that the lessee has to the lessor is recognised in the balance sheet under the heading “Lease Translation of foreign subsidiaries agreement” d­ ivided into long-term and short-term liabilities. Leasing payments are When the consolidated financial statements were prepared, the Group’s foreign divided between interest and amortisation of liabilities. Interest is divided over the operations’ balance sheets were translated from their functional currencies to SEK leasing period so that each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding based on the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. The income statements and to a fixed interest rate of the liability recognised during each period. Interest expenses other comprehensive income were translated at the average exchange rate for the are recognised directly in profit or loss. Lease fees that are paid during operating lease period. Translation differences that arose were recognised in other comprehensive agreements are systematically expensed over the leasing period. income against the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. If the Group has classified borrowing as hedging instruments in a hedge of net investment in foreign Remuneration of employees operations, these exchange rate differences are also recognised in other comprehenThe Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. A sive income and accumulated in the translation reserve. The accumulated translation defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan whereby the Group guarantees an differences were transferred and recognised as part of capital gains or capital losses in amount, which the employee receives as pension benefits upon retirement, normally cases where foreign operations were divested. Goodwill and adjustments to fair values based on several different factors, for example, salary and period of service. A deattributable to acquisitions of operations using functional currencies other than SEK fined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan in which the Group, after having paid are treated as assets and liabilities in the acquired operations’ currencies and translated its pension premium to a separate legal entity, has fulfilled its commitments towards at the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. the employee. Defined-contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the period to which the Segment reporting premiums paid are attributable. Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided Pension expenses for defined-benefit plans are calculated using the Projected to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the Unit Credit Method whereby expenses are distributed over the employee’s period function responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the of employment. These commitments, meaning the liabilities that are recognised, are operating segments. In the Group, this function has been identified as the company’s measured at the present value of expected future payments, taking estimated future President and CEO. salary increases into account, applying a discount rate corresponding to the interest on first-class corporate bonds issued in the same currency as the pension is to be paid Revenue recognition in, with a remaining duration that is comparable to the current commitment and with Revenue from external customers derives primarily from the sale of goods, repredeductions for the fair value of plan assets. In countries where there are no functionsenting approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derive ing markets for corporate bonds, a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated branches and on mortgage bonds is used. Consequently, a discount rate established by referring to workshops. Some agreements include several different services, such as sales of goods the interest rate on mortgage bonds is used for the Group’s defined-benefit pension and workshop services. The goods and workshop services are recognised as separate plans in Norway. The most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 22. If a performance commitments. If the agreements contain several performance commitnet asset arises, it is be recognised only to the extent that it represents future financial ments, the transaction price is distributed to each separate performance commitment benefits, for example, in the form of repayments or reduced future premiums. based on their standalone selling prices. One of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans comprises a so-called multi-­ employer defined-benefit pension plan (ITP plan in Alecta). In accordance with Sale of goods Mekonomen Group’s accounting policies, a multi-employer defined-benefit plan is Mekonomen Group’s business model comprises the entire chain from purchasing and recognised based on the rules of the plans and recognises its proportional share of the warehousing of spare parts and accessories to the sale of our affiliated workshops and defined-benefit pension obligations and of plan assets and expenses related to the plan to other B2B customers, partner branches and consumers; also see Note 3 for the in the same manner as for any other similar defined-benefit pension plan. However, distribution of revenue. Alecta has not been able to present sufficient information to facilitate reporting as a The sale of goods is recognised as revenue when control of the goods is transferred, defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP plan is recognised as a defined-contribution which normally occurs when the goods are delivered to the customer. Sales are recogplan in accordance with IAS 19.34. nised net after deduction of discounts, returns and value-added tax. In addition to the defined-benefit pension plans via Alecta described above, the No financing component is deemed to exist at the time of sale as the credit period Group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway. Actuarial gains and normally does not exceed 30 days. losses on the defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway are recognised A receivable is recognised when the goods have been delivered as this is the time in their entirety over comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. the compensation becomes unconditional (i.e. only the passing of time is required for Remuneration in connection with termination of employment can be paid when an payment to be made). employee has been served notice of termination prior to the expiration of the normal The terms of sale usually include a right to return goods ordered incorrectly by date of retirement or when an employee accepts voluntary retirement. The Group the customer. Therefore, a repayment liability (which is included in the item current recognises liabilities and expenses in connection with a termination of employment, provisions) and an asset for the right to receive back the product from the customer when Mekonomen Group is unquestionably obligated to either terminate employment (included in goods for resale) are recognised for goods the Group expects to receive prior to the normal termination date or to voluntarily pay remuneration to encourage in return. Historical data is used to assess the size of the returns at the portfolio early retirement. level at the time of sale (method that uses the anticipated value). As the scope of the Mekonomen Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when there are returns have been stable in recent years, it is very probable that a material reversal legal or informal obligations, based on earlier practice, to pay bonuses to employees. of the recognised revenues will not occur. The validity of the assumption and the ­estimated amount of returns are revalues at each balance sheet date. 58 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES Tax Impairment The Group’s total tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax Assets with an indefinite useful life, for example, goodwill and intangible assets that are is tax that is to be paid or received pertaining to the current year and adjustments of not ready for use are not impaired but tested annually for any impairment requireprior years’ current tax. Deferred tax is calculated based on the difference between ments. The brands that were added through the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen, the carrying amounts and the values for tax purposes of company assets and liabilities. MECA, FTZ and Inter-Team have been deemed to have indefinite useful lives, which is Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance-sheet method. Deferred tax liawhy these are also tested at least annually for any impairment requirements. bilities are recognised in principle on all taxable temporary differences, while deferred Assets impaired are measured in terms of value decline whenever events or changes in tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that the amount can be utilised conditions indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this occurs, a against future taxable surplus. calculation of the asset’s recoverable amount is performed. The carrying amount on deferred tax assets is assessed at each accounting year-end The recoverable amount comprises the highest of the value in use of the asset in and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable surplus the operation and the value that would be received if the asset was divested to an will be available to be utilised either in its entirety or partially against the deferred tax independent party, net realisable value. The value in use comprises the present value asset. of all in and out payments attributable to the asset during the period it is anticipated to Deferred tax is calculated based on the tax rates that are expected to apply for the be used in the operation, plus the present value of the net realisable value at the end period when the asset is recovered or the debt settled. Deferred tax is recognised as of the useful life. If the estimated recoverable amount falls below the carrying amount, revenue or expenses in profit or loss, except in cases when it pertains to transactions the asset is impaired to the recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised in or events that are recognised against other comprehensive income or directly against profit or loss in the period it is determined. shareholders’ equity. The deferred tax is then also recognised against other compreRefer also to Note 12 for information on how impairment testing is performed. hensive income or directly against shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets and tax Previously recognised impairment is reversed only if there has been a change to the liabilities are offset when they are attributable to income tax that is charged by the assumptions that served as the basis for determining the recoverable amount in consame authority and when the Group intends to pay the tax with a net amount. nection with the impairment. If this is the case, a reversal will be conducted to increase the carrying amount of the impaired asset to its recoverable amount. A reversal of Goodwill an earlier impairment takes place in an amount that does not allow the new carrying Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase consideration amount to exceed what would have been the carrying amount (after impairment) if and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable the impairment had not taken place. Impairment of goodwill is never reversed. acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in Inventories profit or loss. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is recognised at cost less any Inventories are recognised at the lower of the cost and net realisable value. The cost is accumulated impairment. In the divestment of an operation, the portion of goodwill established by using the first in/first out principle (FIFO). attributable to this operation is recognised in the calculation of gain or loss on the A provision for estimated obsolescence in inventories is established when there divestment. is an objective basis to assume that the Group will be unable to receive the carrying amount when inventories are sold in the future. The size of the provision amounts to Other intangible assets the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of expected future Expenditure for the development and implementation of IT systems can be capitalised cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. The inventory value if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the company and the cost was reduced by the value included in the inter-company profit from goods sold from for the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. the Group’s central warehouse to the company’s own branches on the goods that are Brands, customer relations and franchise contracts acquired through business still in stock. Furthermore, the inventory value was also reduced by the value of the combinations are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. remaining portion of the supplier bonus on goods that are still in stock. Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen, MECA, FTZ and Inter-Team have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life and are Financial instruments recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Customer relations, other IFRS 9 contains three parts: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge brands, franchise contracts and strategic IT investments have definite useful lives accounting, and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. and are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is applied All financial instruments in Mekonomen Group, except for derivatives, are classified according to the straight-line method over the assets’ estimated useful life. Customer and measured at amortised cost with application of the effective interest method. relations, other brands and franchise contracts are deemed to have a useful life of five All of Mekonomen’s financial assets, except for derivatives, are the business model to ten years. held-to-maturity and the contractual cash flows are only comprised of principal and IT investments are deemed to have a useful life of three to ten years from the start interest. Derivatives are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. The of operation. new rules for classification and measurement have no impact on Mekonomen Group. The new rules for hedge accounting have not effect on the consolidated balance sheet Tangible fixed assets or income statement, but the scope of disclosure requirements has increased. Tangible fixed assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that The change at the introduction of IFRS 9 pertains to impairment and the model future financial benefits will be accrued to the company and the cost of the asset can for calculating anticipated credit losses. Mekonomen Group has chosen to apply the be calculated in a reliable manner. Tangible fixed assets, primarily comprising land and simplified method in the calculation of expected credit losses throughout the lifespan. buildings, equipment, computers, transport and construction in progress, are recogCompared with the previously applied incurred loss model, it entails an earlier recnised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. When the difference ognition of credit losses. As grounds for forecasting expected credit losses, historical in the consumption of significant components of a tangible fixed asset is deemed to be information and experience of earlier credit losses are used. In addition, current and material, the asset is divided up into these components. Depreciation of tangible fixed prospective information is used to reflect current and future conditions. The new assets is recognised as an expense so that the asset’s value is depreciated according to model for calculation of expected credit losses has not entailed any material impact on the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Land is not depreciable. Mekonomen Group’s financial statements. Financial assets recognised as assets in the balance sheet include loan receivables, The following percentages were applied for depreciation: accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities in the balance sheet include long-term and short-term loans and accounts payable. A currency derivative Fixed assets % is recognised either as an asset or liability, depending on changes in the exchange Buildings 2.5–10 rate. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the Improvement costs, third-party property1) 10 company becomes party to the contractual conditions, but the scope of the disclosure Equipment 10–20 requirement has increased. Vehicles 20 With the exception of cash and cash equivalents, only an insignificant portion of the financial assets is interest-bearing, which is why interest exposure is not recognised. Servers 20 The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. Workplace computers 33 The terms for long-term and short-term loans are stated in separate note disclosures; other financial liabilities are non-interest-bearing. A financial asset, or portion thereof, 1) Depreciation takes place over the shorter period corresponding to 10 per cent per year and the is eliminated when the rights contained in the contract are realised or mature. A finanremaining duration of the contract. cial liability, or portion thereof, is eliminated as it is regulated when the commitment in the agreement has been fulfilled or has been terminated in another manner. The residual value of assets and useful life are tested at the end of each reporting period and adjusted when necessary. Calculation of fair value, financial instruments An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable amount if When establishing the fair value of derivatives, official market listings at year-end are the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. used. If no such information is available, a measurement is conducted applying estabGains and losses from divestments are determined by comparing the proceeds and lished methods, such as discounting future cash flows to the quoted market rate for the carrying amount and recognised net in profit or loss. each term. Translation to SEK is based on the quoted exchange rate at year-end. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase considerations is estimated by the application of the income approach. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 59 NOTES Long-term receivables Cash-flow statement Long-term receivables comprise primarily deposits and lease-purchase agreements. The cash-flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The They have contractual terms that give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that result in inward and outward principal and interest and held within the framework of a business model the goal of payments. which is to collect contractual cash flows. They are valued at amortised cost according to the effective interest method. Changes in reserves for credit losses are recognised Parent Company accounting policies in operating profit in the income statement. The Parent Company complies with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the For information about the change for the year and the loss reserve as per 31 Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal December 2018, refer to Note 16. Entities. Application of RFR 2 means that, in the annual accounts for a legal entity, the Parent Company is to apply all of the IFRS and statements that have been approved by Accounts receivable the EU where this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for expected bad debts. The Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking into account the link between expected term of accounts receivable is short, which is why the amount is recognised accounting and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions and additions at nominal value without discounting in accordance with the method for amortised that are to be made from IFRS. The differences between the Group’s and the Parent cost. For information on the model for and calculation of expected credit losses, refer Company’s accounting policies are stated below. to the financial instruments section. Changes in reserves for credit losses are recogFinancial instruments exist to a limited extent and are recognised in the Parent nised in operating profit in the income statement. Company based on cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The Parent Accounts receivable are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of Company applies hedge accounting in legal entities for the hedging of interest rate risk. repayment. For information about the change for the year and the loss reserve as per This means that the derivative’s fair value is not taken up in the balance sheet insofar 31 December 2018, refer to Note 18. as it is an effective hedge. What is continuously recognised in profit or loss is the fixed interest expense that the interest-rate swaps give rise to in each period. Cash and cash equivalents The policies have been applied consistently for all years presented, unless otherwise Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at financial institutions and stipulated. current liquid investments with a term from the date of acquisition of less than three months, which are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. Cash Amended accounting policies 2018 and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. In January 2018, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board issued a new version of the RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. Implemented amendments to RFR 2 did not have Derivative instruments and hedge accounting any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements. Mekonomen Group hedges receivables in foreign currencies. Hedging is conducted using currency derivatives with a maximum term of three months. Hedged receivables Classification and presentation format in foreign currencies are recognised at the closing day rate and hedging instruments The income statement and balance sheet comply with the presentation format are recognised separately at fair value in the balance sheet and the change in value is specified in the Annual Accounts Act. This means they are slightly different to the recognised in profit or loss. consolidated financial statements, for example, balance-sheet items are more specified The Group signed derivative instruments aimed at hedging interest payments attriband subitems are given different designations in shareholders’ equity. utable to loans at floating interest rates (cash-flow hedges). The Group applies hedge accounting to these derivative agreements. The derivatives are measured at fair value Shares and participations in subsidiaries in the balance sheet. Value changes are recognised in Other comprehensive income Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to the to the extent they are effective and accumulated in the hedge reserve in shareholders’ cost method. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, expensed in the consolidated equity until the hedged item impacts earnings. The portion of unrealised value changes financial statements, are included as part of the cost for participations in subsidiaries. that is ineffective is recognised in profit or loss. Contingent considerations are measured based on the probability that the purchase If the hedging instrument expires, is sold or the hedge no longer meets the requireconsideration will be paid. Any changes in the provision/receivable will be added/ ments on hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is discontinued. The accumulated deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, contingent considvalue change in the hedge reserve is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged eration is measured at fair value with changes in value in profit or loss. The carrying transaction occurs, i.e. in pace with interest payments. If the hedged transaction is no amount for participations in subsidiaries is tested pertaining to any impairment longer contracted or likely, e.g. if the loan hedged is redeemed early, the accumulated requirements when there are indications of impairment needs. value change in equity is immediately reclassified to the income statement. Also refer to the section “Translation of foreign subsidiaries”. Tax The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves consist of taxable temporary differences. Accounts payable Due to the link between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities that are Accounts payable are recognised at amortised cost according to the effective interest attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised separately in a legal entity. method, which in practice entails a nominal amount without discounting since the The changes in untaxed reserves are recognised in accordance with Swedish practice term is short. in profit or loss for individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” The accumulated value of provisions, including deferred tax liability, are recognised in the Loans balance sheet under the heading “Untaxed reserves”. Liabilities to credit institutions, overdraft facilities and other liabilities (loans) are initially measured at fair value net after transaction costs. Thereafter, loans are recognised at Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions amortised cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the loan period applying the Shareholders’ contributions paid are recognised as an increase in the value of shares effective interest method. Long-term liabilities have an estimated term longer than one and participations. An assessment is then conducted as to whether impairment year while current liabilities have a term of less than one year. requirements exist for the value of the shares and participations in question. Group contributions are recognised according to the alternative rule, entailing that Share capital all Group contributions, both paid and received, are recognised as appropriations. Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Transaction costs in connection with a new rights issue are recognised as a deduction, net after tax, from proceeds from the Pensions rights issue. Defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans are recognised in accordance with the current Swedish accounting standard, which is based on the regulations in the Provisions Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Provisions differ from other liabilities since there is uncertainty regarding the date of payment or the amount for settling the provision. Provisions are recognised in Leasing the statement of financial position when Mekonomen Group has a legal or informal All lease agreements, regardless of whether they are finance or operating leases, obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and it is probable that an outflow are recognised as operating leases (rental agreements), which means that the leasing of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the charges are distributed according to the straight-line method across the leasing period. amounts can be made. Provisions are recognised in an amount corresponding to the most reliable estimate of the payment required to settle the commitment. When an Other information outflow of resources is expected to be required far later in the future, the expected The financial statements are in SEK M, unless otherwise stated . Rounding off may future cash flow and provision are recognised at present value. result in some tables not tallying. 60 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND NOTE 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION ASSESSMENTS Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the The preparation of the annual accounts and application of various accounting standfunction responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the ards are based to a certain extent on management’s assessments or assumptions and operating segments. In Mekonomen Group, this function has been identified as the estimates that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. These assumptions company’s President and CEO. and estimates are frequently based on historic experience, as well as other factors, Mekonomen Group implemented as of 1 January 2018 a new organisation to be including expectations of future events. The results could differ if other assumptions better adapted to the business. The organisational change and the additionally changed and estimates were used and the actual outcome will, in terms of definition, rarely internal governance also affected the segment reporting and from 1 January 2018, a agree with the estimated outcome. The assumptions and appreciations made by new segment reporting has therefore been implemented. Mekonomen Group in the 2018 annual accounts, and which had the greatest impact As of the first quarter of 2018, Mekonomen Group is presented with three reporton earnings and assets and liabilities, are discussed below. able segments: MECA, Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen. In accordance with the new segment reporting, the comparative figures for 2017 have thereby been restated. Goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible fixed assets Through the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, two new segments, FTZ Segment When assessing the impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets and Inter-Team Segment, were added as of the third quarter of 2018. with an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable The MECA segment comprises MECA Sweden and MECA Norway and mainly inamount. The recoverable amount is the highest of an asset’s net realisable value and cludes wholesale and branch operations in Sweden and Norway, and fleet operations the value in use. Since there are normally no listed prices that may be used to assess in Sweden. the net realisable value of an asset, the value in use will normally be the value that is The Mekonomen segment primarily includes wholesale, branch and fleet operations used to compare with the carrying amount. Calculation of the value in use is based in Sweden and Norway and primarily includes wholesale, branch and fleet operations on assumptions and assessments. Key assumptions are the future trends for revenue in Sweden and branch and fleet operations in Norway. and margins, including trends for prices and volumes, utilisation of operating capital The Sørensen og Balchen segment primarily includes wholesale and branch operaemployed, as well as yield requirements, which are used to discount future cash flows. tions in Norway. The segment is unchanged from earlier segment reporting. These assumptions are described in more detail in Note 12 Intangible fixed assets. The FTZ segment primarily includes wholesale and branch operations in Denmark. On the whole, this means that the measurement of goodwill and intangible assets FTZ is included in Mekonomen’s financial statements from the acquisition date 3 items with an indefinite useful life is subject to significant estimates and assessments. September 2018, meaning only four months. The Inter-Team segment primarily includes wholesaling and branch operations in Company acquisitions Poland and export operations. Inter-Team is included in Mekonomen’s financial In conjunction with acquisitions, analyses are prepared in which all identifiable assets statements from the acquisition date 3 September 2018, meaning only four months. and liabilities, including intangible assets, are identified and measured at fair value on “Other segments” include business activities and operating segments for which the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3, acquired identifiable intangible ­information is not provided separately. This includes Mekonomen’s wholesale and assets, for example, customers, franchise contracts, brands and customer relations, are branch operations in Finland, Meko Service Nordic with the workshop operation to be separated from goodwill. This applies if these fulfil the criteria as assets, meaning BilLivet, the workshop operation Speedy, the workshop operations in Allt i Bil, the that it is possible to separate them or they are based on contractual or other formal ­operations with Heavy Vehicles, ProMeister Solutions, Preqas, the service Mekonomen rights, and that their fair values can be established in a reliable manner. An examination vehicle leasing, the joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), Lasingoo Norway and is conducted at each acquisition. The remaining surplus value is allocated to goodwill. Group-wide functions also including Mekonomen AB (publ). Mekonomen’s branch Measuring identifiable assets and liabilities in acquisition assessments is subject to operations in Iceland were divested in the first quarter of 2018 and Marinshopen important estimates and assessments. Information about company acquisitions and was divested in the second quarter of 2018. The operations with Heavy Vehicles, acquisition analyses is found in Note 30. ProMeister Solutions, Preqas and MECA Scandinavia AB were previously reported as a part of MECA, but as of the first quarter of 2018, as a part of “Other segments”. Reserves for inventories, doubtful receivables, guarantee commitments and The units reported in “Other segments” do not achieve quantitative limits to be reproduct returns ported separately and the benefit is deemed to be limited for the users of the financial The Group operates in several geographic markets, with sales to consumers and statements for them to be reported as independent segments. companies and with a wide range to many different customer groups. In order to For further information on the respective operating segment, refer to pages 16-21. satisfy customers’ needs, a sufficiently large inventory of products must be kept and “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s various types of warranties must be provided that the products function as they direct acquisitions and elimination of intra-Group revenue. Current acquisition-­related should and customers must be offered the right to return products ordered by items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of mistake by the customer. With the type of business conducted in the Group, there MECA, Sørensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team. is a risk of customer losses and that some of the Group’s stocked products cannot The CEO assesses the results of the operating segments at an EBIT level. Financial be sold at their carrying amounts, and also the risk that the company has guarantee items are not distributed in segments since they are impacted by measures implementcommitments or return claims that extend further than the reserves for these comed by central finance management. The distribution of assets and liabilities at segment mitments. The right of regress for product sales usually exists towards the supplier, is not reported regularly. whereby the Group’s costs for warranty commitments normally only constitute small Mekonomen Group’s earnings will be reported in four segments as of 1 January amounts for the Group. The Group has established policies for reserves for accounts 2019. The new reportable segments will be MECA/Mekonomen, Sörensen og Balchen, receivable, obsolescence provisions and provisions for guarantee commitments and FTZ and Inter-Team. The MECA/Mekonomen segment also includes Preqas, Speedy product returns. These policies per se are estimates of historic outcome and evaluated and Meko Service Nordic. continuously to ensure that they correspond to actual outcome in terms of customer losses, obsolescence, guarantee commitments and product returns. For the financial year and the comparison year, no further information on obsolescence and provisions, respectively, is provided for warranty commitments and product returns as materiality does not exist. Further information about credit loss reserves for accounts receivable is found in Note 18. Deferred tax When preparing the financial statements, Mekonomen Group calculates the income tax for each tax jurisdiction in which the Group operates and the deferred taxes attributable to temporary differences. Deferred tax assets that are primarily attributable to loss carryforwards and temporary differences are recognised if tax assets can be expected to be recovered based on future taxable income. Changes in assumptions regarding forecast future taxable earnings, and changes in tax rates, may result in significant differences in the measurement of deferred taxes. At 31 December 2018, Mekonomen Group recognised deferred tax liabilities in excess of deferred tax assets at a net amount of SEK 474 M (75). Further information about deferred taxes is found in Note 15. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 61 NOTES NOTE 3 CONTINUED Sørensen Other FTZ Inter-Team MECA Mekonomen og Balchen segments Other items Group SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue External net sales 1,088 638 2,008 1,907 2,684 2,683 739 778 622 482 7,779 5,850 Internal revenue 0 0 80 42 209 155 38 47 369 465 -696 -709 0 0 Other revenue 0 0 23 10 68 72 10 10 71 58 172 150 Total revenue 1,088 638 2,111 1,959 2,961 2,910 787 835 1,062 1,005 -696 -709 7,951 6,000 Operating profit/loss before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 50 0 260 273 295 325 107 120 -159 -70 553 649 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 49 -1 249 265 290 313 106 120 -184 -98 -103 -77 407 522 Financial items – net 70 -48 Profit before tax 477 475 Investments, tangible assets1) 10 2 17 15 122 96 6 3 22 17 178 130 Investments, IT systems1) 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 40 33 43 34 Depreciation and impairment (tangible assets) 5 6 16 13 40 33 3 3 14 10 84 60 Amortisation and impairment (intangible assets)2) 1 0 11 9 5 13 1 0 24 28 103 77 146 127 Average number of employees for the period 389 449 628 567 939 955 256 253 521 455 3,181 2,231 Number of proprietary branches 51 79 80 76 143 145 36 39 7 3 396 263 Number of partner branches – 3 5 10 29 30 28 29 6 4 71 73 Number of branches in the chain 51 82 85 86 172 175 64 68 13 7 467 336 Key figures EBITA margin, %3) 5 0 13 14 11 12 14 15 7 11 EBIT margin, %3) 5 0 12 14 11 11 14 15 5 9 Change in sales, %3) – 5 4 0 -2 -5 7 33 1 Revenue per employee, SEK 000s 2,797 1,421 3,360 3,455 3,154 3,047 3,044 3,300 2,499 2,689 Operating profit per employee, SEK 000s 126 -2 396 467 309 328 414 474 128 234 1) Investments do not include company and business combinations 2) Including amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 3) Internal sales were excluded from the calculation of the EBIT margin and the sales increase for the segments. Sales between segments take place on market-based terms and conditions. Revenue Analysis of net sales by customer groups, %: 2018 2017 from external customers that is reported to the Group Management Team is measured in the same manner as in the income statement. Affiliated workshops1) 37% 37% Net sales from external customers derived primarily from the sale of goods, repOther B2B customers 45% 38% resenting approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derived Consumer 14% 19% from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated branches and Partner branches 4% 6% workshops. Net sales derived from the sale of goods from external customers are distributed Total net sales 100% 100% according to the following customer groups: 1) Sales in proprietary workshops are included in sales to affiliated workshops. The company has its registered office in Sweden. The distribution of revenue from external customers in Sweden and other geographic markets is presented in the table below: Denmark Poland Sweden Norway Other Total Net sales by country 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 FTZ 1,088 1,088 Inter-Team 638 638 MECA 959 949 1,049 958 2,008 1,907 Mekonomen 1,800 1,816 884 867 2,684 2,683 Sørensen og Balchen 739 778 739 778 Other segments 622 482 622 482 Total 1,088 0 638 0 2,759 2,765 2,672 2,603 622 482 7,779 5,850 The Group has no individual customers that account for 10 per cent or more of the to insurance agreements), located in Sweden amounted to SEK 2,424 M (2,284) and Group’s revenue. the total of such fixed assets located in other countries amounted to SEK 3,811 M All fixed assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are (655), of which SEK 3,020 M (0) in Denmark and SEK 662 M (653) in Norway. no assets in connection with benefits after terminated employment or rights according 62 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 4 AUDITING EXPENSES Group1) Parent Company1) 2018 2017 2018 2017 PwC Audit assignment 8 6 1 1 Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 1 0 0 0 Tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 Other services 6 0 6 0 Total PwC 15 7 7 1 Other auditors2) Audit assignment 1 Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 0 Tax consultancy 0 Other services 1 1 Total other 1 1 Total fees to auditors 16 7 8 1 1) Of the total fees from PwC for the Group of SEK 15 M (7), SEK 9 M (4) refers to fees invoiced from PwC Sweden. Of total fees from PwC for the Parent Company of SEK 7 M (1), SEK 4 M (1) relates to fees invoiced from PwC Sweden. 2) Other auditors primarily refers to KPMG in Inter-Team (Poland) and EY in FTZ (Denmark). NOTE 5 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS 2018 2017 Average number of employees No. of employees Of whom, men % No. of employees Of whom, men % Parent Company Sweden 5 40 5 80 Total in Parent Company 5 40 5 80 Subsidiaries Sweden 1,433 82 1,360 82 Denmark 389 88 Norway 883 83 834 83 Poland 449 86 Other countries 22 82 31 71 Total in subsidiaries 3,176 84 2,226 82 Group total 3,181 84 2,231 82 Soc. security Soc. security Salaries and other expenses (of which Salaries and other expenses (of which Salaries, remuneration, etc. SEK 000S remuneration pension costs) remuneration pension costs) Parent Company 16,061 9,170 (3,658) 14,835 9,389 (4,147) Subsidiaries 1,383,795 390,599 (104,840) 1,006,878 329,512 (66,788) Group total 1,399,856 399,769 (108,498) 1,021,713 338,901 (70,935) Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board and PresBoard and Presthe President and Board members and other employees, ident1) (of which Other ident1) (of which Other SEK 000s bonus, and the like) employees bonus, and the like) employees Parent Company Mekonomen AB 7,934 (0) 8,127 (552) 7,381 (0) 7,454 (340) Total in Parent Company 7,934 (0) 8,127 (552) 7,381 (0) 7,454 (340) Subsidiaries in Sweden 22,364 (3,759) 603,861 (2,159) 21,415 (2,305) 568,575 (3,406) Subsidiaries abroad Denmark 808 (0) 221,337 (1,644) Norway 12,898 (866) 456,152 (2,789) 11,239 (1,139) 395,754 (4,314) Poland 2,475 (0) 53,834 (80) Other countries 0 (0) 10,066 (0) 0 (0) 9,895 (0) Total in subsidiaries 38,544 (4,625) 1,345,251 (6,673) 32,654 (3,444) 974,224 (7,720) Group total 46,478 (4,625) 1,353,378 (7,225) 40,035 (3,444) 981,678 (8,060) 1) Remuneration to the Board and President includes the Parent Company and, where applicable, subsidiaries in each country. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 63 NOTES NOTE 5 CONTINUED Remuneration of senior executives The variable remuneration for senior executives, excluding the President, is based Fees are paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members in accordance with the partly on the Group’s earnings and partly on individual qualitative parameters and resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The annual Board fee totalling SEK 2,345,000 can amount to a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The (2,210,000) was determined in accordance with the resolution of the 2018 Annual percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 General Meeting. Of this, SEK 590,000 (550,000) represents fees to the Chairman of percentage points for members of the Group Management Team. Other benefits the Board, SEK 330,000 (310,000) to the Executive Vice Chairman, and SEK 285,000 refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based (270,000) to each of the remaining Board members. For members of the Board’s Audit on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. PensionaCommittee, SEK 70,000 (60,000) is paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee ble salary comprises basic salary. The company applies a period of notice of no more and SEK 40,000 (35,000) is paid to the other members of the Audit Committee. For than 12 months. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be members of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, SEK 40,000 (35,000) is paid to the paid in the event of termination of employment by the company. Upon resignation, a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 (25,000) is paid to the six-month period of notice applies. Matters pertaining to remuneration of company other members of the Remuneration Committee. management are resolved by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remuNo fees are paid to the Boards of other subsidiaries. neration of the President is determined by the Board in its entirety. The President, Pehr Oscarson, has a basic salary of SEK 435,000 per month and a The 2018 Annual General Meeting also resolved to establish a long-term incentive variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and can amount to programme (LTIP 2018), in accordance with the Board’s proposal. LTIP 2018 coma maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. The President receives a pension prises a maximum of 16 employees consisting of the Group Management Team of benefit amounting to a maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. The Mekonomen Group and some other key individuals in the Group. As a result of the retirement age for the President is 65. acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, the targets in LTIP 2018 were not achieved. The Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice is 12 months if emBoard of Directors has decided to not change the targets, but rather discontinue LTIP ployment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the President. 2018 in its entirety and instead propose to the Annual General Meeting to pass a In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be paid in the event resolution on a new programme for 2019. of termination of employment by the company. In connection with the approval of the long-term share-based incentive programme For other senior executives, remuneration follows the policies adopted at the 2018 (LTIP 2018) by the AGM, the earlier programme that ran during the financial years Annual General Meeting. This means that the company is to strive to offer its senior 2016-2018 ceased to apply. No payments regarding this programme have yet been executives market-based remuneration, that the criteria for this is to be based on the made. significance of work duties, skills requirements, experience and performance and that remuneration is to comprise the following parts: – fixed basic salary, – variable remuneration, – pension benefits and – other benefits and severance pay Basic salary1) Bonus Board fees2) Other benefits Pension premiums Executives/category, SEK 000s 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 John S. Quinn, Chairman of the Board 655 610 Helena Skåntorp, Executive Vice Chairman 400 330 Eivor Andersson, Board member 310 – Kenny Bräck, Board member 285 270 Joseph M. Holsten, Board member 310 295 Magnus Håkansson, Board member 325 305 Malin Persson, Board member 325 305 Former Board members Christer Åberg 370 President Pehr Oscarson 5,324 4,896 78 78 1,545 449 former Executive Vice President Marcus Larsson until 6 November 2017 3,118 99 654 Other senior executives, 11 (4) 3) 20,410 8,203 1,487 942 1,022 407 4,554 2,189 Total 25,734 16,217 1,487 942 2,610 2,485 1,100 584 6,099 3,292 1) Basic salary in this table includes holiday bonus. 2) Board fees include fees to members of the Board’s Committees. Remuneration and compensation set by the AGM are expensed every calendar year. 3) The average number of people in the Group Management Team, except the President, amounted to 11 (5) people during 2018, including 4 (2) women. One member of the Group Management Team is covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The net obligation at 31/12/2018 amounted to SEK 0 M (0). A closer presentation of the Board and the Group Management Team and its changes during the year are presented on pages 48-49. 64 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION/AMORTISATION AND NOTE 10 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND Group Parent Company INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax Group Parent Company Sweden -52 -37 -29 -28 2018 2017 2018 2017 Other countries -72 -84 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets -84 -60 0 0 Total current tax -124 -121 -29 -28 Impairment of tangible fixed assets 0 0 Changes in deferred tax, temporary Total depreciation and impairment differences -85 14 -93 17 of tangible fixed assets -84 -60 0 0 Recognised tax expenses -209 -107 -122 -11 Amortisation, brands 0 0 Tax on profit for the year Amortisation, customer Recognised profit before tax 477 475 738 438 relationships -118 -86 Tax according to applicable tax rate -108 -111 -162 -96 Amortisation, franchise contracts -4 -4 Tax on standard interest on tax Amortisation, capitalised expendituallocation reserves 0 0 0 0 re for IT systems -23 -28 Tax effects on expenses that are not Impairment, goodwill -9 tax deductible Total amortisation and impairment Other non-deductible expenses -8 -7 -1 -1 of intangible fixed assets -146 -127 Other non-taxable revenue 1 0 135 69 Total -229 -187 0 0 Effects on adjustments from preceding year 1 -1 Effects of non-capitalised loss carryforwards -8 -4 NOTE 7 RESULT FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP Effect of change in the Swedish tax rate1) 7 COMPANIES Effect of change in the Norwegian tax rate -1 0 Effects of previously capitalised loss Parent Company carryforwards2) -93 17 -93 17 2018 2017 Recognised tax expenses -209 -107 -122 -11 Dividends 612 315 1) Corporate tax in Sweden will be reduced in two steps from 2019, which have an effect on the Gains from divestment of participations calculation of deferred tax in the balance sheet, which positively affected the tax expense by SEK 7 M. Impairment 2.) Historical deficits attributable to Mekonomen's earlier operations in Denmark are deemed to no longer be able to be used through Group deductions after the acquisition of FTZ. Capitalised Total 612 315 loss carryforwards regarding the former Danish operations, which amounted to SEK 93 M, were therefore fully expensed in 2018. The weighted average tax rate amounted to 22.7 per cent (23.5). The decrease is NOTE 8 APPROPRIATIONS mainly attributable to a lower tax rate in Norway from 24 per cent in 2017 to 23 per cent in 2018. Parent Company 2018 2017 NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES, Group contributions received Group contributions paid 155 -87 285 -72 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Changes in tax allocation reserve 5 -42 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value Total 73 171 in the balance sheet The financial instruments that were measured at fair value in the balance sheet are presented below. Measurement is divided into three levels: Level 1: Fair value is determined according to listed prices in an active market for the EXCHANGE-RATE DIFFERENCES – NET same instrument. NOTE 9 Level 2: Fair value is determined based on either direct (prices) or indirect (derived from prices) observable market data not included in Level 1. Exchange-rate differences were recognised in profit or loss as follows: Level 3: Fair value is determined base on inputs not observable in the market. Group Parent Company All of Mekonomen’s financial instruments are included in Level 2, except supple­ mentary purchase considerations which are included in Level 3. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Exchange-rate differences in EBIT -3 -1 1 0 Calculation of fair value The following summarises the main methods and assumptions used to determined the Exchange-rate differences in net fair value of the financial instruments shown in the table below. financial items 138 -13 132 -3 Fair value of listed securities, where appropriate, is determined based on the asset’s Total 135 -14 133 -3 listed average price on the balance-sheet date with no additions for transaction costs on the acquisition date. For currency contracts, fair value is determined on the basis of listed prices. Fair value for interest-rate swaps is based on discounting estimated future cash flows in accordance with the contract terms and due dates, and on the basis of the market interest rate for similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. If discounted cash Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 65 NOTES NOTE 11 CONTINUED flows have been used, future cash flows are calculated on company management’s For methods of payment, receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates, and best assessment. The discount rate applied is a market-based interest rate on similar current assets and liabilities (such as accounts receivable and accounts payable), fair instruments on the balance-sheet date. value is equivalent to the carrying amount. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase considerations is estimated by the application of the income approach. The supplementary Group’s derivative instruments 31 Dec. 31 Dec. purchase considerations are all non-interest-bearing with relatively short durations and measured at fair value in balance sheet 2018 2017 amount to non-material amounts for the Group, which is why detailed disclosures on Financial liabilities measurement are not provided. All valuation techniques applied are accepted on the market and take into account Interest-rate swaps 3 4 all parameters which the market would take into consideration when pricing. The Total 3 4 techniques are reviewed regularly with a view to ensuring their reliability. Assumptions applied are followed up against actual results so as to identify any need for adjustNet gains on derivative instruments, held for trading amounted to SEK 0 M (-1). ments to measurements and forecasting tools. Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial Non-financial Total by measurement category, Derivative – amortised liabilities – Total carryassets and Balance 31 Dec. 2018 instruments1) cost amortised cost ing amount Fair value liabilities sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets 54 54 54 22 77 Accounts receivable 868 868 868 868 Other current receivables 662 662 Cash and cash equivalents 205 205 205 205 Total 1,128 1,128 1,128 684 1,812 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 3 3,229 3,232 3,232 3,232 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing 8 8 8 12 20 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 1 1,080 1,081 1,081 1,081 Accounts payable 1,363 1,363 1,363 1,363 Other current liabilities 12 12 12 828 840 Total 4 5,692 5,696 5,696 840 6,536 1) Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes. Financial assets and liabilities Non-financial Total by measurement category, Derivative Loans and Other financial Total carryassets and Balance 31 Dec. 20171) instruments receivables liabilities ing amount Fair value liabilities sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets 39 39 39 22 61 Accounts receivable 488 488 488 488 Other current receivables 334 334 Cash and cash equivalents 254 254 254 254 Total 782 782 782 356 1,138 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 4 1,449 1,453 1,453 1,453 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing 14 14 14 4 18 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 255 255 255 255 Accounts payable 636 636 636 636 Other current liabilities 8 8 8 636 644 Total 4 2,362 2,367 2,367 640 3,006 1) In the introduction of IFRS 9, the Group has chosen to use the prospective transition method, which is why the comparative figures are not translated. Measurement categories according to IAS 39 have therefore been applied for the comparative figures. No transition effect exists. Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2018 Nominal amount 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 870 399 375 1,297 1,322 4,263 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 281 0 0 0 0 281 Derivatives 4 4 3 3 3 17 Supplementary purchase considerations 12 8 1 0 0 21 Accounts payable 1,363 0 0 0 0 1,363 Total 2,532 412 379 1,300 1,325 5,948 66 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2017 Nominal amount 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 157 155 153 139 1,065 1,670 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 118 0 0 0 0 118 Derivatives 0 4 0 0 0 4 Supplementary purchase considerations 8 13 1 0 0 23 Accounts payable 636 0 0 0 0 636 Total 921 173 154 139 1,065 2,454 Time when hedged cash flows in the hedging reserve are expected to occur and affect profit for the year 2021 and 2019 Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2020 later Total Interest-rate swap 2 1 1 1 3 9 17 Total 2 1 1 1 3 9 17 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Derivative contracts are subject to legally binding framework agreements on netting. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Capitalised Franchise Customer expenditure for Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT systems Total Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 1,880 1,883 327 330 42 44 803 776 259 280 3,312 3,314 Acquisitions 43 34 43 34 Acquisitions in connection with acquired operation 1,865 22 548 829 34 12 3,254 56 Divestments/disposals -9 -2 0 -25 -55 -34 -57 Translation difference, currency -48 -23 -17 -3 1 -2 -23 -8 -1 0 -88 -36 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 3,688 1,880 858 327 43 42 1,609 803 287 259 6,486 3,312 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January -9 -3 -3 -28 -25 -443 -362 -143 -167 -627 -558 Divestments/disposals 9 0 0 25 52 34 52 Depreciation for the year 0 0 -4 -4 -118 -86 -23 -28 -146 -118 Impairment for the year -9 0 0 0 -9 Translation difference, currency 0 0 -1 1 -1 4 0 0 -2 5 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December -9 -3 -3 -33 -28 -563 -443 -141 -143 -741 -627 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 3,688 1,872 855 324 10 14 1,046 360 146 116 5,745 2,686 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 67 NOTES NOTE 12 CONTINUED The carrying amounts of intangible fixed assets are distributed among operating segments as follows: Capitalised Franchise Customer expenditure for Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT systems Total Group Carrying amount for 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. operating segment for 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 FTZ 1,708 501 727 7 2,943 Inter-Team 28 29 21 3 81 MECA 1,113 1,105 270 270 238 298 0 1 1,621 1,674 Mekonomen 301 280 11 11 1 1 314 292 Sørensen og Balchen 412 402 55 53 10 14 28 39 0 1 504 509 Other 127 85 0 1 20 12 135 113 282 211 Total 3,688 1,872 855 324 10 14 1,046 360 146 116 5,745 2,686 Testing of impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets in their individual markets, which the Group intends to retain and further develop. The with indefinite useful period brands that have been identified and evaluated pertain to the acquisition of brands in Goodwill is distributed and tested among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) connection with the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen in 2011, MECA in 2012 and identified by operating segments. In addition to goodwill, the Group has acquired FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018. Other brands are amortised and their carrying amount brands that are deemed to have indefinite useful period. at year-end was SEK 0 M (1). A summary of goodwill and brands with indefinite useful The useful period is deemed indefinite when it pertains to well-established brands period at operating segment level is provided in the table below. Goodwill 2018 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2018 Translation Translation 01 Jan. AcquiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 01 Jan. AcquiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. Operating segments 2018 sitions ment ments currency 2018 2018 sitions ment currency 2018 FTZ 1,766 -58 1,708 518 -17 501 Inter-Team 29 -1 28 30 -1 29 MECA 1,105 7 0 1,113 270 270 Mekonomen Sweden 225 11 236 Mekonomen Norway 56 8 1 65 Mekonomen 280 19 1 301 Sørensen og Balchen 402 1 9 412 53 1 55 Other 85 43 0 0 127 Total 1,872 1,865 0 -48 3,688 323 548 -17 855 Goodwill 2017 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2017 Translation Translation 01 Jan. AcquiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 01 Jan. AcquiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. Operating segments 2017 sitions ment ments currency 2017 2017 sitions ment currency 2017 MECA 1,094 10 0 1,105 270 270 Mekonomen Sweden 230 4 -9 225 Mekonomen Norway 57 2 -3 56 Mekonomen 287 6 -9 -3 280 Sørensen og Balchen 423 -20 402 56 -3 53 Other 79 7 -2 0 85 Total 1,883 22 -9 -2 -23 1,872 326 -3 323 68 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES Testing impairment requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets with 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 indefinite useful period takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more frequently if there are indications of value depreciation. InterThe recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is established based on calculaAll CGU1) Team All CGU1) tions of the value in use. The value in use is the present value of the estimated future Discount rate (WACC) before tax 9.1-93% 12.8% 9.2% cash flows. Discount rate (WACC) after tax 7.6% 10.8% 7.6% Cash-flow forecasts are based on an assessment of the anticipated growth rate and Growth rate beyond the forecast period 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% the trend of the EBITDA margin, based on the budget that was adopted in December for the next year, forecasts for the next three years, managements’ long-term expecTotal price and volume trend years 2-4 of tations of the operation, and historic trends. The cash-flow forecasts for years twoforecast period 2.0% 5.0-2.0% 2.0% four are based on an annual growth rate of 2.0 (2.0) percent except for Inter-Team 1) Refers to all test levels CGU excluding Inter-Team as at 31 December 2018, and all test levels CGU where the annual growth rate is deemed to amount to 5.0 per cent in the forecast’s within Mekonomen Group as at 31 December 2017; see tables on operating segments above. year two and year three, and 2.0 per cent thereafter. Cash flows beyond this four-year period were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2.0). The Sensitivity analysis growth rate does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market segments in An increase in the discount rate by 2 percentage points, a reduction in the assumed which each cash-generating unit operates. long-term growth rate by 2 percentage points or a decrease in the EBITDA margin by Calculated value in use is most sensitive to changes in assumptions for growth-rate, 2 percentage points would not individually result in any impairment requirement. EBITDA margin and the relevant discount rate (WACC, Weighted Average Cost of According to implemented impairment testing, there is no impairment requireCapital), which is used to discount future cash flows. The conditions that apply for the ment for goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite periods of use as per 31 various Nordic markets in which Mekonomen operates do not deviate significantly December 2018. from each other, which is why the same discount rate is used there. The significant assumptions used to calculate the value in use for 2018 and 2017, respectively, are summarised as follows: NOTE 13 IMPROVEMENT COSTS, THIRD-PARTY PROPERTY Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 86 83 0 0 Purchases, rebuilding and extensions 7 5 Increase through business combinations 14 Sales/disposals -3 -2 Translation difference, currency -1 0 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 103 86 0 0 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January -63 -56 0 0 Sales/disposals 3 1 Depreciation for the year -10 -8 0 0 Translation difference, currency 0 0 Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December -70 -63 0 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 33 23 0 0 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 69 NOTES NOTE 14 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Land and Equipment and Construction buildings transport in progress Financial leasing Total Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 494 519 89 30 30 612 549 Purchasing 60 42 104 77 7 7 171 126 Increase through business combinations 59 73 9 132 9 Reclassification 185 -11 -185 11 0 0 Sales/disposals -17 -56 -4 -7 -21 -63 Translation difference, currency -2 1 -9 -1 -9 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 57 796 494 9 89 33 30 894 612 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January -354 -369 -27 -27 -381 -396 Sales/disposals 14 54 4 7 18 61 Depreciation for the year -2 -64 -45 -7 -7 -73 -52 Impairment for the year 0 0 0 Translation difference, currency 0 -2 6 -2 6 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December -2 -406 -354 -30 -27 -438 -381 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 55 391 140 9 89 3 3 457 231 Operational lease agreements Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Information about leasing Future leasing fees for expenses, operating leases 2018 2017 2018 2017 irrevocable lease agreements 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Premises rent 374 311 1 0 falling due for payment: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Leasing expenses, other 53 43 0 0 Within one year 484 344 1 1 Total 427 354 1 0 Later than one year but within five years 938 679 2 After five years 315 298 Total 1,737 1,321 3 1 Of the future lease fees, rent for premises represented SEK 1,599 M (1,251) for the Group and SEK 3 M (1) for the Parent Company. NOTE 15 DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a legal right of Group Parent Company offset exists for current tax assets and tax liabilities and when deferred taxes refer to the same tax authority. Below, deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented gross, Gross change in deferred with information on the netting done regarding the company in the same tax law tax assets/tax liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 jurisdiction. Opening balance -75 -86 96 79 Group Parent Company Translation difference, currency 11 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries -324 -3 Deferred tax assets (+) 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. /tax liabilities (-) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Recognition in income statement 1) -85 14 -93 17 Tax recognised in comprehensive Capitalised loss carryforwards1) 2 94 93 income -1 0 Temporary differences on intercompany profits 42 52 At year-end -474 -75 4 96 Temporary differences, inventory 1) Historical deficits attributable to Mekonomen's earlier operations in Denmark are deemed to no obsolescence 18 12 longer be able to be used through Group deductions after the acquisition of FTZ. Capitalised loss Temporary differences, other 16 17 4 3 carryforwards regarding the former Danish operations, which amounted to SEK 93 M, were therefore fully expensed in 2018. Less netting -78 -82 Total deferred tax assets 0 93 4 96 Taxable loss carryforwards Untaxed reserves -85 -75 At the end of the financial year, tax loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 0 M (0) in Surplus value in intangible fixed the Parent Company and SEK 711 M (649) in the Group. For deficits amounting to assets (through acquisition) -432 -175 SEK 116 M (96), there is a time limit of up to 10 years. None of these deficits were Temporary differences, other -35 – assigned a value in the balance sheet. All other deficits run without limit in time. Deferred tax assets pertaining to tax loss carryforwards in the Group amounted to Less netting 78 82 SEK 2 M (94) on the balance-sheet date, of which SEK 0 M (93) was attributable to the Total deferred tax liabilities -474 -168 branch operations in Denmark closed in 2015. Deferred tax assets on the remaining Total (net) -474 -75 4 96 deficit was not assigned a value in the balance sheet. 70 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 16 OTHER FINANCIAL FIXED ASSETS NOTE 18 CURRENT RECEIVABLES Group Group 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Rental deposits paid 0 1 2018 2017 Hire-purchase contracts 46 32 Accounts receivable 868 488 Other 8 7 Tax assets 15 15 Total 54 39 Other receivables 72 67 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 574 253 Group Total 1,530 823 Hire-purchase contracts 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Group Hire-purchase contracts 48 38 Credit loss reserve1) -2 -6 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Accounts receivable 2018 2017 Total 46 32 Accounts receivable 915 522 1) The transition to IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 has not entailed any change in the reserved amount Credit loss reserve -47 -34 compared with earlier reserves as of 31 December 2017. Total 868 488 Group Mekonomen applies the simplified method for expected credit losses, which means that expected credit losses are calculated as percentages based on the number of Credit loss reserve, hire-purchase contracts1) 2018 2017 different time categories. The transition to IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 has not entailed Credit loss reserve at beginning of year -6 -6 any change in the reserved amount compared with earlier reserves for bad debts as of Change in net credit loss reserve for the year 0 0 31 December 2017 of SEK 34 M. Receivables written off during the year as non-collectable 4 2 Reclassification of renegotiated accounts receivable 0 -2 Group Translation difference, currency 0 0 Credit loss reserve 2018 2017 Credit loss reserve at year-end -2 -6 Credit loss reserve at beginning of year -34 -54 1) Information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. Incurred through acquisitions -18 0 Change in net credit loss reserve for the year -3 -6 Interest income on hire-purchase contracts during the year was SEK 0 M (0). Change in provision, net in balance sheet 8 23 Reclassification to long-term receivables 0 2 Translation difference, currency 0 1 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES Credit loss reserve at year-end -47 -34 Group 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 Goods for resale 2,816 1,382 Total 2,816 1,382 The cost of inventories expensed is included in the item goods for resale in the income statement and amounted to SEK 3,901 M (2,654). Provisions for obsolescence are induced in the value of inventories. In addition to the normal obsolescence reserve, inventories have been impaired by SEK 48 M (the previous year no material impairments were made). Only an insignificant part of the inventory is measured at net realisable value. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 71 NOTES NOTE 18 CONTINUED Accounts receivable at Receivables due Receivables due Receivables due 31 December 2018 Not due between 1–30 days between 31–60 days longer than 60 days Total Reported amount of accounts receivable, net 729 105 26 8 868 Total 729 105 26 8 868 Accounts receivable at Receivables due Receivables due Receivables due 1 January 2018 Not due between 1–30 days between 31–60 days longer than 60 days Total Reported amount of accounts receivable, net 417 62 6 3 488 Total 417 62 6 3 488 Fair value of accounts receivable agrees with the carrying amounts. Credit quality of unreserved receivables is assessed to be good. Interest income on accounts receivable during the year was SEK 5 M (3). NOTE 19 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current 2018 2017 2018 2017 Prepaid rents 53 44 Liabilities to credit institutions, Prepaid lease fees 2 2 bank borrowing 800 136 800 136 Prepaid insurance 6 2 1 1 Overdraft facilities 278 117 278 117 Accrued supplier bonus 428 138 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 2 Other interim receivables 85 67 8 8 Derivatives, currency and interestrate swaps 1 Total 574 253 9 9 Total current liabilities, interest-bearing 1,081 255 1,078 253 Total borrowing 4,309 1,706 4,302 1,699 NOTE 20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Overdraft facility limit 443 435 443 435 Group Parent Company of which, unutilised portion 165 318 165 318 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities increased during the year, mainly as a result of 2018 2017 2018 2017 recently raised loans in connection with the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team in September 2018. The new loans consist of a long-term loan of (EUR 203.5 M) and three Cash and bank balances 205 254 79 152 bridge loans of EUR 162 M, EUR 40.5 M and SEK 100 M. The first bridge loan was Total 205 254 79 152 paid back in connection with the new share issue in October 2018. The two remaining bridge loans fall due in February with a possibility for extension up to a maximum of another six months. The long-term loan runs for five years and is to be repaid at EUR 5 M per quarter beginning on 30 June 2019. During the year, Mekonomen AB entered NOTE 21 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS two interest-rate swaps in EUR to reduce the risk in the Group’s cash flow as a result of changed market interest rates. These swaps are of EUR 60.75 M each. One runs until March 2022 and the other runs until August 2023. Value change of the derivatives Group Parent Company included in the cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. In the fourth quarter of 2018, Mekonomen also entered hedging relationships in accordance 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the loans raised in connection with the acquiLong-term 2018 2017 2018 2017 sition of FTZ in Denmark. The loan hedges the currency risk in the net investment. Liabilities to credit institutions, bank Currency translation of the part of the loan included in the hedging relationship is borrowing 3,225 1,446 3,224 1,446 thereby recognised in other comprehensive income as of 1 October 2018. Liabilities to leasing companies 1 1 The loan that was renegotiated in 2017 was again renegotiated in connection Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 3 4 with the aforementioned acquisitions. It is mainly the so-called covenants that were renegotiated and an increase of the existing granted credit (RCF) from SEK 1,050 M Total long-term liabilities, to SEK 1,250 M. These loans consist of two parts, a so-called Term A loan that as of interest-bearing 3,228 1,451 3,224 1,446 the year-end had SEK 396 M in outstanding amounts and an RCF of SEK 1,250 M, of which SEK 1,050 M was utilised at year-end. The Term A loan is repaid by SEK 34 M per quarter and falls due in June 2022. RCF falls due in November 2022. The company has also hedged the cash flow risk for these loans with an interest-rate swap of SEK 450 M. The swap was entered into in 2015 and falls due in March 2019. All interest rates, excluding interest-rate swaps, are variable or have a maximum fixed period of three months. During the financial year, the interest level varied up to just over 2 per cent (just under 2). Mekonomen AB’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The conditions include an owner change clause that becomes current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per cent or upon a delisting. The Group’s long-term borrowing occurs mainly under credit 72 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 21 CONTINUED Group 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Present value of funded commitments 53 51 frameworks with long-term lines of credits, but with short-term fixed-interest periods. Fair value of plan assets -49 -48 The Group’s interest expenses pertaining to borrowing amounted to SEK 53 M (29). Refer also to the sensitivity analysis pertaining to interest-rate risks in the sensitivity Deficit in funded plans 4 3 analysis section in the Administration Report and in Note 35. Existing Present value in unfunded commitments overdraft facilities are in SEK, NOK and EUR. Net debt in the balance sheet 4 3 NOTE 22 PROVISIONS Present value of commitments 2018 Group 2017 Group Parent Company Opening balance 51 54 Gross pension cost for the year 2 2 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Interest expenses 1 1 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pension payment -2 -2 Provision for pensions 4 3 Actuarial gains and losses1) 0 -1 Provisions for supplementary purchase considerations 21 23 Exchange-rate differences 1 -3 Provisions for returns 17 5 Closing balance 53 51 Other provisions 11 4 3 3 Total 53 34 3 3 Group Fair value of plan assets 2018 2017 Provisions for Opening balance 48 50 Provisions supplementary Expected return 1 0 for returns purchase Payments 3 4 and other considerations Pension payment -2 -2 Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 9 23 Actuarial gains and losses1) -2 -1 New provisions 8 3 Exchange-rate differences 1 -3 Reversed provisions -4 0 Closing balance 49 48 Amounts utilised during the period -1 -5 Net pension commitments 4 3 Increase through business combinations 18 Currency effects -1 0 1) C  hanges in demographic and financial assumptions are not specified on the basis of a materiality assessment. Carrying amount at year-end 28 21 Group Provisions comprise: Costs recognised in profit or loss 2018 2017 Group Parent Company Pension vesting for the year including contributions 2 2 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Administration fees 0 0 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest expenses 1 1 Long-term portion 24 21 3 3 3 3 Short-term portion 29 14 Total 53 34 3 3 Group Composition of plan assets 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Pensions Alecta Equities 10% 9% The ITP 2 scheme’s defined-benefit pension obligations for old-age and family Bonds 72% 72% pensions (or family pension) for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through Property 11% 11% insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Other 7% 8% Board, UFR 10 Recognition of ITP 2 Pension Plans Financed through Insurance with Total 100% 100% Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. In the 2018 financial year, the company did not have access to such information that made it possible to recognise its proportional share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it Group was not possible to recognise this as a defined-benefit plan. ITP 2 pension plans that Actuarial assumptions 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 are secured through insurance with Alecta are therefore recognised as definedcontribution plans. The anticipated fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 Discount rate 2.60% 2.30% ­policies signed with Alecta amounts to SEK 13 M (15). Future salary increases 2.75% 2.50% The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets Future pension increases 0.80% 0.40% as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. Alecta’s surplus, Assumptions regarding future length of life are based on public statistics and expein the form of the collective consolidation level, amounted to 142 per cent at year-end rience from mortality studies in the country concerned, and set in consultation with 2018 (154 per cent). actuarial experts. Through its post-employment defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed Pension commitments to a number of such risks as asset volatility, changes in returns and length of life All pension commitments pertain to employees in the subsidiary in Norway. The commitments. The company actively monitors how terms of and expected returns Group is obliged to provide pension provisions according to the Norwegian act on on investments match expected payments arising from its pension commitments. The occupational pensions. The Group has a total of five defined-benefit pension plans Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. which jointly include 51 (55) gainfully employed individuals and 50 (50) pensioners. The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its risk. Investments are Pension benefits are largely dependent on the number of years of service, salary level highly diversified. at retirement and the amount of the benefit. The obligation is covered via insurance Contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the 2019 financial year are companies. Employer contributions are included in the net pension obligation. The expected to amount to SEK 3 M. amounts recognised in the balance sheet have been calculated as follows: A sensitivity analysis and weighted average term for the pension commitments and term analysis for undiscounted payments have not been provided since they are deemed to be insignificant. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 73 NOTES NOTE 23 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES, NOTE 25 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT NON-INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accounts payable 1,363 636 Pledged assets Other liabilities 195 177 Accrued expenses and deferred income 530 369 Contingent liabilities Other guarantee commitments1) 0 94 Total 2,088 1,182 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries1) 393 446 Other sureties 15 16 Total 15 110 393 446 NOTE 24 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED 1) The decrease during the year mainly originates from a guarantee amount regarding the new central INCOME warehouse system decreasing as investments are made. For information on commitments regarding future lease charges, refer to Note 14. Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Accrued personnel-related costs 2018 337 2017 205 2018 10 2017 8 NOTE 26 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Accrued bonuses/contract fees 94 82 Parent Company Accrued interest expenses 6 1 6 1 2018 2017 Prepaid rental income 3 4 Opening cost 3,604 3,586 Other interim liabilities 90 77 6 1 Capital contributions paid 28 20 Total 530 369 21 11 Sale of subsidiaries -2 Acquisitions during the year1) 4,305 Closing accumulated cost 7,937 3,604 Opening impairment -574 -574 Closing accumulated impairment -574 -574 Closing residual value 7,363 3,030 1) Refers to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. For further information and the acquisition analysis, refer to Note 30. Number of Book value Book value Participations in Group companies Corp. ID number Share of equity, % branches 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Name of company/registered office, Denmark Acem A/S /Copenhagen 30 07 81 28 100 0 0 FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S/Odense 73 64 87 18 100 49 4,065 Name of company/registered office, Finland Mekonomen Oy/Helsinki 2259452-4 100 2 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen AS/Oppegård 980 748 669 100 29 24 24 Sørensen og Balchen AS/Oslo 916 591 144 100 840 840 Name of company/registered office, Poland Inter-Team Sp. z o.o./Warszawa 5 240 301 927 100 79 240 Name of company/registered office, Sweden MECA Scandinavia AB/Malmö 556218-3037 100 2,053 2,053 Mekonomen Group AB/Stockholm 556724-9254 100 35 35 Bileko Car Parts AB/Stockholm 556062-4875 100 40 40 Mekonomen Detaljist AB/Stockholm 556157-7288 100 55 5 5 Meko Service Nordic AB/Stockholm 556179-9676 100 1 1 Speedy Autoservice AB/Malmö 556575-9858 100 31 31 Mekonomen Nya Affärer AB/Stockholm 556821-5981 100 28 0 Mekonomen Services AB/Huddinge 556840-9428 100 0 0 Participations in Group companies, total 214 7,363 3,030 74 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES Indirect participations in Number Mekonomen Mora AB/Mora 556363-2487 100 subsidiaries Corp. ID Share of of Mekonomen Motala AB/Motala 556311-8750 95.5 1 Company name/domicile number equity, % branches Mekonomen Norrköping AB/Norrköping 556376-2797 100 2 FTZ Mekonomen Norrtälje AB/Stockholm 556178-9719 60 1 Automester Danmark ApS/Odense 16 81 72 44 100 Mekonomen Nyköping AB/Nyköping 556244-0650 75 1 Din Bilpartner ApS/Odense 32 14 21 09 100 Mekonomen Nässjö AB/Nässjö 556187-8637 100 FTZ Autodele & Værktøj P/F/Torshavn 51 29 23 70 2 Mekonomen Osby AB/Osby 556408-8044 91 1 2 Mekonomen Oskarshamn AB/Oskarshamn 556631-8589 75 1 Mekonomen Piteå AB/Piteå 556659-8966 100 1 MECA Mekonomen Sala AB/Sala 556882-0905 100 MECA Car Parts AB/Malmö 556169-0412 100 Mekonomen Sandviken AB/Sandviken 556201-1295 100 1 MECA Sweden AB/Malmö 556356-5612 100 56 Mekonomen Services AS/Oppegård 999 323 332 100 MECA Verkstadsdrift AB/ Malmö 559012-2478 100 Mekonomen Skellefteå AB/Skellefteå 556389-4095 100 MECA Norway AS/Gjøvik 935 682 525 100 24 Mekonomen Sollefteå AB/Sollefteå 556216-9424 100 1 MECA Service AS/Gjøvik 920 377 068 100 Mekonomen Strängnäs AB/Strängnäs 556786-9457 100 80 Mekonomen Strömstad AB/Strömstad 556775-9849 100 1 Mekonomen Sundsvall Birsta AB/Sundsvall 556201-1675 100 1 MEKONOMEN Mekonomen Sundsvall Nacksta AB/Sundsvall 556777-4863 100 Bildelar i Kristinehamn AB/Kristinehamn 559131-6590 100 Mekonomen Södertälje AB/Södertälje 556405-5498 100 Hedemora Bildelsbutik AB/Stockholm 559112-6494 100 Mekonomen Torslanda AB/Gothenburg 556583-3893 100 Mekonomen Alingsås AB/Alingsås 556596-3690 95 1 Mekonomen Tranås AB/Tranås 556770-0041 100 Mekonomen Arvika AB/Arvika 556528-3750 100 4 Mekonomen Trollhättan AB/Trollhättan 556515-0298 100 2 Mekonomen Backaplan AB/Gothenburg 556226-1338 100 Mekonomen Tønsberg AS/Tønsberg 934 256 867 75 1 Mekonomen Bilverkstad AB/Stockholm 556607-1493 100 Mekonomen Umeå AB/Umeå 556483-3084 81.8 1 Mekonomen Blekinge AB/Sölvesborg 556649-9017 100 3 Mekonomen Valdemarsvik AB/Valdemarsvik 556963-4966 100 1 Mekonomen Bollnäs AB/Bollnäs 556827-3675 91 1 Mekonomen Varberg AB/Varberg 556261-0161 75 1 Mekonomen Butikerna AB/ Halmstad 556261-4676 100 Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Älvsjö AB/ Mekonomen Båstad AB/Båstad 556594-1951 100 Huddinge 556192-0314 91 1 Mekonomen Eklanda AB/Gothenburg 556887-1999 51 1 Mekonomen Vetlanda AB/Vetlanda 556653-4219 91 1 Mekonomen Enköping AB/Enköping 556264-2636 91 1 Mekonomen Vimmerby AB/Vimmerby 556232-5877 100 1 Mekonomen Eskilstuna AB/Eskilstuna 556613-5637 100 Mekonomen Vänersborg AB/Vänersborg 556770-0058 100 1 Mekonomen Falkenberg AB/Falkenberg 556213-1622 91 1 Mekonomen Västerås AB/Västerås 556344-5492 100 Mekonomen Falun AB/Falun 556559-3927 100 2 Mekonomen Växjö AB/Växjö 556192-0439 100 3 Mekonomen FKV AB/Stockholm 556775-9831 100 Mekonomen Örebro AB/Örebro 556216-4250 100 Mekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 100 Mekonomen Örnsköldsvik AB/Örnsköldsvik 556465-6287 51 1 Mekonomen Flen AB/Flen 556769-8542 100 Mekonomen Östersund AB/Östersund 556296-5243 100 2 Mekonomen Gävle AB/Gävle 556353-6803 100 Motor Norge AS/Alta 945 481 668 51 1 Mekonomen Göteborg AB/Gothenburg 556887-2294 51 3 Sandefjord Bil AS/Sandefjord 898 012 212 100 Mekonomen Hallsberg AB/Hallsberg 556530-7237 100 Stolpet bildelar AB/ Uddevalla 559164-2755 100 Mekonomen Hedemora AB/Hedemora 556308-8011 91 1 Strandgata Auto AS/Rørvik 990 043 302 100 Mekonomen Härnösand AB/Härnösand 556217-2261 100 1 59 Mekonomen Hässleholm AB/Hässleholm 556678-0622 91 1 Mekonomen Järfälla AB/Järfälla 556580-2351 95 Sørensen og Balchen Mekonomen Jönköping AB/Jönköping 556237-5500 91 Askim Bilrekvisita AS/Askim 885 049 702 100 2 Mekonomen Kalmar AB/Kalmar 556236-8349 100 Autoproducts AS/Trondheim 995 080 125 50 1 Mekonomen Karlskoga AB/Uppsala 556821-6062 100 Bilartikler AS/Fredrikstad 921 462 867 60 Mekonomen Kramfors AB/Kramfors 556496-1810 91 1 Bilutstyr Arendal AS/Arendal 961 171 067 100 1 Mekonomen Kristianstad AB/Kristianstad 556171-9203 100 Bilvarehusene Nor AS/Oslo 880 553 852 100 8 Mekonomen Kungsbacka AB/Kungsbacka 556887-2336 51 1 Bilvarehusene Sør AS/Oslo 887 813 752 100 5 Mekonomen Kungshamn AB/Sotenäs 559101-6257 80 1 BilXtra AS/Oslo 983 032 133 100 7 Mekonomen Lidköping AB/Lidköping 556761-3012 75 1 BilXtra Autogården Kongsberg AS/Kongsberg 914 746 345 91.9 Mekonomen Linköping AB/Linköping 556202-9545 100 BilXtra Kristiansund AS/Kristiansund 999 255 876 91 1 Mekonomen Ljusdal AB/Ljusdal 556786-1066 100 2 BilXtra Skøyen AS/Ringebu 916 795 521 100 Mekonomen Ludvika AB/Ludvika 556470-4210 91 1 DINDEL NORWAY AS/Oslo 913 284 607 100 Mekonomen Luleå AB/Luleå 556338-4071 100 Høistad Bildeler AS/Lillehammer 981 015 142 100 1 Mekonomen Lund AB/Lund 556531-0108 91 1 Jahre Motor Hamar AS/Hamar 935 614 031 91 1 Mekonomen Lycksele AB/Lycksele 556687-8095 100 Rogaland Rekvisita AS/Stavanger 936 043 119 100 2 Mekonomen Mariestad AB/Mariestad 556261-0179 75 1 Rønneberg Auto Industri AS/Ålesund 981 015 150 100 5 Mekonomen Mjölby AB/Mjölby 556362-0565 95.5 1 Vest Bilutstyr AS/Bergen 980 281 450 100 2 36 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 75 NOTES NOTE 26 CONTINUED Mekonomen BilLivet Johanneshov AB/Stockholm 556882-0780 91 OTHER SEGMENTS Mekonomen Billivet Karlshamn AB/Stockholm 559118-0608 100 Name of company/registered office, Finland1) Mekonomen BilLivet Katrinelund AB/Stockholm 556882-0954 91 Mekonomen Grossist Oy/Vantaa 2445185-0 100 Mekonomen Billivet Kiruna AB/Stockholm 559118-0616 100 Mekonomen Levänen Oy/Kuopio 2462875-9 100 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Krokslätt AB/Gothenburg 559055-8549 100 Mekonomen Renkomäki Oy/Lahti 2429678-2 100 1 Mekonomen Billivet Lidingö AB/Stockholm 559149-9289 100 Mekonomen Tammisto Oy/Vantaa 2359731-3 100 1 Mekonomen Billivet Ljungby AB/Stockholm 559118-0582 51 Mekonomen Viiki Oy/Helsinki 2359722-5 100 Mekonomen Billivet Ljusdal AB/Stockholm 559149-9297 100 Mekonomen Billivet Norremark AB/Stockholm 559116-8694 100 Name of company/registered office, Hong Mekonomen Billivet Nybro AB/Stockholm 559149-9388 51 Kong Mekonomen Billivet Nödinge AB/Stockholm 559123-7432 100 ProMeister Global Limited/Hong Kong 1988735 100 Mekonomen Billivet Skellefteå AB/Stockholm 559118-0590 100 Mekonomen Billivet Strömstad AB/Stockholm 559123-7382 100 Name of company/registered office, Iceland Mekonomen BilLivet Södertälje AB/Stockholm 556882-0939 100 Mekonomen ehf./Gardabaer 411214-0520 100 Mekonomen BilLivet Täby AB/Stockholm 556882-0962 91 Mekonomen BilLivet Vårby AB/Stockholm 556882-0947 91 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen Billivet Värnamo AB/Stockholm 559123-7705 51 Lasingoo Norge AS/ Oppegård 914 835 585 100 Mekonomen Billivet Växjö AB/Stockholm 559118-0574 51 J&B Maskinteknikk AS/Gjøvik 915 971 865 100 Mekonomen Billivet Älmhult AB/Stockholm 559115-9461 51 Preqas AS/Gjøvik, Norway 816 479 932 100 Mekster AB/Stockholm 556917-2595 51 ProMeister Solutions AS/Gjøvik 917 100 462 100 Preqas AB/Göteborg 556884-6504 100 ProMeister Solutions AB/Malmö 559034-6929 100 Name of company/registered office, Sweden ProMeister Verkstad AB/Stockholm 559149-9347 100 AlltiBil Västra Sverige AB/Göteborg 556603-0747 65 Promotor Åkersberga AB/Stockholm 556819-5019 100 Bilglascentralen AB/Göteborg 556076-4598 65 Speedy Bilservice Högsbo AB/Malmö 556909-4906 100 BilXtra Sweden AB/Malmö 556509-7861 100 Speedy Bilservice Mölndal AB/Mölndal 559004-5711 91 J&B Maskinteknik AB/Gothenburg 556490-2996 100 Speedy Bilservice på Limhamn AB/Malmö 559097-7970 100 Meca bilverkstad Eskilstuna AB/Stockholm 559123-7424 100 Speedy Bilservice Östermalm AB/Malmö 556953-2434 91 Meca Bilverkstad Karlskoga AB/Stockholm 559123-7416 100 5 Meca Bilverkstad Trollhättan AB /Stockholm 559124-5070 100 Meca Bilverkstad Tunby AB/Stockholm 559101-9681 100 Total number of branches 396 MECA Tunga Fordon AB/Malmö 559009-7837 100 2 Meko Service 24 AB/Stockholm 559149-8976 100 1) All companies in Finland have their registered offices in Helsinki; the place of business is stated above. Meko Service 25 AB/Stockholm 559149-9255 100 Meko Service 29 AB/Stockholm 559149-9420 100 Including the Parent Company, Mekonomen Group comprises a total of 194 companies, 396 proprietary branches and 75 proprietary workshops. Currently, Meko Service 31 AB/Stockholm 559181-0790 100 37 wholly-owned companies run 361 branches and 32 partly-owned companies run Meko Service 32 AB/Stockholm 559181-0782 100 35 branches. Furthermore, 33 wholly-owned companies run 48 car workshops and Meko Service 33 AB/Stockholm 559181-0766 100 19 partly-owned companies run 27 workshops. Meko Service 34 AB/Stockholm 559179-3269 100 The Group has no subsidiary with non-controlling interests that is of individual Meko Service 35 AB/Stockholm 559181-0758 100 significance to Mekonomen Group. Meko Service Auto Mek i Karlskrona AB/ Stockholm 556882-0772 100 Meko Service Hemmesta AB/Upplands-Väsby 556428-1102 100 Meko Service Råå AB/Upplands-Väsby 559086-6744 80 Meko Service Småland AB/Stockholm 559115-9479 51 Meko Service Susannes Bilverkstad i Härlöv AB/ Upplands-Väsby 556964-0641 60 Meko Service Södra AB/Upplands-Väsby 559086-6645 100 Mekonomen BilLivet AB/Stockholm 556845-2196 100 Mekonomen Billivet Albyberg AB/Stockholm 559149-8893 100 Mekonomen BilLivet Backaplan AB/Gothenburg 556756-1146 91 Mekonomen Billivet Borås AB/Stockholm 559149-8570 100 Mekonomen BilLivet Bromma AB/Stockholm 556864-3455 100 Mekonomen Billivet Eklanda AB/Upplands-Väsby 556863-9909 91 Mekonomen Billivet Fosie AB/Stockholm 559098-0537 100 Mekonomen Billivet Gislaved AB/Stockholm 559123-7408 51 Mekonomen BilLivet Gärdet AB/Upplands-Väsby 556821-6047 100 Mekonomen BilLivet Gävle AB/Stockholm 556864-3448 100 Mekonomen Billivet Hedemora AB/Stockholm 559112-6460 51 Mekonomen Billivet Härnösand AB/Stockholm 559149-9313 100 Mekonomen BilLivet Infra City AB/Stockholm 556864-3471 100 76 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 27 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Reserves The item consists of translation differences attributable to the translation of foreign subsidiaries and related hedges of equity in accordance with IAS 21 and cash-flow A specification of changes to shareholders’ equity can be found in the statement of hedges as shown in the table below: changes in consolidated and Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity (see pages 52 and 56, respectively). Translation Share capital and number of shares Reserves differences1) Hedges Total Group Opening balance on 1 January 2017 -128 -6 -134 Exchange-rate differences on translaTotal number of shares 2018 2017 tion of foreign subsidiaries -50 -50 At 1 January 35,901,487 35,901,487 Cash-flow hedges 3 3 New share issue 20,515,135 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 -178 -3 -182 At 31 December 56,416,622 35,901,487 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 -178 -3 -182 Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries -129 -129 Group Hedging of net investment, net2) 4 4 Treasury shares 2018 2017 Cash-flow hedges 1 1 At 1 January Closing balance on 31 December Acquisitions for the year1) 63,250 2018 -304 -3 -307 At 31 December 63,250 1) At 31 December 2018, the accumulated translation reserve for the former operations in Denmark amounted to SEK -14 M (-13) (i.e. excluding translation differences for FTZ). The translation 1) In December, Mekonomen AB carried out a buyback of 63,250 own shares to cover the company's reserve for the former operations in Denmark will be reclassified within equity through the income commitment under the long-term incentive programme approved by the Annual General Meeting statement at an amount relevant at that time if the Danish company is liquidated, which will be (LTIP 2018). As a result of the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, the targets in LTIP 2018 were not investigated in the future. achieved. The Board of Directors has decided to not change the targets, but instead propose to the 2) Loans raised in connection with the acquisition of FTZ hedge the currency risk in the net investment Annual General Meeting to pass a resolution on a new programme for 2019. and the currency translation is hedge accounted. Group Profit brought forward The profit brought forward item corresponds to the accumulated profits and losses Number of outstanding shares 1) 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 generated in total in the Group. Total number of shares 56,416,622 35,901,487 Treasury shares -63,250 Profit brought forward Total 56,353,372 35,901,487 Opening balance on 1 January 2017 900 Comprehensive income for the year: 1) There were no outstanding shareholders’ equity instruments that could result in a dilution of the share capital as per 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. Profit for the year 361 Actuarial gains and losses 0 Group Comprehensive income for the year 361 Dividends -251 Share capital, SEK 2018 2017 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -9 At 1 January 89,753,718 89,753,718 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 1,000 New share issue 51,287,838 At 31 December 141,041,555 89,753,718 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 1,000 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 260 Quotient value per share, SEK 2.50 2.50 Actuarial gains and losses -2 Comprehensive income for the year 258 Other capital contributions Dividends -251 Other capital contributions included contributions the company received from shareBuyback of own shares -6 holders and which are not recognised as share capital. Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests 0 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 1,001 Other capital contributions Opening balance on 1 January 2017 1,456 Dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders Closing balance on 31 December 2017 1,456 The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2018. Opening balance on 1 January 2018 1,456 Proposed appropriation of profit Parent Company New share issue 1,570 The following profit is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting, New issue expenses -41 SEK 000s: Profit brought forward 2,466,906 Tax effect on new issue expenses 8 Share premium reserve 1,536,815 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 2,993 Profit for the year 616,732 Total 4,620,453 The Board of Directors and President propose that profits be appropriated as follows: To be carried forward 4,620,453 Total 4,620,453 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 77 NOTES NOTE 28 CAPITAL Mekonomen Group manages its capital to ensure that the units in the Group are able to continue operating, while dividends to shareholders are maximised through a sound balance between liabilities and shareholders’ equity. The Group’s capital comprises shareholders’ equity, as well as short and long-term borrowing. The proportions of shareholders’ equity and changes during the year are described in the changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity on page 52 and Note 27 Shareholders’ equity. At least once per year, the Board reviews the capital structure and takes this into account when making decisions on, for example, dividends or raising new loans. The key figure the Group Management Team and the Board primarily assesses regarding capital structure is net debt relative to EBITDA. This key figure is continuously followed up in the internal reporting to the Group Management Team and the Board. Mekonomen Group’s financial targets include that net debt/EBITDA shall not exceed 2.0 over the long term. The Group’s acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018 have temporarily materially increased the key figure of net debt/EBITDA as the acquisitions are partly loan financed. According to plan, the loan financing will gradually decrease, with it the net debt as well, and Mekonomen Group’s goal that net debt/EBITDA shall not remain above 2.0 in the long term. The Group’s financial targets also include that the equity/assets ratio shall not drop below 40 per cent long term. For further information on Mekonomen Group’s financial targets, see pages 12-13 and for further information on the Group’s key figures, see the section of the Five-year summary on pages 88-89. NOTE 29 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES ON THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT Group Parent Company Adjustments for non-cash items in operating activities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Depreciation/Amortisation 229 178 0 0 Impairment of intangible fixed assets 0 9 Impairment of financial fixed assets 0 -1 Impairment of inventories 48 0 Other provisions 9 -1 0 0 Capital gain/loss from divestment of fixed assets 3 1 0 Capital gain/loss from divestment of operations 7 2 Exchange gains/losses -133 10 -126 -3 Other items not affecting liquidity 11 1 2 -3 Total 175 200 -124 -6 Non-cash items Opening Period-allocatChange in liabilities with cash balance ed loan-raising Change in fair Closing balance flows in financing activities, Group 1 January 2018 Cash flows Currency effect expenses value 31 Dec 2018 Liability to credit institutions, long term 1,447 1,903 -136 11 3,225 Liability to credit institutions, short term 255 825 1,080 Derivative interest-rate swap, long term 4 -1 3 Derivative interest-rate swap, short term 1 1 Total 1,706 2,728 -136 0 4,309 Non-cash items Opening Period-allocatChange in liabilities with cash balance ed loan-raising Change in fair Closing balance flows in financing activities, Group 1 January 2017 Cash flows Currency effect expenses value 31 Dec 2017 Liabilities to credit institutions, long term 1,328 119 0 0 1,447 Liabilities to credit institutions, short term 403 -148 255 Derivative interest-rate swap, long term 7 -3 4 Total 1,738 -29 0 -3 1,706 78 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 30 EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS IMPLEMENTED The total of other acquisitions would have had an immaterial impact on sales and earnings if they had been implemented at the beginning of the year. Acquisition-related costs amount to SEK 23 M for the 2018 financial year. The Business combinations 2018 acquisition costs are essentially attributable to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. On 6 July 2018, Mekonomen entered an agreement to acquire all shares in the car These costs are not included in the total purchase consideration in the table below, part distributors FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S (“FTZ”) in Denmark and INTER-TEAM but rather have been reported as other costs in the consolidated income statement. Sp.z.o.o. (“Inter-Team”) in Poland. After approval by relevant authorities was obtained, The preliminary acquisition analysis for acquired operations is presented below: the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team was completed on 3 September 2018. Payment for the shares was fully made in cash and the total purchase consideration amounted to EUR 404 M, translated at the rate on the transaction date to SEK 4,284 M. DistriOther Total bution of the total purchase consideration is presented by the table below. InteracquisiacquisiThe share purchase agreement between Mekonomen and Hella Holding InterAcquisitions in 2018 FTZ Team tions tions national GmbH comprised, in addition to acquisitions of the companies FTZ and Value of acquired assets and Inter-Team, that Mekonomen on certain conditions would acquire Nordic Forum liabilities Holding A/S, the former holding company for FTZ and Inter-Team. After the end of Intangible fixed assets 8 3 1 11 the financial year, the acquisition of the holding company was carried out with the Tangible fixed assets 76 51 20 148 aim of fulfilling the agreement and the transaction is not of a material significance Financial fixed assets 8 6 0 14 to Mekonomen. Nordic Forum has no active operations after 2018 and will not be Deferred tax assets 1 1 used in its former role in as the holding company or a commercial counterparty to its subsidiaries; the acquisition is only a practical result of the earlier acquisitions. Inventories 559 605 18 1,182 The acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team fit well Mekonomen Group’s strategy Current receivables 596 207 10 813 of being part of the ongoing consolidation in Europe. The business is strategic for Cash and cash equivalents 640 37 4 681 Mekonomen Group, which is now taking the next step in its journey of growth. Long-term liabilities -12 -469 -1 -482 Through FTZ, the Group is strengthening its position as the leading car part distribDeferred tax liabilities -25 -25 utor in the Nordic region and through FTZ, which holds 28 per cent of the market share in Denmark, the leading car parts distributor in Denmark. Through Inter-Team, Current liabilities -581 -273 -23 -878 Mekonomen Group establishes a strong market position in Poland and will be able to Acquired net assets 1,269 168 29 1,465 partake of the fast-growing and fragmented Polish car parts market that is also charBrands 518 30 548 acterised by an older car fleet than in the Nordic countries. The acquired companies Customer relations 778 22 29 829 shall continue to be developed in the scope of existing corporate structure and brands Goodwill 1,766 29 70 1,865 within their own segments in the Group. Deferred tax liabilities -285 -10 -5 -300 Through the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, Mekonomen Group’s sales were almost doubled. The acquisition is expected to generate annual synergies of Acquired non-controlling interests, SEK 100 M, of which the majority is comprised of purchasing synergies, with full effect surplus value recognised against shareholders’ equity 1 1 in 2021. The Group is at the same time increasing the number of branches from around 330 to more than 460 and the number of affiliated workshops is from Total identifiable net assets and 2,000 to more than 3,400. goodwill 4,045 239 123 4,407 FTZ and Inter-Team are included in Mekonomen’s financial statements from the Total purchase price -4,045 -239 -123 -4,407 acquisition date 3 September 2018. of which, cash portion -4,045 -239 -120 -4,404 In addition to the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, the Group acquired 18 of which supplementary purchase ­workshops in Sweden and four workshops in Norway during the year. Acquisitions considerations entered as liabilities -3 -3 also took place of 65 per cent of the participations in Allt i Bil AB with seven workCash and cash equivalents in the shops in Sweden, which in turn acquired Bilglascentralen with operations in Gothenacquired companies1) 640 37 4 681 burg and 51 per cent of the participations in Mekster AB with sales of spare parts over Less settlement of the acquired units’ the Internet. In addition, seven branches and three car wash facilities were acquired in liabilities to the seller -469 -469 Sweden. In addition, four new workshops were established in Sweden. Besides FTZ and Inter-Team, which are reported separately below, information on Plus paid supplementary purchase considerations regarding earlier years -5 -5 corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recognition. All other acquisiImpact on Group’s cash and cash tions were paid in cash. equivalents -3,405 -670 -121 -4,196 During the 2018 financial year, FTZ and Inter-Team have affected the Group’s net sales and operating profit according to the table below: Fair value of acquired receivables amounts to SEK 813 M. The brands have indefinite lifespans. Customer relationships amount to SEK 829 M, of which SEK 800 M is attributable to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team and is Interassessed to have a useful life of 10 years. The remaining customer relationships of SEK M FTZ Team Total SEK 29 M are deemed to have a useful life of 5 years. Net sales, external 1,088 638 1,726 Arisen goodwill is mainly attributable to the value of geographic expansion and a Operating profit/loss1) 49 -1 49 stronger market position, especially in the Nordic region. Arisen goodwill is furthermore attributable to anticipated specific synergies in Mekonomen, new customers 1) E xcluding acquisition costs of SEK 23 M and excluding amortisations of intangible assets identified in and, to a limited extent, the combined workforce. These advantages have not been connection with the acquisition totalling SEK 26 M. recognised separately from goodwill since they do not meet the criteria for recognition of identifiable intangible assets. The acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team is expected The impact of other acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. to generate annual synergies of SEK 100 M, of which the majority is comprised of If the acquisition of FTZ or Inter-Team been done as of 1 January 2018, the impact purchasing synergies. The synergies will gradually arise beginning in the second half on consolidated net sales and the impact on the operating profit during the 2018 of 2018 and are expected to achieve full effect in 2021. Expenses of SEK 60 M are financial year would have amounted to: deemed to arise in connection with the work to realise the synergies and achieve integration. FTZ and Inter-Team shall continue to act as own companies in their existing corporate structures; thereby no significant integration costs will arise over time. InterOf the goodwill that arose in connection with the acquisitions, SEK 25 M is SEK M FTZ Team Total ­expected to be tax deductible. Net sales, external 3,288 1,882 5,170 Three workshop managers entered as partners in three workshop companies Operating profit/loss1) 341 19 360 during the year. 1) Excluding acquisition costs of SEK 23 M and excluding amortisations of intangible assets identified in connection with the acquisition totalling SEK 77 M. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 79 NOTES NOTE 30 CONTINUED % Total equity Acquisitions in 2017 acquisitions Acquired subsidiaries/ Acquisiand % Value of acquired assets and liabilities operations 2018 Country tion date votes Object Tangible fixed assets 9 Assets and Inventories 11 Branch, Vårby Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Current receivables 4 Branches, Hedemora and Kristinehamn Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Current liabilities -10 Workshops, Värnamo and Assets and Acquired net assets 14 Gislaved Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Customer relations 34 Workshop, Hedmora Goodwill 22 Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Deferred tax liabilities -3 Workshop, Sandefjord Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised against Mekonomen Norway Quarter 1 100 Equities shareholders’ equity 8 Verkstad, Sköyen Assets and Sørensen og Balchen Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 75 Assets and Total purchase price -75 Branch, Söderhamn MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities of which, cash portion -63 Workshops, Trollhättan, of which supplementary purchase considerations -13 Strömstad, Borås and Gävle Assets and Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 0 Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Plus paid supplementary purchase considerations regarding earlier years -4 Workshops, Nynäshamn Assets and Speedy Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents -66 Allt i Bil AB Sweden Quarter 2 65 Equities Bilglascentralen AB Sweden Quarter 3 65 Equities One workshop manager entered as a partner in the workshop company during the year. Workshop, Jaren MECA Norway Quarter 3 100 Equities Workshop, Trøndelag Mekonomen Norway Quarter 3 100 Equities % Workshops, Eskilstuna, Nödinge Assets and equity and Nybro Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Acquired subsidiaries/ Acquisiand % Workshops, Rosersberg and Lund Assets and operations 2017 Country tion date votes Object MECA Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Branches, Västervik and Visby Assets and Mekster AB Sweden Quarter 3 51 Equities MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S Denmark Quarter 3 100 Equities Workshop equipment, eastern Assets and Norway MECA Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities INTER-TEAM Sp.z.o.o. Poland Quarter 3 100 Equities Partner branches, Mosjön, Mo i Assets and Workshop, Uddevalla Rana Mekonomen Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 Equities Assets and Workshops, Lidingö, Ljusdal and Assets and Workshop, Halden Mekonomen Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities Härnösand Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Workshop, Malmö Meko Service Assets and Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Workshop, Åbro Speedy Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Workshop, Malmö Meko Service Assets and Branches, Sunne and Hagfors Assets and Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities MECA Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Assets and Branch, Uddevalla Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 4 100 Equities Branch, Trelleborg MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Assets and Branch, Kungshamn Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 3 80 Equities Car wash facilities Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Workshops, Älmhult, Växjö, Ljungby, Västerås Meko Service Assets and Business combinations 2017 Nordic Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities MECA acquired three branches during the year in Sweden, one each in Västervik, Workshops, Lillehammer, BruVisby and Trelleborg, and four workshops in Norway, one each in Lillehammer, munddal, Gjøvik, Hamar MECA Norway Quarter 4 100 Equities Brumunddal, Gjøvik and Hamar. MECA also acquired operations for heavy workshop equipment in eastern Norway. Mekonomen Sweden acquired non-controlling interests in four branches, all for a minor value. Mekonomen Sweden also acquired a branch in Kungshamn, established a branch in Karlstad, and transferred three branches in Gothenburg to partly owned companies in the Group. Mekonomen Norway acquired non-controlling interests in one branch and one workshop in Norway, both for a minor value. Mekonomen Norway also acquired two partner branches in Mosjön and Mo i Rana and one workshop in Halden, Norway. Sørensen og Balchen acquired non-controlling interests in one workshop in Norway at minor value. Sørensen og Balchen also established two branches in Norway, one in Bø and one in Råholt. Meko Service Nordic also acquired non-controlling interests in one workshop for a minor value. Meko Service Nordic also acquired six workshops in Sweden, two in Malmö, one in Älmhult, Växjö, Ljungby and Västerås, respectively. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests also occurred through dilution in a new share issue at a minor value in Mekonomen Iceland. The impact of all acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recognition. All acquisitions were paid in cash. 80 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 31 INFORMATION CONCERNING REVENUE NOTE 35 FINANCIAL RISKS AND EXPENSES BETWEEN GROUP Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, interest-­ COMPANIES rate, financing and liquidity risks. The management of these risks is regulated in the finance policy adopted by the Board. Credit risk relating to customer commitments is managed, according to central frameworks, decentralised locally. Other risks are During the year, the Parent Company Mekonomen AB sold products and services to mainly managed centrally by the Group’s Treasury unit. Group companies totalling SEK 30 M (34). Purchases relating to goods and services from Group companies amounted to SEK 67 M (72). Currency risk Currency risks occur when currency fluctuations have a negative impact on the Group’s earnings and shareholders’ equity. Currency exposure arises in connection with cash flows in foreign currencies (transaction exposure), as well as in translation NOTE 32 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED-PARTIES of loans/receivables in foreign currencies and in the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets and income statements into SEK (translation exposure). In 2018, currency fluctuations had a positive impact on the Group’s profit before In 2018, Mekonomen Group sold goods and services worth SEK 5 M (0) and acquired tax totalling SEK 135 M (-14). The most important currency in terms of transaction goods and services worth SEK 3 M (5) from companies where exposure is EUR, which represents 35 per cent (46) of goods purchases in the Group, Mekonomen Group has significant influence or joint controlling influence. as well as NOK pertaining to internal sales from wholesale companies in Mekonomen Figo AS, which is owned by Frank Bekken, President of Mekonomen Norway, has Sweden and MECA to Norway. NOK, DKK and PLN are the most important currenduring the period rented out premises to Mekonomen AS to a value of SEK 3 M. cies regarding translation exposure. The handling of currency risks is regulated in the Agreements on goods and services with related parties are made on market-based finance policy. The Group can hedge operating cash flows with a hedging period of terms. As of the balance sheet date, receivables from affiliated companies totalled SEK between 3 and 12 months. 3 M (0) and liabilities to SEK 0 M (0). The Group has a number of holdings in foreign operations, the net assets of which Mekonomen Group has entered an agreement with a major shareholder in the are exposed to currency risks, mainly in NOK, DKK and PLN. With regard to this company, LKQ Corporation, with the aim of finding joint purchasing agreements currency exposure, the principal rule is that Mekonomen Group does not hedge with key suppliers. The agreement has been approved by the Board’s independent this exposure. However, if major foreign investments are made that require separate members. financing, a decision may be made to recognise all or part of the financing in the acquiNo other transactions with related parties took place. For information on remunersition currency. During the year, the Group began hedge accounting of net investments ation of senior executives, refer to Note 5. in foreign operations in DKK, as a result of the acquisition of FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S in September 2018, by classifying a loan in EUR as a hedging instrument. The translation of the loan at the closing day rate is recognised in other comprehensive income instead of for profit or loss and meet the restatement of the net assets in NOTE 33 EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE YEAR DKK. This forms an effective hedge as a result of the strong connection between the exchange rates SEK/EUR and SEK/DKK since DKK is closely linked to EUR. For more On 11 January, in a separate transaction, the acquisition of Nordic Forum Holding was information on currency exposure, refer also to the sensitivity analysis section in the concluded as previously announced. The acquisition is not material. Administration Report. Mekonomen Group’s earnings will be reported in four segments as of the first quarter of 2019. The new reportable segments will be MECA/Mekonomen, Sörensen Credit risk og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team. The MECA/Mekonomen segment also includes The Group’s financial transactions give rise to credit risks in relation to financial counPreqas, Speedy and Meko Service Nordic. terparties. Credit risks or counterparty risks refer to the risk of loss if the counterparMekonomen Group’s management structure was changed as of 14 February 2019 ty does not fulfil its commitments. Mekonomen Group’s credit risks primarily comto be better adapted to the new Group’s structure. prise accounts receivable, which are distributed over a large number of counterparties and a small portion of long-term hire-purchase contracts. For each new customer, As of 14 February 2019, the Group Management Team comprises the following people: or in the event an existing customer wants to increase the credit limit, a credit rating Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO is conducted according to the Group’s established policies. The maximum credit risk Åsa Källenius, CFO corresponds to the carrying amount of financial assets. Specifications of changes to the Tobias Narvinger, Director for Purchasing & Supply Chain credit loss reserve of accounts receivable for the year and long-term hire-purchase Gabriella Granholm, Director for Communication & Marketing contracts are found in Notes 16 and 18. Robert Hård, Director for Legal Affairs & Sustainability Interest-rate risk No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. Interest-rate risks refer to the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest expense. The rate at which interest rate changes affect the net interest expense depends on the period of fixed interest for the loan. According to the finance policy, the fixed-interest period is normally to be 24 months, with an exception mandate of +12/-18 months. NOTE 34 APPROVAL OF ANNUAL REPORT As per 31 December 2018, Mekonomen’s net debt is SEK 4,098 M (1,444). A fixed-interest period is available with a term of less than one year. In addition to this, The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by there are interest-rate swaps of SEK 450 M falling due in March 2019, EUR 60.75 M the Board on 1 April 2019. The consolidated income statement, the falling due in March 2022 and EUR 60.75 M falling due in August 2023 to hedge the statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s cash flow in the loans Mekonomen AB has. The swaps lead to Mekonomen receiving income statement, statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet will be variable interest and paying fixed interest. The Group has classified the interest-rate subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2019. swaps as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge of future interest payments. Mekonomen measures the effectiveness of the hedging relationship on each reporting occasion. The interest rate swap and the loan have the same currency, interest base (STIBOR 3M and EURIBOR 3M), interest translation date and the loan volume is not below the interest-rate swap’s nominal amount whereby there is a strong financial link between the loan and the interest-rate swap. See also the table in the Sensitivity analysis section of the Administration Report. Financing and liquidity risks Financing risk is seen as the risk of the cost being higher and financing opportunities limited when loans are renewed and payment obligations cannot be met as a result of insufficient liquidity or difficulties in securing financing. According to the finance policy, refinancing risks are to be managed by signing long-term and flexible credit agreements. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 81 NOTES NOTE 35 CONTINUED As per 31 December 2018, the Group’s total loan financing amounted to Other possible sources of ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship is if the hedged SEK 4,303 M (1,699), of which the long-term portion is SEK 3,225 M (1,446). The item, net investment in DKK, were to suddenly decrease since it would lead to the Group’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as covenants, part of the loan classified as a hedging instrument exceeding the equity in DKK. The all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The conditions include an owner change clause hedge ratio in the relationship is 1:1, which means that net investments in DKK and that becomes current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per cent or upon a loans in EUR are equal. delisting. If changed conditions affect the condition for the hedged item in such an extent that the critical conditions no longer match the hedging instrument’s critical conditions, the See the maturity structure excluding amortisation in the graph below. Group uses the hypothetical derivative method to evaluate effectiveness. No ineffectiveness has been reported in the results in 2017 or 2018. Mekonomen Group’s external loans without backup facilities Hedge accounting’s impact on the Group’s financial position and performance as per 31/12/2018. Group SEK M 1,400 Translation of net assets in foreign currencies 2018 2017 1,200 Carrying amount, hedging instrument, long-term liabilities 1,000 to credit institutions SEK 2,497 M Nominal amount in EUR, hedging instrument EUR 243 M 800 Carrying amount in foreign assets SEK 2,497 M 600 DKK 1,815 Amounts in DKK M 400 Hedge ratio 1:1 200 Changes in the loan’s carrying amount due to changes in exchange rate SEK -5 M 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Changes in value of assets in foreign currency SEK +8 M Group Repayments of loans take place in an amount of SEK 136 M per year and EUR 5 M (SEK 51 M) per quarter beginning in June 2019. In addition, the Group has overdraft Cash flow hedges of facilities totalling SEK 443 M (435). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are invested interest-rate risk 2018 2017 short term and any excess liquidity is to primarily be used for amortising loans. Carrying amount, hedging instrument SEK 3 M According to the finance policy, investments may be made in SEK, NOK and EUR. SEK 1,248 M Investments may be made with or in securities issued by the Swedish Government Nominal amount (2 x EUR 60.75 M) or Swedish and foreign banks with at least an A rating, according to the definition of Due date 2022 and 2023 Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Hedge ratio 1:1 Fair value Value changes for outstanding derivative No financial assets or liabilities were recognised at a value that significantly deviated instruments SEK 3 M from fair value. Value changes of the hedged item SEK 3 M Ineffectiveness in hedge accounting Mekonomen’s impact on the uncertainty in future cash flows is presented by the table For all hedging relationships, the effectiveness is evaluated. The relationship between below (SEK M): the hedged item and the hedging instrument is evaluated continuously to ensure that the relationship meets the requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting. The More Group matches the critical conditions in the hedged item with corresponding condiWithin 1-3 3-5 than 5 tions in the hedging instrument. Due date for nominal amount 1 year years years years For cash flow hedges of interest-rate risk, the Group enters into interest-rate swaps that have the same critical conditions as the hedged item. Critical conditions can Nominal amount 1,248 be reference rate, interest translation dates, payment dates, due dates and nominal Average hedged fixed interest 0.275% amounts. The Group does not hedge 100% of the loans and therefore identified only the part of the outstanding loans that are matched by the swaps’ nominal amounts. For impact on comprehensive income and reserves in equity, see Note 27 Equity. In addition, the credit risk at Mekonomen and the counterparty does not significantly affect the measurement of the interest-rate swaps, which makes the hedge effective. The hedge ratio is 1:1. For hedges of net investments of foreign operations, ineffectiveness arises as a result of EUR loans being used to currency hedge net investments in DKK. As the currencies are closely linked, the discrepancy that arises is not deemed to be material. 82 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 NOTES NOTE 36 CHANGES IN MEKONOMEN GROUP’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 Implementation of new accounting standards Uncertainty in estimates depending on variable lease charges As of 1 January 2019, Mekonomen Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The Group applies Some leases for rent of premises include sales-based rents in branches. For some the simplified transition method with the alternative that the asset value for the right branches, up to 100 per cent of the lease charges consist of variable fees and the of use is fully taken up at an equal amount as the lease liability total adjusted for any percentages in the agreements vary widely. Variable fees are used for various reasons, prepaid or accrued leasing fees, whereby no effect on the opening balance in equity such as minimising the fixed expenses for a newly started branch. Sales-based rents has arisen. In accordance with the transition rules in the standard, the comparative are reported in the income statement in the period the term arises that triggers figures for 2018 have not been restated. The liability for leasing commitments as of the charge. 1 January 2019 will amount to around SEK 2,000 M and the right of use at around SEK 2,000 M. Options to extend and cancel a lease At the transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognises lease liabilities attributable to Options to extend and cancel a lease are included in a number of the Group’s leases leases that were previously classified as operating leases in accordance with the rules for premises and vehicles. The terms are used to maximise flexibility in the handling in IAS 17 Leases. These liabilities have been measured at the present value of expected of the agreements. The overwhelming share of the options that provide possibility to future minimum leasing fees. In the calculation, the lessee’s implicit interest as of extend or cancel a lease can only be used by the Group and not by the lessor. 1 January 2019 has been used. Important estimates and assessments regarding lease lengths The Group’s leasing activities and their reporting When the lease’s length is determined, management takes into account all available The Group’s leases essentially all relate to premises and vehicles. Leases are normally information that gives a financial incentive to use an extension option, or not use an signed for fixed periods between three to five years, but the possibility of extension option to cancel a lease. Possibilities to extend a lease are included only in the lease’s may exist; this is described below. The conditions are negotiated separately for each length if it is reasonable to assume that the lease will be extended (or not concluded). lease and contain a large number of different contractual terms. The leases contain no The assessment is reviewed if any material event occurs or change in circumstances special conditions or restrictions that would mean that the leases could be cancelled if that affects this assessment and the change is within the lessee’s control. the terms were not met, but the leased assets may not be used as collateral for loans. Leases are recognised as rights of use and a corresponding liability, the date the Guaranteed residual values leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is allocated among To optimise the lease expenses during the lease term for rent of machinery, the the repayment of debt and financial expense. The financial expense is divided over the Group sometimes guarantees residual values. leasing period so that each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate of the liability recognised during each period. The right of use Estimates of expected fees to pay for guaranteed residual values is depreciated straight-line over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the term of The Group initially estimates the amounts for guaranteed residual values that one is the lease. expected to be obliged to pay and recognises them as a part of the lease liability. The Assets and liabilities that arise from leases are initially recognised at present value. amounts are evaluated, and adjusted if suitable, at the end of each reporting period. The lease liabilities include the present value of the following lease payments: • fixed fees (including fees that are fixed in substance), less incentive receivables • variable lease charges that depend on an index or a price • guaranteed residual value that the lessee expects to have to pay to the lessor • redemption price for a buy option, if it is reasonably certain that the lessee will use the option, and • penalties for ending the lease if the lease length reflects the assumption that the lessee will use this option. The lease payments are discounted by the implicit interest if the interest can be determined, or the marginal loan interest rate otherwise. The assets with right of use are measured at cost and include the following: • the amount the lease liability originally was valued at • lease charges paid at or before the start date, less any benefits received in connection with signing of the lease • initial direct expenses • expenses for restoring the asset to the condition prescribed in the lease terms. Payments for short contracts and leases of minor value are expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. Short contracts are agreements with a lease term of 12 months or less. Agreements of minor value include IT equipment and basic office furniture. When IFRS 16 was applied for the first time, the Group used the following practical solutions permitted by the standard: • The same discount rate was used on lease portfolios with similar characteristics • Operating leases with a remaining term of less than 12 months at 1 January 2019 were recognised as short-term leases • Direct acquisition costs for the rights of use were excluded at the transition, and • Historical information was used in the assessment of a lease’s length if there is an option to extend or cancel a lease. The Group also chose to not apply IFRS 16 to the agreements not identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 83 SIGNATURES The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the Annual Report, including sustainability report, was prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report provides a true and fair view of the performance of the company’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the company. The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report for the Group provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Group’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 1 April 2019 John S. Quinn Helena Skåntorp Eivor Andersson Chairman of the Board Executive Vice Chairman Board member Kenny Bräck Joseph M. Holsten Magnus Håkansson Malin Persson Board member Board member Board member Board member Pehr Oscarsson President and CEO Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 1 April 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor-in-Charge 84 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF MEKONOMEN AB (PUBL), CORP. ID NO. 556392-1971 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Our audit approach Opinions Audit focus and scope We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Mekonomen AB We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material (publ) for the year 2018 except for the corporate governance statements on pages misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered 41-49. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant pages 35–84 in this document. accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of manAnnual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position agement override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of of the parent company as of 31 December 2018 and its financial performance and whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The due to fraud. consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as industry in which the group operates. adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statements on pages 41–49. The statutory administration report is Materiality consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation financial statements. (537/2014) Article 11. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial Basis of the opinions statements. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are financial statements as a whole. independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilKey audit matters ities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicaaccounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our ble, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. provide a basis for our opinions. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Cut-off, completeness and existence of revenues We refer to Note 3 and the accounting policies. Mekonomen group’s revenues are comprised of a large number of sales transactions We have mapped the sales processes and thereby obtained an understanding of generated in approximately 430 branches and workshops primarily in Sweden, Norhow revenues are generated and how they are reflected in the accounts and in the way, Denmark and Poland. The customers are comprised of both companies and financial reports. private individuals . The majority of the transactions refer to invoiced sales, while a Furthermore, the relevant IT systems have been tested as regards, amongst other small portion is comprised of cash sales. Rebates, returns and complaints take place things, change management, authorisations and access rights. frequently and, as a result, have an impact on reported revenue. Within the different sales processes there are controls which are undertaken by The group’s operations are, in nature, transaction intensive and this places the operations in order to ensure a correct accounting. We have evaluated the design demands on the reliability of the systems and processes. The revenue process is and tested the effectiveness of those controls significant to the audit. dependent on effective and appropriate IT solutions. In addition to the evaluation and testing of controls, we have performed substantive procedures on revenues via so-called detailed testing, which implies that we performed a sample testing of a selection of revenue transactions. We have also studied and evaluated the information provided in Notes 1 and 3 in the annual report. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 85 AUDITOR’S REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Existence and valuation of inventory We refer to Note 17 and the accounting principles. The inventory comprises a significant portion of the group’s assets and consists of We have obtained an understanding of the inventory accounting through mapping finished goods inventory. The inventory is comprised of both a limited number of the routines for inventory transactions and for the reporting of these transactions. central warehouses and of numerous branch warehouses. The group’s inventory We have formed an opinion as to the manner in which the financial reporting is is, consequently, spread out over a large number of geographical locations in the impacted by the group’s inventory. countries in which Mekonomen has operations. Furthermore, the relevant IT systems have been tested with regard to, amongst In order to ensure the existence of the inventories, Mekonomen executes ongoother things, change management, authorisations and access rights. ing stock-takings at the various inventory sites during the year. Within the inventory process, there are controls executed by the operations to The value of the inventory is impacted by factors such as purchase prices and ensure correct accounting. We have evaluated the design and tested the effectiveness obsolescence. of those controls significant to the audit. Purchase prices are, in their turn, impacted by contractual agreements with variIn order to ensure the existence of the inventory and its condition, we also parous suppliers as regards rebates and purchase bonuses which are based on achieved ticipated in a selection of all of the stock-taking exercises executed by Mekonomen. purchase volumes. Furthermore, we have assessed the obsolescence provision in accordance with the The existence of obsolescence requires that estimations and judgments are obsolescence schedule applied within the Mekonomen group. undertaken in valuing the inventory. For some of the group’s central warehouses a so-called data analysis was perThe group’s operations are, are in nature, transaction intensive and this places formed implying that all inventory transactions were sorted and analysed according demands on the reliability of the systems and processes. The inventory process is to pre-determined, established parameters. dependent on effective and appropriate IT solutions. We have also studied and evaluated the information provided in Notes 1 and 17 of the annual report. FTZ and Inter-Team acquisition – Purchase Price Allocation We refer to Note 30 and the accounting principles. The Mekonomen group acquired FTZ in Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in We instructed the local auditors of each acquired entity to audit the opening balancSeptember 2018. The acquisitions significantly increase the size of the Mekonomen es as per acquisition date. We conducted audit procedures to assess other aspects of group. the accounting including the adjustments made to align accounting policies with those The accounting for the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team has required a of the group. significant amount of management estimates and judgements. The key judgements In evaluating the company’s purchase price allocation for FTZ and Inter-Team rerelate to adjustments made to align accounting policies and to the allocation of the spectively, we reviewed and assessed the identification and valuation of the acquired purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired. assets and liabilities against market data, where available, industry benchmarks and The purchase consideration amounts to SEK 4.3 billion and the goodwill recogfacts in the transaction. For the material assets, namely trade names and customer nized is SEK 1.7 billion. Further, the value of trademarks recognized amount to relationships, we tested the assumptions for reasonableness, and involved our interSEK 0.5 billion and the value of customer relations to SEK 0.7 billion. nal valuation specialists in our audit work. We have also studied and evaluated the information provided in Notes 1 and 30 in the annual report. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolManaging Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no idated accounts and is found on pages 1–34 and 88–97. Other information consist realistic alternative but to do so. of information of Mekonomen group and information about the board of directors, The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s respongroup management and key ratios definitions. The Board of Directors and the sibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial ­Managing Director are responsible for this other information. reporting process. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding Auditor’s responsibility this other information. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be ­Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can materially misstated. arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggreIf we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinsResponsibilities of the Board of Director’s and the CEO pektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presReport on other legal and regulatory requirements entation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidatOpinions ed accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they also audited the administration of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated of M ­ ekonomen AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. company’s profit or loss. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be approand the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and priated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters that the members of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director be discharged related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going from liability for the financial year. 86 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT Basis of the opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the comWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards pany’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an authe group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have dit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance provide a basis for our opinions. with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is availResponsibilities of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director able on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the This description is part of the auditor’s report. company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on company’s and the group’ equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in pages 41–49 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. general. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the ance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governassessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the ance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in company´s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of basis for our opinions. Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act management of assets in a reassuring manner. and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance Auditor’s responsibility with the Annual Accounts Act. Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm was appointed auditor of Mekonomen AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 9th of May 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of April 2014. Stockholm 1 April 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 87 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE YEARS IN SUMMARY The tables below present financial information in summary for the financial years 2014-2018. Income statements, SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Continuing operations: Net sales 7,779 5,850 5,786 5,624 5,262 Other revenue 172 150 151 137 128 Goods for resale -3,901 -2,654 -2,686 -2,529 -2,337 Other operating expenses -3,413 -2,635 -2,595 -2,449 -2,229 EBITDA 637 710 656 784 824 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets -84 -60 -62 -57 -61 EBITA 553 649 594 726 763 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets -146 -127 -113 -110 -124 Operating profit, EBIT 407 522 481 616 639 Net financial items 70 -48 -35 -22 -19 Profit after financial items 477 475 446 594 620 Tax on profit for the year -209 -107 -105 -164 -153 Profit for the year from continuing operations 268 368 342 430 466 Discontinued operations: Profit for the year from discontinued operations1) 0 0 -340 Profit for the year 268 368 342 430 127 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Balance sheets, SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Assets Intangible fixed assets 5,745 2,686 2,757 2,734 2,813 Other fixed assets 567 409 304 288 321 Inventories 2,816 1,382 1,279 1,226 1,223 Accounts receivable 868 488 485 453 450 Other current assets 662 335 336 365 319 Cash and cash equivalents 205 254 291 295 258 Total assets 10,863 5,554 5,452 5,361 5,384 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity, Parent Company’s shareholders 3,828 2,363 2,311 2,143 2,066 Non-controlling interests 25 16 14 12 14 Long-term liabilities 3,726 1,640 1,524 1,645 1,575 Current liabilities 3,284 1,535 1,603 1,560 1,728 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 10,863 5,554 5,452 5,361 5,384 Condensed cash-flow statement, SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities 331 496 544 439 413 Cash flow from investing activities -4,407 -229 -94 -146 -121 Cash flow from financing activities 4,044 -295 -466 -245 -309 Cash flow for the year -32 -27 -16 48 -17 Data per share2), amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings, continuing operations 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 12.80 Earnings, discontinued operations 0.00 0.00 -9.46 Earnings 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 3.34 Cash flow 8.3 13.8 15.1 12.2 11.5 Shareholders’ equity 67.9 65.8 64.4 59.7 57.5 Dividend3) 0.00 4.46 4.46 4.46 4.46 Share of profit paid, % 0 70 75 59 210 Share price at year-end 91.5 149.3 171.5 173.0 204.0 Share price, highest for the year 166.2 191.0 207.0 234.5 207.0 Share price, lowest for the year 88.4 139.8 150.5 170.0 139.0 Direct yield, % 0.0 4.7 4.1 4.0 3.4 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.0 14.9 18.4 14.7 61.1 Average number of shares after dilution effects4) 39,718,604 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period 56,416,622 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 12,310 10,707 9,484 9,373 9,664 1) The discontinued branch operations in Denmark are presented as discontinued operations as of 1 January 2015. 2) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 96. 3) Board of Directors’ dividend proposal 2018. The dividend for 2014-2017 is restated with the number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2018, 56,353,372. The actual dividend paid was SEK 7 per 35,901,487 shares for 2014-2017. 4) No dilution is applicable. 88 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Key figures1)2) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sales growth, % 33 1 3 7 3 Gross margin, % 50 55 54 55 56 EBITDA margin, % 8 12 11 14 15 EBITA margin, % 7 11 10 13 14 EBIT margin, % 5 9 8 11 12 Capital employed, SEK M 8,166 4,087 4,066 4,086 3,980 Return on capital employed, % 9 12 12 15 16 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 10 16 15 20 21 Return on total capital, % 7 9 9 12 12 Equity/assets ratio, % 35 43 43 40 39 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 10 17 17 19 16 Net debt, SEK M 4,098 1,444 1,437 1,626 1,629 Net debt/EBITDA, multiple2) 6.44 2.03 2.19 2.07 3.09 Average number of employees3) Sweden 1,438 1,365 1,413 1,438 1,335 Denmark4) 389 Norway 883 834 808 794 772 Poland4) 449 Other countries 22 31 66 58 24 Group 3,181 2,231 2,287 2,290 2,131 Number of branches/of which proprietary3) FTZ Denmark 51/51 Inter-Team Poland 82/79 MECA Sweden 61/56 62/52 61/51 61/48 63/48 MECA Norway 24/24 24/24 24/24 24/24 24/24 Total MECA 85/80 86/76 85/75 85/72 87/72 Mekonomen Sweden 130/112 133/113 132/112 134/113 137/113 Mekonomen Norway 42/31 42/32 45/32 45/32 46/33 Total Mekonomen 172/143 175/145 177/144 179/145 183/146 Sørensen og Balchen Norway 64/36 68/39 72/37 70/35 71/34 Other 13/7 7/3 8/5 8/5 10/6 Group 467/396 336/263 342/261 342/257 351/258 Number of affiliated workshops5) Mekonomen Bilverkstad Sweden 423 434 447 457 485 Mekonomen Bilverkstad Norway 334 335 339 345 378 Mekonomen Bilverkstad Denmark 102 195 Mekonomen Bilverkstad Finland 23 23 23 19 17 Total Mekonomen Bilverkstad 780 792 809 923 1,075 MekoPartner Sweden 138 141 127 125 129 MekoPartner Norway 86 95 93 97 73 MekoPartner Denmark 39 153 Total MekoPartner 224 236 220 261 355 Speedy Sweden 39 35 26 20 14 BilXtra Norway 258 258 255 246 232 MECA Car Service Sweden 419 425 425 404 377 MECA Car Service Norway 302 299 286 272 251 Total MECA Car Service 721 724 711 676 628 Allt i Bil Sweden 8 AutoMester Denmark 423 Din BilPartner Denmark 136 HELLA Service Partner Denmark 336 CarPeople Denmark 26 O.K. Serwis Poland 175 INTER DATA SERVICE Poland 290 Total number of affiliated workshops in the Group 3,416 2,045 2,021 2,126 2,304 1) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 96. 2) The key figures refer to continuing operations. In the calculation of the key figure Net debt/EBITDA, discontinued operations were, however, included for applicable years. 3) The number of employees and numbers of branches are reported excluding the branch operations in Denmark discontinued in 2015. 4) The average number of employees in 2018 is calculated for the period 3 September 31 December 2018. 5) Includes 75 (45) proprietary workshops operated under our brands. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 89 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW QUARTERLY OVERVIEW 2018 2017 FullFullSEK M year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales1) FTZ 1,088 836 252 Inter-Team 638 490 147 MECA 2,008 508 467 543 490 1,907 477 442 495 493 Mekonomen2) 2,684 670 656 726 631 2,683 679 650 703 651 Sørensen og Balchen 739 168 180 209 182 778 176 178 211 213 Other segments3) 622 190 148 154 130 482 135 103 119 125 Group 7,779 2,864 1,850 1,633 1,432 5,850 1,467 1,372 1,529 1,482 EBITA FTZ 50 37 14 Inter-Team 0 0 0 MECA 260 44 51 104 61 273 45 58 93 77 Mekonomen2) 295 51 92 108 45 325 89 80 90 67 Sørensen og Balchen 107 24 29 39 14 120 27 27 39 28 Other segments3) -159 -49 -30 -50 -31 -70 -26 -8 -19 -17 Group 553 107 155 202 89 649 134 157 203 155 EBIT FTZ 49 36 13 Inter-Team -1 0 0 MECA 249 41 48 102 59 265 42 56 91 75 Mekonomen2) 290 50 90 107 43 313 79 79 89 66 Sørensen og Balchen 106 24 29 39 14 120 27 27 39 28 Other segments3) -184 -56 -36 -55 -37 -98 -32 -15 -26 -24 Other items4) -103 -39 -26 -19 -19 -77 -19 -19 -19 -19 Group 407 57 118 173 60 522 96 127 174 126 Investments5) FTZ 10 10 0 Inter-Team 3 2 1 MECA 17 6 3 4 4 15 4 2 4 5 Mekonomen 124 11 7 55 50 96 11 69 8 8 Sørensen og Balchen 6 0 1 3 2 3 0 0 1 1 Other segments3) 62 23 13 16 10 49 14 7 15 13 Group 222 52 25 78 66 164 30 79 28 27 EBITA margin, % FTZ 5 4 5 Inter-Team 0 0 0 MECA 13 9 11 19 12 14 9 13 19 15 Mekonomen2) 11 8 14 14 7 12 13 12 12 10 Sørensen og Balchen 14 15 16 18 8 15 15 15 18 13 Group 7 4 8 12 6 11 9 11 13 10 EBIT margin, % FTZ 5 4 5 Inter-Team 0 0 0 MECA 12 8 10 18 12 14 9 13 18 15 Mekonomen2) 11 7 13 14 7 11 11 12 12 10 Sørensen og Balchen 14 15 16 18 8 15 15 15 18 13 Group 5 2 6 10 4 9 6 9 11 8 Quarterly data, Group6) Total revenue 7,951 2,922 1,887 1,673 1,469 6,000 1,507 1,414 1,560 1,518 EBITDA 637 134 177 219 106 710 150 172 218 170 EBITA 553 107 155 202 89 649 134 157 203 155 EBIT 407 57 118 173 60 522 96 127 174 126 Net financial items 70 -39 114 -3 -2 -47 -9 -8 -18 -13 Profit after financial items 477 17 233 170 58 475 87 119 156 113 Tax -209 -9 -147 -38 -15 -107 -12 -30 -38 -27 Profit/loss for the period 268 8 85 131 43 368 75 89 118 86 Gross margin, % 50 44 51 56 53 55 55 54 54 54 EBITDA margin, % 8 5 9 13 7 12 10 12 14 11 EBITA margin, % 7 4 8 12 6 11 9 11 13 10 EBIT margin, % 5 2 6 10 4 9 6 9 11 8 Earnings per share, SEK 6.56 0.18 2.30 3.53 1.15 10.05 2.07 2.43 3.22 2.33 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 67.9 67.9 64.4 66.3 68.8 65.8 65.8 64.3 61.6 66.3 Cash flow per share, SEK 8.3 0.9 4.9 6.5 0.2 13.8 6.8 2.2 3.7 1.0 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 9.7 9.7 13.7 14.0 13.6 15.6 15.6 15.3 15.2 14.9 Share price 91.5 91.5 126.4 123.8 142.6 149.3 149.3 184.5 167.0 176.5 1) Net sales for each segment are from external customers. 2) As of 1 January 2018, Marinshopen is included in “Other segments” instead of the Mekonomen segment, the comparative figures are not restated. Marinshopen’s net sales amounted to SEK 4 M for the fourth quarter of 2017 and EBIT amounted to SEK -2 M. For the period January-December 2017, net sales were SEK 26 M and EBIT was SEK -12 M, including an impairment of goodwill of SEK -9 M. Marinshopen was externally divested in the second quarter of 2018. 3) “Other segments” includes Mekonomen’s wholesale and branch operations in Finland, Meko Service Nordic with the workshop operation Billivet, the workshop operation Speedy, the workshop operation Allt i Bil, the operations with Heavy Vehicles, ProMeister Solutions, Preqas, the operation in Mekster, the service Mekonomen vehicle leasing, the joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), Lasingoo Norway and Group-wide functions also including Mekonomen AB (publ). Mekonomen’s branch operations in Iceland were divested in the first quarter and Marinshopen was divested in the second quarter of 2018. 4) “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA, Sørensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team. 5) Investments do not include company and business combinations 6) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 96. 90 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Principles and delimitations Our most important sustainability areas are within the four following main areas: This year’s Sustainability Report is a part of the Annual Report and was prepared in observance of the requirements in the Annual Accounts Act and refers to the Global We focus on the customer Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards Core. The Sustainability Report also constitutes • Customer satisfaction our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. • Product and workshop quality The Sustainability Report is a part of Mekonomen Group’s Annual Report 2018 and covers Mekonomen Group’s proprietary operations in the Nordic region. Through We have committed and competent employees the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in the • Competence development third quarter of 2018, they became part of Mekonomen Group. The acquired compa• Working conditions and work environment nies are included in sustainability information and data in the cases stated in the text. • Managers and employees Affiliated workshops are not owned by the Group and are not covered in the report’s •G  ender equality, diversity and inclusion information or presented key figures unless otherwise stated. The GRI index refers to the sustainability reporting and information in the annual We have requirements and expectations on our suppliers report for 2018. The company’s auditors have reviewed and certified that a Sustain•R  esponsible purchasing ability Report has been prepared by Mekonomen Group as per the regulations of he Annual Accounts Act. The content of the sustainability reporting and Sustainability We have a responsibility for our impact on the environment and the climate Report has not been audited by a third party. The most recent Sustainability Report • Transports and energy use was published on 28 March 2018. • Waste and chemicals management Materiality analysis An analysis of significant areas began in 2014 and was then supplemented with an ­analysis of the Group’s work in relation to the UN Global Compact. In 2017, the Group’s work was screened in relation to the Annual Accounts Act and new guidelines under GRI standards. In 2018, the materiality analysis was supplemented based on the UN’s 17 Global goals for sustainable development. SUMMARY RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Material Materiality area Ext Int Why material to the stakeholders Why material to Mekonomen Group Customer To live up to our motto “making car life easier”, we need to develop Creating value for consumers and businesses is important satisfaction   our offering in pace with society’s development and customer demand to create recurring and loyal customers. for the Group’s profitability and growth. We want to be the car owner’s first choice and strive for an easier and more affordable car life. Customer in focus Product and Workshops and branch customers have requirements and expectaMany of our products and services are directly linked to the workshop tions on the right quality and price on spare parts and accessories. car’s safety. A properly serviced and maintained car is an effiquality   The car owners demand that their cars are maintained and repaired cient car. It is therefore critical that we offer high quality and in accordance with their expectations of quality and price. continuously quality assure products and workshop services to keep the customers’ trust. Competence The technical development of the vehicle manufacturers is taking Offering a workplace with the possibility of competence development  place at a rapid pace. Employees at our workshops need continuous competence development to take care of the customers’ car in a development and career paths is necessary to attract and retain skilled managers and employees. secure and professional manner. Committed Managers and Being a good employer is fundamental to attracting and retaining Committed managers and employees are key to the Group’s and competent employees employees  competent personnel. success and growth. A good working atmosphere and a good work environment and possibility of involvement and development are prioritised issues. Gender equaOur workplaces should reflect the diversity among our customer People’s differences and experiences contribute to an lity, diversity and inclusion  groups and society at large. By having employees and managers with varying experience and expertise, we improve the possibility of attractive workplace and promote developing teams with better results. meeting the customers’ needs. RequireResponsible Good relationships to suppliers have a positive effect on our Working with responsible suppliers reduces the risks and ments on and expectations of purchasing  operations. Mekonomen Group’s customers expect us to manage the supply chain responsibly. contributes to Mekonomen Group’s sustainability performance. suppliers Transports Purchases from suppliers and deliveries to our branches and Effective planning of transports and a high filling ratio, as well and energy use   workshops entail daily transports, which affect the climate and local environment. Energy use in premises affects the climate and as energy-efficiency improvements in buildings contribute to a better environment and lower costs. Responsibility environment. for our impact on the environWaste and Chemicals and waste management is governed by law. We put The right labelling, storage and control of chemicals reduces ment and the chemicals ­chemical products on the market. It is of central importance to environmental and work environment risks. Correctly climate management   ­people and the environment that the products have the right labelling, are correctly stored and that the right information is available to managed waste reduces costs and contributes to reduced environmental impact. the user. Waste and hazardous waste arise in our operations, which can affect people and the environment. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 91 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION EMPLOYEES Employees per category FTZ Inter-Team MECA Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Other items 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 No. of employees Men 1034 1165 625 544 910 924 286 286 626 519 Women 158 196 115 117 228 232 61 78 165 135 Total 1192 1361 740 661 1138 1156 347 364 791 654 Permanent / Temporary employees Men 1028/6 501/664 567/58 502/42 760/150 739/185 286/0 286/0 601/21 490/29 Women 154/4 91/105 103/12 104/13 195/33 188/44 61/0 78/0 159/6 117/18 Total 1182/10 592/769 670/70 606/55 955/183 927/229 347/0 364/0 760/31 607/47 Full-time/ Part-time Men 1007/27 1087/78 527/98 444/100 690/220 705/219 163/123 195/91 605/21 506/13 Women 124/34 190/6 87/28 114/3 162/66 162/70 34/27 42/36 156/9 121/14 Total 1131/61 1277/84 614/126 558/103 852/286 867/289 197/150 237/127 761/30 627/27 Measurement and calculation method: The reporting of employee statistics is Comments: The majority of the work in Mekonomen Group is done by employees gathered from the respective company’s system for employee management. The inforwho are employed in the Group. In our wholesaler operations, staff is hired in from mation and method are ensured by the coordinating HR function. In order to enhance staffing agencies based on ongoing needs. Other exceptions from employment mainly the efficiency of the handling, implementation of a human resource management concern project managers or IT personnel in the event of temporary needs during a system is under way that will manage employees in MECA and Mekonomen, as well as project or in business development. Group functions. Employee turnover FTZ Inter-Team MECA Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Other items 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Men 11.1% 1.8% 10.8% 12.8% 15.5% 17.6% 18.6% 16.1% Women 7.8% 0.0% 6.8% 10.6% 21.0% 21.3% 13.8% 16.2% Total 10.7% 1.5% 10.2% 12.4% 16.7% 18.3% 16.7% 16.1% Measurement and calculation method: The number of employee departures as a Comments: Data regarding Inter-Team is not directly comparable with other data percentage of the number of permanent employees regardless of the reason for leaving. as permanent employees are not used in the same way as in the Nordic region. Data regarding Sørensen og Balchen not available. Sick leave FTZ Inter-Team1) MECA Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Other items 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Men 3.9% 3.8% 4.4% 3.1% 1.7% 3.5% 4.1% 3.1% 5.1% Women 3.5% 5.5% 6.9% 5.2% 3.3% 6.7% 5.9% 2.8% 4.7% Total 3.9% 3.3% 4.0% 4.8% 3.5% 2.0% 4.0% 4.4% 3.0% 5.0% Measurement and calculation method: Sick leave in relation to ordinary contracted 1) Data divided into men/women not available working hours presented in per cent. Occupational injuries FTZ Inter-Team MECA Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Other items 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 18 5 21 7 5 9 0 2 42 26 Comments: Refined measurement methods mean that data is not directly comparable between the years. Employee commitment (EI) and leadership index (LSI) Membership in employer organisations and information on collective agreements Measurement and calculation method: In the Group, an employee survey is done every two years. The latest measurement was done in 2017. Presented data pertains Mekonomen Group is a member of relevant employer organisations. In Sweden, we to the Group before the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team. The survey is done in are, for example, members of Teknikarbetsgivarna, the Swedish Trade Federation and cooperation with an external party. Motorbranschens arbetsgivareförbund. Employee commitment (EI) measures commitment in the form of clarity regarding All employees in the Group have the right to join associations, organisations and the operations’ goals and motivation in the work. Leadership index measures the to organise in trade unions. Within the Group, 100% of the workforce in Sweden is fundamental leadership of the employees’ immediate managers. covered by collective agreements that are signed in the respective companies. 92 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Waste Waste (tonnes) 2018 2017 Mekonomen Group is covered by the requirement of a sustainability report according to the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory sustainability report is found in the annual Lead batteries 46 55 and sustainability report under the bullets below and covers reporting requirements, For incineration 297 300 such as environment, social responsibility, personnel, human rights and anti-corruption. Landfill 6 0 Electronics 12 9 • Business model p. 6-7 Hazardous waste 202 165 • Governance of the sustainability work p. 22, 42 • Risk management p. 14-15, 39 Metal 419 205 • Materiality analysis p. 91 Paper 42 24 • Stakeholders p. 24-25 Plastic 20 18 • Responsible purchasing p. 31 Wood 498 258 • Human rights p. 26-28, 31, 37-48 Corrugated cardboard 454 344 • Environment p. 29-30, 39 • Personnel p. 26-27, 37-38 Other sortable 106 50 • Business ethics and anti-corruption p. 28 Total 2,103 1,429 Measurement and calculation method: Data refers to units in Mekonomen ­Sweden, MECA Sweden and MECA Norway, which have certified management systems according to ISO 14001 and where framework agreements are used with contract providers. Data also refers to the Group’s warehouses in Strängnäs and ­Eskilstuna and the head office. Data is obtains from the waste contractor that ­Mekonomen Group’s companies have contracts with. 2018’s data is not directly comparable with 2017 as more units were added in 2018. AUDITOR’S STATEMENT REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF MEKONOMEN AB (PUBL), CORP. ID NO. 556392-1971 Mission and activities It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Sustainability Report for 2018, stated under the heading Sustainability report above (page 93), and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Review focus and scope Our review has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s statement RevU 12 A ­ uditor’s statement on the sustainability report. This means that our statutory examination of the sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We consider that this review provides us adequate grounds for our opinions. Opinions A sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 1 April 2019 Lennart Danielsson Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 93 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Organisation profile GRI 102 General disclosures 102-1 Organisation name Mekonomen AB (publ). GRI 102 General disclosures 102-2 Operations, brands, products and services 2-3, 6-7, 16-21 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 97 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-4 Countries where the organisation has operations 3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-5 Ownership structure and organisation form 41-49 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-6 Markets the organisation is active in. 2-3, 9 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-7 Organisation’s size. 1-3, 63, 92 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-8 Information on employees and others who work 3, 63, 92 for the organisation GRI 102 General disclosures 102-9 Supply chain 6-7, 31 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-10 Significant changes regarding organisation and 35-40 supply chain GRI 102 General disclosures 102-11 Precautionary approach 30 7 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-12 External initiatives regarding sustainability that the 5, 22 organisation supports/is covered by GRI 102 General disclosures 102-13 Membership in organisations The Group is part-owner and has Board members in Telge Tillväxt. The Group also has a Board position in the foundation En Frisk Generation, and is a member of the trade association SFVF. Strategy GRI 102 General disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior management 4-5 GRI 103 General disclosures 102-15 Significant impact, risk and opportunities 6-7, 12-15, 22-23, 91 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102 General disclosures 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 10-11, 28 10 Governance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 22, 41-49 Stakeholder dialogue GRI 102 General disclosures 102-40 List over stakeholder groups 24-25 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-41 Collective agreements 92 3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 24-25 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-43 Methods for stakeholder dialogue 24-25 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-44 Important issues addressed 24-25 Reporting practice GRI 102 General disclosures 102-45 Units included in the financial reporting 35-40 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-46 Definition of reporting content and the issues’ 22-23, 91 delimitation GRI 102 General disclosures 102-47 List over significant issues 91 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-48 Changes to information No changes have been made GRI 102 General disclosures 102-49 Changes in the reporting No significant changes have been made GRI 102 General disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 35, 91 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-51 Date for publication of the latest report 91 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle 91 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-53 Contact person for the report susanna.fink@mekonomengroup.com GRI 102 General disclosures 102-54 Report in accordance with GRI Standards 91 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-55 GRI index 94-95 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-56 External review 91 94 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Sustainability governance GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-1 Explanation of significant issues and their delimi22-23, 91 1, 2, 6, 7, tation 8, 10 GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-2 Sustainability governance and its components 22-31, 42 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-3 Evaluation of sustainability governance 22-31 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Economic impact GRI 205 Corruption 205-2 Communication and training regarding anti-cor28 10 ruption GRI 205 Corruption 205-3 Confirmed corruption incidents and steps taken 28 10 Environmental impact GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 29 Information is not available at present 7, 8 (U). GRI 306 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 30, 93 8 GRI 307 Compliance with environmen307-1 Significant fines and sanctions resulting from violaThe Group did not incur significant 8 tal legislation tions of environmental legislation fines or sanctions in 2018. GRI 308 Environmental assessment of 308-1 Share of new suppliers assessed based on environ13, 31 8 suppliers mental requirements Social impact GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employees and personnel turnover 92 6 GRI 403 Work environment, health 403-2 Scope of injuries and sickness absence 92 and safety GRI 404 Training and education 404-1 Number of hours of training per year and employee 27 Information is not available at present 6 (U). GRI 405 Equality and diversity 405-1 Diversity within the Board, management and among 27, 38, 43 6 employees GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and their No cases of discrimination were 6 handling reported in 2018 GRI 414 Assessment of social condi414-1 Share of new suppliers assessed based on social 13, 31 2, 4, 5, 6 tions at suppliers requirements GRI 416 Customers health and safety 416-1 Evaluation regarding impact on health and safety Information is not available at present from product and service categories (U). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 95 GLOSSARY, DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES GLOSSARY, DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Financial definitions Net debt/equity ratio Currency-transaction effects Net debt divided by shareholders’ equity including Currency impact on internal sales from Mekonomen Capital employed non-controlling interest. Grossist AB and from MECA Car Parts AB to each country. Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions including deferred tax liabilities. Return on capital employed Currency-translation effects Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as a Currency impact in the translation of the earnings of foreign Cash and cash equivalents percentage of average capital employed. Average capital subsidiaries to SEK. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at employed is calculated as capital employed at the end of the financial institutions and current liquid investments with a term period added to the four immediately preceding quarters’ DAB products from the date of acquisition of less than three months, which capital employed at the end of the period divided by five. Accessories for the car adapted to digital solutions for radio are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. broadcasting. DAB is an abbreviation for Digital Audio Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. Return on shareholders’ equity Broadcasting. Profit for the period, excluding non-controlling interests, as Cash flow per share a percentage of average shareholders’ equity attributable Fleet operations Cash flow from operating activities in relation to the average to Parent Company’s shareholders. Average shareholders’ Mekonomen Group’s offering to companies. number of shares. Average number of shares is calculated as equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders is the number of shares at period-end multiplied by the numcalculated as shareholders’ equity attributable to the Parent Items affecting comparability ber of days this number existed during the period and added Company’s shareholders at the end of the period added to Events or transactions with significant effects, which are to any other number of shares during the period multiplied the four immediately preceding quarters’ shareholders’ equity relevant to understanding the financial development compaby the number of days these numbers existed during the attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders at the end red with the earnings of the period in question with earlier period, divided by the number of days during the period. of the period divided by five. periods, including restructuring programmes, costs related to large legal disputes and impairments, as well as gains Earnings per share Return on total capital and losses from acquisitions or divestment of operations, Profit for the period excluding non-controlling interests, Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as a subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures or in relation to the average number of shares. Average percentage of the average total assets. Average total assets items of a similar nature. number of shares is calculated as the number of shares at are calculated as total assets at the end of the period added period-end multiplied by the number of days this number to the four immediately preceding quarters’ total assets at the Lasingoo existed during the period and added to any other number end of the period divided by five. The car portal that Mekonomen Group owns together with of shares during the period multiplied by the number of industry players that simplifies the workshop selection and days these numbers existed during the period, divided by Sales growth booking processes for car owners. the number of days during the period. Increase in the total revenue as a percentage of the total revenue of the previous year. OBP EBIT margin Own brand products, such as ProMeister and Carwise. EBIT after depreciation/amortisation as a percentage of Shareholders’ equity per share total revenue. Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests, in Other operating revenue relation to the number of shares at the end of the period. Mainly comprises rental income, marketing subsidies and EBITA exchange-rate gains within Mekonomen Group. EBITA after depreciation according to plan but before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets. Company-specific definitions Partner branches Branches that are not proprietary, but conduct business EBITA margin Accessories for cars under the Group’s brands. EBITA as a percentage of total revenue. Products that are not necessary for a car to function, but enhance the experience or extend use of the car, for ProMeister EBITDA example, car-care products, roof boxes, car child seats, etc. Mekonomen Group’s proprietary brand for high quality Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and spare parts with five-year warranties. impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets. Affiliated workshops Workshops that are not proprietary owned, but conduct Proprietary branches EBITDA margin business under the Group’s brands (Mekonomen Service CenBranches with operations in subsidiaries, directly or indiEBITDA as a percentage of total revenue. tre, MekoPartner, MECA Car Service, BilXtra and Speedy). rectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. Equity/assets ratio B2B Proprietary workshops Shareholders’ equity including non-controlling interest as a Sales of goods and services between companies (busiWorkshops with operations in subsidiaries, directly or percentage of total assets. Equity/assets ratio for the Parent ness-to-business). indirectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. Company includes shareholders’ equity part of untaxed reserves. B2C Sales in comparable units Sales of goods and services between companies and consuSales in comparable units comprise external sales (in local Gross margin mers (business-to-consumer). currency) in majority-owned branches, wholesale sales Net sales less costs for goods for resale, as a percentage of to partner branches, external sales in majority-owned net sales. Comparable units workshops and Internet sales. Branches, majority-owned workshops and Internet sales that Gross profit have been in operation for the past 12 month period and Sales to customer group Affiliated workshops Revenue minus the cost of goods for resale. throughout the entire preceding comparative period. Sales to affiliated workshops and sales to proprietary workshops. Interest-coverage ratio Concept workshops Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses divided Affiliated workshops. Sales to customer group Consumers by interest expenses. Cash sales from proprietary branches to customer groups Currency effects on the balance sheet other than affiliated workshops and Other B2B customers, Net debt The impact of currency regarding realised and unrealised as well as the Group’s e-commerce sales to consumers. Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities for borrevaluations of foreign short-term non-interest-bearing rowing, meaning excluding pensions, leasing, derivatives and receivables and liabilities. Sales to the customer group Other B2B customers similar obligations, less cash and cash equivalents. Sales to business customers that are not affiliated to any of Mekonomen Group’s concepts, including sales in the fleet operations. Alternative performance measures As of the January-June 2016 interim report, Mekonomen applies the guidelines for alternative performance figures issued by Spare parts for cars ESMA1). An alternative performance measure is a financial measure over historical or future earnings trends, financial position or Parts that are necessary for a car to function. cash flow that are not defined or specified in IFRS. Mekonomen believes that these measures provide valuable supplemental information to the company’s management, investors and other stakeholders to evaluate the company’s performance. The alternative Underlying net sales performance measures are not always comparable with measures used by other companies since not all companies calculate Sales adjusted for the number of comparable working days these measures in the same way. They shall thereby be seen as a complement to measures defined according to IFRS. For relevant and currency effects. reconciliations of the alternative performance measures that cannot be directly read or derived from the financial statements, refer to the complement to the 2018 Annual Report on our website www.mekonomen.com/en/alternative-performance-measures/ 1) The European Securities and Markets Authority. 96 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 ADDRESSES ADDRESSES Mekonomen Group FTZ Mekonomen Sweden Postal address: Postal & visiting address: Postal address: Box 19542 Hvidkærvej 21 Box 19542 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden DE-5250 Odense SV SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +45 65 65 40 00 Visiting address: E-mail: ftz@ftz.dk Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 11th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Inter-Team Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se Postal & Visiting address: E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.com ul. Białołęcka 233 www.mekonomen.se 03-253 Warsaw Tel: +48 225 06 06 00 Mekonomen Norway E-mail: poczta@inter-team.com.pl Postal address: Postboks 524 Bedriftsenteret MECA Sweden NO-1411 Kolbotn, Norway Postal address: Box 9225 Visiting address: SE-200 39 Malmö, Sweden Rosenholmveien 25, NO-1414 Trollåsen, Norway Visiting address: Tel: +47 66 81 76 90 Stenåldersgatan 27, Malmö, Sweden E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se Tel: +46 40 671 60 60 www.mekonomen.no E-mail: info@meca.se www.meca.se Sørensen og Balchen Postal address: MECA Norway Postboks 134 Holmlia Postal address: NO-1203 Oslo, Norway Postboks 1014 NO-2804 Gjøvik Visiting address: Tel: +47 61 13 19 30 Rosenholmveien 12, NO-1252 Oslo, Norway E-post: firmapost@meca.no Tel: +47 22 76 44 00 www.meca.no E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.sogb.no Nordiska Miljömärkn • Färgkod PMS 354, NORDIC ECOLABEL 3041 0250 • Standardfärger enli Blankt papper: 108 NCS: 0879-G07Y N • Miljömärket bör ej u storleken att texten är tydligt läsbara. • När märket understi utelämnas på produ Text på märket: • Texten ”MILJÖMÄR Mekonomen Group’s 2018 Annual Report was produced by Mekonomen Group • Texten ”MILJÖMÄR halvfet. Teckentäthe • Texten under märke Teckensnitt helvetic in cooperation with Narva. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölndal 2019 och anpassas i storl • För tryckning på Sv nordisk miljömärkni Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2018 N A R VA
