INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Integrated Report 2017 2 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Prince Mohammad bin King Salman Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud Crown Prince Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques Contents About this Report 06 Board of Directors’ Report and The Saudi Investment Bank 08 Financial Statements 111 SAIB at a Glance 14 Board of Directors’ Report 113 Ten Year Financial Highlights 143 A Letter from the Chairman 17 Consolidated Statement of Message from the Financial Position 144 Chief Executive Officer 19 Consolidated Income Statement 145 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 146 Stewardship 21 Consolidated Statement of Board of Directors 22 Changes in Equity 147 Management Team 24 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 149 Corporate Governance 25 Notes to the Consolidated Risk Management 31 Financial Statements 151 Compliance 36 Auditors’ Report 213 Business Model 39 Annexes 223 Operating Environment 40 Branch Network 224 Strategic Framework 45 GRI Content Index 225 Stakeholders 50 Glossary of Key Islamic Finance Terms 230 Materiality 55 Corporate Information Inner Back Cover Management Discussion and Analysis 57 Financial Capital 58 Institutional Capital 68 Investor Capital 72 Customer Capital 78 Business Partner Capital 90 Employee Capital 92 Social and Environmental Capital 102 4 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 5 About this Report GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-46, 102-49, 102-50, 102-52 Concepts In 2011, The Saudi Investment Bank (SAIB) took a major step forward in its reporting process with the introduction of a sustainability report. This marked a change from a single minded focus on the bottom line to a triple bottom line perspective encapsulating our economic, social and environmental impact. With this Report we mark another major milestone by moving to integrated reporting. Our emphasis is now on value creation; value in its various forms both internal and external. We also consider value creation over the entire time scale – short, medium and long term. Through the process of value creation, stocks of value, our capitals, are generated. The capitals are transformed by our activities and processes, according to our business model, and this Report describes the Integrated Reporting transformation. This report marks the next milestone in the Bank’s annual reporting after Report boundary moving to sustainability reporting in This Report covers SAIB’s operations only, subject to the exceptions stated below. 2011. It is the Bank’s first integrated report, and it provides a concise yet The boundary for financial reporting is the entire Group including SAIB and the following subsidiary and comprehensive account of the Bank’s associate companies. results from a broad perspective, Subsidiary companies and its value creation process in the • Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage short, medium and long term. Company It demonstrates how stocks of value • The Saudi Investment Real Estate Company • The Saudi Investment First Company Limited in various forms are created and • SAIB Markets Limited Company transformed by our activities and business processes. The report takes Associate companies • American Express Saudi Arabia a forward-looking approach and • Saudi ORIX Leasing Company elaborates on the opportunities and • Amlak International for Finance and Real Estate challenges the Bank faces. Development Company Non-financial matters are reported on only for SAIB except for the workforce data presented in the Management Discussion and Analysis. This Report covers the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, and is consistent with our usual reporting cycle for financial and sustainability reporting. 6 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 About this Report GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-51, 102-53, 102-54 There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. The most recent previous annual report covered the 12-month period ended December 31, 2016. The information given in this Report, as in the past, has The SAIB Integrated Report online been prepared in accordance with all applicable laws, The HTML version is published online on the same regulations, as well as guidelines for voluntary disclosures. date as the date of issue of this Integrated Report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017 This Integrated Report has been issued in both Arabic and English. In the event of any discrepancy, the official Arabic shall prevail. Compliance The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 have been prepared using: • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as modified by SAMA for the accounting of Zakat and Income Tax, which requires adoption of all IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) except for the application of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 – “Income Taxes” and IFRIC 21 – “Levies” in so far as these relate to Zakat and Income Tax. As for the SAMA Circular No. 381000074519 dated April 11, 2017 and subsequent amendments through certain clarifications relating to the accounting for Zakat and Income Tax (SAMA Circular), the Zakat and Income Tax are to be accrued on a quarterly basis through shareholders’ equity under retained earnings; and • Are in compliance with the Banking Control Law, the applicable provisions of regulations for companies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Bank’s Articles of Association. In preparing this Report we have also drawn on concepts, principles and guidelines of; Reading this Integrated Report Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting The Bank uses a variety of media in communicating a cohesive story. Guidelines-GRI Standards – Core Option, International In this printed version, cross-referencing has been given to various Integrated Reporting Framework and Smart Integrated sections within the report, where relevant, as shown below. Apart Reporting MethodologyTM from this printed version, a detailed view of our story is accessible through the online version, which has been referenced as shown We welcome your comments or queries regarding this below, throughout this report where relevant. Report. The Bank’s Corporate Communication Group Further information could be found elsewhere in this printed is the custodian of this Report and for comments or version of the Integrated Report. queries please contact the Head of CSR at Head Office, Additional information that supplement the printed version is The Saudi Investment Bank. available in the online version of this Integrated Report. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 7 The Saudi Investment Bank GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-16 The Saudi Investment Bank (SAIB) is a Saudi Arabian joint stock company which was established by Royal Decree No. M/31 dated June 23, 1976, as The Saudi Investment Banking Corporation and is headquartered in Riyadh. Our Vision To offer the simplest and most accessible products and services to each of our customers. Our Mission Towards our customers Towards our employees • We make banking simple and accessible for each of our • We value ideas, inputs, and initiatives. customers. • We empower our staff to bring out their best and go • We are flexible, adaptive and responsive to deliver the extra mile. what suits our customers. • We recognise individual contribution and we support • We listen to our customers and understand their needs individual development. and preferences in order to evolve and improve. • We enhance team spirit, which allows us to collectively build the smartest solutions. Our sustainability framework SAIB’s sustainability strategy is built on five sustainability pillars, based on Islamic values, which are described below: Nummow (Growth): Hifth (Environmental protection): We aim to deliver strong financial SAIB will build a competitive advantage by performance for our shareholders embedding environmental management into by executing our growth strategy the Bank’s core activities and continuously while maintaining a disciplined dematerialising banking. SAIB will be a model approach to financial stability. of the competitive environmental practices the Saudi Arabian Government is seeking for the benefit of the Kingdom. Takleef (Responsibility): Re’aya (Workforce): SAIB will be recognised by customers, SAIB will be the most sought after Bank investors, employees and the public as the to work for, owing first and foremost to most genuine, integrity based, value driven, its clear transparency and accountability and accountable Bank in Saudi Arabia. to both its employees and society. Awn (Helping others): SAIB will measure not only the amount of money it invests but the extent and effectiveness of its impact. SAIB will narrow and focus its investments in areas where it can contribute money, tools, and expertise. 8 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8, 102-10 History and Operations As at December 31, 2017, the Bank operated 416 ATMs and 9,178 point-of-sale terminals; the total Bank staff was When the Bank commenced operations in March 1977, 1,506. The Bank follows a consistent policy of Saudization its business was mainly the medium-term financing with 85.4% of staff being Saudi nationals at the end of of Industrial projects. In 1983, with the adoption of 2017. Females accounted for 18.3% of the workforce. the SAIB name, the Bank moved into full commercial banking. The ALASALAH Islamic banking brand was The Bank has four subsidiary companies, all of which are launched in September 2006 with the opening of 10 100% owned by the Bank viz., Shariah-compliant branches. • Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage Our operations include wholesale, retail and commercial Company (ICAP) which offers brokerage and other banking products, both Shariah-compliant and services within the Kingdom. traditional. Our finance operations offer a range of • The Saudi Investment Real Estate Company; the main non-interest bearing banking products including business of which is to hold assets given to the Bank Murabaha, Istisna’a and Ijarah. Islamic principles are at as collateral. the heart of all our operations. Adherence to Shariah • Saudi Investment First Company Limited which holds principles in product build and product development is the shares in American Express Saudi Arabia. assured by our Shariah Committee. • SAIB Markets Limited Company, which the Bank has 100% ownership. This Cayman Islands limited liability Our Personal and Corporate Banking product lines company does not have any debt instruments issued. include deposits, loans, and other credit products for The objective of SAIB Markets Limited Company is individuals, SMEs, mid-corporates, corporates, and other trading in derivatives and Repo activities on behalf of institutional customers. We also offer several Treasury the Bank. and Investment Banking products including money market services and managing investments. In addition the Bank also has investments in the following three associate companies. Through our joint ventures and subsidiaries we provide • American Express Saudi Arabia, the principal activity investment banking, share trading, asset management, of which is to issue credit cards and handle other leasing finance, mortgage finance, and credit card American Express products in the Kingdom, in which services. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Alistithmar the Bank holds a 50% interest. Capital (ICAP), provides brokerage services, investment products, and corporate finance services. • Saudi ORIX Leasing Company, of which the primary business activity is lease financing servicing and in The Bank currently operates through a network of 49 which the Bank has a 38% ownership. branches, of which 44 are fully Shariah-compliant and • Amlak International for Finance and Real Estate 12 of the branches have ladies sections to serve our lady Development Company which offers real estate customers. The Bank’s commercial activities are confined finance products and services and in which the Bank to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. has a 32% ownership. The Bank’s major shareholders with their shareholdings are listed below: 2.51% 17.26% 10.00% Mizuho Corporate General Organisation for Non-Saudi Bank Ltd. Social Insurance Shareholders 7.49% J.P. Morgan International Finance Ltd. 17.32% Public Pension Agency 90.00% Saudi 5.77% Shareholders Saudi Oger Limited 49.65% Other Saudi Shareholders The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 9 The Saudi Investment Bank GRI 203-1, 203-2; 413-1 SAIB’s commitment to Vision 2030 SAIB is firmly committed to play a major role in the realisation of Vision 2030 of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The bedrock of the Vision is the following three themes. The detailed goals under the Vision and SAIB’s envisioned contribution are detailed below: Theme Vision A Vibrant Society Islamic values A vibrant society with strong roots, fulfilling lives and strong foundations. Serve Umrah visitors Living healthy, being healthy Developing our cities Environmental sustainability Caring for families Developing our children’s character A Thriving Economy Learning for work A thriving economy which rewards opportunities, invests for the long term, is open for business and leverages its unique Small businesses position as the hub of three continents. Equal opportunities Talent attraction Promising sectors Business environment Regional logistic hub An Ambitious Nation Embracing transparency An ambitious nation which is effectively governed and responsibly enabled. Protect vital resources Engaging everyone Responsible lives Responsible business Responsible society 10 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank GRI 203-1, 203-2; 413-1 Vision goals SAIB’s contribution Moderation, tolerance, excellence, discipline and The Islamic principles of Takleef, Nummow, Re’aya, Hifth and Awn transparency 30 million Umrah visitors Infrastructure/tourism infrastructure finance 40% of citizens to exercise once a week Fitness club memberships, football, bowling and basketball teams, awareness campaigns, “Flexx Bike” and healthy dietary tips 3 KSA cities among top 100 Urban Infrastructure Project Finance Resource efficiency, pollution reduction, GHG tracking, evaluate EMS, UNPRI and implementation of a nature conservation Building Management System (BMS) 5% increase in home ownership by 2020. 80% of parents Al Asalah Home Finance are engaged in school activities by 2020 Empowering educational, cultural and entertainment WooW Alkhair Programme, Community investment, Minopolis institutions and Kidzania activties Reduce unemployment to 7%, sector councils, 41% youth employment; Programmes such as Fast Track, vocational training Graduate Programme and Young Hires Small business SMEs contribute 35% to GDP, SME specific products – 0.22% of funding to SME’s financial institutions allocate up to 20% of funding to SMEs 30% female employment 19.2% female employees, 28% of new hires are women Improve living and working conditions for non-Saudis Expatriates personal finance Renewable energy, industrial equipment, retail, 2.53% of loan portfolio for environmentally friendly, tourism and leisure, digital economy, mining, oil and gas, low carbon activities 75% localisation of oil and gas, 9.5 GWh renewable energy 65% private sector GDP Specialised products and services, ICAP a signatory to the United 5.7% FDI of GDP Nation Principles for Responsible Investment, Global Reporting Top 10 Global Competitiveness Index Initiative Gold Member, signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Rank 25 in the Logistics Performance Index, Invest in Infrastructure project finance Evaluate Equator Principles construction of ports, railways, roads and airports Top 5 E-Government Index Ranked 7th in S&P Hawkamah ESG Pan Arab Index in 2017 for disclosure of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues Build safe and sufficient strategic food reserves 2.53% of loan portfolio for environmentally friendly projects, low carbon activities Interactive, online and smart engagement methods E-services, online banking, annual and sustainability reporting 10% household saving Greater financial independence 4 financial literacy awareness sessions delivered in 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Creation and implementation of sustainability strategy and action plan, designated CSR Unit within the Bank 1/3 of NPO projects have deep and measurable social Increase in community investment, active volunteer program impact one million volunteers by 2020 and policy The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 11 The Saudi Investment Bank GRI 102-13 Networking We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which seeks to align the operations of commercial as well as non-profit organisations with principles of human rights, environmental protection, labour, and anti-corruption. Description of the relevance of these four main areas and descriptions of concrete actions taken regarding them have been communicated to UNGC. The methodology of monitoring and evaluating performance as well the outcome of the measurements have also been communicated. The required behaviour of employees are enshrined in our HR Policy Code of Conduct. Our investment brokerage subsidiary Alistithmar Capital (ICAP), is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). So far, we are one of two entities in the Kingdom to take this step. UNPRI encapsulates six principles of which three are related to environmental, social, and governance issues. The others are related to advocacy for the principles, joint action regarding the principles, and reporting. 12 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 13 SAIB at a Glance Financial Capital 2017 2016 SAR million SAR million Total income1 2,792 2,557 Total expense2 1,059 1,051 Operating profit 1,733 1,506 Impairment charges 322 453 Net income 1,411 1,053 Loans and advances, net 59,588 60,249 Investments, net 21,714 21,448 Investments in associates 1,020 1,000 Total assets 93,796 93,047 Term loans 2,015 2,032 Subordinated debt 2,003 2,002 Customer deposits 66,943 65,640 Total shareholders’ equity 13,494 12,834 Tier I Sukuk 785 500 Total equity 14,279 13,334 Return on average equity % 10.72 8.54 Return on average assets % 1.51 1.13 Capital adequacy % 20.38 18.93 Equity to total assets % 15.22 14.33 1 Total income includes total operating income plus Bank’s share in earnings of associates. 2 Total expense includes total operating expenses before impairment charges. Total Operating Return on Customer income SAR million profit SAR million average assets % deposits SAR million 3,000 1,750 1.75 75,000 2,400 1,400 1.40 60,000 1,800 1,050 1.05 45,000 1,200 700 0.70 30,000 600 350 0.35 15,000 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 14 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 SAIB at a Glance Institutional Capital Developed a Sustainability Automated over 10 Awarded 4 Dashboard Management processes in better serving ISO 14001:2015 Awards won during System (SDMS) our customers the year Investor Capital Market capitalisation Over 3,000 EPS of Dividends per share of RoE of in excess of shareholders SAR 1.88 SAR 0.60 10.72% SAR 11 billion (2016: SAR 1.40) (to be paid in 2018) (2016: 8.54%) Customer Capital 49 Branches 416 59 4 9,178 380,000+ 12 branches include ATMs Cash Deposit Interactive POS retail customers ladies sections Machines Teller Machines Terminals 15,900+ 1,400+ 46.7% Over 10 Small Business Large Business YoY increase in online products and services Customers Customers transactions launched during the year 82.5% 2 overall customer unique loyalty satisfaction programmes Business Partner Capital Ethical Over 150 87% Widespread correspondent procurement policy registered local suppliers and procurement spend on banking relationships covering and process 70 registered international local suppliers the MENA Region, Europe, suppliers Africa and North America Employee Capital 1,571 87.5% 19.22% 38% 119 4,491 strong Saudization female below the age growth in Number of workforce* rate* employment* of 31 years workforce training days SAR 579 million 86% total salaries and employee benefits paid satisfaction *SAIB and Alistithmar Capital (ICAP) staff only Social and Environmental Capital Environmental Management Committed towards 3% 9,676kgs 2,010kgs System (EMS) implemented improving Bank-wide reduction in fuel of paper recycled of electronics during the year energy efficiency consumption recycled Over 20 Over SAR 5 million 126 SAIB community outreach in community investments volunteers engaging in community programmes conducted outreach programmes The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 15 This report marks another milestone in our reporting process; moving from sustainability to integrated reporting. It therefore focuses on all aspects of value creation and the interconnections between them. Through our integrated strategies we have been able to forge ahead towards achieving the targets laid down in our Strategic Plan for 2015-2019, despite economic headwinds. 16 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 A Letter from the Chairman GRI 102-14 Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board of Directors, it is with pleasure SAIB’s strategies are built on the ethos of sustainability that I present to you the Integrated Report of which is reflected in our five sustainability pillars: Nummow The Saudi Investment Bank for the year 2017. (growth), Takleef (responsibility), Re’aya (workforce), Hifth (environmental protection) and Awn (helping others). The During the year under review, The Saudi Investment Bank pillars underpin our commitment to ethical conduct, the care faced both challenges and opportunities. There was the with which we nurture our human resources, our concern economic slowdown in the Kingdom brought about by for preserving a liveable planet for future generations and reduced oil prices and curtailing of government expenditure. helping the less fortunate in society. All of these will bring However, the Saudi Government is forging ahead with the us commercial success and growth. While we seek to grow, Vision 2030 strategy, which it unveiled in 2016, opening up we do not have a narrow focus on the bottom line. As with new vistas. The banking industry globally is still grappling governance we need the systems and data to support our with the repercussions of the crisis at the end of the last sustainability initiatives. Our Sustainability Dashboard decade. The new regulatory frameworks and standards Management System has been developed to ensure timely are making capital and liquidity requirements and credit availability of accurate data for decision-making to achieve impairment provisions more stringent, threatening to lower short and long-term sustainability objectives. Despite the profitability of financial institutions. the headwinds we have been faced with in the economic environment, we have continued with the implementation Banks, as financial intermediaries are custodians of of our Strategic Plan for the period 2015-2019 and its depositors’ funds. In the present environment where there attendant strategic initiatives. have been major concerns with prudent fund management, governance is the foundation on which we can build This Report marks a major milestone in our reporting confidence. While we have had strong governance practices process. After moving to sustainability reporting in 2011, in place we are continuously striving to improve them. In this is our first integrated report. Whereas formerly recognition of our strong governance environment, the Bank sustainability was presented separately from our financial was ranked first amongst all Saudi listed companies at the reporting, in this report we integrate the economic, social, First Annual Corporate Governance Conference hosted by and environmental aspects. We seek to bring out how we Alfaisal University 2017. Our robust policies, systems and create value for all our stakeholders including shareholders, processes are a firm foundation for us to build trust in the customers, business partners, the environment and the financial marketplace. community, and the interconnections between the different aspects of value creation. Compliance with the new statutory and regulatory requirements brings a need for improved mechanisms The Bank makes dividend payouts balancing the need to to ensure all internal processes comply with local and give a satisfactory return to shareholders whilst maintaining international best practices. Up-to-date information is sufficient retained earnings for future growth. A dividend needed on a real-time basis so that corrective action can be of SAR 350 million equal to SAR 0.5 per share for the year taken swiftly when necessary. We have developed cutting 2016 was approved by the Board of Directors and paid in edge IT solutions to support our compliance procedures. April 2017. A bonus share issue of 50 million shares with a Much of the information that the Bank stores is highly par value of SAR 10 per share, or 1 share for each 14 shares sensitive and confidential and today cybercrime poses outstanding was also made. the threats of unauthorised access, theft or corruption of data. Our IT security systems need to be robust enough to With the rapid changes in banking procedures and measure up to these threats. The Bank takes environment we recognise the importance of keeping the countermeasures on an ongoing basis to identify, prevent staff abreast of the changes and being able to cope with and correct any vulnerabilities. Promotion of customer any resulting challenges. We do not stint when it comes awareness and staff training also mitigates these threats. to providing our employees with the training necessary to SAIB also leverages the potential of Information Technology excel in their tasks. In line with the goals of Vision 2030 we to provide the best possible service to attract and retain continue to enhance Saudization of our workforce and also customers. Several digital-based initiatives were mounted strive to increase the percentage of women. during the year to add value to our products and services. I look forward to 2018 with confidence that we can continue The nature of banking operations makes prudent to overcome any challenges and continue to generate value management and monitoring of risk imperative. SAIB has for our stakeholders as well as for the Bank. In doing so, a sophisticated risk management framework in place with we will continue to help realise the aspirations of the well-defined policies, systems and processes. At the Kingdom and the Saudi people for economic growth and operational level, these translate into the risk appetite well-being in a conducive environment. framework, which lays down the level of the risk the Bank could prudently take. The actual degree of risk taken is Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah rigorously monitored against the risk appetite. Chairman The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 17 In a rapidly changing environment, we focus on constant innovation to deliver to our customers the products and services that will delight them. To face this challenge, we need to develop our human resources so that they will measure up to the demands placed on them. As a socially conscious financial institution we do not single mindedly focus on the bottom line – preserving the environment and giving a helping hand to the community are also among our strategies. 18 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Message from the Chief Executive Officer It is with pleasure that I invite you to review the Integrated resource strategies around building diversity and promoting Report of the Saudi Investment Bank for the year 2017. In inclusiveness. In line with the aspirations of Saudi Arabia’s this Report we have made a concise presentation of the Vision 2030, we are seeking to increase our young workforce Bank’s financial and non-financial results for the year. and our women employees; we are also promoting Saudization. At the end of 2017, 88.6% of SAIB’s workforce were Saudis, 19.0% were female and 38.0% were below 31 Our focus on sustainability years of age. Through our recruitment procedures we aim The culture of SAIB is founded on the underlying philosophy at the cream of the talent available in the Kingdom, giving of building an organisation that will last and continue to special attention to women. We are careful to place our deliver value in the long term to all our stakeholders. This is new recruits in the roles they are most suited for according the bedrock which underpins our sustainability pillars which to their talents and aptitudes. SAIB has reserved hiring for in turn underpins all our policies, systems and procedures. office and administrative levels to Saudis. Our sustainability pillars are closely interconnected and reinforce each other. In the evolving economic, social and The performance management process at SAIB has been regulatory environment we need to look at sustainability crafted to align individuals’ performance targets, appraisals as a broad canvas, including not only financial but also and training with the goals of the Organisation, both short social and environmental considerations. To be effective, term and long term. Our training plans are drawn up to ensure sustainability considerations need to be incorporated into that our employees can meet the evolving needs of the all our activities and their importance needs to be instilled banking industry, conform to new regulatory requirements into our employees as well. and meet customer expectations. A judicious mix of all possible methods is used in our training programmes. Our performance Customer relations It is heartening to be able to report that in 2017 the Bank was able to achieve an increase in its net income of 34% Our customers are our lifeblood and the banking industry over the previous year. While assets, loans and advances, is a highly competitive one. Keeping in mind the changing and investments remained almost constant, we were able tastes and preferences of our customers we make the best to achieve a satisfactory reduction in non-performing use of digital and mobile platforms to optimise our service loans and advances. The Bank repaid a five-year loan facility delivery. We strive to keep our banking products and services of SAR 1 billion on schedule during the year, which as user-friendly and accessible as possible which is vital to demonstrates our prudent financial management. This gave draw new customers as well as to retain existing customers. us the credibility to secure a new loan facility for the same A large number of initiatives were rolled out during the year amount which will be repayable in 2022. To strengthen our to build our retail banking franchise; consumer lending and regulatory capital base, the Bank also issued SAR 285 million core deposits were aggressively promoted. under a Tier I Sukuk programme which was initiated in 2016. We were also able to achieve a significant improvement in Developing the SME sector is also a priority for us, which once our net efficiency ratio, reflecting effectiveness in control again is aligned with the Vision 2030 strategy. The added of resources. Our capital adequacy ratio at end 2017 also value we delivered to the sector during the year included improved over that of 2016. escrow accounts, payroll services and streamlining credit processes. Affluent banking customers were also identified The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS 9) – as a lucrative segment to promote and special provision has “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” been made for such customers at branches. We have put has been implemented with effect from January 1, 2018. in place specialised teams catering to different customer The Bank is fully in compliance with SAMA guidelines in this segments, such as ladies, youth, and affluent customers regard as well as in respect of applicable Basel III standards to give more focus to product and service development with respect to capital requirements. The Internal Capital and delivery. To retain our customers, it is necessary that Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for 2018, Stress we be close to them and be aware of customer sentiments. Testing Report as of December 31, 2017 and Internal To this end a customer satisfaction survey was conducted Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) for 2018 to feel the pulse of the customer. The survey gave us very were prepared in accordance with the SAMA guidelines. useful feedback, particularly regarding branch service. We also promptly investigate and respond to any customer complaints and give appropriate redress when this is Nurturing our human resources deemed necessary. Providing the best possible service to our customers and innovating the products and services they need in a rapidly changing environment, place demands on human talents, skills, aptitudes and attitudes. We strive to build our human The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 19 Message from the Chief Executive Officer Leveraging information technology Being at the forefront of Information Technology We look forward to working productively with our employees developments is essential for our competitive edge, as to ensure the sustainability of the Bank in the years ahead. most of our product and service innovations are built on We are confident that with the strengths of the Bank we can IT platforms. A striking innovation that was introduced find opportunity even in adversity, and continue to grow, during the year was the automated appointment system prosper and deliver value to our stakeholders. at branches to cut waiting and service times. Improving our efficiency brings demands for re-engineering our In conclusion, I wish to thank the Board of Directors for their processes – achieving an increased output with fewer guidance and support, our employees for their dedication resources – and cutting turnaround times. SAIB also uses and commitment and our customers for their continued all possible channels, including website, email and social patronage. I also wish to express my gratitude to our media to market its products and services. Social media is shareholders and investors for the confidence they have an especially effective tool as customers can share their reposed in us, and without whose support the continuance experiences with one another. of the Bank would not be possible. Musaed Mohammad Al-Mineefi The environment and society Chief Executive Officer Protecting the environment is one of our sustainability pillars. Although as a financial institution our direct impact is limited, we make our contribution by carefully tracking our consumption of energy, fuel, water and paper and striving to minimise them. Beyond this, we endeavour to make a broader impact by reducing our impact across our value chain. Making a contribution to the community, especially to the less fortunate in society, is another of our key strategic objectives. Our initiatives in this direction include financial education, community development, health and helping the differently abled. We build links with community organisations, with which we partner in delivering our social programmes. Preparing for a cashless world The world is moving towards a cashless society which has widespread implications – on business processes, trade and especially on banking and finance. The wider impacts on economic systems and society may be difficult to foresee at this point. Although much of banking is already cashless, the entire concept of money could change which will bring with it a profound psychological shift. There could be legitimate fears arising from the fact that every transaction a person makes is in principle, traceable. This would bring with it increased demands from banks, especially regarding IT security. With this background it is important that we proactively hone our systems and processes to be aligned with this dramatic change in the economic and financial landscape. 20 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Stewardship The Bank requires a governance structure with well-defined roles and responsibilities to ensure that our ethics, policies, and procedures are faithfully executed. Risk is inherent in the Banking industry, but it needs to be kept within prudent limits to maintain financial stability and sustainability. The Bank also needs mechanisms in place to ensure that it is in conformance with all legal and statutory requirements. 22 31 Board of Directors Risk Management 24 36 Management Team Compliance 25 Corporate Governance The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 21 Board of Directors GRI 102-22, 102-23 Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah Mr. Abdulaziz Abdul-rahman Mr. Mohammed bin Abdullah bin Chairman of the Board Al-Khamis Ahmed Al Ali Vice-Chairman of the Board Board Member Former President and CEO of Saudi Director General Financial Investments, Former Senior Vice-President of Aramco. Has been a board member of Public Pension Agency. Held numerous Finance of Saudi Aramco. He also many companies including Halliburton. positions with the Saudi Arabian served on several companies executive Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science Monetary Agency prior to assuming his committees’. An MBA from the from the American University of Beirut. current position in July 2006. Currently University of Denver and BS Degree a board member of several companies. in Accounting from the University of Bachelor in Economics Degree from Texas-Arlington. Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts. Mr. Abdul Rahman bin Mohammed Al-Rawaf Board Member Manager of the Investment Portfolios Department at the General Organization for Social Insurance. Has been a board member of many banks and other companies. Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from Arkansas State University and an MBA from the University of Southern California. 22 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors GRI 102-22 Mr. Mishari Ibrahim Al-Mishari Dr. Abdulaziz Abdallah Alnowaiser Dr. Abdulraouf bin Mohammed bin Board Member Board Member Abdullah Mannaa Board Member Former CEO and board member of Board member of several public Former Managing Director of SAVOLA Bank Al-Jazira. Has extensive banking companies and governing authorities, Group. Former CEO of several major experience and currently a board and he also worked as an Assistant companies (such as SAVOLA Group, member of many companies. Bachelor’s Professor of Physics at King Saud EMAAR Economic City). Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from University. He holds a BS Degree in Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Oregon. Mathematics and Physics from the King Fahad University of Petroleum and University of California, and an MS and Minerals, Master’s Degree from the PhD in Physics from Duke University. University of California at Berkley, and a PhD from the University of Washington at Seattle. Dr. Fouad Saud Al Saleh Mr. Saleh Ali Al-Athel Board Member Board Member Occupied numerous positions in the Progressed through various executive government until his retirement as positions within the Saudi Industrial a Colonel in the Ministry of Defence. Development Fund until he reached He is currently a partner in numerous the position of the Assistant Director construction-related companies. He General. He is a board member of holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering several companies. He holds a BA from St. Martin College, and an MS and in Philosophy and Sociology from PhD in Construction Engineering from Damascus University, and a Higher the University of Washington. Diploma in Management from Hartford University. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 23 Management Team Mr. Musaed Mohammad Al-Mineefi Mr. Badr Ahmed Allaf Chief Executive Officer General Manager – Compliance Mr. Faisal Abdullah Al-Omran Mr. Majed Mohammed El-Rubaiaan Deputy Chief Executive Officer General Manager – Operations Mr. Ramzi Abdullah Al-Nassar Ms. Ishraq Mohammed Al-Thebiani General Manager – Personal Banking Assistant General Manager – Corporate Communication Mr. Majed Abdulghani Fakeeh General Manager – Corporate Banking Mr. Saleh Abdullah Al-Oqla Assistant General Manager – Personal Banking Mr. Suliman Abdulaziz Al-Obaid Chief Operating Officer Mr. Ali Abdullah Al-Shayea Head of Information Security Mr. Salman Badar Al-Fughom Treasurer and Chief Investment Officer Mr. Mohammed Abdulaziz Al Fraih Assistant General Manager – Mr. David Kenney Chief Information Officer Chief Risk Officer Mr. Waleed Saleh Al-Omary Mr. Saud Abdulaziz Al-Hoshan Chief Internal Auditor General Manager – Human Resources Mr. David Kent Johnson Mr. Badr Sulaiman Al-Aswad Chief Financial Officer General Manager – Quality Assurance 24 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Corporate Governance GRI 102-18, 102-19 Corporate governance encompasses the system of This governance structure is underpinned by policies and policies, rules, procedures and practices that underpin practices to ensure good corporate governance, values the stewardship of a bank. It includes not only a and ethics, organisation structure design, adherence to well-defined documented element but also intangible policies, efficient and effective procedures, the Bank’s elements such as culture, ethics, values, integrity, authorities matrix and effective internal and external and reputation. Governance involves sustainable communication. value creation in the short and long term while balancing the interests of the diverse stakeholders of The Bank’s governance framework, the Board Executive the Bank – shareholders, management, customers, Management governance structures, the key policies, business partners, suppliers, employees, Saudi citizens, guidelines and control functions, and duties and the Government and the environment. It involves restrictions on Board members are clearly set out in the managing the synergies and the trade-offs between the corporate governance manual. The General Manager – stakeholders. SAIB was the only Bank in the Kingdom Corporate Governance, overseen by the Bank’s Corporate which was ranked amongst all Saudi listed companies Governance Subcommittee is responsible for keeping the at the First Annual Corporate Governance Conference manual regularly updated. hosted by Alfaisal University 2017 in collaboration with Harvard University. The Bank was also ranked among The manual, is accessible to the general public via the the top 10 in the 2017 S&P Hawkamah Pan Arab Index Bank’s website. for Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance Practices in the Middle East and North Africa Region. Employees and others who wish to contact the Board or any member of the Audit Committee to make any complaint or report any concern with respect to fraud, Compliance financial matters and restitution, non-compliance with The Bank fully complies with the Principles of Corporate laws and any other matters, may do so anonymously via Governance for banks operating in Saudi Arabia issued the online submission form found on the Bank’s website. by Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA) in March 2014. The Bank also complies with the Corporate The manual is in accordance with the guidelines of the Governance Guidelines in the Rules Governing Companies regulatory authorities; SAMA, the CMA and the Basel in the Kingdom issued by the Capital Market Authority Committee on Banking Supervision. It is updated to be kept of Saudi Arabia (CMA) on 21/10/1427H corresponding in line with the requirements of these regulatory authorities. to 12/11/2006G and all the subsequent amendments except the following: The Bank’s governance structure is depicted in the diagram below: General principles The main principles of corporate governance at SAIB are: • Exercising internal control, driven by the Board and supported by documented guidelines to safeguard the Shareholders Annual Meeting interests of all stakeholders. • The framework, policies, procedures, and processes to effectively identify, monitor and control risks and Board of Directors minimise their impact. • The timely and accurate flow of information in a Board Committees sufficient level of detail to internal and external stakeholders including regulators, investors, and employees. Board Subcommittee • Demonstrate commitment and follow strong, ethical and effective governance by continuous monitoring, follow-up and improvement. Management Committees Governance structure Management Subcommittees Our corporate governance structure has three broad Appointment flow Responsibility flow pillars; establishing strategic direction; executing strategy and managing risks; and stewardship through For a detailed governance structure of the Bank refer the online report conformity with policy and established procedures. at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/governance-structure The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 25 Corporate Governance GRI 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25 Board of Directors The General Assembly will appoint the members of interest. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman are required the Board in accordance with the procedures for such to be Non-Executive Directors. No member of the SAIB appointment approved by itself. The Board members are Board may serve on the Board of another Saudi bank appointed for a period of three years and membership licensed and incorporated in the Kingdom, on the Board for more than 12 consecutive years is discouraged of another financial institution that may cause a conflict in accordance with SAMAs Principles of Corporate of interest, on the Board of a significant or potentially Governance. Subject to the foregoing, Board members significant competitor, or on the Board of more than four may be reappointed unless provided otherwise in other listed companies. Board members have a duty to the Articles of Association. Compensation to Board keep the Bank informed about all participation in Boards members will be in accordance with SAMA regulations outside the Bank and executive positions they hold in and any other relevant regulations. other listed companies. Board composition The members of the Board have diverse strengths and experience including banking, IT, commerce, regulatory The Board should consist of at least nine members of functions, audit, capital markets, and strategic which not more than two should be executives of the planning. The composition of the Board conforms to Bank. The Board members should have the blend of the requirements laid down in the governance manual. skills, expertise and knowledge to guide the Bank and The Board presently consists of nine members, of ensure good governance. which five are Non-Executive Directors and four are Independent Directors. The criteria for Board membership in terms of past records for honesty, integrity, reputation, and personal The details of the members of the Board including area financial soundness are also specified. In addition of expertise, status, date of appointment, number of members of the Board are also required to be able Board meetings attended and other directorships held to function independently and be free of conflicts of are given in the table below: Name Status Classification Date of appointment No. of Board Other directorships meetings attended Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah Chairman Non-Executive February 14, 2010 4 Board member, Hassana Investment Company (UL) Board member, Saudi Arabian Airlines Corporation (UL) The Saudi Investment Bank (L) Vice-Chairman, Zamil Industrial (L) Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis Vice-Chairman Non-Executive February 14, 2007 4 Tawuniya Insurance Co. – Board Director The Saudi Investment Bank The United Insurance Co. Bahrain Dr. Fouad Al Saleh Board member Non-Executive February 14, 2013 4 The Saudi Investment Bank Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa Board member Independent February 14, 2010 3 The Saudi Investment Bank Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser Board member Independent February 14, 2013 4 The Saudi Investment Bank Mr. Abdulrahman Board member Non-Executive February 14, 2010 4 The Saudi Investment Bank Al-Rawwaf Mr. Mishari Board member Non-Executive February 14, 2010 4 Board member of the Saudi Re-Insurance Co. Al-Mishari The Saudi Investment Bank Board member of Hana food Industries Company Chairman of Droob AlElm for Training and Education Mr. Muhammed Al-Ali Board member Independent July 1, 2014 3 The Saudi Investment Bank Saudi Energy Efficiency Services Company Mr. Saleh Al-Athel Board member Independent February 14, 2014 4 Board member Saudi Telecommunication Company The Saudi Investment Bank For further details of requirements of Board members refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/board-composition 26 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Corporate Governance GRI 102-22, 102-24 Responsibilities of the Board The details of the attendance at the respective Board meetings are given below: The responsibilities of the Board may be grouped as strategy responsibilities, risk responsibilities, Date of meeting Directors present performance management responsibilities, and March 23, 2017 Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah – Chairman organisational responsibilities. Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis – Vice-Chairman Mr. Abdul Rahman Al-Rawaf They include crafting and implementing strategy, Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser approving policies and plans, ensuring effectiveness Dr. Abdulraouf M. Mannaa of internal controls, ensuring compliance with laws Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh and regulations, risk management, performance Mr. Mishari Al Mishari Mr. Saleh Al Athel management, being responsible for the appointment/ Mr. Mohammed Al Ali removal of key members of the management team, approval of compensation packages and setting the May 25, 2017 Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah – Chairman Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis – Vice-Chairman cultural and ethical tone of the Bank. Mr. Abdul Rahman Al-Rawaf Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser A Board member has a fiduciary duty to keep confidential Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh all non-public information he has obtained in the Mr. Mishari Al Mishari course of his duties. No member shall use confidential Mr. Saleh Al Athel information for his own personal benefit or for the September 26, 2017 Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah – Chairman benefit of any person/entity inside or outside the Bank. Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis – Vice-Chairman A Board member may divulge confidential information, Mr. Abdul Rahman Al-Rawaf whether during or after his service, only with the written Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser Dr. Abdulraouf M Mannaa permission of the Chairman of the Board. Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh Mr. Mishari Al Mishari Board process Mr. Saleh Al Athel Mr. Mohammed Al Ali The number of general Board meetings should be at December 11, 2017 Mr. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah – Chairman least the minimum required by Saudi laws and the Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis – Vice-Chairman meetings should be scheduled at the beginning of Mr. Abdul Rahman Al-Rawaf the year. Additional or extraordinary meetings can be Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser convened or requested by the Chairman and two or more Dr. Abdulraouf M. Mannaa Board members. The agenda and information packs Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh for meetings should be sent out at least seven days in Mr. Mishari Al Mishari Mr. Saleh Al Athel advance and the Board Secretary is responsible for this. Mr. Mohammed Al Ali For extraordinary meetings it should be sent as much in advance as feasible. In addition to face-to-face meetings teleconference or videoconference meetings are also permissible. The quorum for a Board meeting shall be: Board committees • The Chairman or Vice-Chairman The ultimate responsibility for safeguarding the • At least five Board members either in person or by an interests of SAIB through effective governance lies authorised representation by another Board member with the Board of Directors. The Board is supported in subject to the fact that a Board member may not its governance function by several committees; represent more than one member. five Board Committees and one Board subcommittee. The Board Committees are: Board decisions shall be by a simple majority of • Board Executive Committee members present or represented with the Chairman’s • Board Risk Committee (or Vice-Chairman’s in his absence) vote being the • Board Audit Committee deciding vote in the case of a tie. • Board Nominations and Remuneration Committee The Board Secretary is tasked with assisting the Chairman • Board Shariah Committee in the smooth functioning and logistics of the Board and For further details of the responsibilities of Board Committees Board Committee meetings. He should maintain minutes refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/ of meetings including discussions, votes, objections, and board-committees abstentions from voting. Minutes should be dispatched For further details of the members of the Board Committees not later than 10 days from the meeting date. refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/ board-committees-members The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 27 Corporate Governance GRI 102-22 Board subcommittee Management subcommittees There is one Board Subcommittee which is on corporate The Management Subcommittees make governance. recommendations on a specific topic to a predetermined Management or Board Committee. The role of the Corporate Governance Subcommittee is to ensure that corporate governance systems and There are eight Management Subcommittees which are procedures are in line with international standards and listed below: that these standards are followed throughout the Bank. • Sustainability Subcommittee The Committee reports to the Board Nominations and • Business Continuity Subcommittee Remuneration Committee. • Securities Valuation Subcommittee • Structures Solution Approval Subcommittee The General Manager – Corporate Governance, performs the role of the executive arm of the subcommittee • Financial Fraud Control Subcommittee at management level. He is charged with ensuring • Operational Risk Management Subcommittee observance of sound Corporate Governance Policies. • Stress Testing Subcommittee • Labour Subcommittee For further details of the responsibilities of Board Subcommittee refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/ board-subcommittee For further details of the functions of the respective Management Subcommittees refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/ integratedreport2017/management-subcommittees Management Since Board members have no individual power to give The Board is responsible for the appointment of the CEO directives to members of the staff, communication and the continuing evaluation of his performance. There between Board members and management outside of should be clear division of responsibilities between the Board and Board Subcommittee meetings should be Chairman and the CEO to ensure separation of the roles through the Corporate Secretary who will then obtain the of Executive Management and the Board. consent of the Chief Executive Officer for the meeting or contact. The CEO can opt to participate in the discussion The management process is overseen through a system if he so desires. of management committees and subcommittees. Financial disclosure and transparency Management committees SAIB follows the: Management committees execute policies and directives • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Board and the Senior Management and as modified by SAMA for the accounting of Zakat also recommend, decide, approve and monitor matters and Income Tax, which requires adoption of all IFRS in their area of specialisation. They also provide platform as issued by the International Accounting Standards for exchange of views at Senior Management level in a Board (IASB) except for the application of International formal manner. Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 – “Income Taxes” and IFRIC 21 – “Levies” in so far as these relate to There are seven Management Committees which are Zakat and Income Tax. As for the SAMA Circular listed below: No. 381000074519 dated April 11, 2017 and subsequent amendments through certain clarifications • Management Committee relating to the accounting for Zakat and Income Tax • Credit Committee (SAMA Circular), the Zakat and Income Tax are to be • Asset and Liability Committee accrued on a quarterly basis through shareholders’ • IT Steering Committee equity under retained earnings; and • Enterprise Risk Management Committee • Are in compliance with the Banking Control Law, the applicable provisions of regulations for companies in • Information Security Committee the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Bank’s Articles • Compliance Committee of Association. For further details of the functions of the respective Management The Financial Statements for the year ended Committees refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/ integratedreport2017/management-committees December 31, 2017 have been approved by the Directors in detail to ensure that they present a true and fair view of Company’s affairs for the period under review. 28 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Corporate Governance GRI 102-16, 102-17 IT governance Ethics and standards Information technology plays a vital role in the Bank’s The Bank maintains high ethical and professional strategy and operations across all business units and standards in all its activities which are governed by a code supporting divisions. The Bank has a clear IT strategy of conduct. The Code of Conduct ensures that a culture of which has been crafted to give the Bank a competitive professionalism is maintained where ethical standards edge in the market. All IT activities and projects are prevail. The Code of Conduct is based on fundamental conducted in accordance with best practices and principles of ethics, confidentiality, and professionalism. standards including the following. It applies to all persons who may represent the Bank • ISO 20000 including Directors, employees, consultants and affiliates. The importance of following ethical standards is instilled • The System Development Life Cycle into employees in the process of training and career • Bank’s IT Policies and Procedures development. The Code of Conduct provides a guide • Project Management Frameworks for making ethical decisions in day-to-day operations. • IT Architecture Standards The Bank operates under the governing authority of its Board of Directors which oversees the implementation of • Cyber Security Standards the ethical standards and code of conduct. The Board is governed by the Directors Code of Conduct. The Bank’s IT strategy has been developed to contribute to the Bank’s overall strategy by alignment with the business strategy. Internal control An effective system of internal controls is an SAIB has a comprehensive Information Security Policy indispensable component of good corporate governance which is the foundation of the Information Security and is necessary to achieve the strategic objectives of the Management Security (ISMS). ISMS is intended to Bank. A system of internal controls includes the policies, safeguard the Bank’s digital assets and processing procedures, systems, and processes required to ensure facilities. It thereby assures the information security effective, efficient, and ethical functioning of the Bank. interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders by minimising exposures to risks. A Internal controls are overseen by the Internal Control management framework has been put in place defining Unit which is independent of the line management of the the roles and responsibilities to implement the ISMS. Bank. The Unit is responsible for assessing the adequacy All digital assets should have a nominated owner and and effectiveness of the internal controls across the Bank. rules for accessible use should be established. Access The Unit reports its significant and material findings to to IT systems and facilities are on a “least privilege” and the Audit Committee. “need to know” basis. Critical and sensitive information processing facilities should be housed in secure areas Internal control is not merely a top-down process. with appropriate security barriers and entry controls. Efforts are made by all functions of the Bank to make a contribution towards reviewing and streamlining A consistently configured environment should be controls. The Audit Committee actively monitors the maintained which is secure against known vulnerabilities internal controls to safeguard the interests of the Bank. in operating systems, network components/software The internal control system has been designed to provide and application software. Appropriate controls should reasonable assurance to the Board on minimising risks be installed to make swift, effective, and appropriate and safeguarding assets. However, the management is responses to information security incidents including very conscious of the fact that no system is absolutely communication on security incidents and weaknesses. foolproof and may not detect all possible control deficiencies. Moreover the changes in products, services and operations may place new demands on the rigour of control systems. The control system needs to be tested at regular intervals and revisions to the system made if necessary. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 29 Corporate Governance Whistleblowing We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that the Bank complies with the applicable laws Notable activities during 2017 and regulations of Saudi Arabia, and that we follow international guidelines and recognised principles for ethical behaviour within the Bank. The SAIB’s Code of • Corporate Governance conducted revision of all Committee Charters, the Bank’s major policies and Conduct provides specific guidelines on how employees reporting and the key functions where the Board of are expected to behave in a number of areas, including Directors approval is required. dealing with inside information, conflicts of interest and • Ensured the completeness and compliance of all whistleblowing, Our whistle-blowing policy is designed policies and committee’s charters to be in line with to allow employees to report possible breaches of our SAMA and CMA guidelines as well as the overall Code of Conduct or other laws, rules, regulations and effectiveness of the process implemented. guidelines applicable to our operations, to the CEO or • Tracked and initiated the review of policies and the General Manager – Human Resources in good faith, charters at Board and Management level. without fear that their action may have adverse personal • Conducted orientation sessions to Senior consequences. Externally, the Bank has a portal on its Management and Board Members on corporate website for external parties to report possible breaches governance and provided additional workshops for of laws and regulations to the Company which are Directors on current issues. handled by the Bank’s Governance Department. 30 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Risk Management GRI 102-15; 201-2 The Bank is operating in a complex and dynamic entities arises primarily from loans, acceptances, environment and judicious management of risk is an guarantees, derivatives and foreign exchange products. essential component of good governance and long-term Credit risk to retail customers mainly relates to loans, value creation. Identifying, quantifying and managing mortgages and credit cards. The Bank has a Credit all risks as well as striking a balance between risk and Policy Guide (CPG) approved by the Board of Directors, return is the essence of risk management. The Bank which provides strategic guidelines for managing has a professional Risk Management Framework (RMF) credit risk. The CPG seeks to maximise returns while in place underpinned by rigorous structures, systems, keeping risk to a practicable minimum. It mandates rigid procedures and practices, taking into account all the risks compliance with all relevant laws, rules and regulations. the Bank is exposed to, both internal and external. The Risk is also minimised by avoiding concentration of risk RMF has been drawn up taking into account the needs and diversifying credit across borrowers, industries, of regulators and other stakeholders. It is detailed in the geographic locations, banks, collaterals, products etc. Risk Management Policy Guide. The Risk Management Framework is reviewed at least annually to take into Operational risk account any changes in Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA) regulations, the Bank’s risk management needs, This is the risk arising from inadequate or faulty and the operating environment. internal processes, human failures and external events. Some examples are internal or external fraud, market The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is an expression of manipulation, damage to physical assets, hardware the corporate strategy which serves as a guide for day-toand software failures. An Operational Risk Management day operations. This covers both risks arising as a result Framework, approved by the Board of Directors, of the Bank’s strategy as well as other risks. Regarding addresses the various types of operational risk and how the former, it addresses the maximum level of risk the they should be handled. An Operational Risk Appetite Bank could take without hampering its operations (risk Matrix has also been established for the Bank as a capacity) as well the policy on the level of risk it should whole. Operational losses incurred are monitored on an take (risk appetite). It also sets out the policy on the risk ongoing basis and appropriate corrective action taken. A return trade-off which is measured by the budgeted set of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) has also been developed Regulatory Capital Adequacy Ratio. The Bank’s risk profile at the level of the business units to enable proactive is the actual risk exposures which are monitored across monitoring and management of operational risks. each category, aggregated and reported periodically to SAMA. The risk profile should be kept within the Market risk risk appetite. This is the risk arising from changes in market variables The implementation of the RAF is supported by a such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and robust risk culture that is instilled into employees at equity prices. Management of such risks is laid down all levels. Directives from the Board are communicated in the Treasury Policy Guide (TPG) issued by the Board as necessary to all levels and enforced stringently. The of Directors. culture promotes open discussion of issues pertaining to risk, shared values and communication. Self-reporting Some of the types of market risk: of risk and control issues is encouraged as well as escalation of violations to higher levels. Exceptions to Interest rate risk limits require approval of an appropriate authority. Risk This is the possibility that changes in interest rates profile measurement and aggregation is to be adequately affect either future cash flows or fair values of financial monitored and reported. instruments. This could arise from timing differences for fixed rate and floating rate assets and liabilities. The different types of risk that the Bank has to take into The Board strives to manage these risks, by controlling account are described below: mismatches by time periods. Credit risk Currency risk This is the risk that counterparties do not fulfil their This is the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates affecting obligations on time and/or in full. Credit risk may values of financial instruments. The Board monitors this arise with any type of counterparty – corporate, small risk by setting limits of forward maturity gaps and by businesses or individuals. Credit risk with business hedging strategies. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 31 Risk Management GRI 102-15; 201-2 Equity price risk Legal risk Equity price risk is the risk of decrease in fair values of Legal risk arises from failure to comply with statutory or a Bank’s non-trading equities. This risk is mitigated by regulatory obligations, uncertainty due to legal actions, adhering to limits on equity investments which are set uncertainty regarding application or interpretation of by the Board. contracts, laws and regulations, or uncertainty about the rights and obligations of the parties the Bank is dealing with. Investment risk Investment risk, is a combination of credit risk, interest The Bank takes a proactive approach to managing legal rate risk, market risk and currency risk. There are also risk by analysing all business activities considering their dependencies and correlations between these various legal implications. Similarly, all Bank procedures, policies factors. The Board monitors this type of risk by setting and documents are also reviewed periodically from a limits on investments in terms of size, asset class, credit legal perspective. class, currency and type. Information security risks Liquidity risk This is the risk of unauthorised access or disclosure, This is the risk that the Bank will be seriously hampered tampering or destruction of information. This has in its ability to meet its current or future cash flow become a very important threat in the present context requirements without resorting to exceptional measures when cyber threats have become widespread. that may jeopardise its financial position or standing. This tends to be a combination of other risks such as credit Information security is a part of corporate strategy. The risk and market risk. This risk is mitigated by reducing Bank actively promotes security governance and a security dependence on more volatile funding sources such as culture. A clearly laid down Information Security Policy, wholesale funding and inter-bank funding; avoiding on which is built an Information Security Management external downgrades or other negative news; reducing System (ISMS), is the foundation of the Bank’s security unsecured borrowings from the short-term money system. Comprehensive security measures are in place market; minimising inter-bank credit lines; avoiding to safeguard IT facilities, hardware, data, and software. flights of deposits; limiting off balance sheet derivative products and committed credit lines. Security is assured by risk based audit conducted by internal audit, external agencies and certification bodies. The Bank deploys adequate technical safeguards to Reputation risk prevent breaches of security. This is complemented This is the risk arising from a loss of public confidence in by training and promoting awareness of staff the Bank, and the resulting loss in earnings and capital. and customers. In today’s communication environment where news spreads instantaneously, it is paramount that reputation should be safeguarded. Reputation risk can arise from Strategic risk failure to comply with regulatory requirements, unethical Strategic risk is the impact on the Bank’s current or conduct of employees or poor standards of service. prospective earnings or capital arising from improper business decisions, flawed implementation of decisions The Bank handles the possibility of reputation risk by or inadequate responsiveness to industry developments strict compliance with laws, regulations and governance and the business environment. The Bank mitigates these principles, updating Standard Operating and Accounting risks by adhering to the five-year strategic plans which Procedures (SOAPs) and adhering to policies laid down are prepared periodically. by the Board. Global risk Macroeconomic and business risk This is the risk arising from events over which the This is the risk arising from macroeconomic parameters Government of the Kingdom has no control such as such as inflation rates and oil price fluctuations. These recessions in major economies, natural disasters and risks are taken into account in drawing up the annual terrorist attacks. Global risks are monitored through the business plans, and adherence to the plans will mitigate Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) by monthly review such risks. meetings and corrective action. 32 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Risk Management GRI 102-15; 201-2 Pre-settlement and settlement risk Risk governance Pre-settlement risk is the possibility of counterparties The Board of Directors bears the primary responsibility to a contract not fulfilling their obligations under the for risk governance assisted by several other committees contract and defaulting before the contract’s settlement such as Executive Committee, Risk Committee, Audit date prematurely ending the contract. This could arise Committee and Compliance Committee. A number of for example, if the counterparty becomes bankrupt other management committees also handles the risk prior to performing the contract. This will entail finding a governance at the management level. The composition, replacement party to complete the contract and incurring roles and responsibilities of these committees are laid the resulting costs. The pre-settlement risks for various down in the Corporate Governance Policy of the Bank types of transactions are covered in the Bank’s Treasury as well as in their respective charters. Reporting to the Policy Guide. The Bank measures pre-settlement risk by various committees for monitoring and control/approval the likelihood of adverse market movements leading to is independent of normal business lines at all times. default situations. Settlement risk is the possibility that a counterparty to a contract does not deliver a security or an agreed cash value when the Bank has fulfilled its obligations under the contract. This could occur with future contracts. Executive Board of Directors Risk Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Audit Compliance Committee Committee Chief Risk Officer Operational Risk Credit Financial Planning Management Committee (CC) Heads of and Control Committee (ORMC) Business Units Department Risk Financial Fraud Assets Liabilities Committee (ALCO) Management Control Group Committee (FFCC) Internal Audit Compliance Enterprise Risk Department Department Business Continuity Management Management Committee (ERMC) Committee (BCMC) Information Security Committee (ISC) For further details on risk governance and the functions of the respective committees refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/risk-governance The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 33 Risk Management The General Managers of various business units will Business continuity plan manage risks pertaining to their respective units by The Bank is cognisant of the fact that it can be vulnerable adhering to the relevant guidelines and limits set by to threats, both internal and external. Such threats policies approved by the Board. include natural disasters, system failures, and data breaches which can seriously disrupt or halt operations. A Risk Management Group is in place to monitor and It can also seriously tarnish the Bank’s reputation and control the relevant risks and exposures of the Bank. impair stakeholder confidence. The Bank has policies and The monitoring and controlling process is supported plans in place to enable continuance of normal business by Financial Planning and Control Department, Internal operations despite a disruptive incident; also to detect, Audit Department and Compliance Department. The Risk prevent where possible and minimise the impact of such Management Group is headed by a Chief Risk Officer and incidents. Advance preparation and planning is required includes Heads of the Departments actively involved in to restore normal services in the event of a disruptive risk management. crisis. Since the Bank’s processes are highly automated For further details on the duties of the Chief Risk Officer refer there is a need for backup and recovery strategies and the online report at www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/ temporary alternative processes in the event of a system chief-risk-officers-duties crash or failure. The Bank utilises a number of qualitative and quantitative The business continuity function is overseen by a tools to identify, assess, limit, and monitor risks. Business Continuity Management Committee (BCMC) For further details on the tools used by the Bank for risk headed by the Business Continuity Plan Manager. The management refer the online report at www.saib.com.sa/ Bank has a detailed Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to integratedreport2017/risk-management-tools manage disruptive situations. The goal of the BCP is to enable the Bank to recover from any crisis situation and An Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Plan (ICAAP) restore all critical business lines within four hours. It also is prepared in accordance with Saudi Arabian Monetary aims to minimise the loss of information and assets to Authority (SAMA) guidelines. ICAAP includes an an acceptable level. All staff are familiarised with the BCP assessment of the Bank’s risk exposures over a one and their respective roles in a situation where it has to year period, along with an assessment of available and be invoked. The BCP is tested periodically in a simulated required capital. environment to ensure its applicability and effectiveness in a real situation. The BCMC will periodically review the The Bank also carries out stress testing to gauge its progress of the BCP and consider necessary changes. robustness to withstand risks. This includes the Bank’s exposures to credit, market, liquidity, concentration, To reaffirm the comprehensiveness of our Business operational and other risks. Continuity Plan, preparation for the ISO 22301:2012 surveillance audit for the Bank-wide Business Continuity During the year under review, a number of initiatives were Management was commenced in 2017. The audit implemented to improve the risk management function, was conducted in January 2018 by TUV HELLAS and especially regarding increasing automation. The second covered actions on previous surveillance observations, phase of Proactive Risk Manager (PRM), an online fraud Business Continuity Management Structure and Policies, prevention system, was successfully implemented. Business Impact Analysis (BIA) methodology and Major improvements in automation of market risk and Business Continuity Plan. The audit was successfully operational risk are also in progress. Initiatives are also completed with zero non-conformity, but three potential under way regarding modelling credit risk. Probability of improvements were identified that will be considered in default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) will be quantified due course. The re-certification audit, which will be more in line with the new IFRS for loan impairments; this is a comprehensive than the current one, will take place at team effort involving business, finance and IT. the end of 2018. Developing the human resources skills for credit risk management has not been neglected. During 2015, 22 Saudi graduates including nine women were recruited and they followed an intensive 15-week programme in risk management and related topics. These graduates have now been assigned to various departments within the Risk Management Group and have been confirmed in their positions. We look forward to a valuable contribution from them to the Bank’s risk management function in the years ahead. 34 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Risk Management Risk performance It is suggested that the actual performance of some key risk indicators against a benchmark such as Bank target levels/Regulator approved limits/Saudi Industry averages be given in a table similar to that given below: Risk category and Description Benchmark/Regulatory limit Actual position parameter as at December 31, 2017 Credit risk Quality of lending Gross NPA ratio (%) N/A 1.27 portfolio Net NPA ratio (%) N/A 1.29 Provision cover (times) N/A 1.39 Liquidity risk Liquid coverage ratio (as of last 90 days) (%) Minimum LCR to be maintained at 100% 223.17 Strategic risk Capital adequacy Capital adequacy – Tier I N/A 17.34 Capital adequacy – Total capital N/A 20.42 Capital funds to deposits ratio N/A 20.16 ROE N/A 10.72 Creditworthiness – Fitch Ratings Investment grade rating (BBB-) BBB+/F2 Notable activities during 2017 An automated process was also introduced for processing financial institution-related TACM approval requests. A new monthly report was also implemented for financial institutions covering country limits and Bank exposures. To improve retail credit risk management, scorecards for credit card and loan applications as well as application procedures were revised. An IFRS 9-based project was also carried out for consumer lending products. Frameworks were also developed to improve operational risk management and risk and control self-assessment workshops were conducted for 15 entities in the Bank. New rules covering payments to give effect to proactive fraud monitoring through a Proactive Risk Management System were implemented. Business continuity process testing exercises were conducted Bank-wide; disaster recovery testing was also carried out for critical business areas such as Treasury and Call Centre. Enhanced monitoring of Treasury-related activities was also conducted to minimise market risk. Improved procedures were also introduced for tracking and managing all assets held as collateral including land. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 35 Compliance GRI 205-1 The role of the compliance function of the Bank is to Organisation structure ensure that the functioning of the Bank is in accordance The Board of Directors does not exercise any executive with laws, regulations, rules and policies both internal function regarding compliance, but supervises and external. Compliance is an important facet of SAIB’s compliance activities. This responsibility has formally culture and is instilled into employees at all levels. been delegated to the Compliance Committee, and the SAIB follows not merely the letter but also the spirit of BOD monitors and evaluates the compliance function the regulations. through this Committee. The compliance function and all related procedures are For further details on the compliance function of the set out in a compliance manual which is prepared by the Board as well as the composition and responsibilities of the Compliance Committee refer the online report at Compliance Department and approved by the Board www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017/organisation-structure of Directors. It is based not only on the letter, but also of the spirit of the recommendations included in the Compliance Manual for Banks operating in the Kingdom Compliance initiatives of SAIB of Saudi Arabia issued by Saudi Arabian Monetary Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Terrorism Authority (SAMA) in December 2008 (Appendix – A). The Financing (AML/CTF) responsibility for administering the Manual rests with the Head of Compliance (HOC). The Manual needs to be kept Financial institutions such as SAIB are particularly current taking into account changes in environment, both vulnerable to being used for money laundering activities. internal and external. Revisions may become necessary Money laundering usually involves the placing of due to changes in laws and regulations, functions, proceeds of illegal activities such as narcotics, fraud, activities and business processes of the Bank, changes corruption, organised crime and terrorism with financial in organisation/authority structures, and job roles. institutions, disguising their source, so that they can flow into the economy as legitimate funds. Money laundering is criminalised in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Monitoring and action SAIB adheres to the Anti-Money Laundering Rules and The Bank has a Compliance Monitoring Programme in Guidelines Law issued by Royal Decree No. M/31dated place to identify, assess, and monitor the risks of non11/5/1433. SAIB employees are required to familiarise compliance with laws, regulations, and procedures. The themselves with indicators of suspicious transactions Programme is overseen by the Compliance Committee and bring any such transactions to the notice of (CC) and the HOC submits a quarterly report to the AML/CTF. The Bank also has a “Know Your Customer” CC. The compliance function also develops an Annual policy in place, to safeguard the Bank from clients who Compliance Plan. This is based on the Compliance Risk may pose risks. Assessment Methodology included in the Compliance Monitoring Programme. It includes testing of significant Cross-border issues risk products and activities at a frequency which is set by The Bank should comply with all laws and regulations the level of the risks involved. in all jurisdictions within which it operates. The organisation, structure and processes of the compliance To ensure the effectiveness of compliance monitoring, function should be aligned with the requirements of the the compliance function maintains a comprehensive respective jurisdictions. The Bank conducts business Compliance Risk Register giving full details of all internationally through local subsidiaries or branches compliance risks including the nature and severity of in other locations when they do not have a physical risk, source reference, likelihood and potential impact, presence. The compliance function should ensure that controls assessed, control score, and residual risk score. operations in other locations are carried out by persons with local knowledge and expertise. A Compliance Issue Tracker has been developed for better monitoring of observations and exceptions having compliance implications and reducing the chance of errors. 36 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Compliance Human resources policy Notable activities during 2017 As part of the recruitment process all prospective employees are screened for their past professional conduct. All supervisors monitor their direct reports Compliance to ensure compliance. Systems and procedures as The Compliance Department participated in the implementation of disaster recovery preparation well as employees are kept current with compliance plans as directed by SAMA. The existing processes for requirements. The Head of Compliance (HOC) is monitoring of transactions were also reviewed from a responsible for implementing any new laws and systemic perspective and identified gaps were closed. regulations. The Compliance Department takes care to High risk accounts and transactions were also reviewed eliminate any conflicts of interest among the compliance from a regulatory perspective. Coordination with staff or supporting staff of other departments. business units was also improved through branch visits, participation in FTACA project and providing opinions Employee adherence to Bank’s compliance policies on regulatory matters. All recommendations issued to and procedures will be an element of staff appraisals at compliance by audit were also implemented. all levels. Internal audit The Internal Control Project, mandated by SAMA was Customer complaints conducted in coordination with the Protiviti Team. The project involved a complete walk through of All customer complaints are dealt with promptly and Bank-wide processes and controls. The risk and control effectively at SAIB. Complaints may be submitted in any matrices resulting from the exercise were documented form and through any medium. Employees are required and submitted to SAMA. They were also incorporated to strictly adhere to the procedures for dealing with in the TeamMate system as the Bank’s Risk Register customer complaints. and are used in audit programmes. Internal audit is also responsible for validating all SAMA observations and initiating any correcting action recommended by SAMA. Three investigations and live testing of disaster recovery procedures mandated by SAMA were conducted. The Department was strengthened with additional manpower and rotation of staff was conducted between the Audit Department and the Treasury and Corporate Banking Group. A comprehensive Business and IT Audit Universe and Risk Assessment Framework was also drawn up. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 37 Investing in sustainable community activities in creating a modern and vibrant society 38 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Business Model The Bank functions within a local and global economic, social, and political environment. Within the constraints of this environment, and guided by its sustainability pillars, it has to develop strategies to achieve the desired objectives. 40 Operating Environment 45 Strategic Framework 50 Stakeholders 55 Materiality The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 39 Operating Environment Global economy The world economy, which had a lacklustre start in (6.5%) in the year to March 2018. The economy was 2016, started on an upswing in the middle of the year adversely affected in the short term by demonetisation and this momentum has generally continued into and the Goods and Services Tax. GST and other structural 2017. Growth in global GDP which recorded a low 3.2% changes augur well for the medium term. Other emerging in 2016, grew by 3.7% in 2017, and growth in 2018 is economies in East and South East Asia were also boosted projected at 3.9%. A total of 120 countries, collectively by increased external demand. accounting for three-quarters of world GDP, grew in year on year terms in 2017. Growth was better than previous The US Dollar appreciated in real terms by 6% forecasts showed in several advanced and emerging since August. The currencies of certain commodity economies including the United States, Germany, Japan, exporters, including Russia, also appreciated reflecting Korea, Brazil, China, and South Africa. Many advanced improvement in commodity prices; on the other hand, economies are now approaching full employment. the Euro, the Japanese Yen, and some emerging market World trade picked up towards the end of the year currencies have weakened. driven by increased investment particularly in advanced economies and increased manufacturing output in Asia. Low income countries continue to be faced with many However, the picture is not entirely rosy. Growth is still challenges including diversifying their economies, weak in many areas and political uncertainties; terrorism maintaining growth while achieving the sustainability and climate change also pose risks. development goals, high debt levels and low commodity prices. Priority areas to address include broadening the The prices of fuel, which fell between February and tax base, improving debt management, reducing poorly August 2017, picked up in the last quarter of the year targeted subsidies and improving infrastructure, health, buoyed by the global growth, weather conditions in and education. Climate change and extreme weather the US, production cuts by OPEC, and geopolitical conditions, such as droughts in sub-Saharan Africa, pose tensions in the Middle East. Marker prices are expected to threats to many countries. In low income countries a rise gradually decline over the next 4-5 years. Although short in temperature tends to lower per capita output both in term economic forecasts are somewhat optimistic things the short and medium terms. Though sound domestic look less rosy in the medium term. Possible downsides strategies and policies can help such countries will be are increases in inflation and interest rates, protectionist unable to cope with the challenges without the assistance policies, geopolitical tensions and political uncertainties. of the international community. Furthermore, growth still remains weak in many areas. Nevertheless, the current environment has opened up The Gulf region opportunities which policy makers should capitalise on. All countries of the Gulf region have been adversely The US economy grew by 2.3% during the year. affected by the reducing oil price trend of the last three Corporate tax cuts are expected to stimulate growth years but have nevertheless shown resilience. Growth through the next few years. Business and consumer has been reduced accompanied by widening fiscal and confidence remains upbeat. With unemployment being external deficits. Both OPEC and non-OPEC members at its lowest level since 2000, this should contribute have agreed to production cuts until March 2018 and to wage growth. Highly skilled and highly paid baby there is a possibility of a further extension. There is boomers becoming senior citizens in large numbers will optimism about stronger global growth resulting in higher slow the rate of labour force growth and consequently demand and oil prices stabilising at around USD 55 per consumption growth. However, a substantial and barrel in 2018/19. All GCC countries have to address the sustained global upturn should stimulate increased issues of reducing the oil dependence of their economies economic activity through linkages to global value and cutting financing by the state. While this has led to chains. Nevertheless, some uncertainties surrounding fiscal consolidation it has weakened non-oil growth. The the policies of the current administration remain which region is also affected by geopolitical risks. may have a dampening effect. A unified framework has been agreed on for the The Chinese economy recorded a moderate growth of introduction of VAT within the GCC countries which will 6.5%. Growth was somewhat slowed down by policy promote cross-border trade in the region. Although makers seeking to rein in debt and factory pollution. implementation was due to start from 1st quarter of The upside is that the changes should augur well for 2018 it is likely to be delayed in most countries due to sustainable growth in the long term. The Indian economy coordination issues and preparatory work requirements. is expected to record its lowest growth in four years 40 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Operating Environment Bahrain has been adversely affected by low prices for Asset quality indicators % both oil and bauxite. A moderate level of GDP growth has been maintained by deficit spending, at the cost of 10 175 reduced reserves and increased public debt. The Kuwaiti economy grew by about 3% in 2016, boosted by higher 8 140 oil production and government spending. Growth is expected to slow in 2017, but is expected to pick up in 6 105 the medium term in the wake of increased oil production (and possibly higher prices) and infrastructure spending. 4 70 Introduction of VAT in 2018 is on track, which should ease fiscal pressure. 2 35 Growth of the UAE economy, which recorded 2.3% in 2016, is expected to reduce further due to oil production 0 0 cuts. However, investment that should take-off to support 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017* the Expo 2020 event coupled with increased oil production as a fruition of oil field development should boost growth Non-performing loans/total loans (LHS) Cost of risk (LHS) from 2018. The Expo event is expected to draw visitors in Loan loss reserves/total loans (RHS) large numbers fuelling private consumption and services. *As of September. Source: S&P Global Ratings. As with the rest of the GCC, Oman’s growth slowed down Growth in customer deposits slowed to 3.5% in the first in 2016 and a growth of only 1% is forecast for 2017. months of 2017 compared to 5.0% in the corresponding Reduced government spending, low business confidence period in 2016. Nevertheless, the GCC banks’ funding and private consumption is expected to slacken growth. profiles can be broadly be considered satisfactory. Despite large spending cuts a budget deficit of 10%-14% Funding is largely from core customer deposits except is expected. With increasing interest rates monetary for a few large wholesale customers. Loan to deposit policy is expected to remain tight. ratios have been on an improving trend during the year. Growth of GCC banks’ loan portfolios While the first nine months saw an increase in GCC versus GDP growth % banks’ profitability there are grounds for scepticism as to whether the trend will last. The increase has been due 12.5 to banks deploying their excess liquidity in relatively high interest earning government bonds; a higher net interest 10.0 margin due to improving local liquidity and increase in Federal Reserve’s interest rates; and aggressive measures of cost reduction. However, the trend is not 7.5 likely to continue due to slower loan growth, higher loan impairment particular due to the implications of IFRS 9, 5.0 and increase in operating costs due to the introduction of VAT. 2.5 The Saudi economy 0 The Saudi economy which grew by 1.4% in 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017* 2018f 2019f contracted by 0.7% in 2017 according to preliminary Average loan growth Average GDP growth data. The main cause is the contraction in the oil sector, *Annualised. f–Forecast. Source: S&P Global Ratings, GCC Central Banks. which is expected to be about 3%. The Kingdom complied with production cuts in 2017, which are due to last until Coming to the banking and financial sector of the region, March 2018. The Government’s efforts to diversify the private sector lending which grew by 2.6% in 2017 on economy have borne modest results with the non-oil annualised average basis, is expected to grow by about sector expected to grow by 1%. Within the non-oil sector, 3-4% in 2018. This should be boosted by initiatives a major contribution to growth will be from the non-oil such as Dubai Expo 2020, the Saudi Vision 2030 and mining sector, which is now the fastest growing sector Kuwait 2035. The economic slowdown of the last two in the Kingdom. Private ownership of residences is also years caused a slight increase in non-performing loans. expected to grow rapidly. It is expected that the deterioration will continue for six months and then stabilise. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 41 Operating Environment The fiscal deficit narrowed to 8.9% of GDP in 2017, Vision 2030 from nearly 13% the previous year. This was mainly as In April 2016 a visionary strategic plan for the future of the result of major steps taken to restore fiscal balance the Kingdom was unveiled. by way of cuts to civil service remuneration, affecting around two thirds of employed nationals, and reduction The Vision is built around three themes; a vibrant of subsidies. With reduced oil prices, the policies of society, a thriving economy, and an ambitious nation. the past underpinned by government employment, The members of a vibrant society would keep to their generous subsidies and free public services is becoming religious and cultural heritage while enjoying a good increasingly unsustainable. However, in April 2017 these life in a beautiful environment with social protection. measures were partially reversed with results coming in A thriving economy will create opportunities for all, by from other measures of fiscal consolidation. building an education system aligned with market needs. The nation’s ambitions will be achieved through effective, The Kingdom successfully introduced Value Added Tax responsible, transparent, enabling, and high performing (VAT) from January 1, 2018 to be aligned with the GCC government at all levels. VAT framework. Saudi Arabia and the UAE have become the first countries in the GCC to introduce VAT. The rate The Vision envisages reducing the dependence on oil, will be 5%, but in accordance with the GCC VAT Treaty expanding the role of the private sector in the economy certain products and services will be exempt or entitled and bringing Saudi Arabia into the top 10 slots in the to zero rating. An excise tax of 100% will be levied on Global Competitiveness Index. It targets an increase in tobacco and energy drinks and 50% on soft drinks. From non-oil revenue from SAR 163 billion to SAR 1 trillion. January 1, 2018, SAIB added VAT to all its products and To meet the needs of the economy the education services unless they came under the VAT exempt or system will be revised to be aligned with the job market. zero-rated category. A modern curriculum will be prepared focusing on rigorous standards in literacy, numeracy and character The introduction of VAT is a necessary step to diversify development. By 2030 The Kingdom aspires to have at the sources of government revenue in the context of least five universities in the ranks of the global top 200. falling oil prices. The practice of the past when citizens The talents of Saudi women, which are at present an enjoyed generous subsidies while being free of taxes is underutilised asset (over 50% of university graduates no longer sustainable. While this will cause a slight rise are women) will be brought on stream. in the cost of living, this will depend on an individual’s purchasing patterns. Citizens whose purchases are The role of the SME sector, which at present contributes mostly of tax exempt goods will not be much affected. only 20% to the GDP, is projected to expand. Young Saudi entrepreneurs will be encouraged with business-friendly A glimpse of the future face of the Kingdom was regulations, easier access to funding, international revealed at the Future Investment Initiative (FII) held in funding and a greater share of national and government October 2017. This mega-event drew 3,500 leaders procurement bids. from the corporate, government and financial sectors and featured extremely high profile speakers. The The privatisation of state assets which is ongoing will cornerstone of the initiative is NEOM, a USD 500 billion be continued. The ownership of ARAMCO, the state oil giga-project which would be a business and financial hub giant, will be transferred to the Public Investment Fund extending over 26,500 square kilometres in the North and an Initial Public Offering is planned for up to 5% of Western region of the Kingdom. The thrust areas will be the ownership. The revenue resulting from privatisation digital technologies, biotech, advanced manufacturing will be reinvested for the long term, in strategic sectors and energy making it a Silicon Valley of the Middle East. which require capital intensive inputs. In the process the NEOM will be a partially autonomous region having its economy of the Kingdom will be diversified away from own customs, taxation and labour laws. In addition, there excessive dependence on oil. Some of the thrust areas are plans to build an entertainment city in Riyadh and a identified are localising renewable energy and industrial resort destination on the Red Sea. equipment sectors, developing leisure and tourism, investing in the digital economy and exploring and exploiting the non-oil mineral resources of the Kingdom. Saudi Arabia is endowed with many non-oil minerals such as, gold, silver, aluminium, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore, uranium and phosphate. 42 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Operating Environment A Vibrant Society A Thriving Economy To increase our capacity to welcome To move from our current position as Umrah visitors from 8 million to the 19th largest economy in the world 30 million every year into the top 15 To more than double the number of To rise from our current position of 25 Saudi heritage sites registered with to the top 10 countries on the Global UNESCO Competitiveness Index To have three Saudi cities be To increase foreign direct investment recognised in the top-ranked 100 from 3.8% to the international level cities in the world of 5.7% of GDP To raise our position from 26 to 10 in To increase the Public the Social Capital Index Investment Fund’s assets, from SAR 600 billion To increase the average life to over 7 trillion expectancy from 74 years to 80 years To increase the private sector’s contribution from 40% to 65% of GDP To increase household spending on cultural and entertainment activities To raise the share of non-oil inside the Kingdom from the current exports in non-oil GDP from level of 2.9% to 6% 16% to 50% To increase the ratio of individuals To increase the localisation exercising at least once a week from of oil and gas sectors 13% of population to 40% from 40% to 75% To raise our global ranking An Ambitious Nation in the Logistics Performance To rally one million volunteers Index from 49 to 25 and per year (compared to 11,000 now) ensure the Kingdom is a regional leader To raise our ranking on the E-Government Survey Index from To increase SME contribution to our current position of 36 to GDP from 20% to 35% be among the top five nations To lower the rate of unemployment To increase non-oil government from 11.6% to 7% revenue from SAR 163 billion to To increase women’s participation in the SAR 1 trillion workforce from 22% to 30% To raise our ranking in the Government Effectiveness Index, from 80 to 20 To increase household savings from 6% to 10% of total household income To raise the non-profit sector’s contribution to GDP from less than 1% to 5% The service sectors will be opened up to private is largely traditional retail. We intend to provide jobs for participation, shifting the government’s role to being an additional million Saudis by 2020 and increase the more of a regulator. Banks and other financial service contribution of modern retail and e-commerce. providers will adapt their products and services to the needs of each sector. The economic cities, projects, To achieve its ambitious targets the Kingdom will need which have lagged in implementation, will be revitalised. to identify and put in place best practices that will The Kingdom will also create new economic zones in improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our public exceptional and competitive locations. Though the administration. This will include recruitment according retail sector has flourished, it currently employs only to merit, human capital development and providing a 0.3 million Saudis out of a workforce 1.5 million and it conducive working environment. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 43 Operating Environment In order to build the institutional capacities and Composition of liquid assets and credit and deposit capabilities needed to achieve the goals of Vision growth of Saudi banks 2030 a National Transformation Programme 2020 was launched in 2016 with a four-year time frame. This sets SAR billion % 500 20 interim targets within the framework of Vision 2030. The programme is intended to make a significant impact on planning efficiency and effectiveness as well as the 400 15 integration of government action. The strategic targets and objectives for entities participating in the Vision 300 10 2030 will be identified. The strategic objectives will then be translated into initiatives, backed by detailed 200 5 implementation plans and feasibility studies. 100 0 Partial achievement of some of the goals of Vision 2030 by 2020 is also planned. Some of these include: • Creating at least 450,000 jobs in the non-governmental 0 -5 sector; 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 • The private sector to make a contribution of 40% Gov. & Quasi-Gov. bonds (LHS) SAMA bills (LHS) towards funding of initiatives; Claims on banks (LHS) Excess bank reserves* (LHS) • Increasing localising at least SAR 270 billion of content which will reduce imports and create job opportunities; Banks’ credit growth (RHS) Banks’ deposit growth (RHS) • Build digital infrastructure and digital platforms to *Excess bank reserves include cash in vault and deposits with SAMA in excess of support government digital transformation. statutory deposits. Source: Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority monthly statistics bulletin The Saudi banking sector The reduction in oil prices has adversely impacted In 2017 Saudi banks achieved a very favourable deposit growth which averaged 12% during liquidity position, with liquid assets standing at a record 2012-2014. The lower oil prices caused decline in SAR 457 billion. This was despite slackening of government balances, contraction in deposits from the deposit growth (growth was only 0.1% in the year) and private sector, payment delays and weakened economic unfavourable business conditions. Bank’s domestic liquid growth all of which slackened deposits. However, the assets grew 11% in 2017 and accounted for 20% of total situation was somewhat mitigated when the government bank assets at year end. In another positive trend, Saudi issued increased international debt which enabled a 12% banks’ reserves to total deposits notched 14.8% at end increase in public sector deposit inflows as against a 2017, its highest in five years. The positive changes 10% decline in 2016. were achieved despite deposits remaining practically constant, by a 1.0% drop in banks’ loans (compared The reduction in loans was mainly due to reduced with a 3% increase in 2016) and a 43% increase in economic growth (actually forecast to be a contraction) government bonds. The Bank’s holdings of domestic lower credit demand and banks’ reduced lending government bonds were SAR 254 billion at end 2017 appetite. Loans declined especially in the building and compared with SAR 86 billion at end 2015. Successive construction sector (the sector suffered a drop of 15% issuance of debt by the Saudi Government, especially in 2017), which is heavily dependent on government Sukuk issuance, provided an opportunity for banks to spending. The loan to deposit ratio stabilised at 86% at utilise their excess liquidity to purchase such high quality end 2017, 1% less than at end 2016. government investments. 44 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Framework GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Operating environment management Risk Strategy and sustainability pillars Strategy Business formulation operations Vision Outcome Performance Mission Capital formation Cor porate governance Vision 2030 Strategy and sustainability pillars A five-year Strategic Plan was developed by the Bank • Developing joint calling by business units and in 2014 for the period 2015-2019. It was crafted cross-selling with business partners. Cross-selling considering the outcomes and experience of the previous between personal banking and treasury is an attractive strategic plan for the period 2010-2014 with the theme possibility “Building on Strength”. The plan was drawn up in the • Exploiting synergies that can be realised across the context of the broad economic, social, environmental Bank and with joint venture partners and regulatory environment and the goals of the Vision 2030 Plan of the Kingdom. • Improving efficiency and enhancing customer service by refining and automating the credit processing chain A new Vision and Mission were decided on for the plan. • Closer control of costs New business initiatives which are required to build on the achievements of the 2010-2014 plan were identified. The The cornerstone of our strategy is our five sustainability goals of the plan were customer and business focused pillars: Nummow (growth), Takleef (responsibility), Hifth and each of the business units’ contributed initiatives. (environmental protection), Re’aya (workforce) and Awn The supporting units complemented the objectives by (helping others) developing initiatives accordingly. Growth opportunities Further details maybe found in the sub-section by market segments were carefully considered for both The Saudi Investment Bank on page 8 of this Report. personal and corporate banking. Some of the specific strategies decided on include: • Improving the percentage of demand deposits to improve profitability • Improving fee generation to reduce risk • Identifying and developing new market segments • Strengthening affluent banking • Direct offering to youth and women The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 45 Strategic Framework GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 203-1, 203-2 Performance Plans are formulated based on our strategies, which in and cost reduction at branch level. Data can be entered, turn are converted to business operations. Our business and information obtained on a monthly and quarterly operations transform strategies into results, both basis; data is securely stored and easily accessible to financial and non-financial. This involves having in place authorised users. the required measurement and monitoring systems to assess performance. Since sustainability is a cornerstone of SAIB’s strategy, performance is continuously assessed across the An electronic Sustainability Dashboard Management five sustainability themes we have identified which System (SDMS) has been developed to track the progress are described below. Our sustainability strategy is and report on initiatives at a high level of granularity. The an integrated system that tracks economic, social, dashboard provides timely and accurate information for environmental, and governance performance and the decision-makers and enables efficiency improvement consequent value delivered to all stakeholders. Nummow (Growth) Re’aya (Workforce) This pillar includes growth not only in We are committed to the fact that the financial sense but also in products, employees are our primary resource and we customer service, and innovation. give the utmost importance to nurturing, A strong and sustained financial retaining, developing, and motivating them. performance will enable us to give While we provide them with all necessary continuing and growing returns to our information, we also set clear performance shareholders. Development of innovative targets for each employee and rewards for new products and services in keeping with outstanding performance. Our employees market trends will delight and grow our are trained to understand customer needs customer base. The process is supported and provide the best possible service. by communication with customers through We also educate them on compliance with diverse channels and adopting their local and international laws and regulations opinions, suggestions, and ideas. to protect human rights. We have a diverse working environment and we strive to eliminate all forms of discrimination Takleef (Responsibility) and harassment. Providing equal Social, environmental, and governance opportunities for women and utilising their issues are well-integrated into our financing capabilities to the maximum is one of our and investment activities. The policy is highest priorities. also carried through in our subsidiary and associate companies where SAIB uses its voting rights to promote environmental and Awn (Helping others) social causes. Such considerations are also SAIB supports community projects both embedded into new product development. through financial assistance as well as SAIB also supports government and private providing expertise and equipment. initiatives which promote sustainable The focus areas for such projects include economic development. In our dealings financial education, career development, with customers we practice transparency environmental protection, and health by making information about products development. The impact of the projects are and services, and any risks involved, carefully measured and evaluated; easily accessible in a simple and we require that impacts should be understandable manner. sustainable and measurable. We also foster institutional sustainability of organisations implementing such projects. Hifth (Environmental protection) We also give preference to suppliers who In our activities and operations, we endeavour have robust sustainability practices in place, to monitor, minimise, and report on our and who also have administrative systems environmental impacts. This includes energy to support such practices. We also work with consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, our suppliers to improve their practices and paper and water consumption, and waste ensure they conform to international norms. treatment. In addition, we assist and encourage our customers and suppliers do the same and mitigate their environmental risks. We also assist them to formulate and implement environmental risk management policies. 46 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Framework GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 203-1, 203-2 The integration of the pillars with our activities is further Value creation is a dynamic process with flows taking described under appropriate sections in the Management place between the various forms of capital all the time. Discussion and Analysis found on page 57. There can be trade-offs between the different forms of capital with a reduction in one resulting in an increase in the other. Although the Bank does not “own” any of its Value creation and capital formation external forms of capital it has access to and uses them, In the following section on Stakeholders (pages 50 to and along with its own internal forms of capital, creates 54) we identify our key stakeholder groups and how we value for itself and for its stakeholders. engage with them. In the section on Materiality (page 55) we distinguish between the Bank and its stakeholders, The dynamic relationship between strategy, identify key issues that affect various stakeholder groups performance, and outcomes which takes place within and assess the importance of these issues from the the framework of corporate governance and risk perspective of the Bank as well as the stakeholder. Such management is visually presented above. The Bank’s an analysis (materiality matrix, page 56) helps us to refine strategy, operations and performance result in changes our business model and becomes the bedrock of our in the various forms of capital discussed previously. value creation process. Value creation is the philosophy The outcomes of the strategy and business processes that drives all what we do and is a two-way process. For are evaluated and provide the basis for refining the the Bank to derive sustainable value for itself it must also strategies going forward. The value creation process as deliver value to its stakeholders. described above drives our reporting, particularly the Management Discussion and Analysis. Value delivered by SAIB Management approach The materiality matrix defines the relative importance of a SAIB Stakeholders particular issue in the value creation process. The various forms of capital are dynamic the stores of each type Value derived by SAIB change depending on strategies and business activities. The Bank uses the various forms of capital, whether Value derived leads to Value delivered leads to internal or external to create value for its stakeholders internal capital formation external capital formation and for itself. In the Management Discussion and Analysis, we describe the assessment of materiality, the management and transformation of capitals, and the Total capital of SAIB evaluation of the results. These are further elaborated with supporting performance indicators and measures wherever possible. Outcomes Capitals are stores of value in various forms which the Bank uses in its business processes. Looking ahead Looking forward to 2018, the Bank remains committed Value creation leads to capital formation, which may be to the implementation of the 2015-2019 Strategic internal or external to the Bank. Plan approved by the Board of Directors in November 2014, while focusing on maintaining adequate liquidity The Bank derives value through the dynamic interaction and capital levels in a challenging economic and between its external capital and its own internal capital operating environment. over time. Our internal capital comprises financial capital and institutional capital. The former is what is reported in Given the lower level of oil prices during 2017 and the Financial Statements, while the latter are intangibles the changing cash flow model of the Government, such as integrity, corporate culture, specialised the financial goals of the strategic plan are in process knowledge, systems, processes and brand image. of being updated as part of the 2018 Profit Plan process. Additionally, the Bank is also in the process The Bank delivers value, both financial and of implementing a cost control and revenue non-financial, to its stakeholders. As stores of value, they enhancement programme through the automation of comprise investor capital, customer capital, employee FPC data capturing. capital, business partner capital, and social and environmental capital. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 47 A responsible corporate citizen – investing towards improving resource efficiency 48 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 49 Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42 Stakeholders are individuals or entities who are affected In its relationships with investors the Bank maintains the by the Bank’s activities or whose actions, attitudes, highest possible degree of transparency and provides or perceptions can have an impact on the Bank and its adequate information on the Bank’s activities, financial ability to carry on its activities. and non-financial, both about past performance and future expectations. As a company operating in Saudi Arabia, SAIB is bound by various statutory and regulatory laws and guidelines In addition to the Annual General Assembly and Board of to protect the interests of stakeholders. These include Directors meetings, investors are kept informed through the provisions of the Saudi Companies Act requiring annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports. The Bank companies to establish a policy protecting the interests also has a shareholder relations team and a complaint of stakeholders; supervisory guidelines issues by handling mechanism in place. SAMA which make similar provisions; and Corporate Governance rules issued by CMA which stress on the need to protect stakeholders against any violation. The last includes mechanisms for compensation in case of any violations and also for settlement of disputes. SAIB abides by not only the letter but the spirit of all the Customers above laws and regulations. The Bank endeavours to The Bank always strives for closeness to the customer; maintain the best relationships with all stakeholders and it maintains two-way communication with them and protect their rights and interests. plays close attention to their views and aspirations. The customers desire sustainability oriented products SAIB’s stakeholders include investors, employees, and services and the Bank does its utmost to satisfy vendors and service providers, customers, regulators, their requirements. Customers’ suggestions and and the community. In addition, the stakeholders include opinions are taken into account when developing new those with whom the Bank interacts periodically on products. Customer workshops are conducted to cement special projects or issues, and those who have an impact relationships with customers and develop a sustainability on or who are impacted by our activities even if they do roadmap. The Bank’s policies require all staff to provide not directly transact with the Bank. We include “silent an excellent service to customers, particularly in the stakeholders” such as environmental groups and the launching of new products and services. We seek to future generations. ensure service is provided without any discrimination or exceptions. Through communication with customers We will now consider the important groups of the Bank obtains timely feedback on the efficiency and stakeholders and the relevant issues. quality of services provided by the Bank’s different business units. The Bank utilises a diversity of channels to engage customers and to facilitate transaction processing. In Investors addition to brick and mortar branches, ATMs, and cash deposit machines, customers can transact through Investors are those who have invested funds in the mobile/online banking and SMS. Our dedicated Company with the expectation of a return. Investors’ customer relationship personnel also maintain seamless rights, including dividends, voting rights and rights communication through “Flexx Call” contact centre, to information are defined in the Bank’s Articles of website, webchat and social media channels. Association and Corporate Governance Manual. There are stakeholder groups associated with investors The Bank gives careful attention to customer complaints such as fund managers, stock market analysts, and and a dedicated Customer Complaint Handing Unit, stock brokers. with well-defied procedures, has been established for this purpose. Complaints can be addressed to the Bank through a channel of the customer’s choice. Complaints and actions taken are well-documented and corrective action is taken to prevent recurrence. 50 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42 Terrorism Financing (CTF) policies. SAIB has complied with SAMA guidelines in this regard and has documented procedures for AML. Employees SAIB considers that its staff are its most valuable The Saudi Arabian Capital Market is governed by the asset, considering the customer-facing role they play. Capital Market Authority (CMA), which issues the SAIB remunerates its staff in line with the market and rules and regulations to create a smoothly functioning they are treated in accordance with clearly laid down investment environment. The business portfolios of professional policies. The Bank does not stint when it SAIB and its subsidiaries include financial securities, comes to training of its staff; they are well-positioned asset management and real estate management. SAIB’s to satisfy the demands of customers and meet the Management ensures compliance with CMA rules and challenges of a globalised environment. Employees are regulations to safeguard shareholders’ and customers’ evaluated fairly by annual performance reviews and interests through prudent banking practices which rewarded accordingly. minimise transactional and operational risks. The staff’s attitudes should be aligned with the Bank’s The Bank rigidly conforms to all reporting requirements values, visions, strategies, and objectives. Staff are of regulators and gives its fullest cooperation for kept up-to-date on strategic changes, changes to meetings and on-site visits. Regular communication systems, expansion plans, staff benefits, customer is also maintained through letter and email. SAIB also and suppler contracts, and community support. The maintains relationships with regulators by participation responsibility to communicate with staff rests with each in governmental initiatives and campaigns. line manager, human resources personnel, and the Senior Management. Bank staff are bound by a stringent Code of Conduct according to which they are expected to maintain high Community ethical standards in their activities. By their conduct, they should safeguard the Bank from illegal and unethical With SAIB’s widespread network of branches we activities. They should also safeguard the customers contribute to local economies throughout the Kingdom. from losses due to acts such as fraud and forgery. In the By building relationships with local communities and event of any conflict of interest between themselves and stakeholders we generate sustainable growth for future the Bank, employees are required to give priority to the generations. By encouraging innovation, we focus on Bank’s interests. changing needs and expectations in line with Vision 2030. The Bank also supports social projects; in our lending We have many mechanisms and procedures to practices we pay special attention to the socio-economic maintain staff morale and communication such as the needs of the Saudi Community and thereby foster employee engagement survey, SAIB internal magazine, financial inclusion. Affordable housing is also an area regular meetings, HR Help Desk, employee suggestion where we have made a significant social contribution. programme, recognition and rewards programme, and Yammer (staff social media application). Through the Saudization programme we provide career opportunities for the younger generation of Saudis including women. The staff are assigned roles after providing suitable training. The Bank also supports a large number of charitable and social activities including educational, training, and general learning programmes. Regulators These programmes may be carried out by the Bank itself SAIB is committed to maintaining the highest degree or through licensed charity associations. Scholarships of compliance with all laws, regulations, and guidelines. are provided for students attending universities and SAIB’s primary regulator is the Saudi Arabian Monetary other institutions. SAIB also has a volunteer programme, Authority (SAMA). SAIB scrupulously complies with the whereby staff are encouraged to participate in social and SAMA policies and regulations in all its banking activities. charity programmes. Regular meetings are held to create a match between SAIB’s requirements and SAMA’s expectations. Among The community is kept informed of the social impact SAMA requirements are having Anti-Money Laundering we are making through public reports, media reports, (AML), Know Your Customer (KYC), and Combating website, social media, and our employees who are mostly nationals. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 51 Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Vendors and service providers Environment In dealing with vendors and service providers the The Bank also supports environmental protection Bank aims to build long-term relationships based on activities and promotes training on environmental mutual trust. Our procurement policies are based on awareness. SAIB sponsors, in coordination with Saudi an understanding that both the Bank and the vendor Wildlife Commission, several programmes to raise are responsible for quality of products and services. We public awareness regarding environmental protection. also promote ethical sourcing standards that comply In its own operations the Bank follows environmental with local and international norms. Our procurement principles by moving towards a paperless environment and vendor management policy ensures fair treatment and adopting live green concept. for all vendors. There is regular communication with vendors regarding changes in all relevant matters such As the environment is a silent stakeholder we maintain as expansion plans, strategies, and operational systems. communication with various non-governmental environmental groups as stakeholders who will We maintain open communication with our vendors represent the cause of the environment. Since moving through bidding and tendering procedures and a to sustainability reporting our annual reports have complaint management framework. published environmental performance data. Stakeholder engagement at SAIB Our stakeholders How we engage Their expectations Our response • Letters of correspondence • Compliance to policies • SAIB’s detailed compliance and email communications and regulations plan for the year • Meetings and on-site visits • Reporting disclosures as overseen by its Audit and Regulators per engagements Compliance Committee SAIB is regulated and • Regular reporting • Delivering best • Reporting performance for supervised by the Saudi • Participation in banking practices relevant disclosures such Arabian Monetary Authority governmental initiatives and as Basel III (SAMA), the Capital Market campaigns • Investments in customer Authority (CMA), and the awareness and education • Seeking consultation to Ministry of Commerce and initiatives (financial literacy) increase transparency and Investment (MCI) prevent noncompliance • Consumer protection • Enforcement of compliance • Alignment to the Kingdom’s and best-in-class national strategy governance practices (National Transformation Plan and Vision 2030) • Annual General Assembly • Profitability and growth • Net income growth • Board of Directors meetings • Strong, sustainable • Ongoing development of • Annual, semi-annual and financial returns the corporate governance Investors/Shareholders framework SAIB’s shareholders include quarterly reports • Excellent corporate the Saudi public, two Saudi • Shareholder relations team reputation • Strengthening of risk Government organisations, • Sound corporate governance management capabilities • Complaints handling and two financial services mechanism • Transparent communication • Constitutional rights companies. • Compliance with all laws and • Dividend entitlements regulations • Voting rights • Strong risk management 52 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-43, 102-44 Our stakeholders How we engage Their expectations Our response • Branches • Innovative, high quality • “Flexx Click” Internet • “Flexx Call” Contact Centre products and services banking • Mobile and online banking • 24/7 quality customer • “Flexx Touch” mobile Customers service banking Our customers include over • Website • Secure, accessible and easy • “Flexx Call” Contact Centre 381,500 retail banking • Social media channels banking • WooW and Aseel loyalty customers, in addition to • Relationship managers more than 15,900 small • Transparent and fair fees programmes • Customer research and charges businesses and over 1,400 • Code of Conduct large companies utilising • SMS Banking • Privacy • Privacy Policy our corporate banking and • Web Chat • Shariah compliance • Shariah Board and controls treasury services. • ATMs • Customer segmentation • Cash Deposit Machines • Voice of Customer Unit • Interactive Teller Machines • Customer Complaints Unit • Customer satisfaction surveys • Customer Awareness and Education Unit • Disclosures • Bidding and tendering • Vendor and service provider • Maintain mutually • Procurement and vendor communications beneficial cooperative management policy • Fair contract bidding and relations Business partners awarding processes • Increase the number • Complaints management Over 500 vendors and service of vendors and service framework • Ethical business dealings providers deliver goods and providers with preference services to SAIB. The Bank • Favouring local bids from to local suppliers where also has a large number local companies possible of correspondent banking • Timely payment • Growing correspondent relationships. banking relationships • Employee engagement • Equal opportunity and • HR Policy survey fairness • Employee Grievance Policy • SAIB internal magazine • Employee health, safety and • Safety training and Employees well-being A workforce of more than • Training and development inspections 1,600 employees. • Regular meetings • Open, two-way • Employee satisfaction communication with survey • Annual performance reviews Management • HR Help Desk • Thank You programme • Competitive salary and • Employee suggestions • SAIB e-learning academy benefits • My Idea programme • Al-Aqeeq SAIB Academy • Opportunities for training Training Centre • Recognition and awards and career development programmes • Ask HR • Transparent and accountable • Code of Conduct management • Creative Mornings initiative • Innovation centre • Yammer (staff social media app) • Internal communication announcements The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 53 Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-43, 102-44 Our stakeholders How we engage Their expectations Our response • Public reports • Financial inclusion • EasyPay • Media relations activities • Financial education • Partnership with Real • Bank’s employees, who are • Affordable housing Estate Development Fund Local community primarily Saudi nationals (REDF) This includes the Saudi • Advancing social • Charitable initiatives development via • “Flexx Bike” programme Arabian society supporting important investments in the • Community investments local issues community • Lending towards • Website • Developing local talent strategically important • Social media and providing employment sectors that stimulate the opportunities economy • Minimising environmental • Hiring of younger impacts individuals for the • Corporate responsibility workforce; Saudi Graduate and Saudi Fast Track (FaTra) programmes for Saudi nationals • Engagements with various • Minimisation of waste and • Implementing a Building environmental oriented nonemissions Management System governmental organisations • Limited use of finite (BMS) Environmental groups (NGOs) resources • Water and energy usage The environment is an • Annual sustainability reports (energy, water, and paper) reduction important stakeholder that which publish environmental • Improvement in must be considered and • Recycling initiatives performance data measurement of resource protected to ensure long• Reducing printing term, sustainable operations. consumption • Electronic document Environmental groups give • Incorporation of archiving voice to the needs of the environmental criteria • Funding of environmental environment in financed projects, protection initiatives in the investments, and supplier community qualification 54 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Materiality GRI 102-47 In order to prioritise the issues pertaining to the Bank and the stakeholders are included. The issues which we address issues that are materially important to our have a high degree of importance to both the Bank and stakeholder; those that substantively address the ability the stakeholders are assigned a high level of materiality; of the Bank to create value in the short, medium and long these issues are important for both organisational term. In determining materiality both the magnitude success and stakeholder satisfaction. The issues which it of the impact of the issue as well as the probability of would be advisable for the Organisation to manage well occurrence are taken into account. Events that may are assigned a medium level of materiality. The issues have a high impact if they occur but have a very small which currently have a low level of strategic importance probability of occurrence are not considered material. for the Organisation and the stakeholders, and so will The basis on which a materiality analysis is carried out is not be subjects for immediate action are given a low the Bank’s stakeholder engagement process, which has level of materiality. Our Management approach towards been detailed elsewhere in this Report. all material issues is contained in this report under the appropriate sections. The engagement process has been covered in detail on pages 50 to 54 of this Report. Material issues are not static but evolve and change with Materiality can be viewed from two different perspectives; time. We review the materiality analysis periodically to that of the Bank and its stakeholders. A mapping was keep pace with the changes. The table and matrix below carried out for identified issues from the above two illustrate the issues that are material to us and the perspectives. The material issues identified are depicted importance placed on each issue: in a two dimensional materiality matrix. Only issues that have at least a moderate importance to both the Bank No. SAIB material issues GRI Standards: Topic-specific Standards Most concerned stakeholders 1 Customer Trust and Protection 418 Customer Privacy Customers, Regulators 2 Quality of Services and 102-43 General Disclosures: Stakeholder Customers, Regulators Customer Satisfaction Engagement 3 Compliance with Regulations 307 Environmental Compliance Shareholders and Investors, Regulators 419 Socio-economic Compliance 4 Accurate and Transparent Disclosure 102-45 of Performance through 102-56 General Disclosures: Reporting Shareholders and Investors, Regulators Practice 5 Data Security 418 Customer Privacy Customers, Regulators 6 Financial Performance 201 Economic Performance Shareholders and Investors, Customers, Regulators, Employees 7 Governance and Accountability 102-18 General Disclosures: Governance Employees, Shareholders and Investors, through Regulators, Community 102-39 8 Financial System Stability 203 Economic Performance Customers, Employees, Regulators 9 Business Ethics and Prevention of 205 Anti-Corruption Shareholders and Investors, Regulators, Financial Crime Community, Employees, Suppliers 10 Human and Labour Rights 408 Child Labour Regulators, Employees, Community 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour 11 Workforce Training and Education 404 Training and Education Employees, Regulators 12 Community Investment and 413 Local Communities Community, Customers, Employees, Engagement Regulators 13 Risk Management 103 Management Approach: Shareholders and Investors, Regulators all material topics 14 Saudization 202 Market Presence Employees, Shareholders and Investors, Regulators The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 55 Materiality GRI 102-47 No. SAIB material issues GRI Standards: Topic-specific Standards Most concerned stakeholders 15 ESG Risks in Lending and Investment 201 Economic Performance Customers, Shareholders and Investors, Community 16 Equal Opportunity and 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Employees, Community Anti-Discrimination 17 Employee Satisfaction and 401 Employment Employees Engagement 403 Occupational Health and Safety 18 Sustainable Procurement 204 Procurement Practices Suppliers, Community 19 Infrastructure and Accessibility 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Customers, Regulators, Employees 20 Adherence to Islamic Banking – – Customers, Community, Regulators Principles 21 Reduction of Environmental Impact of 302 Energy Community, Employees Operations 303 Water 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 22 Operational Efficiency – – Customers, Regulators 23 Innovation and Product Development – – Customers 24 Engaging with Customers – – Customers 25 Strengthening Relationships with – – Suppliers Business Partners 26 Employee Retention 401 Employment Employees 27 Soft Skills Development of Employees 404 Training and Education Employees 1,2,3,4,5,6, Very high 7,8,9,11, 12,13,14, 17,22,26,27 Importance to stakeholders High 16, 19, 20 10, 23, 24 Moderate 15, 25 18, 21 Moderate High Very high Importance to SAIB 56 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Management Discussion and Analysis The Bank generates and stores value in diverse forms known as capitals. Over time these capitals are increased, decreased or transformed into other forms of capital in a dynamic process. 58 90 Financial Capital Business Partner Capital 68 92 Institutional Capital Employee Capital 72 102 Investor Capital Social and Environmental Capital 78 Customer Capital The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 57 Financial Capital The Bank showed a very satisfactory financial performance during the year with the net income increasing by 34% over the previous year. This is especially creditable in view of the fact that the increase in assets was only 0.8%, which reflects more efficient utilisation of assets. The main contribution to the increased utilisation was from a positive rate variance. The financial soundness of the Bank is demonstrated by the fact that it has been able to enter into two five-year loan facility agreements within the last two years. The Bank also judiciously managed its capital to be in compliance with the capital requirements set by SAMA. We have also achieved favourable credit ratings with Standard & Poor and Fitch. 58 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 The Bank showed a very satisfactory financial Operating income SAR million performance during the year under review with the net income increasing by 34% over the previous year to reach 3,000 SAR 1,411 million, compared with the 2016 figure of SAR 1,053 million. The increase is mainly attributable 2,400 to higher net special commission income, which includes special commission income from placements, 1,800 investments, and loans, less special commission expense from deposits and other borrowings. The net special 1,200 income for 2017 was SAR 2,042 million, whereas the corresponding figure for 2016 was SAR 1,672 million, an increase of 22.1%. The components of the increase were 600 a positive rate variance of SAR 313 million and a positive volume variance of SAR 57 million. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net income SAR million 1,500 Nevertheless, the Bank’s average return on assets showed a healthy increase to 1.51% in 2017 as against 1.13% the previous year. The return on shareholders’ 1,200 equity also rose from 8.54% in 2016 to 10.72% in 2017. 900 Assets 600 The total assets of SAIB as at end 2017 were SAR 93.8 billion, which was an increase 0.8% over 300 the assets a year before which were SAR 93.1 billion. Total investments, net, recorded an increase of 1.4% or SAR 0.3 billion to reach SAR 21.7 billion as at December 0 31, 2017. Net loans and advances remained nearly 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 constant, at SAR 59.6 billion as at December 31, 2017 compared with SAR 60.2 billion at end 2016. The However, there was a decline in other sources of income. non-performing loans and advances as at December 31, Fees from banking services amounted to SAR 412 million 2017 was SAR 773 million compared with (2016 figure: SAR 415 million) and decreased by 0.7% SAR 1,070 million at end 2016. As a percentage of over the previous year. Exchange income too recorded a totals loans and advances there was a decline from decrease of 6.2% declining from SAR 146 million in 2016 1.75% to 1.27%. The allowance for credit losses totalled to SAR 137 million. Gains on investments and dividend SAR 1,075 million as at end 2017 which amounted to income also decreased from SAR 173 million in 2016 to 139% of non-performing loans; the corresponding figure SAR 69 million in 2017, a decrease of 60.1%. for 2016 was 93%. The estimated fair value of collateral held by the Bank as security for non-performing loans The Bank’s total operating income is generated entirely and advances as of December 31, 2017 is approximately from its operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and SAR 600 million. the income is analysed into the different regions in the table below: Central Western Eastern Total region region region SAR ’000 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 2017 1,763,173 548,039 348,671 2,659,883 2016 1,712,466 424,035 269,365 2,405,866 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 59 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 Total assets vs return on assets On June 19, 2016, the Bank entered into a five-year medium-term loan facility agreement with Samba SAR billion % Financial Group for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for 100 2.5 general corporate purposes. The facility has been fully-utilised and is repayable on June 19, 2021. On 80 2.0 September 26, 2017, the Bank entered into another five-year medium-term loan facility agreement with 60 1.5 SAMBA Financial Group for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The facility was fully-utilised on October 4, 2017 and is repayable on 40 1.0 September 26, 2022. 20 0.5 The above loans bear commission at market based variable rates and the Bank has an option to effect 0 0 early repayment of the term loans subject to the terms 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and conditions of the related facility agreements. The agreements carry a responsibility to maintain certain Total assets (SAR billion) Return on assets (%) financial ratios and other requirements, with which the Bank is in compliance. There have been no instances of the Bank defaulting on any principal or commission of Customer deposits and loans the term loans. Customer deposits reached SAR 66.9 billion as at December 31, 2017, which amounted to an increase of On June 5, 2014, the Bank concluded the issuance SAR 1.3 billion or 2% over December 31, 2016. Demand of a SAR 2 billion subordinated debt issue through a deposits, which represented 36.7% of total deposits, Shariah-compliant Tier II Sukuk which was issued through increased by 0.6 billion or 2.6%. Special commission private placement to local investors in the Kingdom. The bearing deposits increased by SAR 0.7 billion, or 1.8%. Sukuk has a maturity period of ten years with the Bank retaining the right to call the Sukuk at the end of the first Total customer deposits SAR billion five-year period, subject to certain regulatory approvals. 75 Operating expenses and net efficiency 60 Operating expenses before impairment charges for credit losses and investments increased only marginally 45 in 2017. Expenses were SAR 1,059 million in 2017 compared to SAR 1,051 million in 2016, an increase 30 of 0.8%. The Bank measures operating efficiency by the net 15 efficiency ratio defined as normal operating expenses before impairment charges, divided by total income 0 excluding non-recurring income. This ratio gives a 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 good indication as to how resources are controlled and managed. This ratio, being 38.0% in 2017, showed an On May 30, 2011, the Bank entered into a five-year improvement from the previous year’s figure of 39.4%. medium-term loan facility agreement with Samba Financial Group for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for Considering the breakdown of operating expenses, general corporate purposes. The facility was due and salaries and employee-related expenses in 2017 repaid on May 30, 2016. On June 24, 2012, the Bank were lower compared to 2016 by 2.2%; rent and entered into another five-year medium-term loan facility premises-related expenses increased by 15.4%; agreement with National Commercial Bank for an amount depreciation and amortisation increased by 4.0%; of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. and other general and administrative expenses The facility was due and repaid on September 5, 2017. decreased by 1.6%. 60 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 Total operating expenses SAR million Total equity vs return on equity SAR billion % 1,750 15 15 1,400 12 12 1,050 9 9 700 6 6 350 3 3 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total equity (SAR billion) Return on equity (%) Impairment charges The impairment charge on investments substantially The Group completed the establishment of a reduced to SAR 109 million in 2017 compared to Shariah-compliant Tier I Sukuk Programme in 2016, SAR 207 million in 2016. This decrease was due to lower which was duly approved by the Group’s regulatory valuations of equity securities which are traded in the authorities and shareholders. Under the programme, local market. The impairment charge for credit losses was the Bank issued SAR 500 million on November 21, SAR 213 million in 2017 compared to SAR 246 million in 2016, followed by another issue of SAR 285 million on 2016. The reduced impairment charge for credit losses in June 6, 2017. 2017 reflects the improvement in the Bank’s asset quality. The Tier I Sukuk securities are perpetual with no fixed The consolidated net income of the Bank’s reportable redemption dates and represent an undivided ownership operating segments for the years ended December 31, interest in the Sukuk assets. They are an unsecured 2017 and 2016 is summarised as follows: conditional and subordinated obligation of the Group classified under equity. However, the Group has the 2017 2016 exclusive right to redeem or call the Tier I Sukuk debt SAR ’000 SAR ’000 securities in a specific period of time, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the programme. Retail Banking 446,091 234,055 Corporate Banking 717,246 789,224 The applicable profit rate on the Tier I Sukuk is payable Treasury and Investments 341,320 203,712 semi-annual in arrears on each periodic distribution date, Asset Management and Brokerage 6,368 9,649 except upon the occurrence of a non-payment event or Business Partners 31, 209 92,731 non-payment election by the Group. However, the Group Others* (131,436) (276,413) may at its sole discretion (subject to certain terms and Net income 1,410,798 1,052,958 conditions) elect not to make any distributions. Such a non-payment event or non-payment election are not *Others include the net results related to Information Technology, Operations, Risk, and other support units. considered to be an event of default, and the Bank is not bound to cumulate or compound amounts not paid thereof with any future distributions. Total equity and capital adequacy As of December 31, 2017, the Bank’s total equity, which The Bank stringently managed its capital so as to be in was SAR 13.3 billion as at December 31, 2016, increased compliance with the capital requirements set by SAMA as to SAR 14.3 billion as at December 31, 2017. The total well as to safeguard the solvency and continuance of the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, Bank. SAMA regulations make it mandatory for the Bank 2017 was 750 million. The ratio of total equity to total to hold a minimum level of capital while also ensuring a assets as of December 31, 2017 was 15.22%, as against ratio of total regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets at 14.33% as of end 2016. The Bank’s leverage ratio as at or above the minimum requirement of 9.875%. Ratios December 31, 2017 stood at 6.95 compared to 7.25 as established by SAMA enables the Bank to monitor the of December 31, 2016. adequacy of its capital. These ratios measure capital adequacy by comparing the Bank’s eligible capital The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 61 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 with assets, commitments, and notional amounts of Financial performance of SBUs derivatives, as per its consolidated statement of financial Personal Banking Group (PBG) position at the required-weighted amount for each component to reflect its relative risk. As at December 31, 2017 the assets of the Personal Banking Group were SAR 27 billion whereas the liabilities As at December 31, 2017, the Bank’s Tier I plus Tier II were SAR 50 billion. In 2017, the PBG achieved a net capital adequacy ratio increased to 20.38% compared to income of SAR 446 million which amounted to 31.62% of 18.93% as of December 31, 2016. the total net income of the Group. The operating income for 2017 was SAR 1, 171 billion while the operating Capital adequacy ratio % expenses were SAR 725 billion. 25 Refer Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the financial performance of the unit 20 Corporate Banking Group (CBG) 15 As at December 31, 2017 the assets of the Corporate Banking Group were SAR 35 billion while the liabilities 10 were SAR 8 billion. In 2017, the CBG achieved a net income of SAR 717 million which amounted to 50.84% of 5 the total net income of the Group. The operating income for 2017 was SAR 1,071 billion while the operating 0 expenses were SAR 353 Billion. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Tier I Tier I + Tier II Some of the financial highlights for the five-year period 2013-2017 are shown in the table below: 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SAR million SAR million SAR million SAR million SAR million Total income (1) 2,792 2,557 2,667 2,610 2,178 Total expense (2) 1,059 1,051 1,033 943 762 Operating profit 1,733 1,506 1,634 1,667 1,416 Impairment charges 322 453 305 231 129 Net income 1,411 1,053 1,329 1,436 1,287 Loans and advances, net 59,588 60,249 60,269 57,473 47,567 Investments, net 21,714 21,448 18,983 22,397 17,696 Investments in associates 1,020 1,000 939 846 1,071 Total assets 93,796 93,047 93,578 93,626 80,495 Term loans 2,015 2,032 2,011 2,000 2,000 Subordinated debt 2,003 2,002 2,000 2,000 – Customer deposits 66,943 65,640 70,518 70,733 57,044 Total shareholders’ equity 13,494 12,834 12,036 11,852 10,253 Tier I Sukuk 785 500 – – – Total equity 14,279 13,334 12,036 11,852 10,253 Return on average equity % 10.72 8.54 11.12 13.00 13.11 Return on average assets % 1.51 1.13 1.42 1.65 1.84 Capital adequacy % 20.38 18.93 16.94 17.08 15.12 Equity to total assets % 15.22 14.33 12.86 12.66 12.74 (1) Total income includes total operating income plus Bank’s share in earnings of associates. (2) Total expense includes total operating expenses before impairment charges. 62 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 During the year there was a continued focus on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Sector (MSME), which the Bank defines as customers with an annual sales turnover of less than SAR 100 million. Credit procedures were streamlined for this sector and in addition a pipeline was developed to acquire new customers. The Group also sponsored and participated in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Enterprise Forum (MITEF) hosted by Community Jameel for the promotion of young entrepreneurship and innovation in Saudi Arabia. The following table summarises key financial information for the Bank’s MSME operations: Micro Small Medium Total Loans to MSMEs on-Balance Sheet (SAR ’000) 6,765 72,707 57,031 136,503 Loans to MSMEs off-Balance Sheet (Notional amount) (SAR ’000) 2,851 33,652 21,634 58,137 On-Balance Sheet MSME Loans as a percentage of total loans 0.01 0.12 0.09 0.22 Off-Balance Sheet MSMEs position as a percentage of total off-Balance Sheet position 0.00 0.06 0.04 0.10 Number of loans (on and off-Balance Sheet) 12 305 190 507 Number of customers for loans (on and off-Balance Sheet) 8 58 16 82 Number of loans guaranteed when the Kafalah programme (on and off-Balance Sheet) 7 189 0 196 Amount of loans guaranteed by Kafalah programme (on and off-Balance Sheet) (SAR ’000) 3,387 43,960 0 47,347 Refer Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the financial performance of the unit Treasury and Investments Group (TIG) As at December 31, 2017 the assets of the Treasury and The Bank has received assessments for additional Zakat, Investments Group were SAR 27 billion while the liabilities income tax, and withholding tax totalling approximately were SAR 20 billion. The Treasury and Investments Group SAR 277 million relating to the Bank’s Zakat, Income tax, achieved a net income for the year of SAR 341 million and withholding tax filings for the period 2003 to 2009. which amounted to 24.19% of the Groups net The Bank has filed an appeal for these assessments. income. The total operating income for the year was SAR 561 million while the operating expenses were In addition, partial assessments have also been SAR 220 million. received for additional Zakat totalling approximately SAR 383 million relating to the Bank’s 2010, 2011 and Refer Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further 2013 Zakat filings. The assessments are primarily due to details on the financial performance of the unit the disallowance of certain long-term investments from the Zakat base of the Bank. The Bank, in consultation with its Zakat advisors, has filed an appeal with the Regulatory payments Department of Zakat and Income Tax and a response is Zakat payments due from Saudi shareholders and which awaited. At the present time, it is not possible to make a are paid by the Bank are deducted from their share of reliable estimate of the ultimate additional Zakat liability. cash dividends. Any unreimbursed income tax payable by the non-Saudi shareholders on their share of profits The Bank paid a total of SAR 47.2 million to the is also deducted from cash dividends. General Organisation for Social Insurance on behalf of its employees, including the employee share of The Bank paid SAR 24.3 million in Zakat on behalf of SAR 21 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Saudi shareholders, and SAR 12.2 million of income The Bank also paid approximately SAR 1.5 million for visa, tax on behalf of its non-Saudi shareholders during the other-related governmental fees, municipality and year ended December 31, 2017. The Bank also related fees during the year ended December 31, paid SAR 2.1 million as withholding tax on payments 2017Regulatory penalties and fines to non-residents made during the year ended December 31, 2017. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 63 Financial Capital GRI 201-1 Regulatory penalties and fines During 2017, the Bank paid SAR 1.36 million in penalties and fines to the following regulatory agencies: – No fines reported by CMA – No fines reported by Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs – SAMA penalties: Violation subject Financial year 2017 No. of penalties Total fines amounts in SAR Violation of SAMA’s Supervisory instructions 4 760,000.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for customer protection 3 65,000.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for due diligence 1 455,400.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for ATM and POS performance* 3 85,000.00 *Two penalties have been added totalling SAR 75,000 were not reflected in the 2016 Board of Directors’ Report. Profit distribution The net income of the Bank will be distributed as In 2016, the Board of Directors proposed a cash dividend directed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the of SAR 350 million equal to SAR 0.5 per share, net provisions of the Banking Control Law, as follows: of Zakat to be withheld from the Saudi shareholders totalling SAR 70 million. The Board of Directors also (a) The amounts for payment of the Zakat owed by proposed a bonus share issue of 50 million shares with the Saudi shareholders and any income tax owed a par value of SAR 10 per share, or one bonus share for by the non-Saudi shareholders according to the each 14 shares outstanding. The Bank's shareholders applicable laws of the Kingdom will be withheld. approved the proposed dividend and bonus share issue The Bank will pay the required amounts to the in an Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting held on authorities and deduct the Zakat owed by the Saudi 21 Rajhab 1438 H., corresponding to April 18, 2017. The shareholders and any unreimbursed income tax of the net dividends and bonus shares were distributed to the non-Saudi shareholders from amounts due to these shareholders thereafter. shareholders, respectively. Dividends paid SAR million (b) After the deduction of the Zakat and Income Tax as mentioned in the paragraph (a) above, not less than 500 25% of the remaining net income will be allocated to the Statutory Reserve until this Reserve is equal to at least the Paid-Up Capital. 400 (c) The remainder, after all, allocations mentioned in 300 paragraphs (a) and (b) above are made, shall be used in any manner recommended by the Board of Directors and approved by the General Assembly. 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The prior period amounts have been adjusted primarily to reflect a change in the accounting for Zakat and Income Tax to conform to the current year presentation. 64 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Financial Capital Credit ratings The nature of banking transactions makes credit ratings of the utmost importance, especially in today’s globalised commercial environment. They are necessary not only to ensure access to funding and capital markets, but also to demonstrate that the Bank conforms to internationally recognised credit and risk management standards. During the year, the Bank continued its rating reviews with Standard & Poor and Fitch Ratings. Standard & Poor have maintained the long-term and short-term counterparty ratings “BBB”/“A-2” with a stable outlook. S&P defines these ratings as follows: • Long-Term Issuer Credit Ratings – An obligor rated “BBB” has adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to weakened capacity of the obligor to meet its financial commitments. • Short-Term Issuer Credit Ratings (less than 12 months) – An obligor rated “A-2” has satisfactory capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, it is somewhat more susceptible to the adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than obligors in the highest rating category. Fitch have confirmed the Bank’s ratings as “BBB+”/“F2” long term and short term and have changed the outlook from negative to stable. Fitch defines the ratings as follows: • Long-Term Issuer Default Ratings – “BBB+” ratings indicate that there are currently expectations of low credit risk. The capacity for payment of financial commitments is considered adequate, but adverse changes in circumstances and economic conditions are more likely to impair this capacity. • Short-Term Issuer Default Ratings (less than 12 months) – “F2” ratings indicate good credit quality with a satisfactory capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, but the margin of safety is not as great as in the case of the higher ratings. The Bank’s ratings reflect the recognition of our financial performance, asset quality and capitalisation levels; these have been backed up by sound strategy and adequate liquidity profile. The ratings are also supported by the fact that the Kingdom has one of the strongest banking sectors and best regulated markets, not only in the Middle East but among all emerging markets. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 65 Enabling a thriving economy through support for the SME and mid-corporate segments 66 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 67 Institutional Capital The Bank’s institutional capital consists of the values, ethics, policies, systems and procedures that guide all its activities and promote sustainability. The ethos of responsibility is ingrained in the Bank’s culture. We seek to be recognised as responsible, by all our stakeholder groups. The principle of responsibility permeates our product and service design, our customer service, our systems and procedures and the security and integrity of our data. The Bank has developed supporting mechanisms to ensure its sustainability through availability of accurate, timely and well-visualised data for decision-making. 68 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Institutional Capital GRI 102-16, 102-17; 205-2 Our values Institutional capital is the values, ethics, policies, systems The Bank also actively participates in both local and and procedures that govern the Bank’s activities. SAIB’s international committees and groups that align with its own approach to sustainability rests on five strategic pillars, business and sustainability goals. These engagements, which guide all our activities, all of which have some in certain instances, include policy development as bearing on institutional capital. However, the one which well. Some of the banking sector committees the Bank most underpins our institutional capital structure is participate include SAMA committees such as the CEO Takleef (responsibility). Committee, the Risk Committee and the CFO Committee. The Bank also plays an active role in the Saudi Media and Further information on the Bank’s sustainability pillars could be Banking Awareness Committee. found under The Saudi Investment Bank on page 8. Systems and Processes Responsibility is thus ingrained into the Bank’s activities. We endeavour to be recognised by our stakeholder One of the mechanisms SAIB has developed to ensure groups inclusive of customers, employees, business sustainability through good corporate governance is a partners, suppliers, investors and the general public Sustainability Management Dashboard System (SDMS) as an ethical and responsible Bank. We practice the to collect, store, analyse, visualise and utilise data principle of responsibility in our product and service related to sustainability performance. The system has design, in our customer service, in our systems and been devised to enable regular (monthly or quarterly) procedures and in the security and integrity of our data. collection of information efficiently with minimum labour. We also scrupulously comply with not only the letter but It provides a unified and secure storage for information also the spirit of all Saudi laws relating to human rights, and facilitates automated calculation and visualisation anti–corruption and the environment. Under the direction of performance, while ensuring more accurate of the Board of Directors and the Board Risk Committee information output. we seek to carry out our lending and investment issues with an understanding of environmental, social and When developing the system, the goals and objectives governance issues. included improved decision-making by providing timely and accurate information in the hands of The Bank also carries out a large number environmental decision-makers; regular tracking and internal reporting and social responsibility programmes, details of which of performance against sustainability goals being a are given under Social and Environmental Capital found basis for continuous improvement; cost efficiency on pages 102 to 110. by more efficient resource utilisation at Branch level; better communication and presentation of information both internally and externally. All departments are Policies and governance stakeholders in SDMS, but the principal stakeholders While the Bank seeks to be ethical, effective and include the CEO, Sustainability Committee and the consistent in all aspects of our business, to translate Corporate Communications Department. these values into practice we need clear policies and guidelines; to implement them in turn we need practical We continued to re-engineer the way we do business in mechanisms, systems and procedures. SAIB has clearly order to gain efficiency, doing more with fewer resources documented policies covering all important business and improving turnaround time for customers by aspects including investor relations, procurement, carrying out various automation initiatives. A number of product and service development, investment, lending, significant products and improvements in systems and risk management, borrowing, customer relations, services were launched during the year which gave value marketing, information technology and information to our customers. New services included automated security. Our policies also ensure we comply with the corporate account opening via CRM; alert service for laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia non-individual customers; and an appointment system in as well as international guidelines for ethical behaviour. branches to shorten waiting/service times. Some of the Our Code of Conduct sets out how employees or new products were Shares Finance being rolled out to all management should act in cases of inside information, branches, Taif University non-profit education loan, the conflict of interest or whistleblowing. Travel Companion Financial Product and launching of the Visa Infinite debit card with concierge and lounge access Further information on the Bank’s governance framework and services. The Bank’s loyalty programmes – Aseel and policies as well as activities carried out during the year in relation to governance could be found under Stewardship on page 21. WooW, continued to exceed expectations of customers and partners. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 69 Institutional Capital Our operations group successfully carried out several The Information Technology shared services group also implementations of new products, systems, processes completed several major projects during the year, some and controls over the year. Some of the new products and of which were Direct Sales Agent (DSA); new Trade systems implemented were TI Plus (Trade Innovation) with Innovation System; budgeting and planning system; many new features, the integrated Trade Service Offering and Branches Appointment System. with Aramco through SWIFT and new functionalities on credit cards. Process innovations were also implemented In catering to emerging and dynamic security threats, in credit cards, travel cards, automation of GL posting, a new dedicated Security Operations Centre (SOC) automation of early termination of deals and mortgage has been formed by the Bank’s IT Group. This section finance among others. New controls were also introduced will enable SAIB to proactively and effectively review to minimise risks to the Bank including Marine Cargo and monitor any attack and incident on a 24-hour Insurance programme for import LCs and automated 365-day basis. Thus far over 120 systems have been blocking of accounts for recovery of credit card dues. integrated with SOC for centralised logging, review and management. Financial Planning and Control Group (FPC) continued the implementation of the data warehouse project with the Organisational changes support of IT MIS. The unit also completed Phase I of the data discovery programme with the assistance of Rockit To implement our new strategy and align SAIB more Astra and Protiviti and is currently planning to move to with Vision 2030, Commercial Banking Business Group Phase II to include additional systems. The Bank-wide (CBBG) was established with a focus on smaller size reporting automation project continued on to the next business segments – the mid-corporate segment and phase with the completion of Phase I SAMA reporting. SME, which migrated across to corporate banking from FPC is now moving forward with the assistance of Fintellix Retail Banking. to automate Bank-wide performance and business unit reporting, along with the remaining supplemental Credit rating reports required before the Bank’s former MIS system is shutdown. Further automation in of daily balance A recognition that SAIB has achieved for its governance sheet aspects and derivative reporting was carried out is a credit rating of BBB/Stable/A-2 in the Standard & to reduce volume of manual work as well as to improve Poor global ratings. The stable rating is based on the management and monitoring. expectation that the Bank’s business and financial profiles will remain basically unchanged over the next two years. Digital strategy and information technology Further information on the Bank’s credit ratings could be found The Bank’s digital strategy and innovativeness is a major under Financial Capital on page 65. source of our competitive edge and makes us stand out in the market. Several major enhancements were introduced to the existing systems during the year. These included enhancements to prepaid cards including the introduction of a household workers card; introducing new templates into the secure printing platform; and a new state-of–the-art core system based on virtualised concept. 70 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Institutional Capital GRI 102-13 Accolades Rated as “The Best Saudi Bank in Service Ambassadors for the King Khalid Award for Quality Index” by SAMA Responsible Competitiveness (RC) Global Banking and Finance Review • Best Bank for Social Media Channels Saudi Arabia 2017 Nominated for the Bank’s past performance and practices and for the leading role it plays in promoting • Best Loyalty Programmes Saudi Arabia 2017 sustainability and responsible competitiveness. International Finance Magazine UN Global Compact Status • Best Loyalty Programme Saudi Arabia 2016 (awarded in 2017) • Best Environmental Sustainable Bank Award 2016 SAIB retained for a 2nd year its UN Global Compact (awarded in 2017) (GC) Status based on its Communication on Progress (COP) submission. The Bank’s COP met all minimum requirements and qualified for the GC Active Level. The only KSA Bank ranked amongst all Saudi listed companies at the First Annual Corporate Governance Conference hosted by Alfaisal University 2017 in Registration of ICAP with UNPRI collaboration with Harvard University. Awarded the ISO 14001:2015 for Banking Services Completed the process of registering Alistithmar Capital Including ATM Activities and Operations (ICAP) with United Nations Principles of Responsible Investments (UNPRI). ICAP is the 2nd entity in KSA to register with UNPRI. This will lead to significant value addition to the Bank’s Group profile for the purpose of King Khalid Award assessment. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Gold Community Member SAIB retained its GRI Gold Membership status based on its Sustainability Reporting and publicly available disclosures on Sustainability. Sustainability Report SAIB was the first Bank globally and one of 10 global companies to have issued a Sustainability Report using the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards reporting methodology. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 71 Investor Capital Our shareholders and investors are those who provide the capital for the Bank to operate and so are a key stakeholder. The Bank scrupulously adheres to a strict code of transparency in our relationships with investors. Information on all the Bank’s activities and performance, financial and non-financial, as well as strategies, future plans and forecasts are made available to investors to the maximum extent practicable. The rights of shareholders and the mechanisms for exercising these rights are clearly laid down. 72 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Investor Capital In its relationships with shareholders and investors The Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) the Bank exercises due care and follows a policy of The total market capitalisation of the Tadawul as at transparency. Information on the Bank’s activities December 31, 2017 reached SAR 1,689.60 billion and performance, present and past and financial and (USD 450.56 billion) which was an increase of 0.45% non-financial, as well as policies, expectations, future over the figure at end 2016. At the end of 2017, plans, general strategies and risks are provided to Tadawul All Share Index (TASI) closed at a level of the maximum extent possible. The Bank publishes 7,226.32 points compared to 7,210.43 points a year information in line with the regulatory requirements and before, reflecting a gain of 15.89 points or 0.22%. its own disclosure policy in the press, the Bank’s website A total of 21.90 million transactions were executed and on the Tadawul. during the year and the total value of shares traded was SAR 836.28 billion (USD 223.01 billion) which The Bank’s policies lay down the guidelines for its was a decrease of 27.72% over the previous year relationships with shareholders, their rights and the (value: SAR 1,156.99 billion or USD 308.53 billion). mechanisms for exercising these rights. These are reaffirmed by the Bank’s Articles of Association and the Corporate Governance Rules, which set out the Industry groups activities procedures and precautions to facilitate shareholders The banking industry group was the market leader in exercising their legal rights. This includes rights relating terms of the value of shares traded during the year to dividends, convening, attendance and participation at 2017 amounting to SAR 194.86 billion which accounted meetings, voting rights and right to information. for 23.30% of the total value traded. The materials industry group took second place followed by the The Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report, and insurance industry. the Board of Directors Report are made available to all shareholders, the investor community and the general In the sector ranking by the number of transactions public. They are published in the local press, the SAIB during the year, the insurance industry led with website as well as the Tadawul website. Mechanisms 4.32 million trades that represented 19.72% of total also have been laid down for shareholders to make any trades during the year. The banking sector came in complaints which will be reviewed by the Corporate third place (the materials industry group took second Governance Department. The shareholder will be place) with 2.12 million trades accounting for 9.67% assured of a reply to a complaint and will be advised of of total trades. In terms of number of shares traded any action taken in this connection. (adjusted) the real estate management and development group was in the leading slot with 9.68 billion shares traded that accounted for 22.36% of the total volume traded. The Bank’s industry group took second place with a volume of 9.40 billion shares representing 21.70%; the materials industry group took third place. TASI and shares traded – 2017 – Main Market SAR million Point 500 7,700 400 7,500 300 7,300 200 7,100 100 6,900 0 6,700 Jan 01, Jan 23, Feb 14, Mar 08, Mar 30, Apr 23, May 15, Jun 06, Jul 05, Jul 27, Aug 20, Sep 18, Oct 11, Nov 02, Nov 26, Dec 18, 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Shares traded (SAR million) TASI (Point) The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 73 Investor Capital The SAIB share As at December 31, 2017, the market value of the Bank’s ordinary share was SAR 15.08, as against SAR 14.20 as at December 31, 2016. During the year 2017, the highest price the share recorded was SAR 15.35 which was on September 18, 2017, while the lowest price the share recorded was SAR 12.10 which was on March 14, 2017. Movement of the SAIB Share SAR 15 12 9 6 3 0 January 2017 March 2017 May 2017 July 2017 September 2017 November 2017 December 2017 Market capitalisation For the years ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Value, SAR billion 11,310 9,940 9,711 12,528 11,578 Percentage of total market capitalisation (%) 0.91 0.87 0.96 1.11 1.08 Days traded For the years ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of days traded 250 249 251 250 248 Total number of market days 250 249 251 250 248 Percentage of market days traded (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Frequency of shares traded For the years ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of deals* 15,418 21,466 26,618 30,339 15,985 *One deal could include the trade of several stock 74 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Investor Capital Distribution of shareholding Investors are the persons, individuals or institutional, who provide the Bank with the capital it needs to operate. They do so with the expectation of a return on their investment, which is usually a mix of short, medium or long term. The break-up of the Bank’s shareholdings into individual/institutional and foreign/local is shown below: As at December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Foreign % Local % Total % Foreign % Local % Total % Individual – 49.65 49.65 – 46.84 46.84 Institutional 10 40.35 50.35 10 43.16 53.16 Total 10 90.00 100.00 10 90.00 100.00 Shareholding by size As at December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 No. of No. of shares % of shares held No. of No. of shares % of shares held shareholders shareholders 01 – 10,000 2,629 4,668,342 1 2,527 4,567,137 1 10,001 – 100,000 706 23,031,364 3 663 21,817,267 3 100,001 – 1,000,000 201 54,379,408 7 174 45,807,116 7 1,000,001 – 10,000,000 28 80,875,646 11 26 80,975,287 12 10,000,001 – 100,000,000 13 327,637,703 44 11 304,719,491 44 Over – 100,000,000 2 259,407,537 35 2 242,113,702 35 Total 3,579 750,000,000 100 3,403 700,000,000 100 Shareholders equity Key performance indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Share capital (SAR million) 750 700 650 600 550 Total shareholders’ equity (SAR ’000) 13,494 12,833 12,036 11,852 10,253 Basic and diluted earnings per share (SAR) 1.88 1.40 1.90 2.39 2.14 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 75 Capitalising on technology to offer convenient and hassle-free banking 76 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 77 Customer Capital At SAIB we strive to offer our customers simple, accessible and reliable products and services which provide the best possible financial return. Banking today is a fast evolving and competitive industry. It is moving from traditional bricks and mortar banking to the digital mode. Increasingly customers wish to be able to perform their banking transactions wherever they are and at a click of a button. They also desire services to be available 24/7. We have to leverage the latest technology to cater to these needs. However we have to continue to provide traditional banking services to those of our clientele who still desire the face-to-face contact at a branch. 78 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Customer Capital Banking with SAIB At SAIB we believe in empowering our customers to grow Our customer base includes over 381,571 retail financially by making investments in simple, accessible customers, 1,450 large companies and over 15,936 small and reliable products and services. In the process they businesses. We seek to provide a diverse and accessible create growth for our shareholders and the citizens of range of touchpoints to maximise convenience to our the Kingdom. Nummow (growth) is one of our strategic customers and to cater to their differing preferences. sustainability pillars and we thereby realise value in the short, medium and long term. Another strategic Across the Kingdom we have 49 branches, of which 12 sustainability pillar, Takleef (responsibility), underpins include ladies sections. In addition, we have 416 ATM’s, building customer relationships; by being responsible to 59 cash deposit machines, and 4 interactive teller our customers we in turn earn their trust and loyalty. machines. The number of ATM transactions increased by 15.3% in 2017 over the previous year to 18,319,625. We strive to offer the best possible banking experience for On the other hand, the number of Branch transactions our customers, as they are at the heart of our business, and declined by 13.4% to 284,414. are the drivers of our long-term growth and profitability and one of the key drivers of our sustainability. This means Our digital and mobile service platforms minimise the offering the simplest and most accessible products and need for customers to visit bricks and mortar branches services to each of our customers at every touchpoint in if they do not wish to do so. We also provide 24/7 service the most user-friendly manner. for those who so desire. Online transactions showed a remarkable increase of 46.7% recording a total of 4,711, 819. These figures confirm the trend of customer preferences. However, we do not neglect the customers who have traditional preferences who desire face-to-face contact at a branch. Branches ATMs Cash Deposit Machines 49 416 59 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 49 48 48 48 48 416 443 436 442 396 59 54 53 35 0 Interactive Teller Machines POS Terminals 4 9,178 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 4 1 1 1 0 9,178 8,792 6,312 3,790 1,991 E-channel penetration UNIT 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SMS alerts % 98.00 98.25 97.53 96.22 93.00 “Flexx Call” Phone banking services % 51.00 45.96 54.22 30.74 29.00 “Flexx Click” Internet banking services % 68.00 61.02 39.45 43.25 37.00 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 79 Customer Capital SAIB’s growth has largely been driven by the unique Personal banking group service offerings and customer experience that SAIB’s Our retail banking segment encompasses a wide ongoing sustainability-driven innovations have made spectrum of customers including individuals from both possible. These innovations will continue to be the the Government and private sector entities. Customers central showpieces of SAIB’s sustainability efforts and are served through our widespread network of branches, will demonstrate not only how sustainability can shape internet banking channel, mobile banking channel, call the core of a Bank, but can also drive its differentiation, centre and an extensive network of ATMs throughout the top line revenue growth and profitability. Furthermore, Kingdom. Our service offerings include a wide range of the technology, especially automation of transactions, Shariah-compliant products, such as Murabaha as well will increase efficiency and will have a positive impact on as conventional banking. the bottom line. Our personal banking group, which is the organisational Our products and services unit of our retail banking, aggressively pushed to expand market share across all retail banking segments and in We have established business units to cater to the needs accordance with our vision and mission statement. of our different customer segments and the appropriate products and services for each segment. All of our main A total of 26 initiatives were initiated or implemented banking segments grew in 2017. Our personal banking during the year to build our retail banking customer customers increased by 21% to reach 381,571; our base as well as improve our products and services. corporate customers by 30% to reach 1,450; and our Consumer lending and core deposits were aggressively small and medium enterprise customers by 16% to pushed while enhanced offerings were made to our reach 15,936. Regarding our service quality, our payment loyalty programmes, our suite of payment cards, payroll accuracy reached 99.9% while our payment timeliness reached 99.9%. 80 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Customer Capital and money transfer products. We see much potential Among the service improvements which were made in developing the affluent banking segment; a value during the year was an automated appointment system proposition for this was developed including providing at the Branches which provide customers with a better special facilities for such customers at branches. New service experience as well as reducing waiting times. deposit products were also introduced and roll-out The Interactive Teller Service, which allows, recorded, commenced at sales centres. New product units have video-based interaction between a Bank teller and been created while to streamline customer service the customer, was expanded to four machines with and supporting operations, segment teams have centralised management via our contact centre. Our been assigned to ladies, youth and affluent customer remittance services were enhanced with the addition of segments. Revised SAMA rules on dormant, old items new foreign currencies. and abandoned accounts have been implemented. All Bank forms and agreements have been standardised Personal banking customer growth Nos. and rationalised which has resulted in significant 400,000 cost savings. 320,000 New products and services Among the new products that were launched during the 240,000 year was the “Flexx Transfer” Service which provides instant money transfer facilities to six countries. Internet 160,000 banking with remittance service was enabled for our EasyPay cardholders. We also initiated a zero-interest loan for Taif University students and a further personal 80,000 finance product. Two home finance products, Madoom and Moyassar, were launched targeting low income 0 Saudi nationals. They will provide finance on easy terms 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and at reduced cost. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 81 Customer Capital Corporate banking business group Our Corporate Banking Business Group (CBBG), caters Airbus A330-300 aircraft. New risk assessment criteria to the full range of business establishments – large were developed customised for specific segments; corporates, mid-corporates and of late the SME sector efforts were also made to diversify our portfolio and which has migrated from the personal banking group. reduce risk concentration. CBBG develops its strategies to be aligned with Vision 2030 of the Kingdom. CBBG operates from three regional Among the initiatives we have mounted for the midheadquarters based in Riyadh, Jeddah and Al-Khobar corporate/SME sector have been introducing escrow and strives to provide a wide range of financial products accounts, moving customers from manual to online catering to our clientele’s diverse needs and efficient processing, payroll services, POS terminals, and SAIBcustomer services. We make the best use of cutting-edge Amex co-branded corporate cards. These were included technology to add value to our products and services. in our 2015-2019 Strategic Plan. Several Trade Finance Among our product and service offerings, which span and Cash Management products and services were both conventional and Islamic banking, are – also introduced. The credit approval process for SME • Working Capital Financing customers was streamlined. • Trade Finance Services/E-Trade A new Trade Innovation (TI Plus) was successfully • Contract Financing implemented with new features to support new products • Project Financing and online services. The Integrated Trade Service • Islamic Financing Offering with Aramco was enhanced as per their new requirements. A new pre-paid online Banking portal with • Cash Management beneficiary registration and online remittance for pre• Financial Institutions paid customers was also implemented. An important • Syndicated Loans innovation for the import trade was the introduction • Treasury Services for Corporates. of the Marine Cargo Insurance programme for goods imported on Letters of Credit which will mitigate the risks In the year under review the Group commenced or associated with such imports while extending insurance implemented 15 initiatives. The Group also continuously options at very competitive rates. A mobile POS device strived to increase efficiency by re-engineering has also been launched for the benefit of corporate processes – doing more with less and improving and SME clients. With the implementation of VAT on turnaround times. January 1, 2018 all forms and agreements have been amended to be in line with the new requirements. The Group’s performance during the year is highly commendable in view of the fact that the Bank faced An enhancement to our internal processes was CRM360 major headwinds in the form of the general economic which is a one stop solution providing in-depth insights slowdown as a result of which the Kingdom is expected into customer data. This will enable SAIB to assess its to register negative growth in 2017. There were also customer service and anticipate future customer needs. constraints in the form of high costs of labour and funds. On the positive side there was an improvement in Looking to the future, the unit aspires to improve its liquidity in the Banking system compared to the previous contribution to the overall performance of the Bank. We year. The increased government focus on the SME sector, anticipate rapid progress in the Saudi economy, which through the newly formed SME Authority was also we will reap the fruits of especially in view of several favourable to us. CBBG have signed several agreements initiatives we have embarked on which are aligned with to support specific sectors, which are in line with the Vision 2030. These include customer segmentation, Government’s 2020 and 2030 directions and vision, with strategic partnerships, industry specific offerings and various government entities. cash management. There are however several challenges we have to overcome especially in the operating During the year our marketing strategies included and regulatory environment. We need find the right expanding the mid-market segment, deepening client expertise for implementing Public-Private partnerships. relationships and pushing our cash management Long-term funding needs to be planned with a time services. A significant achievement in the large corporate horizon of 20 years or more. We also need to deal with sector was our participation in a syndicated financing changes in the International Banking Regulations and deal for Saudi Arabian Airlines for the acquisition of 12 Accounting Standards. 82 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Customer Capital Corporate banking customer growth Nos. 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Some of the highlights of the Group’s achievements during the year were higher optimisation of the balance Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) sheet by maintaining loan-to-deposit ratio; maintaining a customer growth Nos. liquidity ratio of 25% by prudent liquidity management; and concluding the first treasury structured trade with 17,500 SAIB Syndication Department. In addition, we maintained the top 20 depositors’ concentration at 37.60% against 14,000 a target of 45%. Two tranches of Tier I Sukuk programme of a total of SAR 785 million were closed which is the 10,500 second such transaction in the Saudi market. 7,000 Closeness to the customer Through frequent communication with customers we 3,500 evaluate our customer service performance; the results help drive improvements at SAIB and influence the 0 development of new products and services to meet 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 customers’ evolving needs and expectations. We have set up several channels to receive and address customer queries and complaints so that we can understand and Treasury and investments group meet their expectations better. All customer complaints Treasury and Investments Group are responsible are handled and processed by the Customer Care Unit for foreign exchange trading, funding and liquidity at our Head Office which has obtained the ISO 9001 management, as well as the Bank’s investment securities standard certification. portfolio and derivative products. It also manages the Bank's asset-liability structure and interest rate and market risks and liquidity. The Group plays a major role in the Bank’s governance as well as handling important aspects of the Bank’s operations. Some of the developments during the year were planning for new regulations, system upgrades, introducing new treasury products and diversification into alternative products. Out of 11 initiatives that were commenced or implemented, 95% of activities were completed. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 83 Customer Capital SAIB avails itself of all possible channels, both traditional Marketing and communications initiatives and modern (branches, website, ATMs, telephone for 2017 banking and mobile banking) as well as public channels such as print, radio and TV to market its financial A number of significant initiatives were embarked on in products. The Bank also leverages the potential of 2017 including the following: social media especially to keep the customer informed of current offers, campaigns and competitions. Social • 45 Marketing Campaigns were launched in 2017 compared to 25 in 2016. A growth of 80%; media affords clients the opportunity to be informed about others’ comments on products or services. • 85 events were managed compared to 30 in 2016. We judiciously choose the mix of marketing channels A growth of 185%; according to the target segment. We strive to be • External emails sent to customers increased to 95,000 absolutely accurate and transparent in our advertising. from 65,000 the previous year; All our advertising clearly states the terms and conditions • A total of 54 press releases were published compared of our products. The Bank also provides the opportunity with 40 in 2016. A growth of 35%; for customers to communicate and conduct transactions • Launched the Budget Calculator in March 2017 – using the channel of their choice. Appearing as the top result in Google search. Averaging 6,000 page views per month; • e-forms were upgraded with the inclusion of all SAIB Customer satisfaction products and services; We fervently believe in feeling the pulse of our customers • Digitalisation of the Alistithmar Magazine; and to this end a survey was conducted during 2017 • Three WooW loyalty programme campaigns were through our Voice of Customer (VoC) function – a function launched; that was developed to assess our customer service • A social media campaign was launched to coincide with performance through frequent customer satisfaction the ‘Deaf Week Programme’ with a 36% engagement surveys. The survey was intended to measure up rate. customers’ experience with SAIB and understand the key drivers of customer retention. The survey was conducted • Revamping of SAIB’s website – by the Quality Assurance Team assisted by a specialised ∞ 36% increase in unique visitors per month to the vendor. A systematic sampling methodology was used. website compared to 2016. ∞ 28% increase in page views per month to the The total size of the sample was approximately 1,000 website compared to 2016. and was randomly selected from SAIB’s data base. The ∞ Restructured the website to make it more satisfaction rate of survey participation was quantitatively user-friendly and more efficient in applying for a measured, and this yielded a rate of 82.52% showing a product or service. marginal decrease over the previous year. The primary ∞ Updated the mobile app section to give option to source of dissatisfaction was the Branch service. users to download Al-Huda App. Concerns were expressed regarding slow service; the ∞ Optimised the homepage to include the SAIB Twitter Central region was particularly affected by shortage of feed. staff and resulting long waiting times. On the other hand, • SAIB is the number one financial institution in the there was increased satisfaction expressed with Internet Kingdom with 2.2 million social media fans and banking. A significant finding was the high rate of loyalty followers – among female and customers over 55 years of age. The ∞ 13% increase in Twitter followers compared to survey turned up several useful recommendations such last year. as improving the rapport with customers by continuity ∞ 3% increase in Facebook Fans: compared to of customer service staff in their branches; setting last year. Arabic as the default language in SAIB ATMs; enhancing ∞ 27% increase in Instagram followers compared to the product and service portfolio e.g. car lease; and last year. creating a new segment for customers with drawing ∞ 66% increase in snapchat views. high remuneration. ∞ 35% increase in producing SAIB product, services and offers social media videos compared to last year. 84 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Customer Capital Data Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Overall satisfaction % 82.52 85.61 79.58 85.22 76.00 Customer Satisfaction On account opening % 90.84 90.45 94.00 92.00 88.00 On branch services % 99.12 99.17 99.00 99.00 99.00 On loan services % 88.16 89.80 92.00 91.00 92.00 On “Flexx Click” Internet Banking Service % 86.51 89.74 90.00 92.00 91.00 Customer Complaints Complaints registered Nos. 14,523 9,897 8,294 7,907 4,585 Complaints resolved within 5 days % 99.03 98.06 99.00 99.00 99.00 Complaints registered per 1,000 customers Nos. Of the three categories premises received the highest score; in the overall score region-wise the Western region scored the highest. 50 Customer satisfaction results 40 Branches 82.48% 30 Contact centre 93.05% 20 Internet banking 95.76% Point of 10 sale 84.21% CCU 95.24% 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The customer experience was also evaluated through our Building trust through being responsible 8th Mystery Shopper Programme. Part time employees In line with our sustainability pillar Takleef (responsibility), were specially hired to act as mystery shoppers. The SAIB has clearly documented policies for protecting programmewasexecutedjointlywithanoutsideconsultant customers’ interests. Fair and equitable treatment of and it was conducted across our branches, contact all customers, including giving special attention to the centre, merchants who have a SAIB Point of Sale (POS) vulnerable is a cornerstone of the process. The Bank device, Customer Care Unit (CCU) and both “Flexx Click” seeks to communicate information about its products and “Flexx Touch” Channels. A mystery shopper checklist and services, in a concise, easily understandable and was crafted by the Quality Assurance Division in accurate form. We also seek to educate existing and consultationwithotheroperatingdepartments.Theresults potential customers about risks and opportunities in of the branch visits are evaluated, and scores assigned financial products. from a customer perspective. They are analysed into three categories: premises, staff and products and services; given a weightage of 20%, 60% and 20% respectively. The results were encouraging; however, we are not resting on our laurels and realise improvement is necessary. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 85 Customer Capital All customer financial information, personal information Rewarding loyalty and assets are safeguarded from unauthorised access, Maintaining customer loyalty is an important facet of misuse and fraud through carefully designed control our customer relationship programme. We have loyalty mechanisms. This includes accepting responsibility for programmes which are built round brand image, quality the conduct of all agents. SAIB will only disclose any of customer service, appropriate communication, customer information without his or her consent, on a understanding the customer and confidence that the request by an authorised authority such as the Ministry Bank will keep its commitments. We strive to give our of the Interior or the courts. We have a complaint loyalty programmes a unique flavour which will make handling mechanism to provide an independent, fair and them stand out. While we welcome new customers, accurate hearing to customers and to give appropriate we consider retaining our existing customers to be redress where appropriate. Furthermore, if an error is paramount. The cost of attracting a new customer usually discovered, quick refunds are given to all customers who exceeds the cost of retaining an existing one. Being close have been affected by a similar error. to the customer, identifying and targeting their needs, and analysing their behaviour are all essential components Just as SAIB scrupulously fulfils its responsibilities to of a successful loyalty programmes. In our products and its customers, we do our best to educate the customers services, we have to keep pace with changes in attitudes, on their responsibilities. These include always giving perceptions, needs and aspirations among the younger accurate information; asking for clarifications when generation. We also consider integrity and honesty necessary; procedure for making complaints; selecting to be essential to cementing our relationship with products and services that suit one’s needs and our customers. according to one’s risk appetite; disclosure of sensitive personal information; and exercising due care when filling in documents. All new customers are provided with a copy of the Bank’s Consumer Protection Policy. Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA) launched a programme named Banking Consumer Protection Principal (BCCP) in support of banking customers. The programme was designed to create awareness amongst consumers on consumer protection when dealing with banks in the Kingdom. SAIB’s Quality Assurance supported the initiative with a variety of activities of our own such as e-training, issuing brochures, providing information on the Bank’s website, classroom sessions for customer service staff, and banking awareness events to public and private institutions to reach institutional customers. Principles Provide guidance to policy makers to make decisions Business conduct Consumer protection “Issuing policy “Take a leading role in principles that financial promoting transparency, A combined approach of institution will be fairness and ease of “Principles” and “rules” encouraged to achieve” access for financial consumers, including the Regulations resolution of complaints” Rules “Issuing directives by Provide direction to way of regulations that police makers to make financial institution decisions must fully implement and comply with” 86 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Customer Capital Improving efficiency to serve better Loyalty programmes SAIB has a Quality Assurance Group in place to optimise the effectiveness and efficiency of processes through Loyalty programmes are an important facet of our business transformation and foster an innovation customer retention strategy. SAIB currently has two culture. During the year 11 projects were completed to loyalty programmes, Aseel and WooW. improve the Bank’s internal operations which resulted in SAR 1.9 million in cost savings. Furthermore, more than 10 Six Sigma process improvement projects were carried out which led to savings of SAR 0.6 million. The Quality Assurance Team conducted more than 10 workshops with around 150 participants to promote awareness of quality issues by training staff on quality improvement techniques. Our customers are eligible for discounts and offers when they use their credit, Mada debit cards and The Customer Care Unit within Quality Assurance, prepaid cards at participating merchant partners is tasked with resolving customer complaints within under the Aseel Loyalty Programme. the time frames agreed with SAMA. This has been achieved at a practically 100% level. The CCU team had the ISO 9001:2008 certificate renewed once again, for complaints management. This demonstrates our commitment to continuous improvement of processes which leads to excellence in customer service. The WooW Loyalty Programme is a points-based reward programme which rewards customers with points for various transactions performed via banking channels. The WooW points can then be redeemed by the customer for WooW Gift items which are available for redemption via the WooW e-catalogue, through the Bank’s “Flexx Click” and “Flexx Touch” channels Refer our Social and Environmental Capital subsection for details of how customers can make charitable donations using their WooW points to worthy causes through the WooW AlKhair Programme. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 87 Supporting a vibrant society through affordable home loans for low and middle-income earners 88 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 89 Business Partner Capital We seek to build long-term relationships with our business partners, such as suppliers and vendors, which will be mutually beneficial. In our dealings with suppliers we practice ethical and responsible sourcing and expect ethical and responsible conduct on their part in return. The Bank’s sourcing procedures are up to local and international ethical standards. We are always mindful of the economic impact our purchasing will have through the supply chain. We therefore take pains to procure from local suppliers wherever possible thereby creating value for the Saudi economy and local communities. 90 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Business Partner Capital GRI 102-9, 102-10; 204-1; 205-2; 308-1; 414-1 In its dealings with vendors and service providers SAIB The Bank has 79 international suppliers and 154 local strives to build long-term relationships based on trust suppliers. The increase in supplier numbers during and transparency. We believe that this will be conducive the year was due to registration of all suppliers in the to the Bank achieving its long-term objectives. SAIB Bank’s ERP System. The Bank’s spend on international practices ethical and responsible procurement and in procurement is SAR 36,644,044, while its spend turn expects ethical and responsible conduct on the part on local procurement is SAR 259,314,171, with a of its suppliers. The Bank’s sourcing procedures are up to total procurement spend of SAR 295,958,215 for the local and international ethical standards especially in the year 2017. avoidance of bribery and corruption. We aim to have a good understanding of the actual and potential supplier Procurement spending SAR million network which promotes the efficiency of our operations 300 by reducing costs while maintaining quality. Given the nature of our business, the bulk of our 240 procurement spending is on stationery, IT equipment, utilities and software. However, we are always conscious 180 of the economic impact that our purchasing will have through the supply chain. Given our commitment to 120 developing the Saudi economy, local communities and local employment, wherever possible we procure from 60 local suppliers. Our procurement policy is managed by our Head 0 of Procurement to build a stable supplier base and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ensure the sustainability of our operations. We conduct periodic vendor evaluation, carried out jointly by Local suppliers International suppliers procurement and business units. Thereby we seek to ensure quality and regularity of supplies as well as The Bank also aims to maintain good relationships and develop good relations with suppliers we wish to retain. smooth communication with all creditors and ensure We strive to achieve a win-win situation where both parties that all the Bank’s obligations are met in a timely manner. will achieve their goals and build lasting relationships. Smoothly functioning mechanisms have also been During the year, Quality Assurance Unit along with established for vendors and service providers to make IT Group and relevant other stakeholders within the any complaints using the channel of their preference. Bank, automated the end-to-end procurement, vendor Any complaints are directed to the relevant business unit management and payment processes, which helped the or purchasing department, documented, and escalated Bank to streamline its purchases and payments in a more to whatever level necessary. If legal aspects are involved, efficient and effective way. then the expertise of the Bank’s Legal Department are called on. We also have our network of correspondent banks serving the leading banks in MENA, Europe, Africa and Number of suppliers Nos. North America. 200 160 120 80 40 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Local suppliers International suppliers The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 91 Employee Capital At SAIB our human resources strategies are aligned with our organisational strategies and goals. On one hand we have to identify the knowledge, skills and attributes needed to fulfil the various organisational roles. On the other we have to identify the sources of the human resources we need. Learning and development programmes will have to be crafted and implemented to fill any gaps. While we fill our needs through our human resources strategies we have also to ensure the career development and job satisfaction of our employees. 92 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Employee Capital GRI 102-35, 102-36 Human resources being a prime driver of value creation is a cornerstone of SAIB’s strategy. We strive to build internal relationships which will generate synergy in the talents, capabilities and activities of our employees. Our human resources planning is based on a two-faced analysis. One is to determine the skills, talents and numbers needed to fill the various functional roles in the different organisational units and levels. The other is to identify the sources of the human resources needed, both internal and external. The latter includes learning and development programme enabling staff to take on enhanced roles. By developing and motivating our staff in turn we enhance the quality of our customer service. Our HR strategy The Bank’s human resources strategy is founded on five pillars: Control of headcount and costs Enhancing Saudization Our HR strategies are focused on minimising In line with the objectives of the Kingdom numbers by improving efficiency and effectiveness set out in Vision 2030 Saudization of our of our staff. We strive to keep the link between pay workforce is one of our main strategic and performance while being equitable internally objectives. Our succession plans, which and remaining competitive in the marketplace. are drawn up to ensure that persons with the right knowledge and skills are available During 2017, a new Product Incentive Plan was to fill vacancies when needed, support our introduced to provide attractive incentives while Saudization objectives. Through new strategies maintaining equity in compensation, meeting during the year we achieved an increase in business needs and keeping rewards within the risk Saudization from 84% to 85.4%. appetite of the Bank. Upskill SAIB human capital Partnering with business We give the utmost departments importance to developing our SAIB has in place a human resources so as to able comprehensive organisation to fulfil our goals, objectives design framework which and plans. While achieving is composed of several this, we also provide career components namely, internal development opportunities and external environment, and job satisfaction for our strategy and purpose, process employees. We also seek to and control, structure and instil in them the capability roles, competency and career to think outside the box, development and culture and drive innovation and growth, motivation. teach and engage others and become role models of ethics Organisational design is and integrity. the focal point of all HR matters which interface with organisational structure. Boost automation It includes the organisation We are continuously seeking to increase the efficiency of our HR structure and reporting lines processes and automation is given high priority. A performance as well as the responsibilities, management system has been implemented covering the entire required qualifications, performance cycle from objective setting to year-end appraisals. experience and training for A Training Management System has also been put in place which each job. It has been drawn up covers competency assessment, training history, training requests, to support the organisational approval cycle and budget controls. goals and targets and ensure efficient deployment of An 80% level of automation of HR processes was achieved during the resources. year. All staff profiles have been uploaded to the Human Resources Management System and each staff has access to his/her job profile competency requirements. Automated systems have also been introduced for succession planning and recruitment. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 93 Employee Capital GRI 202-2; 401-1; 405-1 Our workforce Total number of employees Total number and rate of new [SAIB and Alistithmar Capital (ICAP)] employee hires during the 1,571 reporting period, by gender (SAIB only) 119 86 33 Male Female 1,269 302 Male Female * All SAIB and Alistithmar Capital employees are on full-time basis Employees by employment contract and by gender (SAIB Group) 1,625 SAIB only Alistithmar Capital (ICAP) Outsourced Employees 1,452 119 54 81% 19% 78% 22% Male Female Male Female Rate of Saudization SAIB only Alistithmar Capital (ICAP) 1,452 119 Saudi Non-Saudi Non-Saudi Saudi 88.6% 11.4% 75.0% 25.0% 12.5% 87.5% Our workforce* at end 2017 was 1,571 out of which 87.5% were Saudis and 19.2% were female. 38.0% of SAIB workforce were below 31 years of age. Saudis accounted for 88% of our Management Team. All employees were permanent staff. We do not have any collective bargaining agreements with our employees. *SAIB and Alistithmar Capital (ICAP) staff only 94 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Employee Capital GRI 401-1; 405-1, 405-2 Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by gender and age group (SAIB only) 84% 16% Male Female 30% 51% 19% 18 to 30 years 31 to 50 years 51 years and above Total number of employees by age group (SAIB only) 57% (829) 38% 5% (552) (71) 18 to 30 years 31 to 50 years 51 years and above Total number of employees by grade (SAIB only) 1,452 1,176 276 Male Female Senior Management Middle Management Other 146 687 619 137 9 592 95 447 172 Male Female Male Female Male Female 3% 34% Salary ratio men:women Senior Management Middle Management Non-Management employees employees employees 1:0.55 1:0.76 1:0.86 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 95 Employee Capital GRI 202-2; 401-2, 401-3 Recruitment Salary and benefits When recruiting we seek to obtain the best of the talent In addition to a highly competitive salary we offer available in the Kingdom and place our new hires in our employees benefits packages that include life the roles they are most suited for. We strive to achieve insurance, medical insurance, fitness club membership, a diverse and inclusive workforce and our recruitment social security, our Aseel Loyalty Programme, and policies are crafted accordingly. In doing so we pay allowances for housing and transportation. A total of special attention to giving opportunities to qualified and SAR 385,819 million was paid in 2017 as salaries, while talented young people with a focus on women. a total of SAR 193,286 million was paid in other benefits and employment costs resulting in a total salaries and A total of 119 new staff were hired during the year. benefits paid SAR 579,105 million. Employees between 18 and 31 constituted 58% of our new hires during the year. Females accounted for We are conscious of and address the special issues 27.3% of new hires and 34% of our middle management our female workforce face in meeting their family positions and 3% of our Senior Management positions. responsibilities while pursuing their career aspirations. An initiative which was commenced in 2015, the “Female We provide paid maternity leave of up to 10 weeks. Awareness Programme”, to educate our women staff Expecting mothers are also given up to 180 days of about the working environment and their rights was paid sick leave in case of illness due to the pregnancy. continued this year. Additionally, we offer three days of parental leave for male employees. The momentum of the Saudization programme continued and a new policy was introduced whereby hiring for In 2016, 23 female staff took parental leave, all of whom officer and administrative levels would be restricted to returned to work afterwards. This 100% return-to-work Saudis. It was also decided that certain vacancies would rate is an indication of our commitment to provide our be converted to outsourced functions. We have retained employees with work-life balance. Furthermore 22 of our position near the upper end of the Green Band of them remained in employment one year after returning the Saudi Nitaqat programme which sets a range of from parental leave; this shows that we provide an 65% – 89% national staff for financial institutions of environment for our female staff which is conducive to SAIB’s category. combining motherhood with their work responsibilities. Salaries and benefits SAR million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Salaries paid 386 274 254 227 191 Benefits paid 118 267 316 270 221 Social security contributions 51 28 27 21 17 Staff health insurance 24 23 22 14 11 Total salaries and benefits paid 579 592 619 531 439 Equal pay 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Salary ratio men:women – middle management employees 1:0.76 1:0.86 1:0.78 1:0.74 1:0.73 Salary ratio men:women – non-management employees 1:0.86 1:0.96 1:0.96 1:0.92 1:0.90 Salary ratio men:women – senior management employees 1:0.55 1:0.69 1:0.72 1:0.77 1:0.65 Parental leave (FY 2017) Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Female Male The number of employees by gender that took parental leave 23 105 The number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended by gender 23 105 The number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed twelve months after their return to work by gender 22 105 The return to work and retention rates of employees who returned to work after leave ended by gender 96% 100% 96 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Employee Capital GRI 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Performance management The performance management process at SAIB has been drawn up to integrate the goals of the organisation and The following training and knowledge enhancement that of the individual to mutual benefit. The outcome of the programmes were conducted during the year: process includes performance evaluation, rewards, career • A total of 219 different programmes were conducted development, identification of training and development and attended by 1,732 participants representing needs, feedback and motivation for employees and 4,491 training days; achieving organisational goals. Key Performance • The number of trained staff has been increased by 7% Indicators for teams and individuals are derived by a from 707 the previous year to 794; top-down process from organisational strategy and goals. • A total of 60 Co-op trainees were trained including All employees are appraised at mid-year and end-year. The both males and females; appraisal discussion is a two-way process and areas for • Two workshops on “Corporate Governance” have been improvement are brought out in a constructive manner. All conducted for Board Members and Senior Managers. SAIB’s employees have received performance and career • Implementation of “Core Behavioural Competency” development reviews during the reporting period. and “Technical Competency”; • Two e-learning portals were made available on mobile Training and development apps. We fervently believe that our employees need continuous training and development to keep them abreast of developments in the banking industry, meet customers’ needs, and to increase their productivity and motivation. Training needs of employees are identified in annual performance and career development reviews. The Bank strives to incorporate these needs into its training programmes and schedules them accordingly. Special attention is paid to the training needs of young Saudi nationals who are identified and groomed for leadership positions in the future. Training is also focused on the needs of succession planning, for all key positions a successor is identified and a comprehensive development plan with time frames is developed. A diversity of training methods is used. In addition to traditional classroom sessions, online e-learning courses, in-job training and training videos are also used. Due to the availability of our e-learning portal and over 9,000 subjects (both banking and technical) being covered in online courses, the extent of training cannot be gauged from formal training hours alone. Training and development Type Number of employees Number of person hours of training Male Female Total Male Female Total Senior Management 137 9 146 2,338 252 2,590 Middle Management 614 95 709 9,093 3,094 12,187 Non-Management 479 172 651 9,198 7,462 16,660 Type Number of employees Number of person hours of training Male Female Total Male Female Total Mandatory 143 77 220 1,162 609 1,771 Non-Mandatory 527 1578 2,105 19,467 10,199 29,666 E-Learning 1,169 259 1,428 1,344 298 1,642 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 97 Supporting a young and vibrant Saudi workforce 98 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 99 Employee Capital GRI 403-2; 412-2, 412-3 Health and safety Safety The Bank takes care to safeguard the health, safety and 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 well-being of our employees. While this is part of our Employee and commitment to responsible conduct and human rights contractor fatalities – – – – – it will also bring results in the form of employee loyalty, Employee and productivity and commitment. Our safety and security contractor lost -time policy address the risks of fire, violent criminal acts and injuries 5 – – – – other risks. Each Branch, Division or Floor has security Employee and personnel in the staff. These include a security and contractor total safety coordinator, a backup, fire wardens and alternate recordable injuries 1 5 3 – – fire wardens. Our security and safety procedures are Employee and not reinforced by daily branch inspections, monthly safety contractor absenteeism known orientations and awareness campaigns for all employees. A landmark event in this regard was the implementation Human rights of the OHSAS 18001 standard in 2016 making us the SAIB is a signatory to the UN Global Compact which first Bank in the Gulf to do so. This standard spell out underpins our commitment to human and workplace requirements for an occupational health and safety rights. Our commitment to employee rights is also management system and lays down a framework to enshrined in our HR Policy as well as our Employee Code identify and implement necessary improvements. of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct enables any employee to report any concerns directly to the Board of Directors in a confidential manner. SAIB scrupulously adheres to Health and safety programmes for all laws and regulations of the Ministry of Labour and employees other regulators. • As we are concerned about the health and work-life Seven staff from HR team have attended a series of balance of our employees we send out awareness training sessions in preparation for SHRM Certification messages and conduct health-related events to (Society for Human Resources Management is the educate our employees. Due to the high prevalence world’s largest HR professional society). The programme of diabetes in Saudi Arabia this is a priority area. An included several modules focusing on Labour Rights. awareness event was hosted for all SAIB employees to Further, all seven staff became members of SHRM society promote healthy living and medical checks to diagnose which gives them connectivity to an online platform that diabetes. provides access to enormous number of books and • In cooperation with Anti-smoking charity (Purity) article forums related to HR activities. SAIB hosted an awareness exhibition on how to quit smoking by providing staff with medical check-ups and consultation. Free vouchers to start a course to give up the smoking habit were provided to staff. We also sponsored a lecture for the benefit of our female employees on breast cancer with awareness posters on all branch screens as well as distributing of flyers. • SAIB also facilitates its staff to participate in socially responsible initiatives. Four blood donation events were held during the year where over 12% of staff participated and a total of 86,000 millilitres of blood was donated. 100 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Employee Capital GRI 406-1 Grievance handling SAIB has a robust employee grievance policy. It is made available to employees in the employee handbook and HR Policy and employees are free to raise their concerns without fear of reprisals. The policy mandates prompt responses from responsible parties. From 2015 employee grievances were raised, indicating employee trust in the system. Both years, all grievances raised were resolved promptly, within the year. Grievances 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Grievances filed during the year 0 8 6 Not available Not available Grievances resolved that were filed during the year – 8 6 Not available Not available Grievances resolved that were filed during the previous – – – Not available Not available year/s Employee engagement We believe in and practice the fact that to keep our 2017 2015 2013 employees satisfied and motivated as well as to achieve % % % a high rate of retention needs regular and proactive communication. By honest and two-way dialogues Employee Engagement Index 86 82 76 with our staff we understand each other’s viewpoints, needs and concerns and are able to make appropriate Scores of 90% and above were recorded in the areas of responses to any problems our staff are facing. quality and customer focus, clarity of direction, quality of leaders and respect and recognition. While the survey We conduct a biennial employment satisfaction survey has shown good results, it has also highlighted areas through which we solicit the feedback of our staff. where improvements are needed such as streamlining The need for such a survey was felt in the context of processes and empowering employees. today’s volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous (VUCA) environment if we are to create a sustainable We have continued our employee suggestions future. Through this survey, we measure several human programme, ‘My Idea’, that allows employees to resources related parameters such as employee submit suggestions to our Innovation Centre for satisfaction with performance management and consideration. This will lead to reduced expenses and growth, work processes and quality, pay and benefits, increased profitability. In 2017 we received a total of workload and stress, communication, supervisor, bank 1,380 suggestions, 90 of which were accepted and image, customer focus, employee appreciation, and 27 implemented. upper management. Creative Mornings have been organised where HR The employment survey was conducted in October has nominated more than 140 staff from various 2017 and had an 87% participation rate. A total of 56 departments to meet with the CEO and the HR team to questions were asked across 13 dimensions including share creative ideas which benefit both customer and work structure and process, quality and customer staff. Over 10 sessions were held during the year. HR focus, training, pay and benefits and development staff visited 44 branches, which is 75% of the total. In opportunities. The results of the survey, which was addition, six Staff Town Hall meetings were held with the conducted by an international consultant, were participation of the HR Department and follow-up action benchmarked against data collected from a large taken on the findings. number of banking organisations across the GCC. Some of the results of the above-mentioned initiatives The results of the survey have given us a detailed were; a day care allowance to staff who have given birth; feedback on employee engagement at the employee and staff credit card payment reduced from a minimum of functional level and has provided us with an organisation50% to 5%; and a 360 degree assessment for certain wide view of strengths, opportunities and areas of focus. managerial level staff. The survey yielded a positive score of 86% vs 82% in 2015 and 76% in 2013 in Employee Engagement Index. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 101 Social and Environmental Capital At SAIB we fervently believe that we have a social responsibility to contribute to preserving the environment. We strive to minimise our direct impact on the environment through our waste and emissions as well as our energy and water use. Beyond this, we also seek to minimise our indirect impact through our value chain. The Bank has adopted an Environmental Management System to give a formal structure to our environmental policies. Climate change is a major issue facing the global community today. As part of our CSR programmes we use social media to educate our stakeholders on the importance of climate change. 102 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 307-1 Environmental protection (Hifth), which entails the In 2017, the Bank was awarded the ISO14001:2015 for sustainable use of natural resources is one of the five banking services including ATM services and operations. pillars on which our sustainability framework rests. Our This accolade reaffirms the effectiveness of the activities consume environmental resources and produce incorporation of SAIB’s environmental policies into its waste and emissions both directly through our operations core activities. By doing so, we not only fulfil our social and indirectly through our value chain. We believe that responsibilities; it will also be a source of competitive safeguarding the environment and conserving resources advantage in the long term. will lead to sustainable value creation in the long term. The Bank is committed to complying with or exceeding The mechanisms that the EMS adopts to achieve its the environmental requirements of the Kingdom. The objectives are ascertaining the needs and expectations fact that we have included environmental protection as of stakeholders regarding SAIB’s environmental impacts; one of our core pillars demonstrates our commitment identifying the environmental conditions that can affect to supporting the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 programme. the organisation; identifying the environmental impact Vision 2030 enunciates the importance of preserving of SAIB’s activities, products and services; defining the environment and natural resources as part of our organisational risks and opportunities pertaining to the Islamic, human and moral duties. Doing so is part of our environment; providing a framework for implementing responsibility to future generations. SAIB’s environmental policies and deciding on KPIs for evaluating performance. Beyond this, we are very conscious of the global threat of climate change. We, through our CSR awareness efforts Environmental risks and opportunities need to be using social media, actively educate all our stakeholders prioritised for the EMS to be implemented. The Bank to promote the cause of combating climate change. Our maintains a complete documented inventory of commitment to combating climate change is further environmental aspects, impacts, risks, and opportunities. supported by our status as a signatory to the United A full environmental materiality assessment is conducted National Global Compact and our Communication on by using a risk assessment matrix. In the risk assessment Progress (COP) submission. The Bank’s COP met all matrix all environmental aspects are rated according to the minimum requirements and qualifies the Bank for the likelihood and severity of associated risks. All aspects the Global Compact Active Level. The COP and selfare classified as high, medium, low, or negligible risks. assessment is publicly available on the UN Global Com This classification is made taking into account both the act website. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-islikelihood and the consequences. gc/participants/61161 Roles of organisational units The specific environmental initiatives include monitoring and reducing energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, The EMS also lays down the responsibilities of the paper consumption and water consumption; managing respective organisational units. and reducing waste by reduction, recycling; investing in energy efficient technologies; and giving consideration The Management bears general responsibilities to environmental considerations in all aspects of our for endorsing the environmental policy and EMS, buildings. communicating the importance of EMS, assigning of key personnel for EMS, providing necessary resources, overseeing implementation, fulfilment of compliance Environmental management system obligations, and promoting continuous improvement. The The Bank has adopted a systematic approach to roles that personnel have to play is further strengthened environmental management by implementing an by the HR Department by identifying and implementing Environmental Management System (EMS). The training needs connected with environmental EMS is aligned with the ISO14001 standard. The management, integrating environmental performance Bank has also developed a Standard Operating and into performance management and appraisal systems, Accounting Procedure (SOAP) detailing how the promoting understanding of environmental policy and system is operationally managed. This framework is ensuring that individuals are aware of their roles and used as a tool for reducing and mitigating adverse responsibilities throughout the organisation. impacts on the environment, assisting the Bank in fulfilment of compliance obligations and mitigating the The Administration Department has several potential impact of environmental conditions on the responsibilities including the following: organisation. It is also crafted to realise the financial and • Coordination of the establishment, implementation operational benefits of sound environmental practices and review of the EMS; and communicate environmental information to • Developing environmental objectives, targets and related parties. processes as well as action plans for each objective; The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 103 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3; 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 • Preparing environmental budgets and training plans; Energy usage and emissions • Communications on environmental matters both We need to preserve a habitable planet for our children internal and external; and climate change is one of the major issues confronting • Tracking and reporting on performance; mankind today. However, climate change provides • Identifying actual and potential non-conformities; commercial opportunities by way of green alternatives correcting and preventing nonconformities. to industrial processes and energy generation. Although, as a financial organisation our direct impact is limited, The Finance Department tracks data on environmental we can and do strive to play a broader role through our management costs and conducts economic feasibility value chain. studies on environmental initiatives. The roles that the Procurement Department plays relate to aligning The Bank’s direct energy usage comes from: procurement policies with the environmental policies, • Energy usage in our service infrastructure which has to drawing up environmental criteria for procurement be at a level to provide a comfortable environment for and suppliers, and monitoring supplier environmental our employees and customers. performance. • Usage in our technical infrastructure especially data centres, which supports our online and mobile The Operational Risk Management Department banking facilities. is responsible for reviewing the SOAP from the • Fuel consumption for inter-branch travelling. operational risk angle, identifying operational risks and recommending solutions while the Compliance To quantify the impact SAIB began tracking its energy Department reviews the SOAP from a regulatory angle. consumption (mwH) and energy expenditure (SAR) The Fraud Prevention and Detection Department looks at in 2014. the SOAP from a fraud vulnerability angle. Energy consumption Item Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Electricity consumption mwH 32,596 33,541 38,610 Not available Not available Electricity consumption GJ 122,687 120,748 138,996 Not available Not available Electricity expenditure SAR 10,132,628 9,877,600 9,167,956 8,211,304 7,430,766 Direct GHG emissions – Scope 1 (Electricity usage) Tonnes CO2e 257 264 223 197 195 Indirect GHG emissions – Scope 2 (Electricity usage) Tonnes CO2e 20,673 21,936 25,251 Not available Not available Petrol fuel consumption litres 107,310 110,005 93,011 82,264 81,269 Petrol fuel consumption GJ 8,584 8,813 3,224 2,851 2,817 Energy consumption Tonnes CO2e 300 30,000 240 24,000 180 18,000 120 12,000 60 6,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 Direct GHG emissions – Scope 1 (LHS) Indirect GHG emissions – Scope 2 (RHS) 104 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3; 303-1; 306-1, 306-2 Electricity consumption per employee GJ/Employee Water expenditure 100 Year Expenditure SAR ’000 80 2017 580 2016 174 60 2015 293 2014 112 2013 58 40 20 A steep increase in expenditure on water was experienced during the year due to revisions made to municipal charges on water. 0 2015 2016 2017 Fuel consumption per employee GJ/Employee Water expenditure SAR ’000 2.5 400 2.0 320 1.5 240 1.0 160 0.5 80 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Water consumption Paper consumption and recycling The climatic conditions and terrain of Saudi Arabia Another area where SAIB is contributing to sustainability naturally make water a scarce commodity. We are is by reducing its paper consumption. We have an ongoing therefore forced to rely on our limited ground water and programme of digitising our policies and processes, one costly desalinised water to meet our water requirements. example is that at our ATMs receipts are not printed To ensure our future sustainability we need to economise unless requested and we exhort customers to minimise on our water consumption. printing. In 2017, our paper consumption per employee was 49kgs. The Bank continues to ensures that usage of Given the size of our total workforce (numbering 1,625) paper is optimal. there is a significant water consumption in our offices. Water consumption meters which have been installed In addition to reducing paper consumption, waste paper across our entire Branch network give our water is segregated, shredded and wherever possible recycled. consumption accurately. Our monthly water consumption In 2017 we recycled 9,676kgs of paper. is logged into our Building Management System (BMS). The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 105 Committed to safeguarding the environment and providing a helping hand to the community 106 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 300-1; 306-2 1,194 kg of plastic recycled 9,676 kg of paper recycled “Created from 432 recycled bottles” 2,010 kg of electronics recycled Paper consumption Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Paper consumption kg 73,995 64,187 73,372 67,098 62,644 Paper consumption per employee kg/Employee 49 39 42 43 45 Total paper recycled kg 9,676 8,852 12,480 63,745 60,990 Total paper recycled Kg SAIB participated in the World Earth Hour global day by turning off lights at its three head offices, on March 25th, 75,000 from 8.30pm – 9.30pm. This was followed by a video published on social media in support of the cause to 60,000 create a sustainable planet for all. 45,000 Another of SAIBs sustainability pillars is helping others (Awn). We fervently believe that being of service to the community enhances our own sustainability. We 30,000 build long-term strategic relationships with community organisations and through our networks, partnerships 15,000 and resources we both derive and deliver value. Our social interventions are carefully selected and targeted. 0 We focus our programmes on priority areas defined in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 our corporate sponsorship policy: financial education, human and social development, environmental protection and community health. We also continuously monitor the effectiveness and efficiency of our social programmes and strive to improve the impact per Saudi Riyal spent. We also encourage our staff to make their own contribution by way of voluntary work for the community. 8.7% of our SAIB Bank staff are registered volunteers, 29% of the Volunteer Team are females. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 107 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 413-1 Initiatives to help the differently abled A major community-oriented initiative has been sponsored by SAIB in partnership with King Faisal King Faisal Agricultural University project Agricultural University. The University is running a farm which is also rehabilitating and training persons who are differently abled. A graduation ceremony was held for the first batch in September 2017. The project helped build a channel of communication between the University and local communities. It also facilitates the integration of persons with special needs with the community. The Agricultural and Veterinary Research and Training Station hosted the trainees for a six month period in cooperation with the Department of Community Partnership Development, the Special Education Department at the Faculty of Education and the Deanship of Student Affairs. The Association of Persons with Disabilities in Al-Ahsa selected the trainees and provided the University with the details of each trainee. It is now up to the local community institutions and local sectors to provide employment opportunities to the graduates of the programme so that they can become self-sufficient and productive individuals. Two programmes were also conducted for the benefit of hearing-impaired persons. One was a lecture conducted in cooperation with the King Salman Centre for Disability Research to increase the awareness of deaf culture. In partnership with the same institution we also conducted a creative competition to promote interactive learning and awareness about sign language. Through this project we rehabilitated differently-abled individuals to become productive citizens and make a contribution to society. Combining banking with charity SAIB has also combined its banking products with charitable initiatives. This also reflects our belief in SAIB was also the official sponsor for a graduation combining our banking initiatives with our religious ceremony for 360 Saudi students in the United States and cultural values. Our WooW Loyalty Programme which was held in Washington, D.C. demonstrating our awards customers with points for a wide range of commitment to our talented youth. We look forward to transactions. The points are redeemable for numerous the students returning and making their contribution to gifts and options. WooW AlKhair offers customers the the future development of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. option of donating their WooW points to a large number of charitable organisations and other not-for-profit associations. WooW AlKhair is the channel provided Corporate social responsibility policy as part of the WooW Loyalty Programme for the points development and advocacy donation to charites, with over 407 million WooW points Our contribution to corporate social responsibility is not donated, by our customers, since the programme started limited to the Bank’s own CSR programmes. Beyond this in 2015. There are over 40 organisations participating in we also play a policy making and advocacy role. The Bank the WooW AlKhair Programme, with a 200% growth year was represented on a Corporate Practices Committee on year in charities. The mandates of these organisations which was tasked with studying the ISO 26000 standard include health, assistance for disabled, support for for CSR and customising a local standard. SAIB had the women and children, sports and religion. distinction of being the only Bank invited to sit on this Committee and being one of only two private sector companies which participated. The initiative lasted for 11 months and the standard was subsequently launched for public review and comment. 108 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 413-1 The King Salman Youth Centre also invited SAIB to make Developing the talents of our youth a presentation at a forum where the Bank represented Today there is tremendous emphasis on developing the private sector. At this forum the Bank showcased its the talents of youth in the Kingdom, which is a priority best practices in CSR and sustainability. Our presentation in Vision 2030 and the Bank is seeking to make also gave insights to the participants as to how SAIB’s its contribution. practices could support in achieving the Vision 2030. In line with this objective, we sponsored a SME The Bank was also invited by the Ministry of Labour and competition in collaboration with MIT Saudi Arabia Social Development to participate in a workshop about to support youth entrepreneurship projects in the regulating volunteer work within corporates. Kingdom. The orientation day also created an opportunity to increase awareness of the SAIB Academy and the Promoting healthy living SAIB brand among the youth. A total of 2,269 projects participated in the programme with 45 projects qualifying “Flexx Bike” is an innovative social responsibility initiative for the final stage; SAIB volunteers were among the launched by SAIB. The programme aims to raise the judges. Participants were also educated at two workshops awareness of the importance of health and fitness by about banking principles for SMEs. The SAIB brand was encouraging the community to practice cycling in public also featured in all printing materials at the final event. areas. Members of the public can obtain “Flexx Bike” membership electronically, rent a bike at any time for use from a “Flexx Bike” station and then return it for a Charitable activities moderate fee. “Flexx Bike” stations are solar powered We strive to do whatever is practicable to help the less and designed with colours that suit the climate. fortunate members of our society. SAIB volunteers distributed 2,500 school kits through charitable Another health-oriented initiative was the partnership organisations to families in need. The same number with KFU and the Saudi Cycling Federation in hosting the of Winter Kits were also distributed similarly, and the first cycling marathon in Al Hassa, where we also took beneficiaries included the sons of martyrs. Blood the opportunity to promote “Flexx Bike”. This also raised donation campaigns were also conducted quarterly the visibility of SAIB in community activity in Al Hassa. where a total of 86,000 millilitres of blood were donated by SAIB staff. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 109 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 413-1 Community investments Some of the community activities which were sponsored employee volunteering policy which permits employees by the Bank are given below with the related costs. The to donate up to three working days a year towards focus areas included financial literacy, needy children a charitable cause. A planned volunteer activity is and orphans, needy families and sports: organised every month as part of the employee volunteer programme. The number of volunteers has seen a growth Event/List of sponsorships SAR of 60% over the past two years, and of the current 126 volunteers 72% are male and 28% female. Kids school kits for needy children 206,375 Minopolis sponsorship – children’s financial literacy 250,000 Kidzania sponsorship – children’s financial literacy 1,600,000 Ramadan Baskets for needy families 319,280 Winter Blankets for needy families 72,500 SAIB volunteers day 10,000 Prince Sultan University scholarships 1,400,000 WooW AlKhair programme 1,027,150 EasyPay SAIB T20 Cricket Tournament 2017 15,000 Orphans event at Minopolis 6,401 Deaf week 6,499 Orphans event at Kidzania 2,050 Gifts for children at King Khalid University 8.7% Hospital 1,120 SAIB volunteers from total SAIB staff King Faisal University – sustainable farm project for disabled persons 1,000,000 Total 5,916,375 During the year Bank mounted a range of charitable 72% 28% initiatives which are listed above with the related cost. Gender mix of volunteers The total expenditure on community investments for the period 2013-2017 are shown below: Community investments SAR ’000 2 North 6,000 4,800 97 Central 3,600 2,400 8 14 East West 1,200 5 0 South 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 91 35 126 Employee volunteerism 2016 52 27 79 We encourage our employees to participate in social 2015 13 5 18 projects. While this will leverage the Bank’s social commitment it will also give them the satisfaction Male Female of helping others. We facilitate the process with our 110 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report and Financial Statements The Bank has a duty to present to its shareholders an account of its activities during the year and especially an in-depth view of its finance position and performance. This will enable the shareholders to form an opinion on the Bank’s stability and future prospects. 113 147 Board of Directors’ Report Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 143 Ten Year Financial Highlights 149 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 144 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 145 Consolidated Income Statement 213 Auditors’ Report 146 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors of The Saudi Investment Bank of the retail banking business. As part of our ongoing retail (“Bank”) is pleased to present its annual report of the activities, the Bank continued to enhance the ALASALAH Bank’s activities as of and for the year ended December Islamic Banking brand. Under this brand, the Bank also 31, 2017 which includes information about the Bank’s operates forty-five Shariah-compliant branches within activities, achievements, strategies, financial results, the Kingdom. Finally, the Bank also continued its credit Board of Directors and its subcommittees, in addition to rating review process with Standard & Poor’s and Fitch other complementary information that aims to meet the Ratings. The Bank currently has investment grade ratings needs of the reader. of (‘BBB’/‘A-2’) and (‘BBB+’/‘F2’), with Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, respectively. Overview During 2017, the Bank received the Best Loyalty Program The Bank is a Saudi Arabian joint stock company formed Saudi Arabia 2016 Award and the Best Environmental pursuant to a Royal Decree M/31 issued in 1976, with its Sustainable Bank 2016 Award by the International Head Office in Riyadh. The Bank operates 49 branches Finance Magazine, and was only Saudi Bank ranked including 12 ladies sections located throughout the among all Saudi listed companies in 2017 at the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Bank’s website address is 1st Corporate Governance Office Conference hosted www.saib.com.sa. in 2017 by the Al Faisal University in collaboration with Harvard University. The Bank’s major shareholders include: Public Pension Agency 17.32% Strategy and objectives General Organization for Social Insurance 17.26% The Bank offers traditional wholesale, retail and JP Morgan International Finance Limited 7.49% commercial banking products. In particular, we arrange Saudi Oger Limited 5.77% financing of quasi-government and private industrial sectors and trade finance products for facilitating imports and increasing Saudi exports. Main banking activities The Bank offers a wide of conventional and The Bank continues to pioneer in providing corporate Shariah-compliant products and services for corporate banking services. The Bank also concentrates on clients, individuals, and commercial businesses expanding its customer base of individuals by providing comprising small and medium size enterprises through them smart banking solutions that meet their different the Bank’s head office and a network of retail branches needs, especially the youth as the case is with Travel located throughout the Kingdom. The Bank also provides Cards and EasyShopping Cards. tailor-made financial products and services to corporate, government, and public sector entities through its Regardless of the economic and competitive challenges three regional offices located in Riyadh, Jeddah, and SAIB encounters today, the Bank sees bigger Al-Khobar. The Bank, through its wholly-owned subsidiary opportunities for growth with Vision 2030 as its guide Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage towards establishing ambitious plans by focusing on Company (Alistithmar Capital), also provides brokerage meeting the financial and banking needs of the sectors services in the Saudi and international markets, as well mostly focused on in Vision 2030. as offering asset management products and services. SAIB’s vision is to offer the simplest and most accessible The Bank is subject to the laws and regulations of the products and services to each of our customers. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and is regulated by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (“SAMA”). The Bank also Our mission towards our customers is to make banking follows regulations issued by the Ministry of Commerce simple and accessible for each of our customers, we are and Investment (“MOCI”) and the Capital Market flexible, adaptive and responsive to deliver what suits our Authority (“CMA”). customers, and most importantly is that we listen to our customers and understand their needs and preferences in order to evolve and improve. Significant highlights Significant highlights for the year included continued While towards our employees, we value ideas, inputs, progress in several core business and financial ratios, and initiatives, empower our staff to bring out their increasing our customer base, and improving service best and go the extra mile. We recognize individual quality, expansion of our personal financing programs contribution and support individual development, and ATM network, and further automation and expansion enhancing team spirit, which allows us to collectively build the smartest solutions. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 113 Board of Directors’ Report Operating results charge for credit losses was SAR 213 million in 2017 compared to SAR 246 million in 2016. The The Bank’s net income for the year ended December 31, impairment charge on investments was due to lower 2017 was SAR 1,411 million, an increase of valuations of equity securities which are traded in SAR 358 million, or 34%, compared to the 2016 net the local market. The 2017 impairment charge for income of SAR 1,053 million. credit losses reflects the improvement in the Bank’s asset quality. The Bank’s return on average assets was 1.51% in 2017 compared to 1.13% in 2016. The Bank’s return on average shareholders’ equity was 10.72% in 2017 Consolidated net income by operating compared to 8.54% in 2016. segment The consolidated net income of the Bank’s reportable Total operating income was SAR 2,660 million in 2017, operating segments for the years ended December 31, compared to SAR 2,406 million in 2016, an increase of 2017 and 2016 is summarized as follows: SAR 254 million, or 10.6%. This was mainly due to an increase in net special commission income. 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Net special commission income, which includes special Retail Banking 446,091 234,055 commission income from placements, investments, and Corporate Banking 717,246 789,224 loans, less special commission expense from deposits and other borrowings, reached SAR 2,042 million in 2017 Treasury and Investments 341,320 203,712 compared to SAR 1,672 million in 2016, an increase of Asset Management and Brokerage 6,368 9,649 SAR 370 million, or 22.1%. This increase was due to a positive rate variance of SAR 313 million and a positive Business Partners 31,209 92,731 volume variance of SAR 57 million. Others* (131,436) (276,413) Net income 1,410,798 1,052,958 Fees from banking services totaled SAR 412 million *Others include the net results related to Information Technology, Operations, Risk, in 2017, compared with SAR 415 million in 2016, a and other support units. decrease of SAR 3 million, or 0.7%. Exchange income reached SAR 137 million in 2017, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position compared to SAR 146 million in 2016, a decrease of Total assets were SAR 93.8 billion as of December 31, SAR 9 million, or 6.2%. 2017 and increased by 0.8% compared to December 31, 2016 which were SAR 93.1 billion. Gains on investments and dividend income were SAR 69 million in 2017 compared to SAR 173 million in Total investments increased by SAR 0.3 billion or 1.4% to 2016, a decrease of SAR 104 million, or 60.1%. SAR 21.7 billion as of December 31, 2017. Investments classified by rating agencies as investment grade Operating expenses before impairment charges for credit represent 86.7% of the Bank's investment portfolio as of losses and investments were SAR 1,059 million in 2017 December 31, 2017. compared to SAR 1,051 million in 2016, an increase of 0.8%. The level of operating expenses in 2017 resulted Net loans and advances remained overall flat at in a net efficiency ratio of 38.0% compared to 39.4% SAR 59.6 billion as of December 31, 2017 compared in 2016. The net efficiency ratio, defined as normal to the 2016 level of SAR 60.2 billion. The Bank’s operating expenses before impairment charges, divided non-performing loans and advances reached by total income excluding non-recurring income, is a key SAR 773 million as of December 31, 2017 compared to indicator of how resources are controlled and managed. SAR 1,070 million as of December 31, 2016. The percentage of non-performing loans and advances Salaries and employee-related expenses in 2017 were to total loans and advances decreased to 1.27% as lower compared to 2016 by 2.2%. Rent and premisesof December 31, 2017 compared to 1.75% in 2016. related expenses increased by 15.4%, depreciation and The allowance for credit losses as of December 31, amortization increased by 4.0%, while other general and 2017 totaling SAR 1,075 million represents 139% administrative expenses decreased by 1.6%. of non-performing loans, compared to 93% in 2016. The estimated fair value of collateral held by The impairment charge on investments was the Bank as security for non-performing loans and SAR 109 million in 2017 compared to advances as of December 31, 2017 is approximately SAR 207 million in 2016, while the impairment SAR 600 million. 114 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Customer deposits increased by SAR 1.3 billion, or 2%, The Group completed the establishment of a to SAR 66.9 billion as of December 31, 2017. Demand Shariah-compliant Tier I Sukuk Program (the Program) deposits increased by SAR 0.6 billion, or 2.6%, and in 2016. The Program has been approved by the represent 36.7% of total deposits. Special commission Group’s regulatory authorities and shareholders. On bearing deposits increased by SAR 0.7 billion, or 1.8%. November 21, 2016, the Bank issued SAR 500 million under the Program. On June 6, 2017, the Bank issued On May 30, 2011, the Bank entered into a five-year another SAR 285 million under the same program. medium-term loan facility agreement with SAMBA Financial Group for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for The Tier I Sukuk securities are perpetual with no fixed general corporate purposes. The facility was due and redemption dates and represent an undivided ownership repaid on May 30, 2016. On June 24, 2012, the Bank interest in the Sukuk assets, constituting an unsecured entered into another five-year medium-term loan facility conditional and subordinated obligation of the Group agreement with National Commercial Bank for an amount classified under equity. However, the Group has the of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The exclusive right to redeem or call the Tier I Sukuk debt facility was due and repaid on September 5, 2017. securities in a specific period of time, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Program. On June 19, 2016, the Bank entered into a five-year medium-term loan facility agreement with SAMBA The applicable profit rate on the Tier I Sukuk is payable Financial Group for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for semi-annual in arrears on each periodic distribution date, general corporate purposes. The facility has been except upon the occurrence of a non-payment event or fully utilized and is repayable on June 19, 2021. non-payment election by the Group, whereby the Group On September 26, 2017, the Bank entered into another may at its sole discretion (subject to certain terms and five-year medium-term loan facility agreement conditions) elect not to make any distributions. Such a with SAMBA Financial Group for an amount of non-payment event or non-payment election are not SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. considered to be an event of default, and the amounts The facility was fully utilized on October 4, 2017 and is not paid thereof shall not be cumulative or compound repayable on September 26, 2022. with any future distributions. The term loans bear commission at market-based The Bank’s objectives when managing capital are to variable rates. The Bank has an option to effect early comply with the capital requirements set by SAMA repayment of the term loans subject to the terms to safeguard the Bank’s ability to continue as a going and conditions of the related-facility agreements. The concern and to maintain a strong capital base. facility agreements above include covenants which require maintenance of certain financial ratios and other Capital adequacy and regulatory capital are closely requirements, with which the Bank is in compliance. monitored by the Bank’s Management. SAMA also The Bank also has not had any defaults of principal or requires the Bank to hold a minimum level of regulatory commission on the term loans. capital and maintain a ratio of total regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets at or above the minimum On June 5, 2014, the Bank concluded the issuance of a requirement of 9.875%. SAR 2 billion subordinated debt issue through a private placement to local investors of a Shariah-compliant The Bank monitors the adequacy of its capital using Tier II Sukuk in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Sukuk ratios established by SAMA. These ratios measure has a tenor of ten years with the Bank retaining the right capital adequacy by comparing the Bank’s eligible capital to call the Sukuk at the end of the first five-year period, with its Consolidated Statement of Financial Position subject to certain regulatory approvals. assets, commitments, and notional amounts of derivatives, at the required weighted amount to reflect their relative risk. Total equity and capital adequacy As of December 31, 2017, the Bank’s total equity As of December 31, 2017, the Bank’s Tier I plus Tier II increased to SAR 14.3 billion compared to SAR 13.3 billion capital adequacy ratio increased to 20.38% compared to as of December 31, 2016. The total number of shares 18.93% as of December 31, 2016. outstanding as of December 31, 2017 was 750 million shares. The ratio of total equity to total assets as of December 31, 2017 was 15.22%, compared to 14.33% as of December 2016. The Bank’s leverage ratio was 6.95 on December 31, 2017 compared to 7.25 as of December 31, 2016. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 115 Board of Directors’ Report Five-year financial highlights 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SAR millions SAR millions SAR millions SAR millions SAR millions Total income (1) 2,792 2,557 2,667 2,610 2,178 Total expense (2) 1,059 1,051 1,033 943 762 Operating profit 1,733 1,506 1,634 1,667 1,416 Impairment charges 322 453 305 231 129 Net income 1,411 1,053 1,329 1,436 1,287 Loans and advances, net 59,588 60,249 60,269 57,473 47,567 Investments, net 21,714 21,448 18,983 22,397 17,696 Investments in associates 1,020 1,000 939 846 1,071 Total assets 93,796 93,047 93,578 93,626 80,495 Term loans 2,015 2,032 2,011 2,000 2,000 Subordinated debt 2,003 2,002 2,000 2,000 – Customer deposits 66,943 65,640 70,518 70,733 57,044 Total shareholders’ equity 13,494 12,834 12,036 11,852 10,253 Tier I Sukuk 785 500 – – – Total equity 14,279 13,334 12,036 11,852 10,253 Return on average equity % 10.72 8.54 11.12 13.00 13.11 Return on average assets % 1.51 1.13 1.42 1.65 1.84 Capital adequacy % 20.38 18.93 16.94 17.08 15.12 Equity to total assets % 15.22 14.33 12.86 12.66 12.74 (1) Total income includes total operating income plus Bank’s share in earnings of associates. (2) Total expense includes total operating expenses before impairment charges. Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) Qualitative disclosures The Bank’s currently approved definition of MSMEs The Bank’s MSME unit is managed within the Corporate includes Customers with SAR 0 – SAR 100 million in Banking segment. It includes eight staff members. The Annual Sales Turnover. number of man-days of training provided to the Bank’s staff totaled 34 days. The Number of man-days of During 2017, there was a continued focus on the MSME training provided to customers totaled 2 days. segment which incorporated a growth strategy under which the following initiatives were implemented: • Adopted a faster credit approval process. • Developed a pipeline to acquire new customers. • Sponsored and participated in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Enterprise Forum (MITEF) hosted by Community Jameel for the promotion of young entrepreneurship and innovation in Saudi Arabia. 116 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Quantitative disclosure The following table summarizes key financial information for the Bank’s MSME operations in SAR ’000: Micro Small Medium Total Loans to MSMEs on balance sheet 6,765 72,707 57,031 136,503 Loans to MSMEs off-balance sheet (notional amount) 2,851 33,652 21,634 58,137 On-balance sheet MSME loans as a % of total loans 0.01% 0.12% 0.09% 0.22% Off-balance sheet MSMEs position as a % of total off-balance sheet position 0.00% 0.06% 0.04% 0.10% Number of loans (on and off-balance sheet) 12 305 190 507 Number of customers for loans (on and off-balance sheet) 8 58 16 82 Number of loans guaranteed when the Kafalah program (on and off-balance sheet) 7 189 0 196 Amount of loans guaranteed by Kafalah program (on and off-balance sheet) 3,387 43,960 0 47,347 Geographical distribution of revenues The Bank’s total operating income is entirely generated from its operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and is summarized below in SAR ’000: Central Western Eastern Total region region region 2017 1,763,173 548,039 348,671 2,659,883 2016 1,712,466 424,035 269,365 2,405,866 Risk management The complexity of today’s financial services sector risk governance structures and risk management in a globalized economy requires the identification, policies in place for the management, monitoring, and measurement, aggregation, and effective management control of the risks through the Board Approved Risk of risks, including an efficient allocation of regulatory Appetite Framework, Credit Policy Guide, and Treasury capital to support the balance sheet and derive an Policy Guide. optimal risk and return ratio. The Bank endeavors to: (a) Ensure that significant and measurable risks are The Bank manages its risks in a structured, systematic, identified, quantified, and managed proactively to and transparent manner through a broad-based Risk avoid loss; and Appetite Framework (RAF) approved by the Board of Directors that incorporates comprehensive risk (b) Enhance risk adjusted returns and provide financial management into the Bank’s organizational structure, comfort and stability to our many customers and risk measurement, and monitoring processes. The other stakeholders. Bank’s RAF is aligned with the Bank’s strategy, business planning, capital planning, and policies and documents The Bank’s stakeholders including regulators and approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors. The Bank’s rating agencies also expect the Bank to have a clear and RAF is in compliance with the Financial Stability Board’s well-documented risk management framework in place “Principles for an effective Risk Appetite Framework” that addresses the various dimensions of the Bank’s dated November 18, 2013, as adopted by SAMA. business. The Bank’s RAF includes the following key characteristics: The Bank has a comprehensive set of policies dealing with all aspects of risk management. The Board Approved • The nature of risks to be assumed as a result of the Risk Management Policy Guide is the overarching policy Bank’s strategy; document prepared in conformity with SAMA guidelines • The maximum level of risk at which the Bank can which covers in depth the risks the Bank is exposed operate (Risk Capacity) and the maximum level of risk to in the pursuit of its business. It also describes the it should take (Risk Appetite); The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 117 Board of Directors’ Report • The maximum level of other quantifiable risks that (a) Commission rate risk should be considered (Other Risk Limits); Commission rate risk arises from the possibility that • The desired balance of risks versus returns by Business changes in commission rates will affect either the fair Line (Business Unit Risk Appetite measurements); and values or the future cash flows of financial instruments. • The desired risk culture, compensation programs, The Board of Directors has established commission business continuity management, information rate gap limits for stipulated time periods. The Bank technology and cybersecurity risk, and the overall also routinely monitors its positions and uses hedging compliance environment of the Bank for a successful strategies to ensure maintenance of positions within implementation of the RAF (Qualitative Reporting). established gap limits. As a part of risk governance, the Bank has a Board (b) Currency risk Risk Committee and various committees at the management level, including the Credit Committee, Currency risk is the risk of fluctuations in prevailing foreign Management Asset Liability Committee, Operational Risk currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash Management Committee, Stress Testing Committee, flows. The Board of Directors sets limits on the level of Enterprise Risk Management Committee, Information exposure by currency and in total for both overnight and Security Steering Committee, and the Business Continuity intra-day positions, which are independently monitored. Planning Committee. (c) Equity price risk In addition to the above, the Bank’s Internal Audit Equity price risk is the risk of a decrease in fair values of Function Reports to the Audit Committee of the Board equities in the Bank’s investment portfolio as a result of of Directors and provides an independent validation of possible changes in levels of equity indices and the value business and support units’ compliance with risk policies of individual shares. The Board of Directors sets limits and procedures and the adequacy and effectiveness of on the level of exposure to each industry, and overall the risk management framework on a Bank-wide basis. portfolio limit, which are independently monitored. The following provides a description of the Bank’s significant risks including how the Bank manages Liquidity risk these risks: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will be unable to meet its net funding requirements when needed and Credit risk at an acceptable cost. Liquidity risk can be caused by market disruptions or credit rating downgrades for the Credit Risk arises from the potential that a borrower Bank, which may cause certain sources of funding to or counterparty will fail to perform on its financial dry-up unexpectedly. obligations to the Bank. The exposure to credit risk arises primarily from loans and advances to customers The Bank’s management carefully monitors the maturity and the investment portfolio. Credit risk is also present in profile of its assets and liabilities to ensure that adequate off-balance sheet financial instruments such as Letters liquidity is maintained on a daily basis. In addition, the Daily of Credit, Guarantees, Derivatives, and Commitments to Liquidity Ratio, Net Stable Funding Ratio, and the Loans to extend credit. Deposit Ratio are monitored regularly and independently to ensure compliance with SAMA guidelines. The Bank The Bank has a comprehensive framework for managing also conducts regular liquidity stress testing under a credit risk which includes an independent credit risk variety of scenarios which covers both normal and more review function and credit risk monitoring process. The severely stressed market conditions. All liquidity policies Bank assesses the probability of default of counterparties and procedures are subject to review and approval by the using internal rating tools. This is supplemented by Bank’s Asset and Liability Committee. external ratings of major rating agencies, where available. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as commission rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. 118 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Operational risk A risk-based audit by internal audit, external agencies and certifications bodies, e.g., ISO 27001 (Information Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting Security Management System) were also completed, from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and findings were satisfactory, PCI-DSS (Payment Card and systems, or from external events. Industry Data Security Standard) provided further assurance of information security controls. Furthermore, The Bank's Operational Risk Management Framework ISD also complies with the Saudi Information and Cyber provides a Bank-wide definition of operational risk and Security Regulations as well as SAMA guidelines and lays down the processes under which the operational adheres to international best practices. No ISD related risks are to be identified, assessed, monitored, and downtime or operational losses were incurred in 2017. controlled. The key components of this framework are Further, due to controls enhancement in 2017, the ISD comprehensively documented in the Bank's operational Risk Appetite reduced from SAR 50,000 in 2016 to risk policies, procedures, and controls. The continuous SAR 23,000 in 2017. assessment of operational risks and their controls in all business and support units of the Bank are monitored through Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) Business continuity plan exercises, close monitoring of agreed action plans as The Bank recognizes the importance of planning for a result of the RCSA exercises, and establishing an Business Continuity and continued to make progress Operational Risk Appetite Matrix for the Bank as a whole. in this area in 2017. An effective Business Continuity This includes monitoring the operational risk losses Plan (‘BCP’) facilitates the Bank in mitigating a incurred on an ongoing basis and taking corrective serious disruptive crisis in a controlled, timely, and actions to eliminate or minimize such losses in the structured manner. future. The Bank has also developed a set of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) covering all the business and support It also helps the Bank to effectively manage any disruption units to facilitate proactive monitoring and management in its operations effectively and to recover as quickly of operational risks. and effectively as possible from an unforeseen disaster or emergency that may interrupt normal business Financial crime risk operations in full or in part. Financial crimes are considered a significant risk on both financial institutions and their staff, since the occurrence During 2017, the Bank further strengthened the testing of such crimes can have a negative impact on the Bank’s of its BCP and procedures. Detailed tests were completed reputation of its banking services. Financial crimes too on two separate occasions. Further, the Bank as specified have negative impact of stakeholders’ trust and threatens by SAMA, successfully conducted in November 2017 a the Bank’s reputation locally and internationally. continuous five days disaster recovery test of all critical Therefore, SAIB continued in 2017 executing its plans for IT systems by switching and operating them from the improving and developing Anti-Financial Fraud Control Bank's Disaster Recovery Center and then switching System. them back to the Bank's Head Office IT Center. The tests were successful and provided confidence that the Bank will be able to handle such a crisis, should it occur. Cyber information security risk The Bank will continue testing its process for business The Cyber and Information Security Risk landscape was continuity annually. very dynamic and challenging during 2017. The Bank’s Information Security Division (ISD) proactively addressed In its effort to provide uninterrupted service to its current information security challenges and deployed customers, the Bank will continue to implement hot defenses in depth with multiple countermeasures backups for critical systems in 2018. The Bank has made to ensure prevention, detection, and correction of progress in building a new Disaster Recovery Center vulnerabilities. Along with the technical controls, and expects this to be completed in 2018. The Bank awareness training of staff and customers was provided also continued its emphasis on training of staff on on an ongoing basis. The Bank also implemented a Business Continuity. security governance structure and inculcated a security culture throughout the organization. ISD also completed In recognition of its BCM efforts, the Bank received the ISO a security strategy during 2017 which was approved 22301 Certification in 2012 for its Business Continuity by the Information Security Committee. Confidentiality, Management in the Bank. The certificate was renewed in integrity, and access controls were introduced as an January 2016. integral part of all business and technical processes. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 119 Board of Directors’ Report Information technology of the business segment results for 2016 and 2017 transformation strategy is presented in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Several factors drove the Information Technology Group (ITG) during 2017 which are summarized below: The Bank has three significant business segments, each • A full commitment to the Bank’s five-year strategy of which is described below: (2015-2019), focus on flexible infrastructure and innovative business solutions to meet increasing (a) Retail banking business demands, rising cost of capital, more stringent local and international regulatory requirements, and Retail banking offers a wide range of conventional the Board of Directors mandate to support long-term and Shariah-compliant retail services for individuals, sustainability and effective governance. government and public sector entities through a network • The automation of new products such as the roll of branches throughout Saudi Arabia. Services include over and enabled straight through processing of current accounts, savings, and time deposit accounts. ITM transactions and reconciliations, the roll out The Bank also offers a full range of Shariah-compliant of the Remittance platform and “Flexx Transfer” in products through its Shariah-compliant branches, six countries with two additional countries to be including Islamic Murabaha. The Bank also has an added in 2018 to serve the Bank and its Prepaid extensive network of ATMs covering all regions of cardholders customers. Saudi Arabia. • The introduction of new technologies such as the coin deposit machines in addition to enabling the new (b) Corporate banking Direct Sales Agents Portal and supporting the Corporate banking focuses on providing tailor-made automation of profit plan reporting. financial products and efficient customer services • The card initiatives technology spectrum included to corporate, micro, small and medium enterprises enhancements to issuance functions on contactless (MSME) and financial entities. It operates from three cards, EasyShopping Card, ‘easypay’ Household Card, regional headquarters based in Riyadh, Jeddah, and and ‘easypay’ Payroll Card and enabled managing Al-Khobar which offer innovative financial solutions to cards through IVR channel and Internet Banking. its customers. The services and products offered include • The implementation of new enrichments that have project finance, working capital finance, trade finance and had a major impact on services and operations, Online services, import and export documentary credit, standby Branch Appointments, Refer Card Automation, and letters of credit, letters of guarantee, bill discounting, Charity Transfers across all channels. documentary and clean collections, and other trade-related products, including conventional and • The completion of enhancements to AML processing, Shariah-compliant products. It also provides innovative and implementation of Risk-Based Customer financial solutions using advanced technological Assessments. systems. • The completion of enhancements to IVR services to automate all call center services, and provide dynamic IVR capability. (c) Treasury and investments • The completion of infrastructure enhancements Treasury and investments are responsible for foreign including implementing a new state-of-the-art exchange trading, funding and liquidity management, flash disk storage and the introduction of a new as well as the Bank's investment securities portfolio service-oriented architecture based on IBM enterprise and derivative products. It also manages the Bank’s service bus as a middleware. asset-liability structure and interest rate and market risks and liquidity. Business segments Silver, Gold and Platinum Customer Programs In 2017, SAIB achieved a number of key milestones. The Bank continued to create value for customers by SAIB provides its valued customers three-customer developing products and services for our different programs, which are designed to meet our customers segments in pursuit of fulfilling its customers’ banking needs through a package of products and needs and expectations. The Bank is managed on a services that suit their different lifestyles. “Gold” and line-of-business basis. Transactions between business “Platinum” customer programs provide a high class segments are conducted on normal commercial terms banking relationship and exclusive services tailored for and conditions through the use of funds transfer pricing our elite customers; where we serve them in total privacy and cost allocation methodologies. A detailed summary and luxurious comfort. 120 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Ladies Banking Services • For Travel Cardholders, continuous enrichment of further currencies. There are now 17 available SAIB has 12 ladies sections providing products and currencies which can be added and managed through services that meet SAIB female customers’ aspirations. the electronic banking channels. SAIB continued to provide its valued female customers’ the best of its new and developed products and services • Securing our personal banking customers by which have contributed to the increase of its female introducing a digital soft token (FlexxSafe) to logon and customer base. SAIB is currently developing special new perform transactions online and via mobile banking services to provide to its valued female customers. channels anytime anywhere either by PIN or using biometric methods. E-Banking Services • Implementing a fully-automated B2B service that enables our Corporate, MSME and Government The Saudi Investment Bank has been in the forefront of clients to perform various types of seamless payment introducing various innovative services and products instructions via our banking services. to its customers in order to provide friendly digital • Enhancing online and mobile banking performance banking experience that aligns with the Bank’s strategy by applying the latest technology practices for better in digitalization. usability and user experience. During the past few years, the Bank introduced new • Letters Authenticity Verification Service was technologies, channels and services to meet increasing introduced to allow SAIB customers’ submitted business demands, which made an impact on the overall letters to third parties to be authenticated by customer experience. The Saudi Investment Bank by digital means. Our personal digital banking services have multiple As digital business development grows within the distribution channels, including online banking (Website Kingdom and in delivering financial services, the Bank is & Mobile Applications), ATM, Interactive Teller Machines working on new and innovative FinTech-based initiatives (ITM), Interactive Voice Recognition (IVR). Our corporate to enable digital payment services for SAIB and Non-SAIB digital banking services currently has multiple distribution customers. channels including corporate online banking, eTrade, ePayroll, Cash Management, and B2B services. In addition to that, digital media communication is becoming as a key factor of promoting digital channels In addition, there are several services and enhancements and services in terms of awareness, promotions and introduced to SAIB customers highlighted below: customer awareness, which has given the Bank an edge of the overall customer experience. • Digitalization and automation of critical business processes in SAIB branches with huge optimization in service delivery. Branch network • Enablement for SAIB customers’ to interact easily As of December 31, 2017, the number of branches with Customer Care Unit for their request fulfillment operating under the Bank was forty-nine, twelve of which through a digital experience. contain a ladies section. The Bank currently operates a • Introduction of a complete digital-based customer network of 416 ATMs and 4 Interactive Teller Machines Loyalty Program (WooW). throughout Saudi Arabia. The Bank also introduced • Introducing a 24/7 card issuing services, which includes 386 new POS terminals in 2017 bringing the total POS issuing of mada debit and Travel Cards. terminals to 9,178. • easypay online banking channels (Web and Mobile), offered in many different languages, has been designed Alasalah Islamic Banking for labours and households employees and holders The Bank provides Shariah-compliant products and of our easypay card, in order to perform wide set of services under the ALASALAH Islamic Banking brand. services, like account management and remittance These products have been given particular attention to services without visiting branches. ensuring their compliance with Shariah Principles and • Extended services after working hours through our their suitability to the local market in recognition of the Interactive Teller Machine channel. increasing demand for Shariah-compliant products • Launching an Emergency Cash Withdrawal Service and services, and the significance of Islamic Banking 24/7 without the need of using a card. as a strategic direction for banks operating in the Kingdom. The Bank now operates forty-five ShariahThe Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 121 Board of Directors’ Report compliant branches. The Bank successfully increased its • Saudi Orix Leasing Company (“Orix”). Orix is a Saudi Shariah-compliant loans during the year ended December Arabian closed joint stock Company in Saudi Arabia. 31, 2017 to SAR 37.3 billion. The Bank’s Shariah The total capital is SAR 550 million. Orix has 55 million compliant deposits during the year ended December 31, outstanding shares, and the Bank holds 20.90 million 2017 reached SAR 58.4 billion, or 87% of total deposits. shares representing 38% of the outstanding shares. The primary business activities of Orix include lease financing services in Saudi Arabia. Strategic partnerships • Amlak International for Finance and Real Estate The Bank has four subsidiaries as follows: Development Co. (“Amlak”). Amlak is a Saudi Arabian • Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage closed joint stock Company in Saudi Arabia. The total Company (Alistithmar Capital), which offers brokerage, capital is SAR 903 million. Amlak has 90.3 million asset management, and other services in the Kingdom outstanding shares, and the Bank holds 29 million of Saudi Arabia. The total capital of the Company is shares representing 32% of the outstanding shares. SAR 250 million with 25 million shares outstanding. Amlak offers real estate finance products and services. The Bank owns 100% of the Company, and the Company does not have any debt instruments issued. All the above associate companies are incorporated and The Company was established in July 2007 as a doing business in Saudi Arabia. limited liability Company, and in 2015 the Company was converted into a closed joint stock company. The Credit rating Company provides brokerage services, investment management services in the form of mutual funds Credit ratings are an integral component for participation and portfolios, custody services, and investment in the international financial markets. As the global banking advisory. Assets under management totaled economy becomes more integrated, credit ratings SAR 6,816 million as of December 31, 2017, of which are necessary not only to ensure funding and obtain SAR 2,219 million is considered Shariah approved. access to capital markets but also to demonstrate a • The Saudi Investment Real Estate Company. The Bank commitment to meeting a high level of internationally owns 100% of the SAR 500 thousand in capital, and recognized credit and risk management standards. the Company does not have any debt instruments During the year, the Bank continued its program of rating issued. The main activity of this Saudi limited liability reviews with Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) Company is to hold real estate assets given to the Bank and Fitch Ratings. as collateral. S&P have maintained the Bank’s long-term and • Saudi Investment First Company Ltd. The Bank owns short-term counterparty credit ratings to ‘BBB’/‘A-2’ with 100% of the SAR 25 thousand in capital, and this a Stable Outlook. S&P defines these ratings as follows: Saudi limited liability Company does not have any debt instruments issued. The main activity of this Company • Long-Term Issuer Credit Ratings – An obligor rated is to hold shares in American Express (Saudi Arabia). ‘BBB’ has adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, adverse economic conditions • SAIB Markets Limited Company, was registered as or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a limited liability Company in the Cayman Islands in weakened capacity of the obligor to meet its financial July 2017. The Bank has 100% ownership, and this commitments. Cayman Islands limited liability Company does not have any debt instruments issued. The objective of • Short-Term Issuer Credit Ratings (less than 12 SAIB Markets Limited Company is trading in derivatives months) – An obligor rated ‘A-2’ has satisfactory and Repo activities on behalf of the Bank. capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, it is somewhat more susceptible to the adverse effects In addition to the above, the Bank has investments in of changes in circumstances and economic conditions three associate companies in Saudi Arabia as follows: than obligors in the highest rating category. • American Express (Saudi Arabia) – (“AMEX”), is a Saudi Fitch affirmed the Bank’s ‘BBB+’/‘F2’ long-term and Arabian closed joint stock Company. The total capital short-term ratings, and have changed the Outlook from is SAR 100 million with 10 million shares outstanding, Negative to Stable. Fitch defines these ratings as follows: and the Bank holds a 50% interest or 5 million shares. The principal activities of AMEX are to issue credit • Long-Term Issuer Default Ratings – ‘BBB+’ ratings cards and offer other American Express products and indicate that there is currently expectations of low services in Saudi Arabia. credit risk. The capacity for payment of financial commitments is considered adequate, but adverse changes in circumstances and economic conditions are more likely to impair this capacity. 122 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report • Short-Term Issuer Default Ratings (less than 12 Quality Assurance Department months) – ‘F2’ ratings indicate good credit quality with The Bank’s quality Group has undertaken a variety of a satisfactory capacity for timely payment of financial initiatives to meet the requirements of SAMA, to support commitments, but the margin of safety is not as great development and innovation, and to adhere to the best as in the case of the higher ratings. banking standards as follows: The Bank’s ratings are the result of our financial • Supported central governance by establishing a performance, asset quality, and capitalization levels, memorandum of approval for each product or service supported by a stable strategy and adequate liquidity submitted to meet SAMA requirements, implemented profile. Our ratings take into consideration the fact mandatory controls, and identified risks in these that the Bank operates in one of the strongest banking products or services before they were introduced. sectors and best regulated markets both in the Middle • Maintained 100% of customer complaints processing East and among all emerging markets. The ratings also in accordance with the requirements of SAMA. More reflect Saudi Arabia’s sovereign credit ratings from than 4,700 complaints were dealt with under the S&P and Fitch, in addition to the country’s economic Service Level Agreement of 2017. The Quality Group fundamentals. has also resolved the internal complaints of employees in accordance with the agreed time frame to ensure The credit ratings from S&P and Fitch are considered compliance with the best quality standards and support “Investment Grade Ratings” in the international markets. for streamlining work. • Supported customer protection through a variety of Compliance awareness campaigns on the Bank's website, visiting and training branches and printing leaflets and The Banks Compliance Group is a separate group that brochures. Also carried out were awareness campaigns practices identifying, evaluating, advising, supervising for customers and the community through platforms and reporting non-compliance risks which might and visits to several public and private sector entities. expose the Bank to administrative and legal penalties, • ISO 9001: 2008 was renewed in the area of customer financial loses, or damage to the Bank’s reputation complaints management and handling, which for not complying with regulations, conducts, and demonstrates the Bank’s commitment to continuously professional practices. improving operations and providing the best services. The Compliance Group is one of the Bank’s key success The quality group also improved the customer experience factors due to the significant role it plays in protecting and enhanced the Bank's brand by: the Bank’s reputation, credibility, shareholders’ interests, and depositors by protecting them from: • Surveying more than 150,000 customers, measuring their satisfaction with the Bank's products and services • Preventing risks, especially methodological and and the efficiency of electronic channels, and sharing reputation risks and financial penalties. these results with management to enhance and • Strengthening relationships with regulators. improve operations. • Implementing mechanisms and frameworks to prevent • Completing the feedback process from customers via SAIB channels being used to commit crimes, especially the CRM system and analyzing the satisfaction levels. in relation to anti-money laundering and combating • Creating a customer voice page on the Bank's website terrorism financing. to view customer survey results, and adding a new • Protecting professional practices and values in channel to collect customer feedback via email. exercising banking best practices. • Training more than 50 employees on quality • The implementation of the best compliance principles is improvement (Six Sigma & Line), and conducting 10 one of the priorities of the Bank, starting with members (ten) workshops for more than 150 employees to of the Board of Directors and Executive Management enhance and improve quality. and all employees. As a result of these initiatives, the Bank in 2017 received The senior management team has established a the following awards: culture based on high standards of integrity and • King Abdulaziz Award for Quality 2016 at its 3rd affirms compliance principles, which are not only session held by the Saudi Standards, Metrology, and the responsibility of the Compliance Group, but the Quality, with the authority to use this certificate for responsibility of all SAIB employees, and which is an three years. integral part of our commercial and operational activities in general. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 123 Board of Directors’ Report • The best Saudi Bank Award in the SQI (3.25 of 5.0) by Regulatory payments Finalta, with the second wave of the project currently Zakat attributable to the Saudi shareholders paid by the being processed. Bank is deducted from their share of cash dividends. Any unreimbursed income tax payable by the non-Saudi Profit distribution shareholders on their share of profits is also deducted from cash dividends. The net income of the Bank will be distributed as directed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the The Bank paid SAR 24.3 million in Zakat on behalf of provisions of the Banking Control Law, as follows: Saudi shareholders, and SAR 12.2 million of income (a) Withholding the necessary amounts for payment of tax on behalf of its non-Saudi shareholders during the Zakat owed by the Saudi shareholders and any the year ended December 31, 2017. The Bank also income tax owed by the non-Saudi shareholders paid SAR 2.1 million in withholding tax on payments to according to the applicable laws of the Kingdom. non-residents made during the year ended The Bank will pay the required amounts to the December 31, 2017. authorities and deduct the Zakat owed by the Saudi shareholders and any unreimbursed income tax of The Bank has received assessments for additional Zakat, the non-Saudi shareholders from amounts due to income tax, and withholding tax total approximately these shareholders, respectively. SAR 277 million relating to the Bank’s 2003 through (b) Allocating not less than 25% of the remaining net 2009 Zakat, income tax, and withholding tax filings. The income, after the deduction of the Zakat and income Bank has filed an appeal for these assessments. tax as mentioned in paragraph (a) above, to the Statutory Reserve until this Reserve is equal to at The Bank has also received partial assessments for least the Paid-Up Capital. additional Zakat totaling approximately SAR 383 million (c) The remainder, after all, allocations mentioned in relating to the Bank’s 2010, 2011 and 2013 Zakat filings. paragraphs (a) and (b) above are made, shall be The assessments are primarily due to the disallowance of used in any manner recommended by the Board of certain long-term investments from the Zakat base of the Directors and approved by the General Assembly. Bank. The Bank, in consultation with its Zakat advisors, has filed an appeal with the Department of Zakat and In 2016, the Board of Directors proposed a cash dividend Income Tax and is awaiting a response. At the current of SAR 350 million equal to 0.5 per share, net of Zakat time, a reasonable estimation of the ultimate additional to be withheld from the Saudi shareholders totaling Zakat liability, if any, cannot be reliably determined. SAR 70 million. The Board of Directors also proposed a bonus share issue of 50 million shares with a par value The Bank paid SAR 47.2 million to the General of SAR 10 per share, or one bonus share for each 14 Organization for Social Insurance for its employees, shares outstanding. The Bank's shareholders approved including the employee share of SAR 21 million during the proposed dividend and bonus share issue in an the year ended December 31, 2017. The Bank also paid Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting held on 21 approximately SAR 1.5 million for visa, other-related Rajhab 1438 H., corresponding to April 18, 2017. The governmental fees, also the municipality and related net dividends and bonus shares were distributed to the fees during the year ended December 31, 2017. shareholders thereafter. 124 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report GRI 201-3 Regulatory penalties and fines During 2017, the Bank paid SAR 1.36 million in penalties and fines to the following regulatory agencies: – No fines reported by CMA – No fines reported by Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs – SAMA penalties: Violation subject Financial year 2017 No. of penalties Total fines amounts in SAR Violation of SAMA’s Supervisory instructions 4 760,000.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for customer protection 3 65,000.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for due diligence 1 455,400.00 Violating SAMA’s instructions for ATM and POS performance* 3 85,000.00 *Two penalties have been added totaling SAR 75,000 were not reflected in the 2016 Board of Directors’ Report. Human resources The Human Resources Department seeks to maximize During 2017, the Bank increased the usage of all the return on investment in the Bank's human capital E-Channels, such as “E-Learning – Training video and reduce financial risk. The Human Resources tutorials – and summarization of Books” by delivering Department functions include recruiting, acquiring, more than 9,000 different programs in different fields. developing, and maintaining qualified talent to meet the The benefit of E-Learning is to help the Bank employees needs of the Bank. The Department includes a number to improve their knowledge and competencies in a of sub-departments such as recruitment, performance range of general skills. All portals are available 24/7 and management, benefits and wages, personnel relations, accessible from anywhere by using any device, in both payroll, human resources department system, and Arabic and English. training and development. Employee benefits Saudization and training Benefits payable to employees either at the end of As a result of the Bank’s continuing commitment to their services or during the term of their employment increase Saudization, the percentage of Saudi nationals are accrued in accordance with guidelines set by to total staff as of December 31, 2017 remained strong the Saudi Arabian Labor Regulations and as per the at 85.4%, compared to the end of the year 2016 where Bank’s accounting policies. The amount of provision Saudization percentage was 84%. In addition, the Bank made during the year ended December 31, 2017 in has kept the female staff percentage at 18.3% of the respect of employees’ end of service benefits was total workforce of the Bank. SAR 32.3 million. The balance of the accrued benefits outstanding is approximately SAR 186.3 million as of During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Bank December 31, 2017. provided a total of 219 separate training courses resulting in 4,491 training days being delivered to the The Bank also offers to its eligible employees Bank’s staff members. (“Employees”) equity shares in the Bank under an Employee Stock Grant Plan (“Plan”). Under the terms of The 2017 new program for Summer Students was also the Plan, employees are granted shares which vest over introduced, as more than 65 males and females were a four-year period. The cost of the plan is measured by sponsored for an 8 weeks program in computer skills. the value of the shares on the date purchased by the Bank and recognized over the period in which the service condition is fulfilled using an appropriate valuation model, and ending on the vesting date. Employee stock option The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 125 Board of Directors’ Report GRI 201-3 shares are recorded by the Bank at cost and presented Management of the Bank includes those persons who as a deduction from the Bank’s equity as adjusted for any are responsible for achieving the objectives of the Bank transaction costs, dividends and gains or losses on sales and who have the authority to establish policies and of such shares. During 2017, the Bank vested 1,592,318 make decisions by which those objectives are pursued. shares for a total cost of approximately SAR 21.6 million. Management, therefore, includes the members of the The balance of the Plan as of December 31, 2017 is Bank's Board of Directors, and members of the Bank approximately SAR 24.2 million. For further information management that require a no objection approval on this Plan, refer to Note 38 in the Consolidated from SAMA. Financial Statements. Immediate family members include parents, spouses, In addition, the Bank grants to its eligible employees and offspring and whom either a principal shareholder or other types of security and savings plans that are based a member of management might control or influence or on mutual contributions by the Bank and the employees. by whom they might be controlled or influenced because These contributions are paid to the participating of the family relationship. employees at the respective maturity date of each Plan. The balance of the accrued benefits outstanding for Principal shareholders include those owners of record the Bank’s security plan and the Bank’s savings plan is of more than 5% of the Bank’s voting ownership and/or approximately SAR 24.3 million as of December 31, 2017. voting interest of the Bank. The amount of provision made during the year ended December 31, 2017 for these plans was approximately The balances as of December 31, 2017, resulting from SAR 18.2 million. such transactions included in the Consolidated Financial Statements were as follows: Related party transactions & balances 2017 SAR ’000 In the ordinary course of its activities, the Group transacts business with related parties. Related parties, Management of the Bank and/or balances, and transactions are governed by the Banking members of their immediate family: Control Law and other regulations issued by SAMA. Loans and advances 88,334 During 2014, SAMA issued an update to its Principles Customer deposits 227,848 of Corporate Governance for Banks operating in Saudi Tier I Sukuk 2,000 Arabia which specifies the definitions of related parties, Commitments and contingencies 1,880 the need to process the related transactions fairly and Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or without preference, addresses the potential conflicts of members of their immediate family: interests involved in such transactions, and mandates Due from banks and other transaction disclosure requirements pertaining to the financial institutions 12,241 related parties. Loans and advances 126,214 Customer deposits 10,416,049 The Bank’s Related Party Identification and Disclosure of Subordinated debt 700,000 Transactions Policy complies with the Guidelines issued by SAMA and has been approved by the Bank's Board Commitments and contingencies 372,991 of Directors. These Guidelines include the following Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which definitions of Related Parties: the investment is accounted for by the Equity method of accounting: • Management of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family; Loans and advances 596,117 Customer deposits 104,094 • Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family; Commitments and contingencies 106,317 • Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which the Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees investment is accounted for by the equity method of such as pension or other benefits plans that are managed by the Bank: accounting; Customer deposits and other liabilities 152,572 • Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees such as pension or other benefit plans that are managed by the Bank; and • Any other parties whose management and operating policies can be directly or indirectly significantly influenced by the Bank. 126 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Income and expense pertaining to transactions with related parties included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Management of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Special commission income 3,093 Special commission expense 34 Fee income from banking services 20 Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Special commission income 42,671 Special commission expense 27,039 Fee income from banking services 4,219 Rent and premises-related expenses (Building rental) 7,758 Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which the investment is accounted for by the Equity method of accounting: Special commission income 8,736 Special commission expense 9 Fee income from banking services 5,607 Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees such as pension or other benefit plans that are managed by the Bank: Special commission expense – The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 127 Board of Directors’ Report Board of Directors, Committees, Management Composition of the Board of Directors The General Assembly dated January 25, 2016, elected the Bank’s Board members for the next term starting February 14, 2016 for a three-year term. The Board is comprised of the following members: The names of the members of the Board of Directors, Committees, Management, and their current functions and their qualifications and experience Board of Directors Name Classification Current job Previous jobs Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah The Saudi Retiree 1. President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco Investment Bank 2. Executive Vice President for International Affairs Non-Executive (Aramco) Member (Chairman) 3. Senior Vice President for Human Resources (Aramco) Mr. Abdulaziz Non-Executive Investment Advisor, 1. Vice governor for Investment, Public Pension Agency Abdulrahman Al-Khamis Member Alra’idah Investment Co. 2. Director General for Financial Investment, Public (Vice Chairman) Pension Agency 3. Fixed Income Chief Dealer, Investment Management Dept., Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority 4. Assistant Chief Dealer, Investment Management Dep., Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority 5. Senior Fixed Income Dealer, Investment Management Department, Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority Dr. Fouad Saud Al Saleh Non-Executive 1. Chairman of Project & 1. Chief of Contract Administration and Construction Member Construction Company Inspection Sections of the Construction and (Saudi Projacs) Maintenance Department, Ministry of Defense, 2. Chairman of Fuad Saud Riyadh, Saudi Arabia Al-Saleh & Associates 2. Assistant Director of Contract Administration and (Projacs) Construction Inspection Sections of the Construction and Maintenance Department, Ministry of Defense, Saudi Arabian Army 3. Assistant Director of Construction and Maintenance Department, Saudi Arabian Army 4. Director of Project Management Department, General Directorate of Military Works, M. O. D. A. 5. Director General of Construction Management Department, General Directorate of Military Works, M. O. D. A. 6. Took early retirement from Military Services with the Rank of Engineer Colonel 128 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Qualifications Current membership Previous membership 1. Bachelor of Political Science from 1. Board Member, Hassana In Kingdom American University in Beirut Investment Company (UL) 1. Board Member of Saudi Aramco (UL) 2. Board Member, Saudi Arabian 2. Board Member and CEO of Saudi Consolidated Electric Airlines Corporation (UL) Company (SCECO) (L) 3. The Saudi Investment Bank (L) 3. Board Member of Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Co. Ltd. 4. Vice Chairman, Zamil Industrial (L) (SAMREF) (UL) OOK (overseas) 1. Board Member S-Oil (S. Korea) (L) 2. Board Member Petron Corp. (Philippines) (L) 3. Board Member Motor Oil Hellas (MOH) (Greece) (L) 4. Board Member Saudi Petroleum Int. (US) (UL) 5. Chairman of the Board, Motiva Enterprise (US) (UL) 6. Board Member Aramco Overseas Co. (Holland) (UL) 7. Board Member Halliburton Company (USA) (L) 8. Member JP Morgan Chase & Co. Int. Advisory Council (US) (L) 9. Member Schlumberger Business Consulting Advisory Board (France) (L) 10. Member Reliance Int. Advisory Board (India) (L) Bachelor of Economics, Northeastern 1. Tawuniya Insurance Co. Board 1. Petrochem University, Boston, USA Director 2. Sipchem 2. The Saudi Investment Bank 3. Saudi Polymer Co. 3. The United Insurance Co., Bahrain 4. Gulf Polymers Distribution Co., UAE. 1. Bachelor of Civil Engineering The Saudi Investment Bank 1. Member of American Association of Construction (Civil Engineer), St. Martin College at Managers Olympia, Washington 2. Member of American Society of Civil Engineers 2. Masters of Civil Engineering 3. Member of the Society of American Value Engineers (Construction Management), the 4. Member of British Arbitration Association University of Washington at Seattle 5. Member of Project Management Institute 3. PhD of Civil Engineering 6. Member of American Arbitration Association (Construction Management), University of Washington – Seattle The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 129 Board of Directors’ Report Name Classification Current job Previous jobs Dr. Abdulraouf bin Independent Director Managing Director and CEO of Savola Group Mohammed bin Member Abdullah Mannaa Dr. Abdulaziz Abdallah Independent Director General of Saudi 1. Director General of Saudi Charter Medical Ltd. Alnowaiser Member Medical Services FA Ltd. 2. General Manager of TRAINEX Saudi Arabia Ltd. 3. Deputy General Manager of Saudi Oger Ltd. 4. Executive General Manager of King Fahad Complex for the Printing of the Holy Quran 5. Assistance Professor Physics Dept., King Saud University Abdul Rahman bin Non-Executive General Manager of 1. General Manager of International Markets – Mohammed Al-Rawaf Member Deposit and Bond Hasana Investment Company Management – Hasana 2. Director of Investment Portfolio Management – Investment Company General Organization for Social Insurance 3. Financial Analyst in the General Administration of Investment – General Organization for Social Insurance Mr. Mishari Ibrahim Non-Executive Director 1. CEO – Bank Al-Jazira Al-Mishari Member 2. Saudi American Bank – Saudi Arabia (SAMBA) General Manager – Retail Bank 3. Citi Bank/London. Consumer Services Group. Upscale Group Head (Middle East – Africa) Mohammed bin Abdullah Independent Advisor to the Minister 1. Senior Vice President – Aramco Finance bin Ahmed Al Ali Member of Energy, Industry, and 2. Financial Controller – Aramco Mineral Resources 3. Chief Internal Auditor – Aramco 4. Director of International Accounting and Financial Reports 5. Administrator of Sales and Petroleum Mr. Saleh Ali Al-Athel Independent Director Assistant General Manager – Saudi Industrial Member Development Fund (SIDF) 130 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Qualifications Current membership Previous membership 1. Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering The Saudi Investment Bank 1. Managing Director and CEO of Savola Group from Petroleum and Minerals 2. Managing Director and CEO – Emaar, Economic City University 3. Board of Directors of Almarai Company 2. Master of Science in Engineering 4. Board of Directors of Panda and Mechanical Engineering 5. Board of Directors of the General Organization for from the University of California Social Insurance at Berkeley, Ph.D. in Mechanical 6. Board of Directors of Hassana from the General Engineering from the University of Organization for Social Insurance Washington at Seattle 7. Board of Knowledge Economic City 8. Enjaz ( NGO) 9. Board of Kinan International Real Estate Development 1. Bachelor of Physics and The Saudi Investment Bank 1. The National Insurance Committee Mathematics – 2. USB Bank, Investment Fund University of California 3. Medgulf Insurance and Reinsurance Co. 2. Master’s of Physics – Duke University, USA 3. Ph.D. Of Physics – University of Maryland College Park 1. Bachelor of Science, The Saudi Investment Bank 1. Board of Directors of the Industrialization and Energy Arkansas State University Services Company 2. Master of Public Administration, 2. The Board of Directors of Sahara Petrochemical University of Southern California Company 3. Member of SAMBA Financial Board 4. Member of the Board of Directors of Bank Aljazira 5. Member of several committees (Audit, Executive Committee, Nominations, and Rewards) in several companies and banks Bachelor of Science Business 1. Board Member of the Saudi 1. Board Member of the Saudi Fund for Development Administration, University of Re-Insurance Co. 2. Board Member of the AlOula Real Estate Company Oregon Eugene USA 2. The Saudi Investment Bank 3. Board Member of Sadan International 3. Board Member of Hana Food 4. Board Member of Bank Al-Jazira Industries Company 4. Chairman of Droob AlElm for Training and Education 1. Bachelor of Accounting, University 1. The Saudi Investment Bank 1. Member of several executive committees of Aramco of Texas Arlington 2. Saudi Energy Efficiency 2. Chairman of Saudi Aramco Investment Management 2. Master of Business Administration Services Company 3. Chairman of Aramco International from the University of Denver 4. Chairman of Saudi Aramco Trading 3. Education Program for Executives 5. Chairman of the Board of Governors of the GCC-BDI at Carnegie Mellon University “Board of Directors Institute” and Oxford University Creative Placement Center 1. Bachelor of Philosophy and 1. Board Member, Saudi 1. Board Member, Saudi House for Consultation Sociology, University of Damascus, Telecommunication Company 2. Board Member, Saudi Electrical Industries Company Syria 2. The Saudi Investment Bank 3. Board Member, Saudi Laboratory Company 2. Management Higher Diploma, University of Hartford, USA The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 131 Board of Directors’ Report Committee Members Name Classification Current job Previous jobs Saleh Khalifi Independent Board General Director of Sultan Bin Abdulaziz 1. Saudi Company for Hotels and Audit Committee Al Saud Charity Foundation Tourist Areas Member 2. Arab Investment Company 3. Saudi Fund for Development Abdullah Al Anzi Independent Board Head of Internal Audit of Saudi Telecom Group General Manager of Information Audit Committee Systems and Network Audit Member Menahi Al-Muraikhi Independent Retiree 1. Head of Internal Auditor – Board Audit Bank Albilad Committee Member 2. Department Manager of Automated Audit – Al Rajhi Bank 3. Department Manager of IS Operation & Control – Al Rajhi Bank 4. Department Manager of IS Audit & Security – Al Rajhi Bank 5. Manager of Programming Systems – Ministry of Defense Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari Chairman of the Committee Member 1. Professor of Islamic Economics, Shariah Committee King Abdulaziz University (formerly) as an External 2. Director of Islamic Economics Independent Research Center, King Abdulaziz Member University (formerly) 3. Expert in Islamic Fiqh Academy, Organization of the Islamic Conference (Jeddah Complex) 132 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Qualifications Current membership Previous membership 1. Bachelor of Administrative Sciences, 1. Saba Real Estate Company 1. Management of the National Accounting, King Saud University 2. Umm Al Qura Cement Company Company for Agricultural 2. Master of Accounting from United States Development – Nadec 2. Saudi Company for Land Transport – Mubrad 3. Emaar Al Watan Real Estate Investment Company 4. Hail Cement Review Committee 1. Bachelor of Information Systems from the Faculty of Computer Science, King Saud University 2. Master of Business Administration, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals 3. Internal Auditor Fellowship 4. CISA Fellowship 5. CRMA Risk Management Fellowship 6. CFE Fraud and Fraud Fellowship Bachelor of Computer Science and Mathematics from the University of East Washington 1. Member of the Islamic 1. Member of the Shari’a Classification Board of the Islamic Council, AAOIFI (Bahrain) Rating Agency (Bahrain) 2. Member of the Scientific 2. Member of the Advisory Board of Committee of the Islamic the Harvard Series in Islamic Law, Institute for Research Harvard Law School and Training, Islamic 3. Founding Member of the National Development Bank in Society for Human Rights in Saudi Jeddah (formerly) Arabia (Riyadh) 4. Member of a number of Sharia bodies in Islamic banks and financial institutions in the Kingdom and abroad The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 133 Board of Directors’ Report Name Classification Current job Previous jobs Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Member of the Ahmed Almezeini Shariah Committee as an External Independent Member Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Member of the 1. Member of the Faculty of the Higher Judicial Judge in the Ministry of Justice Alsigheir Shariah Committee Institute at Imam Muhammad Bin Saud (former) as an External Islamic University, Comparative Jurisprudence Independent Department (currently) Member 2. Deputy of the Higher Institute of Judiciary at Imam Muhammad Bin Saud Islamic University (currently) 3. Member of the Council of the Higher Institute of Justice at the University of Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic (currently) Executive Management Name Current job Previous jobs Qualifications Experiences Musaed Mohammed Chief Executive Director of Finance Bachelor of Accounting 1. Director of Finance at Al Salam Al Mineefi Officer Aircraft Company 2. Senior Accountant at Petromin Saudi Lube 3. Deputy Finance Controller at Saudi Telecommunications Faisal Abdullah Deputy Chief Treasurer and Bachelor of Finance 1. General Manager at Awraq Al Omran Executive Officer Chief Investment and Accounting Al Jazeera Investment Company Officer 2. Insurance Consultant at General Organization of Social Insurance 3. Accountant at Liberty Mutual Insurance Company Ramzi Abdullah General Manager – Officer – Bachelor of Petroleum 1. Officer – International Banking Al-Nassar Personal Banking International Engineering Division Riyadh Bank Group Banking Division 2. Head – Contract Account at the Riyadh Bank General Petroleum & Mineral Organization David Kent Johnson Chief Financial Senior Director Bachelor of Science in 1. CFO – The Saudi Investment Bank Officer with (PWC) Industrial Administration 2. Senior Director at PWC Saudi Saudi Arabia Accounting Degree with Arabia minor degrees in Economics 3. Independent Consultant and Finance 4. Partner, KPMG Sacramento, California 5. Manager, KPMG Des Moines, Iowa 134 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Qualifications Current membership Previous membership 1. Doctoral Degree in Law and exact specialization in Islamic 1. Member of the Faculty of the Finance from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. The Higher Judicial Institute at Imam thesis was entitled – Selling debt in Islamic jurisprudence, Muhammad bin Saud Islamic comparative analytical comparative study University in Riyadh (currently) 2. Master’s Degree in Law and exact specialization Financial 2. Founding partner in the Office of Regulations and Regulations of Georgetown University in the Mohammed Al-Marzouq, Lawyers American Capital Washington and Consultants in Cooperation 3. Master of Systems from the Higher Institute of Judiciary at with Ku Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University in Riyadh. The research was entitled: Internal Crimes of Information in Financial Markets, A Comparative Juristic Study 4. Bachelor in Islamic Law, Faculty of Sharia, Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University, Riyadh 1. Doctorate Degree from the Faculty of Sharia at the University of Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University in Riyadh with an excellent grade with honors first 2. Master Degree from the Higher Judicial Institute, Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University, Riyadh 3. Bachelor of Islamic Sharia, from the Faculty of Sharia at the University of Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University in Riyadh with an excellent grade with honors first He is a member of many Shariah scientific committees as the Arbitrator and Supervisor of Research and specialized scientific programs in the transactions of jurisprudence and jurisprudence The Board of Directors has the following Committees: – The Governance Committee is composed of – The Executive Committee is comprised of five Board three members. The Committee is responsible members. This committee supervises the credit and for promoting and implementing best practices financial policies of the Bank. of governance by acting on behalf of the Board to ensure the implementation of these practices in all – The Audit Committee is comprised of five members: activities of the Bank. The Committee also monitors two Board members and three non-Board members. the Bank's compliance with relevant local and The Audit Committee’s activities include supervising international regulations. the Bank’s Internal Audit function, recommending the appointment of the External Auditors, and – The Risk Committee is comprised of five Board related activities. members. This committee supervises the risk management activities of the Bank including market, – The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is credit, and operational risks. comprised of five Board members. This committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of – The Shariah Committee is comprised of three Directors appointments to membership of the members and is responsible for providing Shariah Board in accordance with the approved policies opinions on submitted applications and related and standards, reviewing on an annual basis the contracts and forms. The Committee is also requirements for the suitable skills for membership responsible for ensuring the Bank's compliance of the Board of Directors, and reviewing the structure with Shariah principles and decisions through the of the Board of Directors and recommending changes Shariah control function. In addition, the Committee to it. It is also responsible for recommending to the answers Shariah-related inquiries for the Bank and Board the approval of the Bank's compensation policy its customers. and amendments to that, and other activities related to the Bank's compensation policies and guidelines. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 135 Board of Directors’ Report The composition of the six Board Committees is presented below: Executive Committee Audit Committee Nomination and Governance Committee Risk Committee Shariah Committee Remuneration Committee Mr. Abdulaziz Mr. Muhammad Dr. Abdulaziz Dr. Abdulaziz Mr. Mishari Dr. Muhammad Al-Khamis Al Ali Al Nowaiser Al Nowaiser Al-Mishari Ali Elgari (Chairman) (Chairman) (Chairman) (Chairman) (Chairman) (Chairman) Mr. Abdulrahman Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh Dr. Abdulraouf Dr. Abdulraouf Mr. Abdulrahman Dr. Fahad Nafl Al-Rawwaf Mannaa Mannaa Al-Rawwaf Alsigheir Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh Mr.Abdullah Al-Anizi Mr. Mishari Mr. Saleh Al-Athel Mr. Muhammad Dr. AbdulAziz (non-board) Al-Mishari Al Ali Ahmad Almezeini Mr. Mishari Mr. Mnahi Al-Muraki Mr. Saleh Al-Athel – Dr. Abdulraouf – Al-Mishari (non-board) Mannaa Dr. Abdulaziz Mr. Saleh Al-Khulaifi Mr. Abdulrahman – Dr. Abdulaziz – Alnowaiser (non-board) Al-Rawwaf Alnowaiser Directors’ attendance Four Board of Directors meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended March 23, 2017 Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah , Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Muhammad Al Ali May 25, 2017 Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah, Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel September 26, 2017 Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah, Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Muhammad Al Ali December 11, 2017 Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah, Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Muhammad Al Ali Thirteen Executive Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended January 23, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari February 28, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari March 21, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari April 18, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Mishari Al Mishari April 30, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari May 25, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari June 20, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari July 23, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari September 19, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Mishari Al Mishari October 02, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari October 24, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari November 21, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari December 14, 2017 Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari 136 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Four Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended January 3, 2017 Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa April 18, 2017 Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa September 19, 2017 Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa November 27, 2017 Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa Two Governance Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended September 25, 2017 Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa, Saleh Al Athel November 23, 2017 Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa, Saleh Al Athel Five Audit Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended February 06, 2017 Muhammad Al Ali, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Saleh Al Khulaifi, Abdullah Al Anizi, Monahy Al Moreikhy March 22, 2017 Muhammad Al Ali, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Saleh Al Khulaifi, Monahy Al Moreikhy May 23, 2017 Muhammad Al Ali, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Saleh Al Khulaifi, Abdullah Al Anizi, Monahy Al Moreikhy September 25, 2017 Muhammad Al Ali, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Saleh Al Khulaifi, Abdullah Al Anizi, Monahy Al Moreikhy December 10, 2017 Muhammad Al Ali, Dr/Fouad Al Saleh, Saleh Al Khulaifi, Abdullah Al Anizi, Monahy Al Moreikhy Five Risk Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended January 22, 2017 Mishari Al Mishari, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Muhammad Al Ali March 06, 2017 Mishari Al Mishari, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Muhammad Al Ali April 30, 2017 Mishari Al Mishari, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Muhammad Al Ali September 19, 2017 Mishari Al Mishari, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Muhammad Al Ali November 27, 2017 Mishari Al Mishari, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Muhammad Al Ali Six Shariah Committee meetings were held during 2017 as follows: Date of meeting Members attended February 16, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini April 27, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini June 06, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini November 08, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini December 05, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini December 21, 2017 Dr. Mohamed A. Elgari, Dr. Fahd Bin Nafel Alsigheir, Dr. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Almezeini The General Assembly was held once as follows: Date of meeting Members attended April 17, 2017 Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah, Abdulaziz Alkhamis, Abdulrahman Al Rawaf, Dr/Abdulraouf Mannaa, Dr/Abdulaziz Al Nowaiser, Mishari Al Mishari, Saleh Al Athel, Muhammad Al Ali The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 137 Board of Directors’ Report Performance of Board of Directors Changes in the Bank’s ownership (Board of Directors and Senior Executives) Corporate Governance has become one of the most important concerns in the business world. The Board The Board of Directors is composed of natural persons of Directors is entrusted to oversee the business, represented on the Board in their personal capacities. including implementation of the organization's strategic Below is the list of the overall ownership of Bank’s shares objectives, approving risk strategy, approving corporate and debt instruments by the Board of Directors and governance rules and principles of professional conduct, Senior Executives and their immediate relatives who and supervision of senior management. As per the have an interest in such ownership. Principles of Corporate Governance for Banks Operating in Saudi Arabia, issued by SAMA and endorsed by the CMA and International practices, the Board carries out, on a periodic basis, a regular assessment of the Board as a whole, of the individual Board members, and of the Board committees. The aim is to review the effectiveness of its own controls and work procedures, and identify weak points and make any necessary changes whenever the need arises thereof. Directors No. Name Beginning of the year End of the year Net change Percentage Shares Debt instruments Shares Debt instruments of change % 1. Abdallah Saleh Jum’ah 263,126 – 281,920 – 18,794 7 2. Abdulrahman Al-Rawwaf 1,555 – 1,666 – 111 7 3. Dr. Abdulraouf Mannaa 1,270 – 1,360 – 90 7 4. Saleh Al-Athel 236,776 – 253,688 – 16,912 7 5. Mishari Al-Mishari 3,110 – 3,332 – 222 7 6. Dr. Fouad Al-Saleh 233,332 – 249,998 – 16,666 7 7. Abdulaziz Al-Khamis 1,555 – 1,666 – 111 7 8. Dr. Abdulaziz Alnowaiser 1,270 – 1,360 – 90 7 9. Muhammad Al-Ali 2,332 – 2,498 – 166 7 Senior Executives No. Name Beginning of the year End of the year Net change Percentage Shares Debt instruments Shares Debt instruments of change % 1. Musaed Al-Mineefi 1,838,455 – 2,009,831 2 191,376 10 2. Faisal Al-Omran 17,990 – 0 – 17,990 100 3. Ramzi Al-Nassar 200,000 – 250,000 – 50,000 25 4. David Johnson 182,338 – 224,250 – 41,912 23 138 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Number of orders related to the register of company shareholders and the dates and causes of such applications. The Bank ordered the following registers during 2017: Number Date of order Reason of order of order 1. 02-Jan-2017 End of month report 2. 02-Feb-2017 End of month report 3. 01-Mar-2017 End of month report 4. 04-Mar-2017 To verify the execution of the sale outside the market 5. 02-Apr-2017 End of month report 6. 10-Apr-2017 The stock restrictions file has been requested as a result of a shareholder’s inquiry 7. 01-May-2017 End of month report 8. 04-Jun-2017 End of month report 9. 02-Jul-2017 End of month report 10. 01-Aug-2017 End of month report 11. 10-Sep-2017 End of month report 12. 01-Oct-2017 End of month report 13. 01-Nov-2017 End of month report 14. 03-Dec-2017 End of month report Directors’ and Senior Executives’ remuneration (in SAR ’000) The Bank's policy regarding remuneration of the Chairman and members of the Board of Directors shall be based on the limits set out in the Companies Regulations and the instructions of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority, as stated in the Bank's Governance Manual, which is available on the Bank’s website. The remuneration paid to Directors and Executives during the year ended December 31, 2017 was as follows: Board Remuneration Fixed remunerations Variable remunerations End-ofAggregate Expenses service amount allowance Specific Allowance Total allowance Remunerations Total Percentage Periodic Short-term Long-term Granted Total award amount for attending for attending of the Chairman, of the remunerations incentive incentive shares Board Meeting Committee Managing profits plans plans Meetings Director or Secretary, if a Member First: Independent Directors Total – 70 225 1,852 2,147 – – – – – – – 2,147 80.8 Second: Non-Executive Directors Total – 85 375 2,352 2,812 – – – – – – – 2,812 81.0 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 139 Board of Directors’ Report Committees members remuneration Fixed remuneration Allowance for attending Total (Expect for the allowance for Board meeting attending Board meetings) Audit Committee Members Total 688 70 758 Shariah Committee Members Total 450 90 540 Remunerations of Senior Executives Fixed remunerations Variable Remunerations End-ofTotal Aggregate service remunerations amount Senior Executive Salaries Allowances In-kind Total Periodic Profits Deferred Short-term Long-term Granted Total award for Board Benefits Remunerations amount incentive incentive shares executives, plans Plans if any Total 13,280 5,603 – 18,883 – – 1,133 6,418 – 1,964 9,514 3,272 – 31,670 Board of Directors’ declaration Auditors The Board of Directors hereby declares that to the best The Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting held on of its knowledge and belief and in all material respects: April 17, 2017 appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers and – Proper books of account have been maintained; KPMG Al Fozan and Partners as the Bank’s Auditors for the financial year 2017. The Auditors’ Report has stated – The system of internal control is sound in design and no significant material, no none with the applicable has been effectively implemented; regulations, Banking Control Law and Banks Article of – There are no significant doubts concerning the Bank’s Associations. ability to continue as a going concern; and – Based on the information and data provided, there Auditors’ qualified opinion on the annual are no significant doubts concerning any contracts or Financial Statements activities where the Bank is a party thereof, or where the Bank’s Board of Directors, CEO, Chief Financial The Auditors’ report shows that the Financial Statements Officer, or any other related person has an interest in. are free of any major errors and there are no qualified opinions with respect to that. The Bank has worked in enhancing effective communication and transparency with all shareholders The Board of Directors’ recommendation and to ensure consistency and transparency of disclosures reason to replace the Auditors at all times. To this end the Bank has established procedures to ensure that shareholders’ suggestions The Board of Directors has not recommended to replace and feedback relating to the Bank and its performance the Auditors before the end of the period they have been are well reported to the Board. assigned for. 140 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Board of Directors’ Report Corporate governance in the Kingdom of Until December 31, 2016, the Consolidated Financial Saudi Arabia Statements were prepared in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Commercial Banks The Bank substantially complies with the Principles of promulgated by SAMA, IFRS, and IFRC. This change in Corporate Governance for Banks Operating in Saudi framework resulted in a change in the accounting policy Arabia issued by SAMA in March 2014. for Zakat and income tax. The Bank also complies with the Corporate Governance guidelines included in the Rules Governing the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards Companies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia issued by the The Bank’s Ethical Standards and Code of Conduct Capital Market Authority on 16 Jumada Al Awwal 1438 represent a standard and a Guide for high ethical H., corresponding to February 13, 2017. The Bank keeps principles and professional business dealings practices. abreast of all governance developments, and continues Through its Code of Conduct, the Bank is committed to to update the relevant policies and procedures in the instil and maintain a culture of professionalism where event of new or updated regulations. the utmost ethical standards prevail. The Bank’s Code of Conduct is based on fundamental principles of integrity, Accounting Standards confidentiality, and professionalism. It applies to all Directors, employees, consultants, affiliates, and any On April 11, 2017, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority other person that may represent the Bank. The Bank (SAMA) issued Circular No. 381000074519 with operates under the governing authority of its Board subsequent amendments regarding certain clarifications of Directors, which oversees the implementation and relating to the accounting for Zakat and income tax. The effectiveness of the Bank’s Ethical Standards and Code impact of the Circular and amendments are as follows: of Conduct. • The Accounting Standards for Commercial Banks promulgated by SAMA are no longer applicable from January 1, 2017; and Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control • Zakat and income tax are to be accrued on a quarterly basis and recognized in the Consolidated Statement Management is responsible for establishing and of Changes in Equity with a corresponding liability maintaining an adequate and effective internal control recognized in the Consolidated Statement of system across the Bank. An internal control system Financial Position. includes the policies, procedures, and processes, which are designed under the supervision of the Board of Applying the above SAMA Circular and amendments Directors to achieve the strategic objectives of the Bank. to the Framework, the Bank’s Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, The scope of the Internal Control Unit, independent from 2017 have been prepared using: line management of the Bank, includes the assessment • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as of the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control modified by SAMA for the accounting of Zakat and system across the Bank. All significant and material income tax, which requires adoption of all IFRS’s as findings related to internal controls are reported to the issued by the International Accounting Standards Audit Committee of the Bank. The Audit Committee Board (IASB) except for the application of International actively monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 – “Income Taxes” internal control system to ensure that identified risks are and IFRIC 21 – “Levies” in so far as these relate to mitigated to safeguard the interests of the Bank. Zakat and income tax. As for the SAMA Circular No. 381000074519 dated April 11, 2017 and Concerted and integrated efforts are made by all functions subsequent amendments through certain clarifications of the Bank to strengthen the control environment relating to the accounting for Zakat and income tax at a grass root level through a continuous process of (SAMA Circular), the Zakat and income tax are to be reviewing and streamlining procedures to prevent and accrued on a quarterly basis through shareholders’ rectify any control deficiencies. Each function, under the equity under retained earnings; and supervision of senior management, is entrusted with the responsibility to oversee the rectification of control • Are in compliance with the Banking Control Law, the deficiencies identified by Internal and External Auditors, applicable provisions of Regulations for Companies in and various control units across the Bank. the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Bank’s Articles of Association. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 141 Board of Directors’ Report The Management of the Bank has adopted the Internal The Bank WooW Alkhair program continues to grow Controls Integrated Framework as recommended by the with over 40 Charities participating in the program, Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority through its Guidelines creating a qualitative integration between the Bank on Internal Controls. and its customers in donations. In 2017, the Bank and its Customers invested over SAR 5,916,375 in the The Internal Control System of the Bank has been community through programs such as the King Faisal designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Board, University Agricultural Project for Disabled Persons on the management of risks and to achieve the Bank's Development in Al Hasa, sponsoring events and donating strategic objectives. Internal control systems, no matter to sustainable charitable causes. how well designed, have inherent limitations, and may not prevent or detect all control deficiencies. Moreover, From an environmental perspective, we successfully the projection of current evaluations of the effectiveness implemented our Building Management System to to future periods is subject to a limitation that controls reduce water and electricity consumption from our may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or various buildings. Active campaigns to recycle paper, compliance with policies or procedures. plastics and electronic items continued throughout the year. Our Volunteers Team continued to grow with over Based on the results through ongoing testing and 126 Volunteers contributing over 450 hours to various assessment of controls by the Internal Control Unit of the community activities in 2017. Bank carried out during the year, Management considers that the Bank’s existing internal control system is We continue to implement programs to attract and adequate and operating effectively. For further enhancing employ young Saudi graduates and promote gender of controls, Management continuously evaluates the equality with a significant increase in our female internal control system of the Bank. workforce. Based on the above, the Board has duly endorsed Internationally, the Bank was the first, and one of ten Management’s evaluation of the Bank’s internal global Companies, to have issued a Sustainability control system. Report using the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Core Standards reporting option. Alistithmar Capital Community service and sustainability became a signatory of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), and the Bank continued Using a formalized framework, anchored to Islamic its commitment of the United Nations Global Compact principles of good governance and management, universal sustainability principles. the Bank continues to actively work to maximize its sustainability, contribution to the community and Conclusion alignment to Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. The Bank’s sustainability framework is defined by five key pillars that It is a pleasure, once again, for the Board of Directors to guide its operations across the business. These pillars express its gratitude to the Government of the Custodian are Takleef, Nummow, Rea'ya, Hifth, and Awn. of the Two Holy Mosques, and in particular to the Ministry of Finance, as well as to the Saudi Arabian Monetary The Bank recognizes its important role in helping the Authority, the Ministry of Commerce and Investment, community grow and in developing a sustainable and the Capital Market Authority, for their continued and economy; hence, our sustainability strategy is to influence constructive support. The Board of Directors would also all stakeholders to adhere to practices that benefit like to thank its shareholders and customers for their society, the economy and the nation. We have a support and trust, this support and trust encourages us responsibility to our communities – from providing to achieve more. The Board of Directors acknowledges support to employees to increase awareness on with appreciation the dedication and loyalty of the Bank’s important local issues, as we strive to make a positive officers and staff to improve the performance of the Bank impact on our society. in order to achieve its strategic objectives. 142 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Ten Year Financial Highlights (SAR in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Summary of Statement of Income Total income 2,792 2,557 2,667 2,610 2,178 1,868 1,709 1,844 1,633 1,938 Total expense 1,059 1,051 1,033 943 762 632 628 570 556 428 Operating profit 1,733 1,506 1,634 1,667 1,416 1,236 1,081 1,274 1,077 1,510 Impairment charges 322 453 305 231 129 324 373 845 555 997 Net income 1,411 1,053 1,329 1,436 1,287 912 708 429 522 513 Summary of Balance Sheet Loans and advances, net 59,588 60,249 60,269 57,473 47,567 34,051 27,114 31,002 29,785 29,556 Investments, net 21,714 21,448 18,983 22,397 17,696 10,912 8,893 8,060 10,737 12,731 Investments in Associates 1,020 1,000 939 846 1,071 966 895 865 817 719 Total assets 93,796 93,047 93,578 93,626 80,495 59,067 51,946 51,491 50,148 53,596 Customers’ deposits 66,943 65,640 70,518 70,733 57,044 40,414 36,770 37,215 38,247 40,702 Total equity 14,279 13,334 12,036 11,852 10,253 9,379 8,557 8,141 7,428 6,609 Ratios (%) Return on shareholders’ equity 10.72 8.54 11.13 12.99 13.11 10.17 8.48 5.51 7.43 7.67 Return on assets 1.51 1.13 1.42 1.65 1.84 1.64 1.37 0.84 1.01 1.03 Capital adequacy 20.38 18.93 16.94 17.08 15.12 17.62 19.12 17.29 14.48 13.71 Equity to total assets 15.22 14.33 12.86 12.66 12.74 15.88 16.47 15.81 14.81 12.33 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 143 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Notes SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 4 5,263,438 5,684,338 Due from banks and other financial institutions 5,34 3,513,073 2,302,293 Investments, net 6,34 21,713,976 21,447,894 Positive fair values of derivatives 11,34 669,170 713,340 Loans and advances, net 7,34 59,588,284 60,249,052 Investments in associates 8 1,019,961 1,000,337 Property, equipment, and intangibles, net 9 1,002,910 987,600 Other real estate 718,724 418,724 Other assets 10 306,683 243,833 Total assets 93,796,219 93,047,411 Liabilities and Equity Liabilities Due to banks and other financial institutions 12,34 7,609,686 8,996,716 Customer deposits 13,34 66,942,620 65,640,325 Negative fair values of derivatives 11,34 116,655 174,550 Term loans 14,34 2,014,823 2,032,187 Subordinated debt 15,34 2,003,068 2,002,373 Other liabilities 16 830,300 867,718 Total liabilities 79,517,152 79,713,869 Equity Share capital 17 7,500,000 7,000,000 Statutory reserve 18 4,563,000 4,210,000 Other reserves 6(f) 204,478 509,651 Retained earnings 1,284,858 826,775 Proposed dividends 26 – 350,000 Shares held for employee options, net 38 (58,269) (62,884) Shareholders’ equity 13,494,067 12,833,542 Tier I Sukuk 39 785,000 500,000 Total equity 14,279,067 13,333,542 Total liabilities and equity 93,796,219 93,047,411 The accompanying Notes 1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 144 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Consolidated Income Statement For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Notes SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Special commission income 20 3,533,089 3,200,609 Special commission expense 20 1,491,029 1,528,553 Net special commission income 2,042,060 1,672,056 Fee income from banking services, net 21 412,157 415,504 Exchange income, net 136,772 145,650 Dividend income 22 19,749 27,543 Gains on investments, net 23 49,130 145,112 Other operating income, net 15 1 Total operating income 2,659,883 2,405,866 Salaries and employee-related expenses 24 579,105 591,801 Rent and premises-related expenses 161,980 140,320 Depreciation and amortization 9 92,559 89,001 Other general and administrative expenses 225,670 229,420 Impairment charge for credit losses 7 (b) 213,000 246,000 Impairment charge for investments 6 (e) 108,622 207,000 Total operating expenses 1,380,936 1,503,542 Operating income 1,278,947 902,324 Share in earnings of associates 8 (b) 131,851 150,634 Net income 1,410,798 1,052,958 Basic and diluted earnings per share (expressed in SAR per share) 25 1.88 1.40 The accompanying Notes 1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 145 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Notes SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Net income 1,410,798 1,052,958 Other comprehensive income – items that are or may be reclassified to the consolidated income statement in subsequent periods: Available for sale investments: – Net change in fair value (254,631) 552,136 – Fair value gains transferred to consolidated income statement upon disposal (49,130) (57,851) Share of other comprehensive (loss) income of associates 8 (b) (1,412) 3,598 Total other comprehensive (loss) income (305,173) 497,883 Total comprehensive income 1,105,625 1,550,841 The accompanying Notes 1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 146 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 SAR ’000 Notes Share Statutory Other Retained Proposed Shares held Shareholders’ Tier I Total capital reserve reserves earnings dividends for employee equity Sukuk equity options, net Balances at the beginning of the year as previously reported (Audited) 7,000,000 4,210,000 509,651 966,421 420,000 (62,884) 13,043,188 500,000 13,543,188 Effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments 41 – – – (139,646) (70,000) – (209,646) – (209,646) Balances at the beginning of the year as restated 7,000,000 4,210,000 509,651 826,775 350,000 (62,884) 12,833,542 500,000 13,333,542 Net income – – – 1,410,798 – – 1,410,798 – 1,410,798 Total other comprehensive loss – – (305,173) – – – (305,173) – (305,173) Total comprehensive income (loss) – – (305,173) 1,410,798 – – 1,105,625 – 1,105,625 Foreign shareholder income tax reimbursement – – – 13,332 – – 13,332 – 13,332 Zakat for current period – – – (45,323) – – (45,323) – (45,323) Income tax for current period – – – (27,386) – – (27,386) – (27,386) Income tax for prior periods, net – – – (2,091) – – (2,091) – (2,091) Dividends paid 26 – – – – (350,000) – (350,000) – (350,000) Bonus shares issued 26 500,000 – – (500,000) – – – – – Tier I Sukuk proceeds 39 – – – – – – – 285,000 285,000 Tier I Sukuk Costs 39 – – – (38,247) – – (38,247) – (38,247) Transfer to statutory reserve 18 – 353,000 – (353,000) – – – – – Net movement in shares held for employee options 38 – – – – – 4,615 4,615 – 4,615 Balances at the end of the year 7,500,000 4,563,000 204,478 1,284,858 – (58,269) 13,494,067 785,000 14,279,067 The accompanying Notes 1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 147 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2016 SAR ’000 Notes Share Statutory Other Retained Proposed Shares held Shareholders’ Tier I Total capital reserve reserves earnings dividends for employee equity Sukuk equity options, net Balances at the beginning of the year 6,500,000 3,946,000 11,768 1,100,949 534,500 (56,755) 12,036,462 – 12,036,462 Effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments – – – (160,426) (47,000) – (207,426) – (207,426) Balances at the beginning of the year as restated 6,500,000 3,946,000 11,768 940,523 487,500 (56,755) 11,829,036 – 11,829,036 Net income – – – 1,052,958 – – 1,052,958 – 1,052,958 Total other comprehensive income – – 497,883 – – – 497,883 – 497,883 Total comprehensive income – – 497,883 1,052,958 – – 1,550,841 – 1,550,841 Zakat for current period – – – (26,144) – – (26,144) – (26,144) Zakat for prior periods, net – – – 141 – – 141 – 141 Income Tax for current period – – – (7,869) – – (7,869) – (7,869) Income Tax for prior periods, net – – – (15,348) – – (15,348) – (15,348) Dividends paid 26 – – – – (487,500) – (487,500) – (487,500) Bonus shares issued 26 500,000 – – (500,000) – – – – – Proposed dividends 26 – – – (350,000) 350,000 – – – – Tier I Sukuk proceeds 39 – – – – – – – 500,000 500,000 Tier I Sukuk Costs 39 – – – (3,486) – – (3,486) – (3,486) Transfer to statutory reserve 18 – 264,000 – (264,000) – – – – – Net movement in shares held for employee options 38 – – – – – (6,129) (6,129) – (6,129) Balances at the end of the year 7,000,000 4,210,000 509,651 826,775 350,000 (62,884) 12,833,542 500,000 13,333,542 The accompanying Notes 1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 148 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Notes SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Operating Activities Net income 1,410,798 1,052,958 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used in operating activities Net accretion of discounts and net amortization of premiums on investments, net 56,903 57,787 Net change in accrued special commission income (84,713) (348,200) Net change in accrued special commission expense (85,487) 212,457 Net change in deferred loan fees 11,038 10,586 Gains on investments, net 23 (49,130) (145,112) Gains on sales of property, equipment, and intangibles (15) – Depreciation and amortization 9 92,559 89,001 Impairment charge for credit losses 7(b) 213,000 246,000 Impairment charge for investments 6(e) 108,622 207,000 Share in earnings of associates 8(b) (131,851) (150,634) Share-based provisions 38 9,948 33,996 1,551,672 1,265,839 Net (increase) decrease in operating assets: Statutory deposit with SAMA 243,558 (191,035) Due from banks and other financial institutions maturing after ninety days from acquisition date 25,663 (20,671) Loans and advances, net 545,068 78,545 Positive fair values of derivatives 6,357 (604,047) Other assets (357,024) (183,793) Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities: Due to banks and other financial institutions (1,425,465) 3,630,290 Customer deposits 1,381,361 (4,999,852) Negative fair values of derivatives (29,708) 394,310 Other liabilities (47,937) 54,265 Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities 1,893,545 (576,149) Investing Activities Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments 3,894,435 2,230,748 Purchases of investments (4,561,311) (4,310,757) Dividends received from associates 8(b) 98,815 92,917 Acquisitions of property, equipment, and intangibles 9 (107,880) (55,038) Proceeds from sales of property, equipment, and intangibles 15 1 Net cash used in investing activities (675,926) (2,042,129) Financing Activities Zakat and Income Tax payments, net (35,144) (53,847) Purchases of shares for employee options 38 (17,574) (58,206) Dividends paid 26 (350,000) (487,500) Repayment of term loans 14 (1,000,000) (1,000,000) Proceeds from term loans 14 1,000,000 1,000,000 Proceeds from Tier I Sukuk 39 285,000 500,000 Tier I Sukuk costs 39 (38,247) (3,486) Net cash used in financing activities (155,965) (103,039) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,061,654 (2,721,317) The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 149 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Notes SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,382,652 7,103,969 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,061,654 (2,721,317) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 28 5,444,306 4,382,652 Supplemental special commission information Special commission received 3,448,376 2,852,409 Special commission paid 1,573,746 1,312,983 Supplemental non-cash information Total other comprehensive income (305,173) 497,883 Other real estate 300,000 265,888 Proposed dividends 26 – 350,000 Bonus shares issued 26 500,000 500,000 The accompanying Notes1 to 42 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 150 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 GRI 102-45 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 1. General agent, underwriting, management of investment funds and private investment portfolios on behalf of customers, The Saudi Investment Bank (the Bank), a Saudi joint and arrangement, advisory, and custody services relating stock company, was formed pursuant to Royal Decree to financial securities. The Group also offers Shariah No. M/31 dated 25 Jumada II 1396H, (corresponding compliant (non-interest based) banking products and to June 23, 1976) in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. services, which are approved and supervised by an The Bank operates under Commercial Registration independent Shariah Board. No. 1010011570 dated 25 Rabie Awwal 1397H, (corresponding to March 16, 1977) through its 49 References to the “Bank” hereafter in these consolidated branches (2016: 48 branches) in the Kingdom of financial statements refer to disclosures that are relevant Saudi Arabia. The address of the Bank’s Head Office is only to The Saudi Investment Bank, and not collectively to as follows: the “Group”. The Saudi Investment Bank Head Office P. O. Box 3533 2. Basis of preparation Riyadh 11481, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (a) Statement of compliance On April 11, 2017, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority These consolidated financial statements include the (SAMA) issued Circular No. 381000074519 with financial statements of the Bank and the financial subsequent amendments regarding certain clarifications statements of the following subsidiaries (collectively relating to the accounting for Zakat and Income tax. The referred to as the “Group” in these consolidated financial impact of the Circular and amendments are as follows: statements): • The accounting standards for commercial banks (a) “Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage promulgated by SAMA are no longer applicable from Company” (Alistithmar Capital), a Saudi closed January 1, 2017; and joint stock company, is registered in the Kingdom • Zakat and Income Tax are to be accrued on a of Saudi Arabia under Commercial Registration quarterly basis and recognized in the consolidated No. 1010235995 issued on 8 Rajab 1428H statement of changes in equity with a corresponding (corresponding to July 22, 2007), and is 100% liability recognized in the consolidated statement of owned by the Bank; financial position. (b) “Saudi Investment Real Estate Company”, a Saudi limited liability company, registered in the Kingdom Applying the above SAMA Circular and amendments to of Saudi Arabia under commercial registration the Framework, these consolidated financial statements No. 1010268297 issued on 29 Jumada Awwal as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 have 1430H (corresponding to May 25, 2009) and is been prepared using: owned 100% by the Bank. The Company has not • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as commenced any significant operations; modified by SAMA for the accounting of Zakat and (c) “Saudi Investment First Company”, a Saudi limited Income Tax, which requires adoption of all IFRSs as liability company, registered in the Kingdom issued by the International Accounting Standards of Saudi Arabia under commercial registration Board (IASB) except for the application of International No. 1010427836 issued on 16 Muharram 1436H Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 – “Income Taxes” (corresponding to November 9, 2014) and is and IFRIC 21 – “Levies” in so far as these relate to owned 100% by the Bank. The Company has not Zakat and Income Tax. As for the SAMA Circular commenced any significant operations; and No. 381000074519 dated April 11, 2017 and (d) “SAIB Markets Limited Company”, a Cayman Islands subsequent amendments through certain clarifications limited liability company, registered in the Cayman relating to the accounting for Zakat and Income Tax Islands on July 18, 2017, and is 100% owned by the (SAMA Circular), the Zakat and Income Tax are to be Bank. The objective of the Company is to conduct accrued on a quarterly basis through shareholders’ derivatives and repurchase activities on behalf of equity under retained earnings; and the Bank. The Company has not commenced • Are in compliance with the Banking Control Law, the significant operations. applicable provisions of regulations for companies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Bank’s Articles The Bank offers a full range of commercial and retail of Association banking services. The principal activities of Alistithmar Capital include dealing in securities as principal and The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Until December 31, 2016, the consolidated financial The key assumptions concerning the future, as well statements were prepared in accordance with as other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the the accounting standards for commercial banks reporting date, that could have a significant risk of promulgated by SAMA, IFRS, and IFRIC. This change in causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts framework resulted in a change in the accounting policy of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, for Zakat and Income Tax, as disclosed in Note 3. The are described below. The Group based its assumptions effects of this change are disclosed in Notes 27 and 41. and estimates on parameters available at the date of statement of financial position. Existing circumstances (b) Basis of measurement and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances These consolidated financial statements are prepared beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are under the historical cost basis except for the following included in the assumptions when they occur. items in the consolidated statement of financial position: (a) Assets and liabilities held for trading are measured Significant areas where Management has used at fair value; estimates, assumptions or exercised judgements are (b) Financial instruments designated as fair value as follows: through the consolidated income statement are (i) Impairment for losses on loans and advances measured at fair value; The Group reviews its loan portfolios to assess specific (c) Available for sale investments are measured at and collective impairment at each reporting date. In fair value; determining whether an impairment loss should be (d) Derivatives are measured at fair value; recorded, the Group makes judgements as to whether (e) Recognized financial assets and financial liabilities there is any observable data indicating an impairment designated as hedged items in qualifying fair value trigger and followed by a measurable decrease in the hedge relationships are adjusted for changes in fair estimated future cash flows. This evidence may include value attributable to the risk being hedged; and observable data indicating that there has been an (f) Cash settled share-based payments are measured adverse change in the payment status of borrowers in a at fair value. group. Management uses estimates based on historical loss experience for loans with credit risk characteristics During the years ended December 31, 2017 and and objective evidence of impairment similar to those in 2016, the Group had no assets or liabilities which were the portfolio when estimating its future cash flows. held as trading, except for certain derivative financial instruments. The statement of financial position is stated The methodology and assumptions used for estimating broadly in order of liquidity. both the amount and the timing of future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. The (c) Functional and presentation currency assessment considers risk concentrations and economic The consolidated financial statements are presented in data, including levels of unemployment, real estate price Saudi Arabian Riyals (SAR) which is the Bank’s functional indices, country risk, and the performance of different currency. Except as indicated, financial information individual groups. presented in SAR has been rounded off to the nearest thousand. (ii) Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments, such as (d) Critical accounting judgements, estimates derivatives, at fair value at each consolidated statement and assumptions of financial position date, except as disclosed in Note 34. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. between market participants at the measurement date. It also requires Management to exercise its judgement The fair value measurement is based on the presumption in the process of applying the Group’s accounting that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the policies. Such judgements, estimates and assumptions liability takes place either: are continually evaluated and are based on historical • In the principal market for the asset or liability, or experience and other factors, including obtaining • In the absence of a principal market, in the most professional advice and expectations of future events that advantageous market for the asset or liability. are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 152 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 The principal or the most advantageous market must be At each reporting date, the Group analyzes the accessible to by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a movements in the values of assets and liabilities which liability is measured using the assumptions that market are required to be remeasured or reassessed as per the participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the Group assuming that market participants act in their economic verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial by agreeing the information in the valuation computation asset consider a market participant's ability to generate to contracts and other relevant documents. The Group economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset best use or by selling it to another market participant and liability with relevant external sources to determine that would use the asset in its highest and best use. whether the change is reasonable. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is determined the classes of assets and liabilities on the available to measure fair value, while maximizing the use basis of the nature, characteristics, and the related risks of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of of the asset or liability, and the level of the fair value unobservable inputs. hierarchy as explained above. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured (iii) Impairment of available for sale equity and or disclosed in the consolidated financial statements are debt investments categorized within a fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant The Group exercises its judgement in considering any to the fair value measurement as a whole: impairment on the available for-sale-equity and debt investments at each reporting date. Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for the identical instrument that an entity can access at the measurement For equity investments, this includes a determination date (i.e., without modification or proxy); of a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost. The determination of what is significant Level 2. Quoted prices in active markets for similar or prolonged requires judgement. In assessing whether assets and liabilities or other valuation techniques for it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition. value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the period in which the fair Level 3. Valuation techniques for which the lowest level value of the asset has been below its original cost at input that is significant to the fair value measurement initial recognition. In making this judgement, the Group is unobservable. evaluates among other factors, the normal volatility in share/debt price. In addition, the Group considers For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the impairment to be appropriate when there is objective consolidated financial statements on a recurring evidence of deterioration in the financial health of the basis, the Group determines whether transfers have investee, industry and sector performance, changes in occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing technology, and operational and financing cash flows. categorization (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at The Bank reviews its debt securities classified as available the end of each financial reporting period. for sale at each reporting date to assess whether they may be impaired. This requires similar judgement as applied to The Group determines the policies and procedures the individual assessments of loans and advances. for both recurring fair value measurement, such as unquoted available for sale financial assets, and for any (iv) Classification of held to maturity investments non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for The Group classifies non-derivative financial assets with distribution in discontinued operations. fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities as held to maturity in accordance with IAS 39. In making this External valuers are involved from time to time for the judgement, the Group evaluates its intention and ability valuation of certain assets. Involvement of external to hold such investments to maturity. valuers is decided upon annually. Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence, If the Group fails to retain these investments to maturity and whether professional standards are maintained. other than in specific circumstances, including selling close to maturity or for an insignificant amount, the The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Group reclassifies the entire class as available for sale. with those used in the preparation of the annual As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Bank has no consolidated financial statements for the year ended held to maturity investments. December 31, 2016. (v) Determination of control over investees (a) Change in accounting policies The control indicators set out in Note 3 (b) are subject The accounting policies adopted are consistent with to Management’s judgement. The Group also acts as those of the annual consolidated financial statements Fund Manager to several investment funds. Determining for the year ended December 31, 2016, as described whether the Group controls such an investment fund in the annual consolidated financial statements for the usually focuses on the assessment of the aggregate year ended December 31, 2016, except for the change economic interests of the Group in the fund (comprising in accounting policy of Zakat and tax mentioned below any carried interests and expected management fees) and adoption of the following amendments to existing and the investors’ rights to remove the Fund Manager. standards mentioned below: As a result, the Group has concluded that it acts as an • Amendments to IASs – “Disclosure Initiative” applicable agent for the investors in all cases, and therefore has not from January 1, 2017. consolidated the financial statements of these funds. • Amendments to IAS 7 – “Statement of Cash Flows”, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or (e) Going concern after January 1, 2017. The Group’s Management has made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and is These amendments are part of the IASB’s Disclosure satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue Initiative, which continues to explore how financial in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, statements disclosures can be improved. The adoption Management is not aware of any material uncertainties of the above amendments to existing standards have not that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to had a significant impact on the current year consolidated continue as a going concern. Therefore, the consolidated financial statements. financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis. The Bank has chosen not to early adopt the amendments and revisions to the International Financial Reporting Standards which have been published and are mandatory (f) Provisions for liabilities and charges for adoption for the accounting years beginning on or The Group receives legal claims against it in the normal after January 1, 2018 (see Note 40). course of business. Management has made judgements as to the likelihood of any claim succeeding in making As described in Note 2, the Group amended its provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is accounting policy relating to Zakat and Income Tax uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of effective on January 1, 2017. The effect of the new economic benefits. Timing and cost ultimately depends Zakat and Income Tax Policy is accounted for in these on the due process being followed as per law. consolidated financial statements retroactively. The superceded Zakat and Income Tax Policy required only payments of Zakat and Income Tax to be recorded as (g) Employee benefit plans an other asset until such amounts were reimbursed by The Group provides post employment end of service a Bank’s shareholders either through cash payments or benefits to its employees based on the Saudi Arabia by withholding the amounts from shareholder dividend Labor and Workmen Law. The liability is provided based payments. In addition, the superceded Zakat and Income on a projected unit credit method in accordance with the Tax Standard did not require the accrual of Zakat and periodic actuarial valuations as described in Note 38 (b). Income Tax in other liabilities. The new Zakat and Income Tax Policy requires both payments of Zakat and Income Tax previously included in other assets, and also 3. Summary of significant accounting policies accruals for Zakat and Income Tax on a quarterly basis The significant accounting policies adopted in the to be included in other liabilities, with the corresponding preparation of these consolidated financial statements amounts to be accounted for as a direct charge to retained are set out below. Except for the change in accounting earnings. See Notes 27 and 41 for further disclosures. policies resulting from new and or amended IFRS and IFRIC guidance as detailed in Note 3 (a) below, The adoption of the above amendments to existing the accounting policies adopted in the preparation of standards have had no significant impact on the these consolidated financial statements are consistent consolidated financial statements of the Group in the 154 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 current year or prior years and is also expected to have The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an an insignificant effect in future years. investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of (b) Basis of consolidation control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases These consolidated financial statements are when the Group loses control over the subsidiary. comprised the financial statements of the Bank and its Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary subsidiaries as identified in Note 1. The financial acquired or disposed of during the year are included in statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the the statement of comprehensive income from the date same reporting year as that of the Bank, using consistent the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases accounting policies. Changes are made to the accounting to control the subsidiary. policies of the subsidiaries when necessary to align with the accounting policies of the Group. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an Subsidiaries are investees controlled by the Group. The equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a Group controls an investee when it is exposed, or has subsidiary, it: rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the • Derecognizes the assets (including goodwill) and investee and has the ability to affect those returns through liabilities of the subsidiary; its power over the investee. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial • Derecognizes the carrying amount of any nonstatements from the date the Group obtains control of controlling interests; the investee and ceases when the Group loses control of • Derecognizes the cumulative translation differences the investee. recorded in equity; • Recognizes the fair value of the consideration received; A structured entity is an entity designed so that its • Recognizes the fair value of any investment retained; activities are not governed by way of voting rights. In • Recognizes any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; and assessing whether the Group has power over such investees in which it has an interest, the Group considers • Reclassifies the parent’s share of components factors such as purpose and design of the investee, its previously recognized in OCI to profit or loss or retained practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the earnings, as appropriate, as would be required if investee, the nature of its relationship with the investee, the Group had directly disposed of the related assets and the size of its exposure to the variability of returns or liabilities. of the investee. The financial statements of any such structured entities are consolidated from the date the These consolidated financial statements have been Group gains control and until the date when the Group prepared using uniform accounting policies and valuation ceases to control the investee. Specifically, the Group methods for like transactions and other events in controls an investee if and only if the Group has: similar circumstances. • Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give The Group manages assets held in investment entities it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of on behalf of investors. The financial statements of these the investee); entities are not included in these consolidated financial • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its statements except when the Group controls the entity. involvement with the investee; and • The ability to use its power over the investee to affect All intra-group balances and any income and expenses amount of its returns. arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing these consolidated financial statements. When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all (c) Investments in associates relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: Investments in associates are initially recognized at cost • The contractual arrangement with the other vote and subsequently accounted for under the equity method holders of the investee; of accounting. An associate is an entity in which the Bank has significant influence (but not control) over financial • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and operating matters and which is neither a subsidiary • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights nor a joint venture. granted by equity instruments such as shares. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Investments in associates are carried in the consolidated its carrying value and recognizes the amount in the statement of financial position at cost, plus postshare in earnings of associates in the consolidated acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net income statement. assets of the associates, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Share in earnings of (d) Settlement date accounting associates includes the changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associates. The Group’s share All regular-way purchases and sales of financial assets of its associates post-acquisition income or losses are recognized and derecognized on the settlement date, is recognized in the consolidated income statement i.e. the date the asset is delivered to the counterparty. and its share of post-acquisition movements in other When settlement date accounting is applied, the Bank comprehensive income is recognized in other reserves accounts for any change in fair value between the trade included in shareholders’ equity. The cumulative postdate and the settlement date in the same way as it acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying accounts for the acquired asset. Regular way purchases amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in that require delivery of assets within the time frame the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, generally established by regulation or convention in the the Group does not recognize further losses, unless it has market place. incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Goodwill relating to the associate is included (e) Derivative financial instruments and hedge in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither accounting amortized nor individually tested for impairment. Derivative financial instruments, including foreign Unrealized gains and losses on transactions between exchange contracts, commission rate futures, forward rate the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent agreements, currency and commission rate swaps, and of the Bank’s interest in the associates. currency and commission rate options (both written and purchased) are initially recognized at fair value on the date The consolidated income statement reflects the Group’s on which the derivatives contract is entered into and are share of the results of operations of the associates. subsequently re-measured at fair value in the consolidated When there has been a change recognized directly statement of financial position with transaction costs in the equity of the associates, the Group recognizes recognized in the consolidated income statement. All its share of any changes and discloses this, when derivatives are carried at their fair value as assets where applicable, in the consolidated statement of changes in the net fair value is positive and as liabilities where the net shareholders’ equity. Unrealized gains on transactions fair value is negative. Fair values are obtained by reference are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the to quoted market prices, discounted cash flow methods, investees. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless and pricing models as appropriate. the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the asset transferred. The treatment of changes in their fair value depends on their classification into the following categories: The Group’s share of earnings in an associate is shown (i) Derivatives held for trading on the face of the consolidated income statement, which represents the net earnings attributable to equity holders Any changes in the fair value of derivatives that are of an associate and therefore income after tax and Zakat held for trading purposes are taken directly to the and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the consolidated income statement and disclosed in trading associate. The financial statements of the associate are income. Derivatives held for trading also include those prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. (ii) Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments After application of the equity method, the Group are treated as separate derivatives and are recorded at determines whether it is necessary to recognize an fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are impairment loss on its investment in its associate. not closely related to those of the host contract, and the The Group determines at each reporting date whether host contract is not itself held for trading or designated there is any objective evidence that the investment in at fair value through consolidated income statement. the associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group The embedded derivatives separated from the host are calculates the amount of impairment as the difference carried at estimated net fair value with changes in fair between the recoverable amount of the associate and value recognized in the consolidated income statement. 156 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (iii) Hedge accounting a forecast transaction, the Group also assesses whether the transaction is highly probable and presents an The Group designates certain derivatives as hedging exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately instruments in qualifying hedging relationships affect the consolidated income statement. to manage exposures to interest rates, foreign currency, and credit risks, including exposures arising from highly probable forecast transactions and firm iii (a) Fair value hedges commitments. In order to manage a particular risk, the When a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument Bank applies hedge accounting for transactions that in the hedge of a change in fair value of a recognized meet specific criteria. asset or liability or a firm commitment that could affect the consolidated income statement, any gain or loss For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are from re-measuring the hedging instruments to fair value classified into two categories: (a) fair value hedges is recognized immediately in the consolidated income which hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of statement together with the change in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability, (or assets or liabilities in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in special the case of portfolio hedging), or an unrecognized firm commission income. commitment or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable to a For hedged items measured at amortized cost, where particular risk and could affect the reported net gain or the fair value hedge of a commission bearing financial loss; and (b) cash flow hedges which hedge exposure instrument ceases to meet the criteria for hedge to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to accounting or is sold, exercised or terminated, the a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or difference between the carrying value of the hedged item liability or to a highly probable forecasted transaction on termination and the face value is amortized over the that will affect the reported net gain or loss. remaining term of the original hedge using the effective interest rate method. If the hedged item is derecognized, In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge the unamortized fair value adjustment is recognized should be expected to be highly effective, i.e. the changes immediately in the consolidated income statement. in fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument should effectively offset corresponding changes in the iii (b) Cash flow hedges hedged item, and should be reliably measurable. At When a derivative is designated and qualified as a inception of the hedge, the risk management objective hedging instrument in the hedge of a variability of cash and strategy are documented including the identification flows attributable to a particular risk associated with of the hedging instrument, the related hedged item, a recognized asset or a liability or a highly probable the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the forecasted transaction that could affect the consolidated Group will assess the effectiveness of the hedging income statement, the portion of the gain or loss on the relationship. Subsequently, the hedge is required to be hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective assessed and determined to be an effective hedge on an portion is recognized directly in other comprehensive on going basis. income and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognized in the consolidated income statement. For cash flow At each hedge effectiveness assessment/reporting hedges affecting future transactions, the gains or losses date, each hedge relationship must be expected to be recognized in other reserves, are transferred to the highly effective on a prospective basis and demonstrate consolidated income statement in the same period in that it was effective (retrospective effectiveness) for which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated the designated period in order to qualify for hedge income statement. However, if the Bank expects that all accounting. A formal assessment is undertaken by or a portion of a loss recognized in other comprehensive comparing the hedging instrument’s effectiveness income will not be recovered in one or more future in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows periods, it reclassifies into the consolidated income attributable to the hedged risk in the hedged item, at statement as a reclassification adjustment the amount inception and at each quarter end on an ongoing basis. that is not to be recognized. A hedge is expected to be highly effective if the changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged Where the hedged transaction results in the recognition risk during the period for which the hedge is designated of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, then were offset by the hedging instrument in a range of at the time such asset or liability is recognized, the 80% to 125% and were expected to achieve such offset associated gains or losses that had previously been in future periods. Hedge ineffectiveness if significant is recognized directly in other comprehensive income are recognized in the consolidated income statement in net included in the initial measurement of the acquisition trading income. For situations where the hedged item is cost or other carrying amount of such asset or liability. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 When the hedging instrument is expired or sold, (g) Offsetting financial instruments terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Financial assets and liabilities are offset and are reported accounting, or the transaction is no longer expected net in the consolidated statement of financial position to occur or the Group revokes the designation, then when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. At that recognized amounts and when the Group intends to point of time, any cumulative gain or loss on the cash settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the flow hedging instrument that was recognized in other liability simultaneously. comprehensive income from the period when the hedge was effective is transferred from shareholders’ equity to Income and expenses are not offset in the consolidated the consolidated income statement when the forecasted income statement unless required or permitted by any transaction occurs. Where the hedged transaction is no accounting standard or interpretation, and as specifically longer expected to occur and affects the consolidated disclosed in the accounting policies of the Group. income statement, the net cumulative gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is transferred immediately to the consolidated income statement. (h) Revenue/expense recognition Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable (f) Foreign currencies that economic benefits will flow to the Group, and the revenue can be reliably measured. The following Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into specific recognition criteria must also be met before Saudi Arabian Riyals at the exchange rates prevailing at revenue is recognized. transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities at yearend, denominated in foreign currencies, are translated Special commission income and expense for all special into Saudi Arabian Riyals at the exchange rates prevailing commission earning/bearing financial instruments are at the consolidated statement of financial position date. recognized in the consolidated income statement on the effective yield basis. The effective yield is the rate The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is that discounts the estimated future cash payments and the difference between amortized cost in the functional receipts through the expected life of the financial asset currency at the beginning of the year adjusted for or liability (or, where appropriate, a shorter period) to effective interest rates and payments during the year, the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. and the amortized cost in foreign currency translated at When calculating the effective special commission rate, the exchange rate at the end of the year. All differences the Group estimates future cash flows considering all arising on non-trading activities are taken to other contractual terms of the financial instrument but not non-operating income in the consolidated income future credit losses. statement, with the exception of differences of foreign currency borrowings that provide an effective The carrying amount of a financial asset or financial hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity. liability is adjusted if the Group revises its estimates of Foreign exchange gains or losses on translation payments or receipts. The adjusted carrying amount of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in is calculated based on the original effective special foreign currencies are recognized in the consolidated commission rate and the change in carrying amount is income statement except for differences arising on the recorded as special commission income or expense. retranslation of available for sale equity instruments or when deferred in other comprehensive income If the recorded value of a financial asset or a group of as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net similar financial assets has been reduced due to an investment hedges to the extent hedges are effective. impairment loss, special commission income continues Translation gains or losses on non-monetary items to be recognized on the effective yield basis, based on carried at fair value are included as part of the fair the asset’s carrying value net of impairment provisions. value adjustment on investment securities available for sale, unless the non-monetary items have an effective The calculation of the effective yield considers hedging strategy. all contractual terms of the financial instruments (prepayment, options etc.) and includes all fees paid or Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of transaction costs, and discounts or premiums that are historical cost in a foreign currency are translated an integral part of the effective special commission rate. using the exchange rates as of the dates of the initial Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange financial asset or liability. rates at the date when the fair value is determined. 158 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Exchange income/loss is recognized when earned/ Group immediately recognizes the difference between incurred and in accordance with the principles included the transaction price and fair value (a Day 1 profit or loss) in Note 3 (f). in the consolidated income statement. In cases where use is made of data which is not observable, the Fees that are considered as integral to the effective difference between the transaction price and model commission rate are deferred and included in the value is only recognized in the consolidated income measurement of the relevant assets. statement when the inputs become observable, or when the instrument is derecognized. Fees from banking services that are not an integral component of the effective yield calculation on a financial (i) Repurchase agreements and reverse asset or liability are generally recognized on an accrual repurchase agreements basis when the related service is provided. Assets sold with a simultaneous commitment to Portfolio and other management advisory and service repurchase at a specified future date (repurchase fees are recognized based on the applicable service agreements) continue to be recognized in the contracts, usually on a time-proportionate basis. consolidated statement of financial position as the Group retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of Fees received on asset management, custody services ownership, and are measured in accordance with related and other similar services that are provided over an accounting policies for investments held as available extended period of time, are recognized over the period for sale. The transactions are treated as a collateralized when the service is being provided. borrowing and the counterparty liability for amounts received under these agreements is included in due Performance linked fees or fee components are to banks and other financial institutions or customer recognized when the performance criteria is fulfilled. deposits, as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as special commission Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be expense and recognized over the life of the repurchase drawn down and other credit related fees are deferred, agreement on an effective yield basis. together with the investment costs, and recognized as on adjustment to the effective yield rate on the loan. When Underlying assets purchased with a corresponding a loan commitment is not expected to result in the draw commitment to resell at a specified future date (reverse down of a loan, loan commitment fees are recognized on repurchase agreements) are not recognized in the a straight-line basis over the commitment period. consolidated statement of financial position, as the Group does not obtain control over the underlying Other fees and commission expense relate mainly to assets. Amounts paid under these agreements are transaction and service fees, and are recognized as included in cash and balances with SAMA. The difference expenses as the services are received or the transaction between the purchase and resale price is treated as is completed. special commission income and recognized over the life of the reverse repurchase agreement on an effective Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive yield basis. payment is established. Dividends are reflected as a component of net trading income, net income from FVIS (j) Investments financial instruments or other operating income based All investment securities are initially recorded at fair on the underlying classification of the equity instrument. value, including any incremental direct transaction cost. Premiums are amortized and discounts are accreted Net trading income arising from trading activities using the effective yield basis and are taken to special include all realized and unrealized gains and losses from commission income. changes in fair value and related special commission income or expense and dividends for financial assets and For securities traded in established financial markets, financial liabilities held for trading and foreign exchange fair value is determined by reference to exchange differences. This also includes any ineffectiveness quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the recorded in hedging transactions. consolidated statement of financial position date. Fair values of managed assets and investments in mutual Where a transaction price differs from the fair value of funds are determined by reference to declared net asset other observable current market transactions in the same values which approximates the fair value. instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, the The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 For securities where there is no quoted market price, (ii) Held to maturity a reasonable estimate of the fair value is determined Investments having fixed or determinable payments and by reference to the current market value of another a fixed maturity and for which the Group has a positive instrument which is substantially the same, or is based intention and ability to hold to maturity are classified as on the expected cash flows of the security. Where the fair held to maturity. Held to maturity investments are initially values cannot be derived from active markets or reference recognized at fair value including direct and incremental prices, they are determined using a variety of valuation transaction costs and are subsequently measured at techniques that include the use of mathematical models. amortized cost, less provision for impairment in value. The input to these models is taken from observable Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, discount or premium on acquisition using an effective a degree of judgement is required in establishing yield basis. Any gain or loss on such investments is fair values. recognized in the consolidated income statement when the investment is derecognized or impaired. Following initial recognition, subsequent transfers between the various classes of investments are Investments classified as held to maturity cannot permissible only if certain conditions are met. The ordinarily be sold or reclassified without impacting the subsequent period-end reporting values for each class Group’s ability to use this classification and cannot be of investment are determined on the basis as set out in designated as a hedged item with respect to commission the following paragraphs. rate or prepayment risk, reflecting the longer-term nature of these investments. However, sales or reclassifications (i) Available for sale would not impact the Group’s ability to use this Available for sale investments are those non-derivative classification in any of the following circumstances: equity and debt securities intended to be held for an • Sales or reclassifications that are so close to maturity unspecified period of time, which are neither classified as that the changes in the market rate of the commission a held to maturity investment, loans and receivables, nor would not have a significant effect on the fair value; designated as FVIS, and which may be sold in response • Sales or reclassifications after the Group has collected to needs for liquidity or changes in special commission substantially all of the assets original principal; and rates, exchange rates, or equity prices. • Sales or reclassifications attributable to non-recurring isolated events beyond the Group’s control that could Investments which are classified as available for sale not have been reasonably anticipated. are initially recognized at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently measured at fair value, except for unquoted equity (k) Loans and advances securities where fair value cannot be reliably measured Loans and advances are non-derivative financial which are carried at cost. For an available for sale assets originated or acquired by the Group with fixed investment where the fair value has not been hedged, or determinable payments. Loans and advances are any gain or loss arising from a change in its fair value recognized when cash is advanced to borrowers. They is recognized in other comprehensive income. On are derecognized when either borrowers repay their derecognition or impairment, any cumulative gain or loss obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or previously recognized in other comprehensive income is substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are reclassified in the consolidated income statement. transferred. Special commission income is recognized in the All loans and advances are initially measured at fair consolidated income statement on an effective yield value, including acquisition charges associated with the basis. Dividend income is recognized in the consolidated loans and advances. income statement when the right to receive payment is established. Foreign exchange gains or losses on available All loans and advances are classified as held at amortized for sale debt security investments are recognized in the cost. Loans and advances originated or acquired by consolidated income statement. the Group that are not quoted in an active market, and for which fair value has not been hedged, are stated at A security held as available for sale may be reclassified to amortized cost using an effective commission rate, less “other investments held at amortized cost” if it otherwise any amount written off and allowance for credit losses. would have met the definition of “other investments held at amortized cost” and if the Group has the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity. 160 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (l) Impairment of financial assets the original carrying amount of the loan. In other cases, renegotiation may lead to a new agreement, and An assessment is made at each reporting date to accordingly the agreement is treated as a new loan. determine whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets may be impaired at the reporting date. If such evidence exists, (i) Impairment of financial assets held at the estimated recoverable amount of that asset is amortized cost determined and any impairment loss, based on the A financial asset or group of financial assets are net present value of future estimated cash flows, is classified as impaired when there is objective evidence recognized for changes in its carrying amount. of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset The Group considers evidence of impairment for loans or group of financial assets and where a loss event has and advances and held to maturity investments at both an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the a specific and collective level. When a financial asset is financial asset or group of financial assets that can be uncollectible, it is written off against the related provision reliably estimated. for impairment either directly by a charge to the consolidated income statement or through a provision A specific provision for credit losses due to impairment for impairment account. Financial assets are written of a loan or any other financial asset held at amortized off only in circumstances where effectively all possible cost is established if there is objective evidence that the means of recovery have been exhausted, and the amount Group will not be able to collect all amounts due. The of the loss has been determined. amount of the specific provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated recoverable Once a financial asset has been written down to its amount. The estimated recoverable amount is the estimated recoverable amount, special commission present value of expected future cash flows, including income is thereafter recognized based on the rate amounts estimated to be recoverable from guarantees of special commission that was used to discount the and collateral, discounted based on the original future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the effective yield rate. recoverable amount. In addition to specific provisions for credit losses, If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment provisions for collective impairment are made on a loss decreases and the decrease can be related portfolio basis. The collective impairment provisions objectively to an event occurring after the impairment are estimated based on various factors including credit was recognized (such as an improvement in the debtor’s ratings allocated to a borrower or group of borrowers, credit rating), the previously recognized impairment the experience the Group has had in dealing with a loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The borrower or group of borrowers and available historical amount of the reversal is recognized in the consolidated default information. Historical loss experience is income statement and included in the relevant adjusted on the basis of current observable data to impairment charges. reflect the effects of current conditions. Loans and advances whose terms have been For financial assets at amortized cost, the carrying renegotiated are no longer considered to be past due amount of the asset is adjusted either directly or and are treated as new loans. Restructuring policies through the use of an allowance account and the amount and practices are based on indicators or criteria which of the adjustment is included in the consolidated indicate that payment will most likely continue. The loans income statement. and advances continue to be subject to an individual or collective impairment assessment, calculated using the (ii) Impairment of available for sale financial assets loan’s original effective yield rate. For debt instruments classified as available for sale, the Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as Group assesses individually whether there is objective part of an ongoing customer relationship, and possibly in evidence of impairment based on the same criteria as response to an adverse change in the circumstances of financial assets carried at amortized cost. However, the the borrower. In the latter case, renegotiation can result amount recorded for impairment is the cumulative loss in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment measured as the difference between the amortized plans under which the Group offers a revised rate of cost and the current fair value, less any impairment commission. This may result in the asset continuing to loss on that investment previously recognized in the be overdue and individually impaired as the renegotiated consolidated income statement. payments of commission and principal may not recover The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed instrument increases and the increase can be in future periods. objectively related to a credit event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in the consolidated (n) Other real estate income statement, the impairment loss is reversed and recognized in the consolidated income statement. The Group, in the ordinary course of business, acquires certain real estate against settlement of loans and For equity investments held as available for sale, a advances. Such real estate is considered as held for significant or prolonged decline in fair value below sale and is initially stated at the lower of net realizable its cost represents objective evidence of impairment. value of the loans and advances and the current fair Determining the amount of a significant or prolonged value of the related properties, less any costs to sell, if decline in fair value requires judgement. The impairment material. No depreciation is charged on such real estate. loss cannot be reversed through the consolidated Rental income from other real estate is recognized in the income statement as long as the asset continues consolidated income statement. to be recognized i.e. any increase in fair value after impairment has been recorded, can only be recognized Subsequent to initial recognition, any subsequent writein other comprehensive income. On derecognition, any down to fair value, less costs to sell, are charged to the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in equity is consolidated income statement. Any subsequent gain included in the consolidated income statement. in the fair value less costs to sell of these assets to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write-down is recognized together with any gain/ loss on disposal in (m) Impairment of non-financial assets the consolidated income statement. The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that non-financial assets may be impaired. (o) Property, equipment, and intangibles If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates Property, equipment, and intangibles are stated at cost the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable and presented net of accumulated depreciation and amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating amortization. Freehold land is not depreciated. The unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs to sell and its value costs of other property, equipment, and intangibles are in use. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU depreciated or amortized using the straight-line method exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Buildings 20 to 30 years In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Leasehold improvements Over the lease are discounted to their present value using a discount period or 5 years, rate that reflects current market assessments of the whichever is shorter time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Intangibles 8 years In determining an asset’s fair value less costs to sell, Furniture, equipment and vehicles 4 to 5 years an appropriate valuation model is used. These model calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or The assets’ residual values, useful lives, and depreciation other available fair value indicators. or amortization methods are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. Gains and losses on For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with at each reporting date as to whether there is any carrying amounts. These are included in the consolidated indication that previously recognized impairment losses income statement. may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indications exist, the Group estimates the asset’s or Other expenditures are capitalized only when it is CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously recognized probable that the future economic benefit of the impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a expenditure will flow to the Group. Ongoing repairs and change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. The reversal is limited so that the carrying Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount, nor exceeds the carrying amount that would amount may not be recoverable. Any carrying amount have been determined, net of depreciation, had no is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated years. Such reversals are recognized in the consolidated recoverable amount. income statement. 162 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (p) Financial liabilities (s) Accounting for leases All money market deposits, customer deposits, term Leases entered into by the Group as a lessee, are loans, subordinated debt, and other debt securities classified as operating leases because the leases do not in issue are initially recognized at fair value less transfer all risks and rewards of ownership. Payments transaction costs. made under operating leases are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis Subsequently all commission-bearing financial liabilities over the period of the lease. other than those where fair values have been hedged are measured at amortized cost. Amortized cost is calculated When an operating lease is terminated before the lease by taking into account any discount or premium. period has expired, any payment required to be made to Premiums are amortized and discounts are accreted on the lessor by way of penalty is recognized as an expense an effective yield basis to maturity and taken to special in the period in which termination takes place. commission expense. The Group also evaluates any non-lease arrangements Financial liabilities in an effective fair value hedge such as outsourcing and similar contracts to determine relationship are adjusted for fair value changes to the if they contain a lease which is then accounted extent of the risk being hedged. The resulting gain or loss for separately. is recognized in the consolidated income statement. For financial liabilities carried at amortized cost, any gain or (t) Cash and cash equivalents loss is recognized in the consolidated income statement when derecognized. For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in cash and balances with SAMA (q) Financial guarantees excluding statutory deposits, and due from banks and A financial guarantee contract generally requires the other financial institutions with a maturity of ninety days issuer of the contract to make specific payments to the or less from the date of acquisition which are also subject contract holder for a loss incurred by the holder if a to insignificant risk of changes in their fair value. debtor fails to pay under the terms of a debt instrument. (u) Derecognition of financial instruments In the ordinary course of business, the Group gives financial guarantees, consisting of letters of credit, A financial asset (or a part of a financial asset, or a part of guarantees and acceptances. Financial guarantees a group of similar financial assets) is derecognized, when are initially recognized in the consolidated financial the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the statements at fair value in other liabilities, being the financial asset expires or the asset is transferred and the value of the premium received. Subsequent to initial transfer qualifies for derecognition. recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amortized premium In instances where the Group is assessed to have and the best estimate of the expenditure required to transferred a financial asset, the asset is derecognized settle any financial obligations arising as a result of if the Group has transferred substantially all the risks such guarantees. Any increase in the liability relating to and rewards of ownership. Where the Group has neither a financial guarantee is recognized in the consolidated transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and income statement in impairment charges for credit rewards of ownership, the financial asset is derecognized losses, net. The premium received is recognized in the only if the Group has not retained control of the financial consolidated income statement in Fee income from asset. The Group recognizes separately as assets or banking services, net” on a straight-line basis over the liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained life of the guarantee. in the process. A financial liability (or part of a financial liability) can only (r) Provisions be derecognized when it is extinguished, that is when the Provisions are recognized for on and off-balance sheet obligation specified in the contract is either discharged, items when a reliable estimate can be made by the Group cancelled, or expired. for a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (v) Zakat and income tax The liability for the Group’s employee’s post-employment end of service benefits is determined based on an Zakat and Income Taxes are accrued and included in actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary, other liabilities and charged directly to retained earnings taking into account the provisions of the Saudi Arabian as required by SAMA Circular No. 381000074519 issued Labor and Workman’s Law. The liability for other longin April 2017. term employees’ benefit plans are also based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary (w) Employees’ incentive and savings plans taking into account the respective terms of the individual The Bank offers to its eligible employees (“Employees”) benefit plans. equity shares in the Bank under an Employee Stock Grant Plan (“the Plan”). This Plan has been approved by SAMA. (y) Asset management services Under the terms of the Plan, employees are granted The Group offers asset management services to its shares which vest over a four-year period. The cost of customers, which include management of certain the Plan is measured by the value of the shares on the investment funds in consultation with professional date purchased and recognized over the period in which investment advisors. The Group’s share of these the service condition is fulfilled using an appropriate funds is included in available for sale investments and valuation model, and ending on the vesting date. fees earned are included in fee income from banking Employee share option schemes are recorded by the services, net. Bank at fair value at grant date. The shares acquired for the share option schemes are recorded at cost and are Assets held in trust or in a fiduciary capacity are not presented as a deduction from shareholders’ equity as treated as assets of the Group and accordingly are not adjusted for any transaction costs, dividends, and gains included in the consolidated financial statements. or losses on sales of such shares. The Group also offers to its employees an Employee (z) Non-interest based banking products Contributory Share Option Plan. The Plan entitles eligible In addition to conventional banking, the Group offers employees to acquire shares in the Bank based on a to its customers certain non-interest based banking pre-determined subscription price at the beginning of products, which are approved by its Shariah Board. the Plan period. Over a two-year period, employees contribute to the purchase of the shares through monthly High level definitions of non-interest based products payroll deductions. At the end of the subscription include: period, according to the Plan, employees are granted i. Murabaha – an agreement whereby the Group sells to the subscribed shares. Should the share price at the end a customer a commodity or an asset, which the Group of the subscription period fall below the subscription has purchased and acquired based on a promise price, the employees are reimbursed for the difference received from the customer to buy. The selling price between the share price and the subscription price. comprises the cost plus an agreed profit margin. In addition, the Group grants to its eligible employees ii. Istisna’a – an agreement between the Group and a other types of security and savings plans that are based customer whereby the Group sells to the customer on mutual contributions by the Group and the employees. a developed asset according to agreed upon These contributions are paid to the participating specifications, for an agreed upon price. employees at the respective maturity date of each plan. iii. Ijarah – an agreement whereby the Group, acting as a lessor, purchases or constructs an asset for lease (x) Other employees’ benefits according to the customer request (lessee), based on his promise to lease the asset for an agreed rent Short-term employees’ benefits are measured on an and specific period that could end by transferring the undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related ownership of the leased asset to the lessee. service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash All non-special interest based banking products are bonus or profit sharing plans if the Group has a present accounted for in conformity with the accounting policies legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a described in these consolidated financial statements. result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 164 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 4. Cash and balances with SAMA Cash and balances with SAMA are summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Cash on hand 725,972 881,498 Reverse repurchase agreements with SAMA 1,282,000 1,220,000 Other balances with SAMA (76,739) 7,077 Subtotal (Note 28) 1,931,233 2,108,575 Statutory deposit with SAMA 3,332,205 3,575,763 Total 5,263,438 5,684,338 In accordance with the Banking Control Law and Regulations issued by The Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA), the Bank is required to maintain a statutory deposit with SAMA at stipulated percentages of its demand, savings, time and other deposits, calculated at the end of each month. The statutory deposits with SAMA are not available to finance the Bank’s day to day operations and therefore do not form a part of cash and cash equivalents. 5. Due from banks and other financial institutions Due from banks and other financial institutions are summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Current accounts 913,181 401,900 Money market placements 2,599,892 1,900,393 Total 3,513,073 2,302,293 The credit quality of due from banks and other financial institutions is managed using data from reputable external credit ratings agencies. The average S&P rating for the portfolio is an investment grade of “A” for 2017 and 2016. 6. Investments, net (a) Available for sale investment securities are classified as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 2016 SAR ’000 Domestic International Total Domestic International Total Fixed rate securities 9,196,031 7,761,445 16,957,476 7,202,134 7,984,702 15,186,836 Floating rate securities 1,465,551 2,573,706 4,039,257 1,851,318 3,228,178 5,079,496 Total commission earning investments 10,661,582 10,335,151 20,996,733 9,053,452 11,212,880 20,266,332 Equities 453,794 54,919 508,713 945,860 71,887 1,017,747 Mutual funds 212,530 – 212,530 167,815 – 167,815 Total available for sale 11,327,906 10,390,070 21,717,976 10,167,127 11,284,767 21,451,894 Allowance for impairment – (4,000) (4,000) – (4,000) (4,000) Available for sale, net 11,327,906 10,386,070 21,713,976 10,167,127 11,280,767 21,447,894 Investments include SAR 3.0 billion (2016: SAR 4.4 billion), which have been pledged under repurchase agreements with other financial institutions. The market value of these investments is SAR 3.0 billion (2016: SAR 4.4 billion). See Note 19 (d). The net cost of the available for sale investment securities before allowance for impairment as of December 31, 2017 is SAR 21.5 billion (2016: SAR 20.9 billion). The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 6. Investments, net (Continued) (b) The composition of available for sale investments is as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 2016 SAR ’000 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Fixed rate securities 11,025,277 5,932,199 16,957,476 9,518,103 5,668,733 15,186,836 Floating rate securities 2,116,001 1,923,256 4,039,257 2,770,765 2,308,731 5,079,496 Total commission earning investments 13,141,278 7,855,455 20,996,733 12,288,868 7,977,464 20,266,332 Equities 449,151 59,562 508,713 942,110 75,637 1,017,747 Mutual funds 212,530 – 212,530 167,815 – 167,815 Total available for sale 13,802,959 7,915,017 21,717,976 13,398,793 8,053,101 21,451,894 Allowance for impairment – (4,000) (4,000) – (4,000) (4,000) Available for sale, net 13,802,959 7,911,017 21,713,976 13,398,793 8,049,101 21,447,894 The unquoted securities above are principally comprised of Saudi Government Development Bonds, and certain Saudi corporate securities. Equities reported under available for sale investments include unquoted shares of SAR 13.3 million (2016: SAR 12.4 million) that are carried at cost, as their fair value cannot be reliably measured. Mutual funds are considered as quoted in the table above as daily net asset values are published on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul). (c) Available for sale investments, net are classified by counterparty as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Government and quasi-government 12,457,770 10,169,143 Corporate 3,354,035 3,116,054 Banks and other financial institutions 5,902,171 8,162,697 Available for sale investments, net 21,713,976 21,447,894 (d) The credit risk exposure of available for sale investments, net is as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Investment grade 18,836,442 17,682,772 Non-investment grade 1,109,997 1,012,726 Unrated 1,046,294 1,566,834 Subtotal 20,992,733 20,262,332 Equities and mutual funds 721,243 1,185,562 Available for sale investments, net 21,713,976 21,447,894 Investment grade securities generally have a minimum external rating from approved rating agencies including Standard and Poors (BBB-), Moodys (Baa3), or Fitch (BBB-). Unrated investment securities primarily include Saudi corporate securities and other private equity fund investments. 166 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 6. Investments, net (Continued) (e) The movement of the allowance for impairment on available for sale investments is as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 4,000 114,000 Impaired during the year 108,622 207,000 Reversals for realized losses during the year (108,622) (317,000) Balance at the end of the year 4,000 4,000 (f) Other reserves classified in shareholders’ equity are comprised of the following: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Unrealized gains on revaluation of available for sale investments, net 204,298 508,059 Share of other comprehensive income of Associates 180 1,592 Other reserves 204,478 509,651 7. Loans and advances, net (a) Loans and advances, net held at amortized cost are comprised of the following: 2017 SAR ’000 Overdraft Consumer Commercial Others Total Performing loans and advances 3,449,960 16,599,693 39,514,262 326,002 59,889,917 Non-performing loans and advances 404,739 242,195 126,214 – 773,148 Total loans and advances 3,854,699 16,841,888 39,640,476 326,002 60,663,065 Allowance for credit losses (316,155) (408,099) (350,193) (334) (1,074,781) Loans and advances, net 3,538,544 16,433,789 39,290,283 325,668 59,588,284 2016 SAR ’000 Overdraft Consumer Commercial Others Total Performing loans and advances 3,240,106 16,566,115 40,067,704 300,358 60,174,283 Non-performing loans and advances 854,976 214,637 – – 1,069,613 Total loans and advances 4,095,082 16,780,752 40,067,704 300,358 61,243,896 Allowance for credit losses (241,255) (380,298) (373,080) (211) (994,844) Loans and advances, net 3,853,827 16,400,454 39,694,624 300,147 60,249,052 Loans and advances above include non-interest based banking products including Murabaha agreements, Istisna’a and Ijarah which are stated at an amortized cost of SAR 37.3 billion (2016: SAR 37.1 billion). The Group in the ordinary course of lending activities holds collateral as security to mitigate credit risk on its loans and advances. The collateral includes customer deposits, financial guarantees, securities, real estate, and other assets. The collateral is managed against relevant exposures at their net realizable values. The estimated fair value of collateral held by the Group as security for total loans and advances is approximately SAR 44.7 billion (2016: SAR 44.2 billion). The estimated fair value of collateral held by the Group as security for non-performing loans and advances as of December 31, 2017 is approximately SAR 0.6 billion (2016: SAR 1.3 billion). The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 7. Loans and advances, net (Continued) (b) The movement in the allowance for credit losses is as follows: Overdraft, commercial and others SAR ’000 Specific Collective Total December 31, 2015 balances 240,093 321,700 561,793 Provided during the year 4,894 68,591 73,485 Bad debts written off during the year (14,294) (7,000) (21,294) Recoveries during the year – 562 562 December 31, 2016 balances 230,693 383,853 614,546 Provided during the year 118,026 (10,324) 107,702 Bad debts written off during the year (43,126) (12,440) (55,566) Recoveries during the year – – – December 31, 2017 balances 305,593 361,089 666,682 Consumer SAR ’000 Specific Collective Total December 31, 2015 balances 142,741 134,182 276,923 Provided during the year 141,036 31,479 172,515 Bad debts written off during the year (156,565) – (156,565) Recoveries during the year 87,425 – 87,425 December 31, 2016 balances 214,637 165,661 380,298 Provided during the year 105,055 243 105,298 Bad debts written off during the year (163,189) – (163,189) Recoveries during the year 85,692 – 85,692 December 31, 2017 balances 242,195 165,904 408,099 (c) The credit quality of loans and advances is summarized as follows: (i) Neither past due nor impaired loans and advances, are as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Excellent 5,106,586 1,552,946 Strong 8,270,575 16,166,513 Average 13,840,569 14,654,462 Acceptable 9,052,186 8,668,615 Marginal 2,209,452 1,777,846 Watch 76,406 170,386 Unrated 18,158,645 16,474,099 Total 56,714,419 59,464,867 168 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 7. Loans and advances, net (Continued) The loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired are described as follows: Excellent – leader in a stable industry. Better than peers’ financials and cash flows. Has access to financial markets under normal market conditions. Strong – strong market and financial position with a history of successful performance but certain exceptions exist. Financial fundamentals are still better than industry benchmarks. The entity would have access to financial markets under normal conditions. Average – moderate degree of stability with industry or company specific risk factors. Financial fundamentals are sound and within industry benchmarks. Access to financial markets is limited and the entity is susceptible to cyclical changes. Acceptable – minor weaknesses in industry or company specific risk factors. Some financial fundamentals are inferior to industry benchmarks. Alternative financing could be available but this might be limited to private and institutional sources only. Marginal – unfavorable industry or company specific risk factors exist. Operating performance and financials are marginal. Alternative sources of finance are unlikely. No new business can be contemplated with this category. Watch – unfavorable industry or company specific risk factors exist. Risk of non-payment is high. Financial fundamentals are well below industry benchmarks and alternative sources of finance are extremely limited. Unrated – unrated loans and advances primarily consist of consumer and other retail loans with no past due balances. (ii) Past due but not impaired loans and advances, are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Overdraft and Consumer Total commercial From 1 day to 30 days 18,957 336,311 355,268 From 31 days to 90 days 974,787 66,842 1,041,629 From 91 days to 180 days 179,280 – 179,280 More than 180 days 1,599,321 – 1,599,321 Total 2,772,345 403,153 3,175,498 2016 SAR ’000 Overdraft and Consumer Total commercial From 1 day to 30 days 95,695 58,590 154,285 From 31 days to 90 days 79,299 33,426 112,725 From 91 days to 180 days 60,193 – 60,193 More than 180 days 382,213 – 382,213 Total 617,400 92,016 709,416 The estimated fair value of collateral held by the Group for past due but not impaired overdraft and commercial facilities included above is SAR 5.8 billion (2016: SAR 4.4 billion). The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 7. Loans and advances, net (Continued) (iii) The economic sector risk concentrations for loans and advances and allowance for credit losses are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Performing NonAllowance for Loans and performing credit losses advances, net Government and quasi-government 282,342 – (900) 281,442 Banks and other financial services 7,701,368 27,065 (67,871) 7,660,562 Agriculture and fishing 20,081 – (189) 19,892 Manufacturing 5,829,380 143,395 (144,277) 5,828,498 Mining and quarrying 1,120,203 – (6,193) 1,114,010 Building and construction 4,499,483 148,304 (62,126) 4,585,661 Commerce 16,481,723 159,720 (237,166) 16,404,277 Transportation and communication 1,799,162 45,112 (46,583) 1,797,691 Services 2,303,587 236 (18,566) 2,285,257 Consumer loans 16,599,693 242,195 (408,099) 16,433,789 Other 3,252,895 7,121 (82,811) 3,177,205 Total 59,889,917 773,148 (1,074,781) 59,588,284 2016 SAR ’000 Performing NonAllowance for Loans and performing credit losses advances, net Government and quasi-government 306,337 – (1,423) 304,914 Banks and other financial services 4,832,040 27,065 (60,413) 4,798,692 Agriculture and fishing 31,647 – (227) 31,420 Manufacturing 5,942,565 1,727 (56,146) 5,888,146 Mining and quarrying 926,717 – (6,729) 919,988 Building and construction 5,462,599 559,191 (57,187) 5,964,603 Commerce 11,205,053 202,015 (252,583) 11,154,485 Transportation and communication 1,458,815 45,112 (47,351) 1,456,576 Services 1,874,675 12,742 (32,607) 1,854,810 Consumer loans 16,566,115 214,637 (380,298) 16,400,454 Other 11,567,720 7,124 (99,880) 11,474,964 Total 60,174,283 1,069,613 (994,844) 60,249,052 170 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 8. Investments in associates Investments in associates represent the Bank’s share of investments in entities where the Bank has significant influence. These investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. (a) Investments in associates include the Bank’s ownership interest in associated companies in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as follows: 2017 2016 % % American Express Saudi Arabia (“AMEX”) 50 50 Saudi Orix Leasing Company (“ORIX”) 38 38 Amlak International for Finance and Real Estate Development Co. (“AMLAK”) 32 32 AMEX is a Saudi Arabian closed joint stock company in Saudi Arabia with total capital of SAR 100 million. The principal activities of AMEX are to issue credit cards and offer other American Express products in Saudi Arabia. ORIX is a Saudi Arabian closed joint stock company in Saudi Arabia with total capital of SAR 550 million. The primary business activities of ORIX include lease financing services in Saudi Arabia. AMLAK is a Saudi Arabian closed joint stock company in Saudi Arabia with total capital of SAR 900 million. AMLAK offers real estate finance products and services in Saudi Arabia. All of the Group’s associates are incorporated in and operate exclusively in Saudi Arabia. (b) The movement of investments in associates is summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Balance at beginning of the year 1,000,337 939,022 Share of earnings 131,851 150,634 Dividends (98,815) (92,917) Share of other comprehensive (loss) income (1,412) 3,598 Write off (12,000) – Balance at end of the year 1,019,961 1,000,337 (c) The Bank’s share of the associates’ financial statements is summarized below: 2017 SAR ’000 2016 SAR ’000 AMEX ORIX AMLAK AMEX ORIX AMLAK Total assets 393,775 504,807 1,072,234 421,897 605,502 1,059,981 Total liabilities 181,021 176,590 695,600 226,629 286,874 694,807 Total equity 212,754 328,217 376,634 195,268 318,628 365,174 Total income 199,774 57,487 59,177 210,397 72,817 61,880 Total expenses 116,237 38,450 25,807 119,763 52,578 26,744 One of the associate companies above has a potential additional Zakat liability as of December 31, 2017. If the method of the Zakat assessment by the General Authority for Zakat and Tax is upheld through all levels of the appeal process, the Group has agreed with the associate company that it is unconditionally liable for its share amounting to approximately SAR 97.6 million (2016: SAR 63.6 million). The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 9. Property, equipment, and intangibles, net Property, equipment, and intangibles net is summarized as follows: 2017 and 2016 SAR ’000 Land and Leasehold Furniture, Intangibles Total 2017 Total 2016 buildings improvements equipment and vehicles Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 991,128 130,506 419,871 228,639 1,770,144 1,715,140 Additions 17,915 15,219 48,291 26,455 107,880 55,038 Disposals – – (135) – (135) (34) Balance at the end of the year 1,009,043 145,725 468,027 255,094 1,877,889 1,770,144 Accumulated depreciation and amortization Balance at the beginning of the year 263,795 85,560 327,397 105,792 782,544 693,576 Charge for the year 32,198 16,093 24,060 20,208 92,559 89,001 Disposals – – (124) – (124) (33) Balance at the end of the year 295,993 101,653 351,333 126,000 874,979 782,544 Net book value As of December 31, 2017 713,050 44,072 116,694 129,094 1,002,910 As of December 31, 2016 727,333 44,946 92,474 122,847 – 987,600 Intangibles include information technology-related assets. 10. Other assets Other assets are summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Customer receivables 67,442 12,912 Property, equipment, and intangibles costs pending completion 122,769 102,273 Prepaid expenses 92,601 104,287 All other assets 23,871 24,361 Total 306,683 243,833 The other asset balances as of December 31, 2016 presented above have been restated to reflect the effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax policy as discussed in Notes 2, 3, 27 and 41. 172 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 11. Derivatives In the ordinary course of business, the Bank utilizes the following derivative financial instruments for trading and hedging purposes: (a) Swaps Swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another. For special commission rate swaps, counterparties generally exchange fixed and floating rate commission payments in a single currency without exchanging notional amounts. For cross-currency special commission rate swaps, notional amounts, and fixed and floating special commission payments are exchanged in different currencies. The notional amounts can also vary based upon the agreed terms in the case of variable notional swaps. (b) Forwards and futures Forwards and futures are contractual agreements to either buy or sell a specified currency, commodity or financial instrument at a specified price and date in the future. Forwards are customized contracts transacted in the over-thecounter market. Foreign currency and special commission rate futures are transacted in standardized amounts on regulated exchanges and changes in futures contract values are settled daily. (c) Forward rate agreements Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated special commission rate contracts that call for a cash settlement for the difference between a contracted special commission rate and the market rate on a specified future date, on a notional principal for an agreed period of time. (d) Options Options are contractual agreements under which the seller (writer) grants the purchaser (holder) the right, but not the obligation, to either buy or sell at a fixed future date or at any time during a specified period, a specified amount of a currency, commodity, or financial instrument at a pre-determined price. The derivative financial instruments utilized are either held for trading or held for hedging purposes as described below: (a) Held for trading purposes Most of the Bank’s derivative trading activities relate to sales, positioning and arbitrage. Sales activities involve offering products to customers and banks in order, inter alia, to enable them to transfer, modify or reduce current and future risks. Positioning involves managing market risk positions with the expectation of profiting from favorable movements in prices, rates or indices. Arbitrage involves identifying, with the expectation of profiting from price differentials, between markets or products. (b) Held for hedging purposes The Bank has adopted a comprehensive system for the measurement and management of risk. The risk management process involves managing the Bank’s exposure to fluctuations in currency and special commission rate risks to acceptable levels as determined by the Board of Directors and within the guidelines issued by SAMA. The Board of Directors has established levels of currency risk by setting limits on counterparty and currency position exposures. Positions are routinely monitored and hedging strategies are used to ensure positions are maintained within the established limits. The Board of Directors has established the level of special commission rate risk by setting limits on special commission rate gaps for stipulated periods. Asset and liability special commission rate gaps are reviewed on a periodic basis and hedging strategies are periodically used to reduce special commission rate gap within the established limits. As part of its asset and liability management, the Bank uses derivatives for hedging purposes in order to optimize its own exposure to currency and special commission rate risks. This is generally achieved by hedging specific transactions. The Bank uses forward foreign exchange contracts to also apply various hedging strategies against specifically identified currency risks. In addition, the Bank uses special commission rate swaps to hedge against the special commission rate risk arising from specifically identified fixed special commission-rate exposures. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 11. Derivatives (Continued) The tables below summarize the positive and negative fair values of derivative financial instruments, together with the notional amounts, analyzed by the term to maturity and monthly average. The notional amounts, which provide an indication of the volumes of the transactions outstanding at each year-end, do not necessarily reflect the amounts of future cash flows involved. The notional amounts are not indicative of the Bank’s exposure to credit risk which is generally limited to the net positive fair values of derivatives, nor market risk. The Bank has a put option arising from an existing master agreement entered into by the Bank relating to an associated company, the estimated value of which is included in the table below. The terms of the agreement give the Bank a put option and give the counterparty a call option that is exercisable from 2013 onwards for the remaining term of the agreement. The Bank has valued only the put option, as the call option is deemed to be out of the money. The put option, once exercised, grants the Bank the right to receive a payment in exchange for its shares one year after the exercize, based on pre-determined formulas included in the agreement. The positive and negative fair values of derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2016 have been adjusted to primarily reflect the netting of such amounts consistent with the December 31, 2017 presentation. Derivative financial instruments are summarized as follows: Notional amounts by term to maturity 2017 SAR ’000 Positive fair Negative fair Notional Within 3 3-12 months 1-5 years Over 5 years Monthly value value amount months average Held for trading: Forward foreign exchange contracts 36,689 25,403 6,114,481 2,360,556 3,219,507 534,418 – 7,696,867 Foreign exchange options 12,407 12,407 1,484,679 236,697 398,522 849,460 – 1,501,408 Commission rates swaps 154,306 56,431 12,270,252 – – 11,270,499 999,753 10,991,357 Held as fair value hedges: Commission rate swaps 30,347 22,414 7,617,063 – – 2,737,792 4,879,271 6,823,156 Associated company put option 435,421 – – – – – – – Total 669,170 116,655 27,486,475 2,597,253 3,618,029 15,392,169 5,879,024 27,012,788 Notional amounts by term to maturity 2016 SAR ’000 Positive fair Negative fair Notional Within 3 3-12 months 1-5 years Over 5 years Monthly value value amount months average Held for trading: Forward foreign exchange contracts 82,847 53,125 9,464,413 3,802,674 4,028,717 1,633,022 – 6,548,332 Foreign exchange options 25,256 25,256 1,648,630 161,570 752,380 734,680 – 1,951,432 Commission rates swaps 96,297 58,094 6,788,527 – 70,000 5,998,527 720,000 5,540,097 Held as fair value hedges: Commission rate swaps 73,519 38,075 4,521,160 393,960 – 600,320 3,526,880 3,689,705 Associated company put option 435,421 – – – – – – – Total 713,340 174,550 22,422,730 4,358,204 4,851,097 8,966,549 4,246,880 17,729,566 174 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 11. Derivatives (Continued) The table below is a summary of the Bank’s fair value hedges and hedged portfolios as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, which includes the description of the hedged items and related fair values, the nature of the risk being hedged, and the hedging instruments and related fair values. December 31, 2017 SAR ’000 Hedged items Hedging instruments Current fair Inception fair Hedged risk Instrument use Positive Negative fair value value fair value value Fixed commission Commission rate investments 7,687,135 7,636,736 Fair value risk rate swaps 30,347 22,414 December 31, 2016 SAR ’000 Hedged items Hedging instruments Current fair Inception fair Hedged risk Instrument use Positive Negative fair value value fair value value Fixed commission Commission rate investments 4,565,447 4,063,916 Fair value risk rate swaps 73,519 38,075 The net gains during the year on hedging instruments for fair value hedges were SAR 44.4 million (2016: gains of SAR 91.2 million). The net losses on hedged items attributable to hedged risk were SAR 44.3 million (2016: losses of SAR 90.8 million). The net positive fair value of all derivatives is approximately SAR 552.5 million (2016: SAR net positive 538.8 million). Approximately 68% (2016: 71%) of the positive fair value of the Bank’s derivatives are entered into with financial institutions, and 19% (2016: 19%) of the positive fair value contracts are with any single counterparty at the consolidated statement of financial position date. Derivative activities are mainly carried out under the Bank’s treasury segment. The Bank, as part of its derivative management activities, has entered into a master agreement in accordance with the International Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA) directives. Under this agreement, the terms and conditions for derivative products purchased or sold by the Group are unified. As part of the master agreement, a credit support annex (CSA) has also been signed. The CSA allows the Group to receive improved pricing by way of exchange of mark to market amounts in cash as collateral whether in favor of the Bank or the counterparty. As of December 31, 2017, the net cash collateral amounts held by counterparties totals SAR 5.7 million (2016: net cash collateral held by the Bank totals SAR 46.7 million). 12. Due to banks and other financial institutions Due to banks and other financial institutions is summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Current accounts 9,137 4,712 Repurchase agreements [Note 19 (d)] 2,951,658 4,151,531 Money market deposits 4,648,891 4,840,473 Total 7,609,686 8,996,716 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 13. Customer deposits Customer deposits are summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Time deposits 39,308,674 36,677,689 Savings deposits 2,174,702 4,073,660 Total special commission bearing deposits 41,483,376 40,751,349 Demand deposits 24,585,587 23,955,017 Other deposits 873,657 933,959 Customer deposits 66,942,620 65,640,325 Other customer deposits include SAR 537 million (2016: SAR 535 million) of margin deposits held for irrevocable commitments. Customer deposits above include Sharia-Compliant deposits totaling SAR 58.4 billion (2016: SAR 46.5 billion). The above amounts include foreign currency deposits (equivalent to Saudi Arabian Riyals) as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Demand 1,860,647 1,772,546 Savings 1,303,295 1,390,880 Time 6,868,199 1,045,305 Other 54,815 68,159 Total 10,086,956 4,276,890 14. Term loans On May 30, 2011, the Bank entered into a five-year medium term loan facility agreement for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The facility was due and repaid on May 30, 2016. On June 24, 2012, the Bank entered into another five-year medium term loan facility agreement also for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The facility was due and repaid on September 5, 2017. On June 19, 2016, the Bank entered into a five-year medium term loan facility agreement for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The facility has been fully utilized and is repayable on June 19, 2021. On September 26, 2017, the Bank entered into another five-year medium term loan facility agreement for an amount of SAR 1.0 billion for general corporate purposes. The facility was fully utilized on October 4, 2017 and is repayable on September 26, 2022. The term loans bear commission at market based variable rates. The Bank has an option to effect early repayment of the term loans subject to the terms and conditions of the related facility agreements. The facility agreements above include covenants which require maintenance of certain financial ratios and other requirements, with which the Bank is in compliance. The Bank also has not had any defaults of principal or commission on the term loans. 176 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 15. Subordinated debt On June 5, 2014 the Bank concluded the issuance of a SAR 2.0 billion subordinated debt issue through a private placement of a Shariah compliant Tier II Sukuk in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Sukuk carries a half-yearly profit equal to six month SIBOR plus 1.45%. The Sukuk has a tenor of ten years with the Bank retaining the right to call the Sukuk at the end of the first five-year period, subject to certain regulatory approvals. The Bank has not had any defaults of principal or commission on the subordinated debt. 16. Other liabilities Other liabilities are summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Accrued salaries and employee-related benefits 362,188 379,335 Accrued expenses and other reserves 122,841 167,833 Deferred fee income 17,934 7,339 Customer-related liabilities 210,155 251,167 Accrued Zakat and Income Tax 80,081 45,936 All other liabilities 37,101 16,108 Total 830,300 867,718 The other liability balances as of December 31, 2016 presented above have been restated to reflect the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments as disclosed in Notes 2, 3, 27 and 41. 17. Share capital As of December 31, 2017, the authorized, issued and fully paid share capital of the Bank consists of 750 million shares of SAR 10 each (2016: 700 million shares of SAR 10 each). The ownership of the Bank’s share capital is as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 % SAR ’000 % Saudi shareholders 6,750,000 90.0 6,300,000 90.0 Foreign shareholders: J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited 562,500 7.5 525,000 7.5 Mizuho Corporate Bank Limited 187,500 2.5 175,000 2.5 7,500,000 100.0 7,000,000 100.0 During 2017, 50 million bonus shares were issued by the Bank increasing the issued number of shares outstanding from 700 million to 750 million shares. During 2016, 50 million bonus shares were issued by the Bank increasing the issued number of shares outstanding from 650 million shares to 700 million shares (see Note 26). 18. Statutory reserve In accordance with Saudi Arabian Banking Control Law and the Articles of Association of the Bank, a minimum of 25% of the annual net income is required to be transferred to a statutory reserve until this reserve equals the paid-up capital of the Bank. Accordingly, SAR 353 million has been transferred from 2017 net income (2016: SAR 264 million). The statutory reserve is not available for distribution. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 177 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 19. Commitments and contingencies (a) Legal proceedings As of December 31, 2017, there were certain legal proceedings outstanding against the Group. No provision has been made in cases where professional legal advice indicates that it is not probable that any significant loss will arise. However, provisions are made for legal cases where Management foresees the probability of an adverse outcome based on professional advice. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank’s allowance for such cases totaled SAR 8.1 million (2016: SAR 25.9 million). (b) Capital commitments As of December 31, 2017, the Group had capital commitments of SAR 13.2 million (2016: SAR 41.1 million). (c) Credit-related commitments and contingencies The Group enters into certain credit-related facilities to ensure that funds are available to a customer as required. Guarantee and standby letters of credit, which represent irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties, carry the same credit risk as loans and advances. Cash requirements under guarantees and standby letters of credit are considerably less than the amount of the commitment because the Group does not generally expect the third party to draw funds under the agreement. Documentary letters of credit which are written undertakings by the Group on behalf of a customer authorizing a third party to draw drafts on the Group up to a stipulated amount under specific terms and conditions, are generally collateralized by the underlying shipments of goods to which they relate and therefore have significantly less risk. Acceptances comprise undertakings by the Group to pay bills of exchange drawn on customers. The Group expects most acceptances to be presented before being reimbursed by the customers. Commitments to extend credit represent the unused portion of authorizations to extend credit, principally in the form of loans and advances, guarantees and letters of credit. With respect to credit risk on commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to a loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments. However, the likely amount of loss, which cannot readily be quantified, is expected to be considerably less than the total unused commitment as most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards. The total outstanding commitments to extend credit do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, as many of these commitments could expire or terminate without being funded. For issued financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments, the maximum amount is allocated to the earliest period in which the guarantee could be called, as the Bank has the right to recall financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments prior to their maturity. 178 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 19. Commitments and contingencies (Continued) (i) The contractual maturity structure for the Group’s credit-related commitments and contingencies are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Within 3 3-12 1-5 years Over 5 Total months months years Letters of credit 782,950 1,050,329 12,395 – 1,845,674 Letters of guarantee 2,002,434 4,860,898 1,268,746 263,674 8,395,752 Acceptances 360,647 371,671 – – 732,318 Irrevocable commitments to extend credit – 581 280,281 99,861 380,723 Total 3,146,031 6,283,479 1,561,422 363,535 11,354,467 2016 SAR ’000 Within 3 3-12 1-5 years Over 5 Total months months years Letters of credit 725,269 860,694 296,786 – 1,882,749 Letters of guarantee 1,805,418 5,359,695 1,228,370 18,972 8,412,455 Acceptances 452,592 203,499 – – 656,091 Irrevocable commitments to extend credit – 150,000 47,351 115,854 313,205 Total 2,983,279 6,573,888 1,572,507 134,826 11,264,500 The outstanding unused portion of commitments as of December 31, 2017 which can be revoked unilaterally at any time by the Bank, amounts to SAR 27.6 million (2016: SAR 27.8 million). (ii) The analysis of commitments and contingencies by counterparty is as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Government and quasi-Government 5,896,601 6,035,415 Corporate 4,698,100 4,729,420 Banks and other financial institutions 536,713 277,564 Other 223,053 222,101 Total 11,354,467 11,264,500 (d) Assets pledged Securities pledged under repurchase agreements with other banks include corporate, bank, and non-government bonds. The fair values of assets pledged as collateral with other financial institutions as security and the related balances of the repurchase agreements are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 2016 SAR ’000 Assets Repurchase Assets Agreements Agreements Repurchase Available for sale investments 2,989,646 2,951,658 4,419,351 4,151,531 The pledged assets presented in the above table are those financial assets that may be repledged or resold by counterparties to whom they have been transferred. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and lending activities, as well as requirements determined by exchanges on which the Bank acts as a participant. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 179 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 19. Commitments and contingencies (Continued) (e) Operating lease commitments The future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases where the Group is the lessee are as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Less than 1 year 49,298 30,230 1 to 5 years 100,327 60,985 Over 5 years 57,957 45,962 Total 207,582 137,177 (F) Zakat and Income Tax Notes 8 and 27 provide information regarding the current status of the Group’s Zakat and Income Tax positions. 20. Special commission income and expense Special commission income and expense is summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Special commission income: Available for sale investments 626,936 536,030 Loans and advances 2,616,813 2,453,602 Due from banks and other financial institutions 289,340 210,977 Total 3,533,089 3,200,609 Special commission expense: Customer deposits 862,028 1,094,748 Due to banks and other financial institutions 496,407 313,561 Term loans 58,964 52,668 Subordinated debt 73,630 67,576 Total 1,491,029 1,528,553 180 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 21. Fee income from banking services, net Fee income from banking services, net is summarized as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Fee income: – Share trading and fund management 139,368 130,035 – Trade finance 92,034 91,715 – Corporate and retail finance 174,352 180,260 – Other banking services 128,227 91,984 Total fee income 533,981 493,994 Fee expense: – Custodial services 80,572 65,161 – Other banking services 41,252 13,329 Total fee expense 121,824 78,490 Fee income from banking services, net 412,157 415,504 22. Dividend income Dividend income is summarised as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Dividend income from available for sale equity investments 19,749 27,543 23. Gains on investments, net Gains on investments, net are summarised as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Gains on available for sale investments, net 49,130 57,851 Associated company put option gains – 87,261 Total gains on investments, net 49,130 145,112 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 181 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 24. Compensation and related governance and practices As required by SAMA, the following table summarises the Group’s employee categories defined in accordance with SAMA’s rules on compensation practices. It includes the total amounts of fixed and variable compensation paid to employees, and the forms of such payments, and also includes the variable compensation accrued, and other employee benefits and related expenses incurred during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 2017 SAR ’000 Variable Compensation Paid Category Number of Fixed Cash Shares Total employees compensation paid Senior executives requiring SAMA no objection 19 35,130 11,272 4,322 15,594 Employees engaged in risk taking activities 131 54,903 10,437 2,446 12,883 Employees engaged in control functions 231 57,263 6,500 2,642 9,142 Other employees 1,190 230,382 25,262 7,933 33,195 Outsourced employees 54 8,141 1,126 92 1,218 Totals 1,625 385,819 54,597 17,435 72,032 Variable compensation accrued 73,540 Other employee benefits and related expenses 119,746 Total salaries and employee-related expenses 579,105 2016 SAR ’000 Variable Compensation Paid Category Number of Fixed Cash Shares Total employees compensation paid Senior executives requiring SAMA no objection 20 36,237 18,067 6,990 25,057 Employees engaged in risk taking activities 132 58,114 14,831 4,813 19,644 Employees engaged in control functions 232 54,746 9,301 5,305 14,606 Other employees 1,219 230,346 32,081 13,809 45,890 Outsourced employees 58 8,697 1,665 194 1,859 Totals 1,661 388,140 75,945 31,111 107,056 Variable compensation accrued 96,672 Other employee benefits and related expenses 106,989 Total salaries and employee-related expenses 591,801 The Board of Directors of the Bank has established a Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the Committee) which consists of five board members. The Committee is primarily responsible for recommending appointments to membership of the Board of Directors and key executives of the Bank in compliance with the Bank’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, completing annual reviews for the requirements of suitable skills and independence for membership of the Bank’s Board of Directors, reviewing the structure of the Board of Directors, establishing policies for the compensation and remuneration of members of the Board of Directors, and overseeing the Bank’s employee compensation system’s design. 182 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 24. Compensation and related governance and practices (Continued) The Committee is also responsible to recommend to the Board of Directors the approval of the Bank’s Compensation Policy and any amendments thereto, to ensure that the Bank’s remuneration policies are in compliance with SAMA guidelines and the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Principles on compensation, to periodically review the Bank’s remuneration and compensation policy, to evaluate practices by which compensation is paid, and to determine the performance bonuses for the Bank’s employees based on the risk adjusted profit of the Bank. The Bank’s Remuneration and Compensation Policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate high performing and high potential employees. Employees participate in various variable pay arrangements. Discretionary variable pay as well as fixed pay reviews are dependent on the achievement of objectives, which is monitored/measured via a robust performance management system. The grant of the variable component of the reward, both cash and shares, is strictly dependent on the achievement of set targets and level of achievements and the Bank’s overall performance. Higher achievements will warrant a better performance rating and higher variable compensation. The Balanced Scorecard concept is used as a performance management tool and performance objectives are typically categorised into four segments including financial, customer, process, and people. Financial and non-financial metrics are also used to measure performance against the objectives, which include profitability, expense control, customer satisfaction, quality assurance, employee development and engagement, workforce diversity, sustainable business practices, lending guidelines, internal controls, compliance with regulations, and business systems and processes. Effective risk management is also emphasized to maintain a strong and secure operating platform. A Risk Appetite Framework Policy has been established and compliance with the annual Risk Appetite Statement is key to all remuneration decisions including variable pay arrangements. In addition to the above, the Bank’s employees are encouraged to participate in employee share savings and incentive schemes. Variable remuneration is linked to long-term value creation and risk horizons. It is also based on individual, business segment, and Bank performance criteria. Accordingly, for certain variable remunerations, a portion of the incentive earned for the annual performance bonus program and the employee stock grant plan program are deferred in line with long-term risk realization. The vesting is subject to clawback mechanisms. The Bank’s subsidiaries have adopted a similar approach to remuneration and compensation practices as described above, including policies within a framework of prudent risk management. The total amount of compensation paid to key management for the year ended December 31, 2017 was SAR 50.7 million (2016: SAR 61.3 million). The post employment benefits accrued or paid to key management for the year ended December 31, 2017 was SAR 6.0 million (2016: SAR 3.9 million). The total end of service payments made for all employees who left their employment with the Group during the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled SAR 20.5 million (2016: SAR 17.6 million). These payments were made to 150 beneficiaries (2016: 149). The highest payment to a single individual in 2017 was SAR 1.8 million (2016: SAR 0.9 million). 25. Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are calculated by dividing the net income for the year by 750 million shares, after giving effect to the bonus shares issued in 2017 (see Note 26). As a result, basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the issuance of the bonus shares. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 183 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 26. Dividends In 2016, the Board of Directors proposed a cash dividend of SAR 350.0 million equal to SAR 0.50 per share, net of Zakat to be withheld from the Saudi shareholders totaling SAR 70.0 million. The Board of Directors also proposed a bonus share issue of 50 million shares with a par value of SAR 10 per share, or one bonus share for each fourteen shares outstanding. The proposed cash dividend and bonus share issue were approved by the Bank’s shareholders in an Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting held on 20 Rajab, 1438 H (corresponding to April 17, 2017). The net dividends were paid and the bonus shares were issued to the Bank’s shareholders thereafter. In 2015, the Board of Directors proposed a cash dividend of SAR 487.5 million equal to SAR 0.75 per share, net of Zakat to be withheld from the Saudi shareholders totaling SAR 47.0 million. The Board of Directors also proposed a bonus share issue of 50 million shares with a par value of SAR 10 per share, or one bonus share for each thirteen shares outstanding. The proposed cash dividend and bonus share issue were approved by the Bank’s shareholders in an Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting held on 26 Jumada II, 1437 (corresponding to April 4, 2016). The net dividends were paid and the bonus shares issued to the Bank’s shareholders thereafter. Any future cash dividends to the Saudi and non-Saudi shareholders will be paid after deducting Zakat and any unreimbursed income tax as described in Notes 27 and 41. 27. Zakat and income tax A summary of the net effect on other assets, other liabilities, retained earnings, proposed dividends, and total equity resulting from the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy described in Notes 2 and 3 as of December 31, 2016 is summarized in Note 41. The cumulative Zakat attributable to the Saudi shareholders charged to retained earnings through December 31, 2017 amounts to approximately SAR 108.2 million or SAR 0.16 per share (2016: the cumulative Zakat was approximately SAR 62.9 million or SAR 0.10 per share). The cumulative income tax attributable to the non-Saudi shareholders net of foreign shareholder reimbursements charged to retained earnings through December 31, 2017 is approximately SAR 41.9 million (2016: SAR 25.7 million). There is no unreimbursed income tax for the years prior to 2016. The Bank has filed the required Tax and Zakat and Income Tax returns with the Government Authority for Zakat and Tax which are due on April 30 each year, through the year ended December 31, 2016. The Bank’s Zakat and Income Tax calculations and corresponding accruals and payments for Zakat and Income Tax are based on the ownership percentages disclosed in Note 17. The Bank has received final assessments for additional Zakat, Income tax, and withholding tax totaling approximately SAR 277 million relating to the Bank’s 2003 to 2009 Zakat, Income tax, and withholding tax filings. Also refer to Note 8 to these consolidated financial statements for pending Zakat assessments related to an associate company. The Bank has also received partial assessments for additional Zakat totaling approximately SAR 383 million relating to its 2010, 2011, and 2013 Zakat filings. These final and partial assessments include approximately SAR 573 million in Zakat assessments which are primarily due to the disallowance of deductions for certain long-term investments from the Zakat base of the Bank. The Bank, in consultation with its professional Tax and Zakat advisors, has filed appeals for the above final and partial assessments with the General Authority for Zakat and Tax, and while management is confident of a favorable outcome on the basis of the appeals filed, it is awaiting responses and final decisions from the appeal and other available processes. Accordingly, no provisions for these amounts have been made in the Bank’s consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. Further assessments, if any, for the years 2012, 2014, 2015, and 2016 are yet to be raised by the General Authority for Zakat and Tax. However, if the deductions for certain long-term investments from the Zakat base of the Bank are disallowed for these years, in line with the assessments already made, it would result in a significant additional Zakat exposure. This remains an industry wide issue and disclosure of such amounts might affect the Bank’s position in this matter. 184 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 28. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows is comprised of the following: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Cash and balances with SAMA excluding statutory deposit (Note 4) 1,931,233 2,108,575 Due from banks and other financial institutions maturing within ninety days from the date of acquisition 3,513,073 2,274,077 Total 5,444,306 4,382,652 29. Operating segments Operating segments are identified based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Bank’s Board of Directors in its function as the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. Performance is measured based on segment profit as management believes that this indicator is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these sectors. Transactions between the operating segments are on normal commercial terms and conditions as approved by management. The revenue from external parties reported to the Board is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement. Segment assets and liabilities are comprised of operating assets and liabilities. The Group’s primary business is conducted in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Group’s reportable segments are as follows: • Retail banking: Loans, deposits, and other credit products for individuals and small to medium-sized businesses. • Corporate banking: Loans, deposits and other credit products for corporate and institutional customers. • Treasury and investments: Money market, investments, and other treasury services. • Business partners: Investments in associates and related activities. • Asset management and brokerage: Dealing, managing, advising, and custody of securities services. • Other: Support functions, special credit, and other management and control units. Commission is charged to operating segments based on funds transfer price (FTP) rates. The net FTP contribution included in the segment information below includes the segmental net special commission income after FTP asset charges and liability credits (FTP net transfers). All other segment income is from external customers. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 185 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 29. Operating segments (Continued) (a) The segment information provided to the Board of Directors which includes the reportable segments for the Group’s total assets and liabilities of December 31, 2017 and 2016, its total operating income, total operating expenses, and net income for the years then ended, are as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Retail Corporate Treasury and Business Asset Other Total Banking Banking Investments Partners Management and Brokerage Total assets 27,699,853 35,564,170 27,350,413 1,019,961 404,088 1,757,734 93,796,219 Total liabilities 50,538,379 7,974,977 20,010,872 97 41,785 951,042 79,517,152 Net special commission income 352,031 1,532,197 72,564 – 15,981 69,287 2,042,060 FTP net transfers 657,258 (768,223) 230,052 (99,082) – (20,005) – Net FTP contribution 1,009,289 763,974 302,616 (99,082) 15,981 49,282 2,042,060 Fee income from banking services, net 112,300 263,623 51,979 – 71,725 (87,470) 412,157 Other operating income (loss) 49,821 43,440 207,086 – (1,433) (93,248) 205,666 Total operating income (loss) 1,171,410 1,071,037 561,681 (99,082) 86,273 (131,436) 2,659,883 Direct operating expenses 371,695 67,270 28,420 1,560 77,283 – 546,228 Indirect operating expenses 256,634 170,511 85,941 – – – 513,086 Impairment charges 96,990 116,010 106,000 – 2,622 – 321,622 Total operating expenses 725,319 353,791 220,361 1,560 79,905 – 1,380,936 Income (loss) from operating activities 446,091 717,246 341,320 (100,642) 6,368 (131,436) 1,278,947 Share in earnings of associates – – – 131,851 – – 131,851 Net income 446,091 717,246 341,320 31,209 6,368 (131,436) 1,410,798 Property, equipment, and intangibles additions 21,019 45 – – 1,949 84,867 107,880 Depreciation and amortization 49,303 1,129 165 – 3,289 38,673 92,559 2016 SAR ’000 Retail Corporate Treasury and Business Asset Other Total Banking Banking Investments Partners Management and Brokerage Total assets 28,418,146 35,602,348 25,997,312 1,000,337 340,633 1,688,635 93,047,411 Total liabilities 47,560,355 8,539,382 22,762,374 97 (16,390) 868,051 79,713,869 Net special commission income 271,741 1,437,731 49,535 – 18,428 (105,379) 1,672,056 FTP net transfers 519,550 (626,047) 207,091 (98,580) – (2,014) – Net FTP contribution 791,291 811,684 256,626 (98,580) 18,428 (107,393) 1,672,056 Fee income from banking services, net 130,625 217,657 35,537 – 67,180 (35,495) 415,504 Other operating income (loss) 80,789 84,462 228,607 43,631 2,437 (121,620) 318,306 Total operating income (loss) 1,002,705 1,113,803 520,770 (54,949) 88,045 (264,508) 2,405,866 Direct operating expenses 381,785 69,171 24,814 2,954 78,396 – 557,120 Indirect operating expenses 240,815 159,058 81,644 – – 11,905 493,422 Impairment charges 146,050 96,350 210,600 – – – 453,000 Total operating expenses 768,650 324,579 317,058 2,954 78,396 11,905 1,503,542 Income loss from operating activities 234,055 789,224 203,712 (57,903) 9,649 (276,413) 902,324 Share in earnings of associates – – – 150,634 – – 150,634 Net income 234,055 789,224 203,712 92,731 9,649 (276,413) 1,052,958 Property, equipment, and intangibles additions 18,204 696 1 – 487 35,650 55,038 Depreciation and amortization 47,024 1,371 194 – 4,664 35,748 89,001 186 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 29. Operating segments (Continued) (b) The Group’s credit exposure by business segment is as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Retail Corporate Treasury and Business Asset Other Total Banking Banking Investments Partners Management and Brokerage Consolidated statement of financial position assets 26,529,441 35,561,073 26,731,760 – 245,531 230,299 89,298,104 Commitments and contingencies 3,349,767 2,571,639 293,785 – – – 6,215,191 Derivatives – – 2,147,021 – – – 2,147,021 Totals 29,879,208 38,132,712 29,172,566 – 245,531 230,299 97,660,316 2016 SAR ’000 Retail Corporate Treasury and Business Asset Other Total Banking Banking Investments Partners Management and Brokerage Consolidated statement of financial position assets 27,200,287 36,010,672 24,505,043 – 233,722 380,133 88,329,857 Commitments and contingencies 4,474,555 3,381,861 198,477 – – – 8,054,893 Derivatives – – 2,364,845 – – – 2,364,845 Totals 31,674,842 39,392,533 27,068,365 – 233,722 380,133 98,749,595 Consolidated statement of financial position credit exposure is comprised of the carrying value of consolidated statement of financial position assets excluding cash on hand, property, equipment and intangibles, investments in associates, investments in equities and mutual funds, other real estate, and other assets. The credit equivalent value of commitments, contingencies and derivatives are also included in the table above. 30. Credit risk The Group manages exposure to credit risk, which is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss. Credit exposures arise principally in lending activities that lead to loans and advances, and investment activities. There is also credit risk in off-consolidated statement of financial position financial instruments, such as loan commitments. The Group assesses the probability of default of counterparties using internal rating tools. The Group also uses the external ratings of major rating agencies, where available. The Group has a comprehensive Board approved framework for managing credit risk which includes an independent credit risk review function and credit risk monitoring process. The Group seeks to control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, limiting transactions with specific counterparties, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The Group’s risk management policies are designed to identify and to set appropriate risk limits and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits. Actual exposures against limits are routinely monitored. In certain cases, the Group may also close out transactions or assign them to other counterparties to mitigate credit risk. The Group’s credit risk for derivatives represents the potential cost to replace the derivative contracts if counterparties fail to fulfill their obligation, and to control the level of credit risk taken. The Group assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities. Concentrations of credit risk arise when several counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic region, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political, or other conditions. Concentrations of credit risk indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry or geographical location. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 187 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 30. Credit risk (Continued) The Group seeks to manage its credit risk exposure through diversification of lending activities to ensure that there is no undue concentration of risks with individuals or groups of customers in specific locations, businesses, or economic sectors. Economic sector risk concentrations are provided in Note 7 (c) iii. The Group uses a credit classification system as a tool to assist in managing the quality of credit risk within the lending portfolio. It maintains classification grades that differentiate between performing and impaired portfolios and allocates portfolio provisions and specific provisions, respectively. The Group determines each individual borrower’s grade based on specific objective and subjective financial and business assessments criteria covering debt service, profitability, liquidity, capital structure, industry, management quality, and company standing. The Group conducts a quality classification exercise over all of its existing borrowers and the results of this exercise are validated by the independent Risk Management Unit established for that purpose. The Group regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products, external economic environment, emerging best practices, and regulatory guidance. Information on the credit quality for loans and advances is provided in Notes 7 (c) i and 7 (c) ii. The Group, in the ordinary course of lending activities, also takes collateral as security to mitigate credit risk on loans and advances. The collateral includes primarily time, demand and other cash deposits, financial and contract guarantees, local and international equities, real estate, and other fixed assets. The collateral is held mainly against commercial and similar loans and is managed against relevant exposures at their net realizable value. Management monitors the market value of collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with underlying agreements, and monitors the market value of collateral obtained during its review of the adequacy of the allowance for impairment losses. The Group also seeks additional collateral from counterparties when impairment indicators are observed. Information on collateral held is included in Notes 7 (a) and 7 (c) i. The economic sector risk concentration for loans and advances is provided in Note 7 (c) iii. The debt securities included in the investment portfolio are due mainly from corporates, banks, financial institutions, and sovereigns, and an analysis of investments by type of counterparty and credit risk exposure is disclosed in Note 6 (c) and Note 6 (d). The credit quality of due from banks and other financial institutions is provided in Note 5. The information on credit risk relating to derivative instruments is provided in Notes 11 and 29 (b). The information on credit risk relating to commitments and contingencies is included in Notes 19 and 31 (a). The information on the Group’s credit exposure by business segment is provided in Note 29 (b). The information on total credit risk exposure and their relative risk weights is provided in Note 36. 188 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 31. Geographical concentration (a) The distribution by geographical region for assets, liabilities, and for commitments, contingencies, and derivatives is as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Kingdom of Other GCC Europe North South Other Total Saudi Arabia and America East Asia Countries Middle East Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 5,263,438 – – – – – 5,263,438 Due from banks and other financial institutions 1,144,360 1,056,389 712,083 588,246 – 11,995 3,513,073 Investments, net 11,601,267 6,624,978 1,256,792 1,776,248 – 454,691 21,713,976 Positive fair values of derivatives 93,152 99,671 476,347 – – – 669,170 Loans and advances, net 59,588,284 – – – – – 59,588,284 Investments in associates 1,019,961 – – – – – 1,019,961 Property, equipment and intangibles, net 1,002,910 – – – – – 1,002,910 Other real estate 718,724 – – – – – 718,724 Other assets 306,683 – – – – – 306,683 Total 80,738,779 7,781,038 2,445,222 2,364,494 – 466,686 93,796,219 Liabilities Due to Banks and other financial institutions 4,673,295 937,177 1,998,186 – – 1,028 7,609,686 Customer deposits 66,942,620 – – – – – 66,942,620 Negative fair values of derivatives 41,772 31,241 43,593 49 – – 116,655 Term loans 2,014,823 – – – – – 2,014,823 Subordinated debt 2,003,068 – – – – – 2,003,068 Other liabilities 830,300 – – – – – 830,300 Total 76,505,878 968,418 2,041,779 49 – 1,028 79,517,152 Credit-related Commitments and contingencies 10,177,284 126,436 697,889 35,280 28,530 289,048 11,354,467 Maximum credit exposure (stated at credit equivalent amounts): Commitments and contingencies 5,464,530 96,312 402,873 23,985 23,244 204,248 6,215,192 Derivatives 846,655 497,852 771,842 – – 30,672 2,147,021 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 189 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 31. Geographical concentration (Continued) 2016 SAR ’000 Kingdom of Other GCC Europe North South Other Total Saudi Arabia and America East Asia Countries Middle East Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 5,684,338 – – – – – 5,684,338 Due from banks and other financial institutions 1,491,192 437,359 247,166 41,512 – 85,064 2,302,293 Investments, net 10,167,127 7,617,419 1,029,818 2,181,777 – 451,753 21,447,894 Positive fair values of derivatives 204,126 105,903 403,311 – – – 713,340 Loans and advances, net 60,249,052 – – – – – 60,249,052 Investments in associates 1,000,337 – – – – – 1,000,337 Property, equipment and intangibles, net 987,600 – – – – – 987,600 Other real estate 418,724 – – – – – 418,724 Other assets 243,833 – – – – – 243,833 Total 80,446,329 8,160,681 1,680,295 2,223,289 – 536,817 93,047,411 Liabilities Due to Banks and other financial institutions 4,140,098 1,918,954 2,937,197 – – 467 8,996,716 Customer deposits 65,640,325 – – – – – 65,640,325 Negative fair values of derivatives 49,948 25,914 98,688 – – – 174,550 Term loans 2,032,187 – – – – – 2,032,187 Subordinated debt 2,002,373 – – – – – 2,002,373 Other liabilities 867,718 – – – – – 867,718 Total 74,732,649 1,944,868 3,035,885 – – 467 79,713,869 Credit-related Commitments and contingencies 10,114,215 161,232 226,779 478,848 49,053 234,373 11,264,500 Maximum credit exposure (stated at credit equivalent amounts): Commitments and contingencies 6,992,018 137,704 196,229 477,128 41,895 209,919 8,054,893 Derivatives 709,369 334,784 1,320,692 – – – 2,364,845 Credit equivalent amounts of commitments and contingencies reflect the amounts that result from translating these amounts into the risk equivalent of loans, using credit conversion factors prescribed by SAMA. The credit conversion factor is intended to capture the potential credit risk related to the exercise of that commitment. The credit equivalent amounts of derivatives are also derived using credit conversion factors prescribed by SAMA, which are applied to the notional amounts outstanding. (b) The distribution by geographical concentration of non-performing loans and advances and allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are entirely in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 190 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as commission rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. The Group classifies exposures to market risk into either a trading or banking book. (a) Market risk-trading book The Board of Directors has set limits for the acceptable level of risks in managing the trading book. The Group currently has trading book exposures in foreign exchange contracts and commission rate swaps. (b) Market risk-banking book Market risk on the banking book mainly arises from commission rate risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, and equity price risk. (i) Commission rate risk Commission rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in commission rates will affect either the fair values or the future cash flows of the financial instruments and obligations. The Board of Directors has established commission rate gap limits for stipulated periods. The Group monitors positions and uses hedging strategies to ensure maintenance of positions within the established gap limits. The following table depicts the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in commission rates, with other variables held constant, on the Group’s consolidated income statement or shareholders’ equity. The reasonably possible change is estimated based on the relevant commission rate movements during the last five years (2013-2017) (2016: 2012-2016). A positive effect shows a potential net increase in the consolidated income or shareholders’ equity, whereas a negative effect shows a potential net reduction in consolidated income or shareholders’ equity. The sensitivity of net special commission income is the effect of the assumed changes in commission rates on the net special commission income for one year, based on the floating rate non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, including the effect of hedging instruments. The sensitivity of equity is calculated by revaluing the fixed rate available for sale financial assets, including the effect of any associated hedges as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 for the effect of assumed changes in commission rates. The sensitivity of shareholders’ equity is analyzed by maturity of the asset or swap. The entire banking book exposures are monitored and analyzed by currency and relevant sensitivities and are disclosed in SAR thousands. For presentation purposes in the tables below, short-term fixed rate deposit liabilities are treated as variable rate deposits. 2017 SAR ’000 2017 Sensitivity of equity SAR ’000 Commission Increase Sensitivity of net 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 5 Over Total rate (decrease) special commission or less months years 5 years in basis income Saibor +45/-117 -84,303/+219,186 – – -16,892/+43,919 -70 /+181 -16,962/+44,100 Libor +69/-78 -78,446/+88,678 -248/+281 -1,278/+1,445 -113,017/+127,755 -256,684/+290,165 -371,227/+419,646 Euribor +164/-4 +2,404/-59 – – – – – 2016 SAR ’000 2016 Sensitivity of equity SAR ’000 Commission Increase Sensitivity of net 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 5 Over Total rate (decrease) special commission or less months years 5 years in basis income Saibor +33/-129 -61,315/+239,686 – – -13,916/+54,339 -68,996/+269,714 -82,912/+324,053 Libor +25/-52 -13,804/+28,712 -762/+1,584 -863/+1,793 -29,523/+61,407 -67,678/+140,771 -98,826/+205,555 Euribor +161/-5 +1,728/-54 – – – – – The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 191 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Market risk (Continued) The Group manages exposure to the effects of various risks associated with fluctuations in prevailing levels of market special commission rates on its financial position and cash flows. The Board of Directors also sets limits on the level of mismatch of special commission rate re-pricing that may be undertaken, which is monitored by the Treasury Unit. The Group is exposed to special commission rate risk as a result of mismatches or gaps in the amounts of assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments that mature or re-price in a given period. The Group manages this risk by matching the re-pricing of assets and liabilities through special commission rate risk management strategies. The tables below summarize the Group’s exposure to special commission rate risks. Included in the tables are the Group’s assets and liabilities at carrying amounts, categorized by the earlier of contractual re-pricing or maturity dates: 2017 SAR ’000 Within 3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 NonTotal months months years years commission bearing Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 1,282,000 – – – 3,981,438 5,263,438 Due from banks and other financial institutions 3,513,073 – – – – 3,513,073 Investments, net 3,539,678 969,361 9,624,849 6,862,845 717,243 21,713,976 Positive fair values of derivatives – – – – 669,170 669,170 Loans and advances, net 31,404,945 16,178,859 11,213,993 790,487 – 59,588,284 Investments in associates – – – – 1,019,961 1,019,961 Property, equipment, and intangibles, net – – – – 1,002,910 1,002,910 Other real estate – – – – 718,724 718,724 Other assets – – – – 306,683 306,683 Total 39,739,696 17,148,220 20,838,842 7,653,332 8,416,129 93,796,219 Liabilities and equity Due to banks and other financial institutions 5,211,784 2,388,765 – – 9,137 7,609,686 Customer deposits 26,329,670 15,458,517 – – 25,154,433 66,942,620 Negative fair values of derivatives – – – – 116,655 116,655 Term loans 2,014,823 – – – – 2,014,823 Subordinated debt 3,068 2,000,000 – – – 2,003,068 Other liabilities – – – – 830,300 830,300 Total equity – – – – 14,279,067 14,279,067 Total 33,559,345 19,847,282 – – 40,389,592 93,796,219 Special commission rate sensitivity – On-balance sheet 6,180,351 (2,699,062) 20,838,842 7,653,332 (31,973,463) – Special commission rate sensitivity – Off-balance sheet 9,312,785 358,000 (4,291,638) (5,379,147) – – Total special commission rate sensitivity gap 15,493,136 (2,341,062) 16,547,204 2,274,185 (31,973,463) – Cumulative special commission rate sensitivity gap 15,493,136 13,152,074 29,699,278 31,973,463 – – 192 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Market risk (Continued) 2016 SAR ’000 Within 3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 NonTotal months months years years commission bearing Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 1,220,000 – – – 4,464,338 5,684,338 Due from banks and other financial institutions 2,274,077 28,216 – – – 2,302,293 Investments, net 5,148,250 1,753,482 5,414,222 7,950,379 1,181,561 21,447,894 Positive fair values of derivatives – – – – 713,340 713,340 Loans and advances, net 31,328,046 17,245,322 11,021,516 654,168 – 60,249,052 Investments in associates – – – – 1,000,337 1,000,337 Property, equipment, and intangibles, net – – – – 987,600 987,600 Other real estate – – – – 418,724 418,724 Other assets – – – – 243,833 243,833 Total 39,970,373 19,027,020 16,435,738 8,604,547 9,009,733 93,047,411 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Due to banks and other financial institutions 6,297,004 2,695,000 – – 4,712 8,996,716 Customer deposits 24,225,747 16,749,020 – – 24,665,558 65,640,325 Negative fair values of derivatives – – – – 174,550 174,550 Term loans 32,187 2,000,000 – – – 2,032,187 Subordinated debt 2,373 2,000,000 – – – 2,002,373 Other liabilities – – – – 867,718 867,718 Total equity – – – – 13,333,542 13,333,542 Total 30,557,311 23,444,020 – – 39,046,080 93,047,411 Special commission rate sensitivity – on-balance sheet 9,413,062 (4,417,000) 16,435,738 8,604,547 (30,036,347) – Special commission rate sensitivity – off-balance sheet 5,405,288 (1,278,088) (600,320) (3,526,880) – – Total special commission rate sensitivity gap 14,818,350 (5,695,088) 15,835,418 5,077,667 (30,036,347) – Cumulative special commission rate sensitivity gap 14,818,350 9,123,262 24,958,680 30,036,347 – – The off-balance sheet gap position represents the net notional amounts of derivative financial instruments, which are used to manage special commission rate risk. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 193 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Market risk (Continued) (ii) Currency risk Currency risk represents the risk of change in the value of financial instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Board of Directors has set limits on currency positions, which are monitored daily. Hedging strategies are also used to ensure that positions and market risks are maintained within the limits. The table below shows the currencies to which the Group has a significant exposure as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, on its banking book assets and liabilities and forecasted cash flows. The table depicts the effect of a reasonably possible movement of the currency rates against the SAR based on historical currency rate movements, with other variables held constant, on the consolidated income (due to the change in the fair value of the currency sensitive banking book assets and liabilities). The reasonably possible change is estimated based on the relevant foreign exchange rate movements during the last five years (2013-2017) (2016: 2012-2016). A positive effect shows a potential net increase in the consolidated income, whereas a negative effect shows a potential net reduction in consolidated income. Currency Exposures as of December 31, 2017 Change in currency Effect on net income rate in % SAR ’000 USD +0.31/-0.04 +4,290/-576 EUR +18.15/-12.08 -359/+239 GBP +29.88/-8.74 -332/+97 Currency Exposures as of December 31, 2016 Change in currency Effect on net income rate in % SAR ’000 USD +0.29/-0.09 +1,337/-431 EUR +25.89/-6.13 +2/-0 GBP +26.69/-10.54 +23/-9 (iii) Currency position The Group manages exposure to the effects of fluctuations in prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows. The Board of Directors sets limits on the level of exposure by currency and in total for both overnight and intra-day positions, which are monitored daily. At the end of the year, the Group had the following significant net exposures denominated in foreign currencies: 2017 2016 Long/(short) Long/(short) SAR ’000 SAR ’000 US Dollar 1,404,006 466,961 Euro (1,978) (8) Pound Sterling (1,112) 86 Japanese Yen 207 185 U A E Dirham 34,072 15,337 Others 11,780 3,951 194 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Market risk (Continued) (iv) Equity price risk Equity price risk refers to the risk of a decrease in fair values of equities and mutual funds in the Group’s available for sale investment portfolio as a result of reasonably possible changes in levels of equity indices and the value of individual investments. The following table depicts the effect on the Group’s investments in equities and mutual funds from a reasonably possible change in relevant indices, with other variables held constant, and the related effect on the Group’s shareholders’ equity. The reasonably possible changes in relevant indices are estimated based on the relevant indices movements during the last five years (2013-2017) (2016: 2012-2016). A positive effect shows a potential increase in consolidated shareholders’ equity, whereas a negative effect shows a potential decrease in consolidated shareholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2017 As of December 31, 2016 Market indices Change in equity price Effect in Change in equity price Effect in % SAR ’000 % SAR ’000 TADAWUL +66.59/-19.07 +374,290/-107,163 +76.22/-14.39 +771,274/-145,606 Unquoted +5.00/-5.00 +232/-232 +5.00/-5.00 +75/-75 33. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets. Liquidity risk can be caused by market disruptions or credit downgrades, which may cause certain sources of funding to dry up immediately. To mitigate this risk, management has diversified funding sources, and assets are managed with liquidity in perspective. Management therefore maintains a healthy balance of cash, cash equivalents, and readily marketable securities as of part of its high liquid assets. Management also monitors the asset and liability maturity profile to ensure that adequate liquidity is maintained. The daily liquidity position is monitored and regular liquidity stress testing is conducted under a variety of scenarios covering both normal and more severe market conditions. All liquidity policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Asset Liability Committee. A summary report, including any exceptions and remedial actions taken, is submitted regularly to the Asset Liability Committee. In addition, the Group’s liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio are each monitored regularly to be in line with SAMA guidelines. The Group also conducts regular liquidity stress testing under a variety of scenarios covering both normal and more severely stressed market conditions. In accordance with the Banking Control Law and the regulations issued by SAMA, the Group maintains a statutory deposit with SAMA equal to 7% (2016: 7%) of total demand deposits and 4% (2016: 4%) of saving and time deposits. In addition to the statutory deposit, the Group also maintains liquid reserves of no less than 20% of its deposit liabilities, in the form of cash and balances with SAMA, Saudi Government Development Bonds, or other assets which can be converted into cash within a period not exceeding 30 days. The Group has the ability to raise additional funds through repo facilities with SAMA against Saudi Government Development Bonds up to 100% of the nominal value of bonds held. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 195 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 33. Liquidity risk (Continued) (a) Contractual maturity profile of assets and liabilities The tables below summarize the contractual maturity profile of the Group’s assets, liabilities, and shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. The contractual maturities of assets and liabilities have been determined on the basis of the remaining period at the consolidated statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date, and do not take into account the effective maturities as indicated by the Group’s deposit retention history. The amounts disclosed for derivatives, and commitments and contingencies are not indicative of future payment obligations. 2017 SAR ’000 Within 3-12 1-5 Over No fixed Total 3 months months years 5 years maturity/on demand Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 1,282,000 – – – 3,981,438 5,263,438 Due from banks and other financial institutions 2,599,892 – – – 913,181 3,513,073 Investments, net 167,690 913,956 12,787,002 7,128,085 717,243 21,713,976 Positive fair values of derivatives – 669,170 – – – 669,170 Loans and advances, net 22,895,597 16,579,152 16,516,921 3,596,614 – 59,588,284 Investments in associates – – – – 1,019,961 1,019,961 Property, equipment, and intangibles – – – – 1,002,910 1,002,910 Other real estate – – – – 718,724 718,724 Other assets – 306,683 – – – 306,683 Total 26,945,179 18,468,961 29,303,923 10,724,699 8,353,457 93,796,219 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Due to banks and other financial institutions 5,211,784 2,388,765 – – 9,137 7,609,686 Customer deposits 24,154,968 15,458,517 – – 27,329,135 66,942,620 Negative fair values of derivatives – 116,655 – – – 116,655 Term loans 14,823 – 2,000,000 – – 2,014,823 Subordinated debt 3,068 – 2,000,000 – – 2,003,068 Other liabilities – 830,300 – – – 830,300 Total equity – – – – 14,279,067 14,279,067 Total 29,384,643 18,794,237 4,000,000 – 41,617,339 93,796,219 Derivatives, commitments, and contingencies 5,743,285 9,901,507 16,953,591 6,242,558 – 38,840,941 196 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 33. Liquidity risk (Continued) 2016 SAR ’000 Within 3-12 1-5 Over No fixed Total 3 months months years 5 years maturity/on demand Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 1,220,000 – – – 4,464,338 5,684,338 Due from banks and other financial institutions 1,872,177 28,216 – – 401,900 2,302,293 Investments, net 1,260,469 1,433,082 9,054,430 8,518,352 1,181,561 21,447,894 Positive fair values of derivatives – 713,340 – – – 713,340 Loans and advances, net 23,461,139 17,114,015 16,673,368 3,000,530 – 60,249,052 Investments in associates – – – – 1,000,337 1,000,337 Property, equipment, and intangibles, net – – – – 987,600 987,600 Other real estate – – – – 418,724 418,724 Other assets – 243,833 – – – 243,833 Total 27,813,785 19,532,486 25,727,798 11,518,882 8,454,460 93,047,411 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Due to banks and other financial institutions 6,297,004 2,695,000 – – 4,712 8,996,716 Customer deposits 20,152,087 12,957,005 3,792,015 – 28,739,218 65,640,325 Negative fair values of derivatives – 174,550 – – – 174,550 Term loans 32,187 1,000,000 1,000,000 – – 2,032,187 Subordinated debt 2,373 – 2,000,000 – – 2,002,373 Other liabilities – 867,718 – – – 867,718 Total equity – – – – 13,333,542 13,333,542 Total 26,483,651 17,694,273 6,792,015 – 42,077,472 93,047,411 Derivatives, commitments, and contingencies 7,341,484 11,424,985 10,539,055 4,381,706 – 33,687,230 For presentation purposes in the tables above, the Group’s demand, savings, and certain other deposits amounting to approximately SAR 27.3 billion as of December 31, 2017 (2016: SAR 28.7 billion) are included under the “No fixed maturity/on demand column”. Assets available to meet all the liabilities and to cover outstanding loan commitments include cash, balances with SAMA, items in the course of collection, loans and advances to banks, and loans and advances to customers. The Group regularly monitors the maturity profile to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained. The cumulative maturities of commitments and contingencies is disclosed in Note 19 c (i) of these consolidated financial statements. (b) Analysis of financial liabilities by remaining undiscounted maturities The tables below summarize the estimated maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 based on contractual undiscounted future repayment obligations. As special commission payments up to the contractual maturities are included in the tables, the totals do not match the amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position. The contractual maturities of liabilities have been determined based on the remaining period at the consolidated statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date and do not take into account the effective expected maturities. The Group expects that many customers will not request repayment on the earliest date that the Group could be required to pay and the tables do not reflect the expected cash flows indicated by the Group’s deposit retention history. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 197 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 33. Liquidity risk (Continued) The undiscounted maturity profile of financial liabilities is as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Within 3-12 1-5 Over No fixed Total 3 months months years 5 years maturity/on demand Due to banks and other financial institutions 5,220,677 2,405,068 – – 9,137 7,634,882 Customer deposits 24,213,393 15,608,078 – – 27,329,135 67,150,606 Negative fair values of derivatives – 116,655 – – – 116,655 Term loans 30,473 46,950 2,046,950 – – 2,124,373 Subordinated debt 21,068 54,000 2,186,000 – – 2,261,068 Total 29,485,611 18,230,751 4,232,950 – 27,338,272 79,287,584 Derivatives 105,406 285,975 998,144 141,978 – 1,531,503 Total 29,591,017 18,516,726 5,231,094 141,978 27,338,272 80,819,087 2016 SAR ’000 Within 3-12 1-5 Over No fixed Total 3 months months years 5 years maturity/on demand Due to banks and other financial institutions 6,313,730 2,723,634 – – 4,712 9,042,076 Customer deposits 20,233,703 13,166,908 4,099,168 – 28,739,218 66,238,997 Negative fair value of derivatives – 174,550 – – – 174,550 Term loans 50,687 1,033,917 1,166,500 – – 2,251,104 Subordinated debt 21,423 57,150 2,190,500 – – 2,269,073 Total 26,619,543 17,156,159 7,456,168 – 28,743,930 79,975,800 Derivatives 86,773 211,503 675,606 109,223 – 1,083,105 Total 26,706,316 17,367,662 8,131,774 109,223 28,743,930 81,058,905 198 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 34. Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction takes place either in the accessible principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous accessible principal market for the asset or liability. The Group uses the hierarchy disclosed in Note 2 (d) (ii) for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments. The following table shows an analysis of financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 by level of the fair value hierarchy: 2017 SAR ’000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments – 233,749 435,421 669,170 Available for sale financial investments 13,821,026 7,379,684 513,266 21,713,976 Total 13,821,026 7,613,433 948,687 22,383,146 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments – 116,655 – 116,655 Total – 116,655 – 116,655 2016 SAR ’000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments – 277,919 435,421 713,340 Available for sale financial investments 13,398,792 7,520,053 529,049 21,447,894 Total 13,398,792 7,797,972 964,470 22,161,234 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments – 174,550 – 174,550 Total – 174,550 – 174,550 The value obtained from any relevant valuation model may differ with a transaction price of a financial instrument. The difference between the transaction price and the model value is commonly referred to as “day one profit and loss”. It is either amortized over the life of the transaction, deferred until the instrument’s fair value can be determined using market observable data, or realized through disposal. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognized immediately in the consolidated income statement without reversal of deferred day one profits and losses. The total amount of the changes in fair value recognized in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2017 which was estimated using valuation models, is a loss of SAR 0.7 million (2016: a gain of SAR 88.5 million). Level 2 available for sale financial investments include debt securities which are comprised of Saudi corporate and bank securities, and Saudi Arabian Government securities. These securities are generally unquoted. In the absence of a quoted price in an active market, these securities are valued using observable inputs such as yield information for similar instruments or last executed transaction prices in securities of the same issuer or based on indicative market quotes. Adjustments are also considered as part of the valuations when necessary to account for the different features of the instruments including difference in tenors. Because the significant inputs for these investments are observable, the Bank categorizes these investments within Level 2. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 199 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 34. Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (Continued) Level 2 derivative financial instruments include various derivatives contracts including forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange options, and commission rate swaps. These derivatives are valued using widely recognized valuation models. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include the use of forward pricing standard models using present value calculations and well-recognized Black – Scholes option pricing models. These models incorporate various market observable inputs including foreign exchange rates, forward rates, and yield curves, and are therefore included within Level 2. Level 3 available for sale financial investments include Gulf Cooperation Council Government securities, and also investments in hedge funds, private equity funds, and asset-backed securities. These securities are generally not quoted in an active market, and therefore are valued using indicative market quotes from an issuer/counter party or valued at cost in the absence of any such alternative reliable indicative estimate. Level 3 derivative financial instruments include the embedded derivative put option arising from an existing master agreement entered into by the Bank relating to its investment in an associated company (see Note 11). For purposes of determining the fair value of the put option, the Bank uses a well-recognized and frequently used Binomial Option Pricing Model. This model requires certain inputs which are not observable in the current market place. Certain inputs are specifically stated within the master agreement with the associated company. Other inputs are based on the historical results of the associated company. These other inputs may require Management’s judgement including estimations about the future results of the associated company, the detrimental effects on the operating results of the associated company which may arise from an exercise of the option, and an estimate of the fair value of the underlying investment. Several of the inputs are also interdependent. Should the significant estimations of inputs vary by plus or minus ten percent, the fair value could increase or decrease by approximately SAR 141.2 million (2016: SAR 107.7 million) due to estimating operating results of the associated company, could increase or decrease by approximately SAR 53.9 million (2016: SAR 57.4 million) due to estimating the detrimental effects on the operating results of the associated company which may arise from an exercise of the option, and could increase or decrease by approximately SAR 30.5 million (2016: SAR 30.5 million) due to estimating the fair value of the underlying investment. In all respects, the Bank’s significant estimates are based on experience and judgement relevant to each input, and in all cases, due care is taken to ensure that the inputs are conservative to ensure that the estimation of fair value is reasonable in the circumstances. However, any amounts which may be realized in the future may differ from the Bank’s estimates of fair value. The following table summarizes the movement of the Level 3 fair values for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Fair values at the beginning of the year 964,470 888,392 Net change in fair value 896 87,543 Investments purchased 920 4,522 Investments sold (17,599) (15,987) Fair values at the end of the year 948,687 964,470 200 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 34. Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (Continued) The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 that are not carried at fair value in the consolidated financial statements, along with the comparative carrying amounts for each. December 31, 2017 Carrying Estimated values fair values SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Financial assets: Due from banks and other financial institutions 3,513,073 3,513,073 Loans and advances, net 59,588,284 61,454,199 Total 63,101,357 64,967,272 Financial liabilities: Due to banks and other financial institutions 7,609,686 7,609,686 Customers deposits 66,942,620 65,964,590 Term loans, net 2,014,823 2,014,823 Subordinated debt, net 2,003,068 2,003,068 Total 78,570,197 77,592,167 December 31, 2016 Carrying Estimated values fair values SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Financial assets: Due from banks and other financial institutions 2,302,293 2,302,293 Loans and advances, net 60,249,052 62,155,329 Total 62,551,345 64,457,622 Financial liabilities: Due to banks and other financial institutions 8,996,716 8,996,716 Customers deposits 65,640,325 64,762,600 Term loans, net 2,032,187 2,032,187 Subordinated debt, net 2,002,373 2,002,373 Total 78,671,601 77,793,876 The estimated fair values of loans and advances, net are calculated using market-based discounted cash flow models of individual loan portfolios using the weighted average estimated maturities of each individual loan portfolio. The estimated fair values of customers’ deposits are calculated using market-based discounted cash flow models of individual deposit classes using the weighted average estimated maturities of each individual deposit class. These fair value estimates are considered as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of other financial instruments that are not carried in the consolidated financial statements at fair value are not significantly different from the carrying values. The fair values of term loans, subordinated debt, and due from and due to banks which are carried at amortized cost, are not significantly different from the carrying values included in the consolidated financial statements, since the current market special commission rates for similar financial instruments are not significantly different from the contractual rates, and because of the short duration of due from and due to banks. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 201 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 35. Related party transactions In the ordinary course of its activities, the Group transacts business with related parties. Related parties, balances, and transactions are governed by the Banking Control Law and other regulations issued by SAMA such as rules on large exposures of banks. During 2014, SAMA issued an update to its Principles of Corporate Governance for banks operating in Saudi Arabia which specifies the definitions of related parties, the need to process the related transactions fairly and without preference, addresses the potential conflicts of interests involved in such transactions, and mandates transaction disclosure requirements pertaining to the related parties. The Bank’s Related Party Identification and Disclosure of Transactions Policy complies with the Guidelines issued by SAMA, and has been approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors. These Guidelines include the following definitions of related parties: • Management of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family; • Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family; • Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting; • Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees such as pension or other benefit plans that are managed by the Bank; and • Any other parties whose management and operating policies can be directly or indirectly significantly influenced by the Bank. Management of the Bank includes those persons who are responsible for achieving the objectives of the Bank and who have the authority to establish policies and make decisions by which those objectives are pursued. Management therefore includes the members of the Bank’s Board of Directors, and members of the Bank Management that require a no objection approval from SAMA. Immediate family members include parents, spouses, and offspring and whom either a principal shareholder or a member of management might control or influence or by whom they might be controlled or influenced because of the family relationship. Principal shareholders include those owners of record of more than five percent of the Bank’s voting ownership and/or voting interest of the Bank. 202 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 35. Related party transactions (Continued) (a) The balances as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, resulting from such transactions included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Management of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Loans and advances 88,334 91,614 Customer deposits 227,848 316,326 Tier I Sukuk 2,000 – Commitments and contingencies 1,880 – Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Due from banks and other financial institutions 12,241 33,429 Loans and advances 126,214 596,477 Customer deposits 10,416,049 10,924,783 Subordinated debt 700,000 700,000 Commitments and contingencies 372,991 2,789,005 Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting: Loans and advances 596,117 1,022,467 Customer deposits 104,094 49,378 Commitments and contingencies 106,317 616,984 Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees such as pension or other benefits plans that are managed by the Bank: Customer deposits and other liabilities 152,572 129,507 (b) Income and expense pertaining to transactions with related parties included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Management of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Special commission income 3,093 3,643 Special commission expense 34 36 Fee income from banking services 20 11 Principal shareholders of the Bank and/or members of their immediate family: Special commission income 42,671 11,983 Special commission expense 27,039 24,907 Fee income from banking services 4,219 4,219 Rent and premises-related expenses (Building rental) 7,758 7,726 Affiliates of the Bank and entities for which the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting: Special commission income 8,736 3,830 Special commission expense 9 – Fee income from banking services 5,607 5,223 Trusts for the benefit of the Bank’s employees such as pension or other benefit plans that are managed by the Bank: Special commission expense – 324 Board of Directors and other Board committee member remuneration 5,414 5,507 The total amount of compensation charged or paid to management personnel during the year is included in Note 24. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 203 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 36. Capital adequacy The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to comply with the capital requirements set by SAMA to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, and to maintain a strong capital base. Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group’s Management. SAMA requires the Bank to hold a minimum level of regulatory capital and maintain a ratio of total regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets (RWA) at or above the requirement of 9.875%. The Group monitors the adequacy of its capital using ratios established by SAMA. These ratios measure capital adequacy by comparing the Group’s eligible regulatory capital with its consolidated statement of financial position assets, commitments, and notional amounts of derivatives, at a weighted amount to reflect their relative risk. The following table summarizes the Bank’s Pillar I risk-weighted assets (RWA), Tier I and Tier II capital, and capital Adequacy Ratio percentage. The RWA, Tier I capital, Tier I and Tier II capital amounts as of December 31, 2016 presented below have been restated to reflect the effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments as disclosed in Note 41. The Tier I and Tier I plus Tier II ratios have also been adjusted accordingly. 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Credit Risk RWA 75,882,891 78,900,047 Operational Risk RWA 4,605,140 4,294,667 Market Risk RWA 1,897,923 605,492 Total Pillar – I RWA 82,385,954 83,800,206 Tier I Capital 14,260,772 13,315,247 Tier II Capital 2,526,993 2,549,514 Total Tier I & II Capital 16,787,765 15,864,761 Capital Adequacy Ratio Tier I Ratio 17.31% 15.89% Tier I + Tier II Ratio 20.38% 18.93% As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the RWA, Tier I and Tier II capital, and Capital Adequacy Ratios are calculated in accordance with SAMA’s framework and guidelines regarding implementation of the capital reforms under Basel III. The following additional disclosures are required under the Basel III framework: • Pillar III, Qualitative Disclosures (Annually) • Pillar III, Quantitative Disclosures (Semi-annually) • Capital Structure (Quarterly) • Liquidity Coverage Ratio (Quarterly) • Leverage Ratio (Quarterly) These disclosures are made available to the public on the Bank’s website within the prescribed time frames as required by SAMA. 37. Asset management and brokerage services The Group offers investment services to its customers, through a subsidiary, which include management of investment funds in consultation with professional investment advisors, with assets under management totaling SAR 6,816 million (2016: SAR 5,135 million). This includes funds managed under Shariah approved portfolios amounting to SAR 2,150 million (2016: SAR 1,408 million). 204 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 38. Employee stock option shares and employee end of service benefits (a) The Group has an Employee Stock Grant Plan outstanding at the end of the year. Significant features of the Plan are as follows: Grant dates: January 1, 2013, 2014 and 2016 Maturity dates: Between 2017 and 2018 Vesting period: 4 years per plan Vesting conditions: Participating employees to remain in service Method of settlement: Shares Cost to participating employees: SAR 3.93 to SAR 4.29 per share The stock option shares outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 have a weighted average contractual life of between one and three years. The stock option shares are granted only under a service condition with no market linked condition. The following table summarizes the movement in the number of stock option shares for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 Stock option shares at the beginning of the year 3,749,248 6,306,766 Shares vested during the year (1,592,318) (2,018,012) Withdrawals during the year (320,214) (539,506) Stock option shares at the end of the year 1,836,716 3,749,248 The stock option shares at the beginning of each year have been retroactively adjusted to give effect to the issuance of bonus shares by the Bank. In 2017, the Bank vested 50% of the shares granted in January 2013, 25% of the shares granted in January 2014, and 25% of the shares granted in January 2016, equivalent to 1,592,318 shares, for a total estimated cost of SAR 21.6 million. In 2016, the Bank vested 50% of the shares granted in January 2012, 25% of the shares granted in January 2013, and 25% of the shares granted in January 2014, equivalent to 2,018,012 shares, for a total estimated cost of SAR 36.4 million. The Group also has an Employee Contributory Share Option Plan outstanding at the end of the year. The following table summarizes the movement in the number of subscribed shares for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 Subscribed shares at the beginning of the year 4,210,139 1,364,884 Shares subscribed during the year – 3,972,734 Shares granted during the year – (559,535) Withdrawals during the year (478,964) (567,944) Subscribed shares at the end of the year 3,731,175 4,210,139 The subscribed shares at the beginning of each year have been retroactively adjusted to give effect to the issuance of bonus shares by the Bank. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 205 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 38. Employee stock option shares and employee end of service benefits (Continued) In connection with the Group’s Employee Stock Grant Plan and Employee Contributory Share Option Plan, the Group purchases shares for the respective share vesting and subscription requirements. The following table summarizes the movement in the cost of the shares acquired by the Group net of the share based provision movement: Cost of shares Share based Total provisions SAR ’000 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Balances December 31, 2015 (95,294) 38,539 (56,755) Cost of shares acquired (58,206) – (58,206) Share based provision and vesting/granting movement, net 54,810 (2,733) 52,077 Balances December 31, 2016 (98,690) 35,806 (62,884) Cost of shares acquired (17,574) – (17,574) Share based provision and vesting/granting movement, net 33,818 (11,629) 22,189 Balances December 31, 2017 (82,446) 24,177 (58,269) (b) The Group operates end of service benefit plans for its employees based on prevailing Saudi Labor Laws. Accruals are made in accordance with actuarial valuations using a projected unit credit method while the benefit payments are discharged as and when the benefit payments are due. The amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position which are included in other liabilities and the corresponding movement in the actuarial obligation during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 2017 2016 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Actuarial obligation at the beginning of the year 171,291 182,643 Current and prior period service cost 32,316 44,699 Benefits paid (20,528) (17,596) Effect of changes in actuarial assumptions 3,193 (38,455) Actuarial obligation at the end of the year 186,272 171,291 The current and prior period service cost amounts above primarily include costs for employees’ current period service plus prior year service costs adjusted for any current year salary increments. The effect of changes in actuarial assumptions for the year ended December 31, 2017 is primarily related to an increase in the assumption for future salary increments. The effect of changes in actuarial assumptions for the year ended December 31, 2016 are primarily related to an increase in the discount factor. The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the actuarial obligations as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Discount rate 8.42% 8.86% Expected rate of salary increment 3.00% Nil Normal retirement age 60 60 Should the above actuarial assumptions change in the future, the actuarial obligation could be higher or lower than the December 31, 2017 amount. 206 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 38. Employee stock option shares and employee end of service benefits (Continued) The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the actuarially determined obligation as of December 31, 2017 to the discount rate (8.42%), and the salary increment rate (3%): Impact on actuarially determined obligation Increase (Decrease) Change in Increase in Decrease in assumption assumption assumption % SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Base Scenario Discount rate 10 (81,394) 94,510 Salary increment rate 10 89,833 (85,239) The above sensitivity analyses is based on a change in a single assumption holding other assumptions constant. The approximate expected maturity analysis of the undiscounted actuarially determined obligation as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: 2017 SAR ’000 Less than one year 15,696 One to two years 12,973 Two to five years 27,940 Over five years 198,427 Total 255,036 The weighted average duration of the actuarially determined obligation is approximately 20.67 years. 39. Tier I Sukuk The Group completed the establishment of a Shari’a compliant Tier I Sukuk Program (the Program) in 2016. The Program has been approved by the Group’s regulatory authorities and shareholders. On November 21, 2016, the Bank issued SAR 500 million under the Program. On June 6, 2017, the Bank issued another SAR 285 million under the same Program. The Tier I Sukuk securities are perpetual with no fixed redemption dates and represent an undivided ownership interest in the Sukuk assets, constituting an unsecured conditional and subordinated obligation of the Group classified under equity. However, the Group has the exclusive right to redeem or call the Tier I Sukuk debt securities in a specific period of time, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Program. The applicable profit rate on the Tier I Sukuk is payable semi-annual in arrears on each periodic distribution date, except upon the occurrence of a non-payment event or non-payment election by the Group, whereby the Group may at its sole discretion (subject to certain terms and conditions) elect not to make any distributions. Such a non-payment event or non-payment election are not considered to be an event of default and the amounts not paid thereof shall not be cumulative or compound with any future distributions. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 207 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 40. Prospective changes in the International Financial Reporting Framework (a) The following standards or amendments to existing standards have been issued but not yet adopted by the Group, as their effective date for adoption is on or after January 1, 2018. These standards and amendments to existing standards are summarized below: • IFRS 9 – “Financial Instruments” applicable from January 1, 2018 will replace IAS 39 by changing the classification of financial assets, and by building models using internal and external data. The Group will recognize loss allowances based on expected credit loss models considering forward-looking information. Setting a framework with detailed policies and controls including roles and responsibilities will be implemented. It also incorporates revised requirements for hedge accounting that will allow entities to better reflect their risk management activities in their Financial Statements. • IFRS 15 – “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” applicable from January 1, 2018 presents a five-step model to determine when to recognize revenue, and at what amount. The application of this standard could have a significant impact on how and when revenue is recognized (except for contracts that are within the scope of the standards on leases, insurance contracts and financial instruments), with new estimates and judgements, and the possibility of revenue recognition being accelerated or deferred. • IFRS 16 – “Leases” applicable from January 1, 2019 sets out the new requirements of lease accounting for lessees and lessors. The new standard eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees under IAS 17, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases. Instead, IFRS 16 proposes an on-balance sheet accounting model. • Amendments to IFRS 2 – “Share-based Payments”, which is applicable for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 covers the measurement of cash-settled share based payments, the classification of share-based payments settled net of any tax withholdings, and the accounting for a modification of a share-based payment from cash settled to equity settled. The Bank is currently assessing the implication and effects of adopting IFRS 15 and IFRS 2 on January 1, 2018, although Management does not believe the adoption of IFRS 15 and IFRS 2 will have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The Bank is also currently assessing the implication and effects of adopting IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. The Bank will be adopting IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018, the expected effect of which is described below: (b) In July 2014, the International Accounting Standards Board (the IASB) issued IFRS 9 – “Financial Instruments”, the standard that will replace IAS 39 effective from January 1, 2018. The Group has considered IFRS 9 as a significant project and therefore set up a multidisciplinary implementation team with members from Credit Risk, Modeling, Finance, Information Technology, Operations, and the respective businesses to achieve a successful and robust implementation. The project has been managed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer. (i) Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on how these are managed (the Group’s business model) and their contractual cash flow characteristics. These factors determine whether financial assets are measured at amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristic tests may result in some differences in the classification of financial assets measured at amortized cost or fair value compared with IAS 39. Equity instruments that are not held for trading may be irrevocably designated as FVOCI, with no subsequent reclassification of gains or losses to the income statement. The majority of the Bank’s debt instruments that are currently classified as available for sale will satisfy the conditions for classification as FVOCI and hence there will be an insignificant change in the accounting for these assets except for the new Expected Credit Loss requirements. 208 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 40. Prospective changes in the International Financial Reporting Framework (Continued) The accounting for financial liabilities will largely be the same as the requirements of IAS 39, except for the treatment of gains or losses arising from an entity’s own credit risk relating to liabilities designated at FVTPL. The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, and have not been changed. The Bank does not expect any impact on its financial liabilities and derecognition accounting policy. Based on the Bank’s assessment of its financial assets and expectations around changes to the consolidated statement of financial position composition, the Bank also expects that the overall impact of any change from the application of IFRS 9 will not be significant in relation to the Bank’s consolidated statement of financial position or results of operations. (ii) Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, with the objective of creating a stronger link with the Bank’s risk management strategy, and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and risks. However, the requirements of IFRS 9 do not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies. As a result, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting. Based on the analysis completed to date, the Bank expects to exercise the accounting policy choice to continue with IAS 39 hedge accounting. (iii) Impairment The Group will recognize impairment allowances based on an Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model on financial assets that are not measured at FVTPL. The impairment losses will primarily include allowances for loans and other advances, investments that are measured at amortized cost or at FVOCI (other than equity investments), due from banks and other financial institutions, financial guarantees, and credit commitments. No impairment loss will be recognized on equity investments under the ECL model. The Group intends to categorize its financial assets into the following three stages in accordance with IFRS 9 methodology as follows: • Stage 1 Performing assets. Financial assets that are not significantly deteriorated in credit quality since origination. The impairment allowance will be recorded based on a twelve-month ECL. • Stage 2 Underperforming assets. Financial assets that have significantly deteriorated in credit quality since origination. The impairment allowance will be recorded based on a life time ECL. • Stage 3 Impaired assets. Financial assets that are deemed to be impaired for which the Bank will recognize the impairment allowance based on a life time ECL or an individual assessment of the exposure. The Group will consider forward-looking information in its assessment of significant deterioration in credit risk since origination as well as in the measurement of ECLs. The forward-looking information will include various elements including macroeconomic factors (e.g., unemployment, GDP growth, inflation, profit rates, and other prices) and internal economic forecasts or other forecasts obtained through external sources. To evaluate a range of possible outcomes, the Group intends to formulate various scenarios in the future. For each scenario, the Group will derive an ECL and apply a probability weighted approach to determine the ECL allowance. The Group’s work to date has covered performing an assessment of the population of financial instruments impacted by the classification and measurement requirements and developing an ECL methodology to support the calculation of the ECL allowance. Specifically, during 2017 the Bank conducted business model assessments and financial instrument’s contractual cash flow analysis, developed its approach for assessing a significant increase in credit risk, incorporating forward-looking information including macro economic factors, and prepared the required IT systems and process architecture. The Group has performed end to end parallel runs based on 2017 data to assess procedural readiness. The Group is now in the final phase of implementation, which includes various levels of validation. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 209 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 40. Prospective changes in the International Financial Reporting Framework (Continued) (iv) Expected impact The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is expecting the following impact from the adoption of IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018. According to the transitional provisions for initial application of IFRS 9, the Bank is required to recognize any difference between the previous carrying amounts of financial assets under IAS 39 and the carrying amounts under IFRS 9 at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application in opening retained earnings. Accordingly, the effect is expected to result in a reduction in the carrying value of financial assets by less than one percent and a reduction in total equity from four percent to five percent. The Group’s Tier I plus Tier II ratios will also be impacted by IFRS 9 primarily from the one-time adjustment to retained earnings, and an increase in specific credit impairment provisions related to Stage 2 and Stage 3 financial assets net of the corresponding effect of the increase in such specific reserves on risk-weighted assets. Based on the balances as of December 31, 2017, the expected impact on the Bank’s Tier I plus Tier II ratios considering transitional arrangements would be an estimated reduction of less than one percent. The estimated decrease in total equity includes the impact of both balance sheet classification and measurement changes and the increase to the ECL allowance compared to the impairment allowance as of December 31, 2017 under IAS 39. The assessment above is a point in time estimate and is not a forecast. The actual effect of the implementation of IFRS 9 on the Group could vary significantly from this estimate. The Group continues to refine models, methodologies and controls, and is monitoring developments in regulatory rule-making. Although parallel runs were carried out in 2017, the new systems and associated controls in place have not been operational for an extended period of time. As a result, the Group has not finalized full testing and assessment of all controls over its systems and changes to its governance framework. All estimates are based on the Group’s current interpretation of the requirements of IFRS 9 and industry guidance. Gains or losses realized on the sale of equity instruments classified as FVOCI will no longer be transferred to the income statement on sale, but instead reclassified below the line from the FVOCI reserve to retained earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2017, SAR 31.8 million of such gains were recognized in the consolidated income statement in relation to the disposal of equity investments. The new standard also introduces extended disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. The Group believes that implementation of IFRS 9 may result in greater volatility in impairment charges as compared to the existing methodology which is governed by IAS 39 and the prevailing SAMA Guidelines. As a result, the application of IFRS 9 may impact the Group’s future profitability as well as its regulatory capital structure and capital planning. (v) Governance and controls The Group’s governance structure and controls is currently under implementation in line with an IFRS 9 Guidance document applicable to Saudi banks. These Guidelines call for establishing a Board approved IFRS 9 Governance Framework Policy with the IFRS 9 program policies and controls including roles and responsibilities and a management level ECL Committee. The Group will have a centrally managed IFRS 9 program sponsored by the Bank’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer and will include subject matter experts on methodology, data sourcing and modeling, IT processing, and reporting. 210 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 41. Effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments A summary of the effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and effect of other adjustments made to the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2016 is summarized below: Previously Adjustments Adjusted reported SAR ’000 SAR ’000 SAR ’000 Assets Cash and balances with SAMA 5,684,338 – 5,684,338 Due from banks and other financial institutions 2,302,293 – 2,302,293 Investments, net 21,447,894 – 21,447,894 Positive fair values of derivatives (b) 1,914,717 (1,201,377) 713,340 Loans and advances, net 60,249,052 – 60,249,052 Investments in associates 1,000,337 – 1,000,337 Property, equipment, and intangibles, net 987,600 – 987,600 Other real estate 418,724 – 418,724 Other assets (a) 356,543 (112,710) 243,833 Total assets 94,361,498 (1,314,087) 93,047,411 Liabilities Due to banks and other financial institutions 8,996,716 – 8,996,716 Customer deposits 65,640,325 – 65,640,325 Negative fair values of derivatives (b) 1,424,927 (1,250,377) 174,550 Term loans 2,032,187 – 2,032,187 Subordinated debt 2,002,373 – 2,002,373 Other liabilities (a), (c) 721,782 145,936 867,718 Total liabilities 80,818,310 (1,104,441) 79,713,869 Equity Share capital 7,000,000 – 7,000,000 Statutory reserve 4,210,000 – 4,210,000 Other reserves 509,651 – 509,651 Retained earnings (a), (b), (c) 966,421 (139,646) 826,775 Proposed dividends (a) 420,000 (70,000) 350,000 Shares held for employee options, net (62,884) – (62,884) Shareholders’ equity 13,043,188 (209,646) 12,833,542 Tier I Sukuk 500,000 – 500,000 Total equity 13,543,188 (209,646) 13,333,542 Total liabilities and equity 94,361,498 (1,314,087) 93,047,411 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 211 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 41. Effect of the retroactive application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy and other adjustments (Continued) (a) The effect of the application of the new Zakat and Income Tax Policy resulted in an adjustment to other assets, other liabilities, and proposed dividends in 2016, with a corresponding net reduction to total equity of SAR 159 million (2015: SAR 156 million). (b) The positive and negative fair values of derivatives in 2016 totaling SAR 1.25 billion (2015: SAR 0.8 billion) were adjusted to comply with the unit of account and the offsetting principle for financial instruments to conform to the current year presentation with no effect on total equity. Certain changes were also made to fair value models to correct certain valuation assumptions which resulted in an increase in the positive fair values of derivatives totaling SAR 49 million in 2016 (2015: SAR 69 million) with a corresponding increase in total equity by the same amounts. (c) Other liabilities in 2016 were adjusted by SAR 100 million (2015: SAR 79.7 million) to reflect the prior year effect of a correction in an actuarial method to estimate certain employee-related liabilities with a corresponding decrease to total equity by the same amount. The Group has made these adjustments to the opening balances of 2016 as the impact on the consolidated income statement for the year 2016 was not considered material. Accordingly, these adjustments had no material impact on the net income and corresponding basic and diluted earnings per share amounts reported for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. 42. Board of Directors’ approval The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 04 Jumada II, 1439H, corresponding to February 20, 2018. 212 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Auditors’ Report The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 213 Auditors’ Report 214 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Auditors’ Report The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 215 Auditors’ Report 216 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Auditors’ Report The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 217 Auditors’ Report 218 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Auditors’ Report The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 219 Auditors’ Report 220 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Auditors’ Report The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 221 Auditors’ Report 222 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Annexes The information contained herein is of a supplementary nature and will be useful to be referenced when reading the rest of the Report. 224 Branch Network 225 GRI Content Index 230 Glossary of Key Islamic Finance Terms The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 223 Branch Network Northern Border Al Jawf Tabuk Hail Qasim Madina Riyadh Makkah Eastern Province (Eastern Region) Al Bahah Asir Najran Jezan Riyadh Makkah Eastern Hail Al Kharj Branch Rayyan Branch Al Taif Branch* Al-Ahssa Branch Hail Branch Kharj Riyadh Al Taif Al-Ahssa Hail Al Nassim Branch Shifa Branch Al-Bawadi Branch Al-Khobar Branch Riyadh Riyadh Jeddah Al-Khobar Tabuk Al Rawabi Branch Suwidi Branch AlJamia Branch Aryan Branch Riyadh Riyadh Jeddah Dammam Tabuk Branch Tabuk Al-Aqeeq Branch Takhassussi Branch Al-Azizia Branch* Dammam Branch* Riyadh Riyadh Makkah Dammam Al-Rahmania Branch* Woroud Branch Jeddah Branch Hafer Albaten Branch Asir Riyadh Riyadh Jeddah Hafer Albaten Al-Rowda Branch Makkah Branch Hafof Branch Abha Branch Riyadh Makkah Al-Ahssa Abha AL-Wadi Branch* Malik Branch Jubail Branch Khamis Mushait Branch* Riyadh Jeddah Jubail Khamis Mushait Badiah Branch Pr. Majeed Street Branch Qateef Branch Riyadh Jeddah Qateef Madina Ghadeer Branch Pr. Sultan Branch Qurtuba Branch* Riyadh Jeddah Al-Khobar Madina Branch* Madina Ghurnatah Branch Al-Safa Branch* Uhod Branch Riyadh Jeddah Dammam Head Office Branch* Najran Riyadh Qassim Najran Branch Khurais Road Branch Najran Riyadh Buraidah Branch Buraidah King Fahed District Branch Riyadh Onizah Branch* Jezan Onizah Malaz Branch* Jezan Branch Riyadh Najran Nuzha Branch Riyadh *Branches with Ladies Sections 224 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 “In Accordance” – Core GRI Standard/Disclosure Page No. Report commentary title/Remarks GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 8 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 9 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-4 Location of operations 9 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-6 Markets served 9 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-7 Scale of the organisation 9 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9 The Saudi Investment Bank 102-9 Supply chain 91 Business Partner Capital 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 9,91 The Saudi Investment Bank, Business Partner Capital 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 6-7 About this Report 102-12 External initiatives 6-7 About this Report 102-13 Membership of associations 12, 71 The Saudi Investment Bank, Institutional Capital Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 17 A Letter from the Chairman 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 31-33 Risk Management Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 8, 29, 69 The Saudi Investment Bank, Corporate Governance, Institutional Capital 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 29, 69 Corporate Governance, Institutional Capital Governance 102-18 Governance structure 25 Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority 25 Corporate Governance 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social 50-54 Stakeholders topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 22-23, 26-28 Board of Directors, Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 22, 26 Board of Directors, Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 26-27 Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest 26 Corporate Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies 93 Employee Capital 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 93 Employee Capital Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 50-52 Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements – No collective bargaining agreements entered in to as per prevalent laws 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 50-52 Stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 52-54 Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 52-54 Stakeholders The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 225 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page No. Report commentary title/Remarks Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 6-7 About this Report 102-47 List of material topics 55-56 Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information 7 About this Report 102-49 Changes in reporting 6 About this Report 102-50 Reporting period 6 About this Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 7 About this Report 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 About this Report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7 About this Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 7 About this Report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards; Core option 102-55 GRI content index 225-229 102-56 External assurance – No external assurance obtained GRI 200: Economic GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 59-64 Financial Capital 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 31-33 Risk Management climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 125-126 Board of Directors’ Report 201-4 Financial assistance received from government – No financial assistance received from the Government GRI 202: Market presence 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 94, 96 Employee Capital GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 10-11, 46-47 The Saudi Investment Bank, Strategic Framework 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 10-11, 46-47 The Saudi Investment Bank, Strategic Framework GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 91 Business Partner Capital GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 36 Compliance 226 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page No. Report commentary title/Remarks 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 69, 91 Institutional Capital, procedures Business Partner Capital 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken – No incidents of corruption reported GRI 300: Environmental GRI 301: Materials 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 107 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 104-105 Social and Environmental Capital 302-3 Energy intensity 104-105 Social and Environmental Capital 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 104-105 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 303: Water 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 105 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 104 Social and Environmental Capital 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 104 Social and Environmental Capital 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 104 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 105 Social and Environmental Capital 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 105, 107 Social and Environmental Capital GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations – No non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations reported GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 91 Business Partner Capital The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 227 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page No. Report commentary title/Remarks GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 94-95 Employee Capital 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 96 Employee Capital temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 96 Employee Capital GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 100 Employee Capital days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 97 Employee Capital 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 97 Employee Capital programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 97 Employee Capital career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 94-95 Employee Capital 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 95 Employee Capital GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 101 Employee Capital GRI 408: Child labour 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child – No operations and suppliers at labour significant risk for incidents of child labour reported GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced – No operations and suppliers or compulsory labour at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour reported 228 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page No. Report commentary title/Remarks GRI 412: Human rights assessment 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 100 Employee Capital 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include 100 Employee Capital human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 10-11, The Saudi Investment Bank, impact assessments, and development programs 108-110 Social and Environmental Capital 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts – No operations with significant on local communities actual and potential negative impacts on local communities reported GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 91 Business Partner Capital GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and – No incidents of non-compliance service information and labelling concerning product and service information and labelling reported 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing – No incidents of non-compliance communications concerning marketing communications reported GRI 418: Customer privacy 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer – No complaints concerning breaches privacy and losses of customer data of customer privacy and losses of customer data reported GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 2016 103-1 Management approach 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-2 Implementation 45-47 Strategic Framework 103-3 Performance 45-47 Strategic Framework 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and – No incidents of non-compliance economic area concerning marketing communications reported The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 229 Glossary of Key Islamic Finance Terms A H M Ajr: commission or fee charged for services Halal: lawful, permissible Maysir: gambling One of three fundamental prohibitions in Akar: instalment sale to invest in property Haram: unlawful, forbidden Islamic finance (the other two being Riba and Financing to give customers an opportunity Activities, professions, contracts and Gharar). The prohibition on Maysir is often to invest in property with repayment to the transactions that are explicitly prohibited by used as grounds for criticism of conventional Bank in the form of instalments over a period the Quran or the Sunnah. financial practices such as speculation, of time. Hawala: bill of exchange, remittance conventional insurance and derivatives. B A contract which allows a debtor to transfer Mudaraba: trust financing, profit sharing his debt obligation to a third party who owes Bai al Arboon: down payment sale An investment partnership, whereby the the former a debt. The mechanism of Hawala A sale agreement in which a down payment investor (the Rab al mal) provides capital to is used for settling international accounts by is provided in advance as part payment the entrepreneur (the mudarib) in order to book transfers, thus obviating the need for a towards the price of the commodity for undertake a business or investment activity. physical transfer of cash. reserving the commodity. The down While profits are shared on a pre-agreed payment is forfeited if the buyer does not ratio, losses are born by the investor alone. I return to take the commodity and the seller The mudarib loses only his share of the Ijara: leasing expected income. is entitled to sell the commodity. A lease agreement whereby a bank or The investor has no right to interfere in the Bai Al Ajel: deferred payment sale financier buys an item for a customer and management of the business, but he can A sale on a deferred payment basis. then leases it to him over a specific period, specify conditions that would ensure better Equipment or goods are sold by the Bank thus earning profits for the Bank by charging management of his money. In this way to the client for an agreed lump sum price rental. The duration of the lease and the fee Mudaraba is sometimes referred to as a which includes the profit required by the are set in advance. During the period of the sleeping partnership. Bank without disclosing the cost. The client lease, the asset remains in the ownership of may pay by instalments within a pre-agreed the lessor (the Bank), but the lessee has the A joint Mudaraba can exist between period, or in a lump sum. right to use it. After the expiry of the lease investors and a bank on a continuing basis. agreement, this right reverts to the lessor. The investors keep their funds in a special Bai Inah: sale and buy-back fund and share the profits before the The sale and buy-back of an asset for a higher Ijara Thumma Bai: leasing to purchase liquidation of those financing operations price than that for which the seller originally The same principle governing an Ijara that have not yet reached the stage of final sold it. The seller immediately buys back the contract, but at the end of the lease period settlement. Many Islamic investment funds asset just sold on a deferred payment basis the lessee buys the asset for an agreed price operate on the basis of joint Mudaraba. at a price higher than the original price. This through a purchase contract. can be seen as a loan in the form of a sale. Mudarib: entrepreneur in a Mudaraba Ijarah wa Iqtina: buy-back leasing contract E The entrepreneur or investment manager in Istisnaa: advance purchase of goods or a Mudaraba who puts the investor's funds Eirad: credit facilities granted against buildings in a project or portfolio in exchange for a assignment of an income stream for a A contract of acquisition of goods by share of the profits. A Mudaraba is similar specific period specification or order, where the price is paid to a diversified pool of assets held in a in advance, or progressively in accordance discretionary asset management portfolio. F with the progress of a job. For example, to purchase a yet to be constructed house, Murabaha: cost-plus financing Fiqh: Islamic jurisprudence payments would be made to the builder A form of credit in which the bank buys G according to the stage of work completed. an item and sells it to the customer on a This type of financing, along with Salam, deferred basis. The price includes a profit Gharar: uncertainty is used as a purchasing mechanism, and margin agreed by both parties. Repayment, One of three fundamental prohibitions in Murabaha and Bai Al Ajel are for financing usually in instalments, is specified in the Islamic finance (the other two being Riba sales. contract. and Maysir). Gharar is a concept that covers The legality of this financing technique has certain types of haram uncertainty whereby K been questioned because of its similarity one or more parties stand to be deceived Kafalah: guarantee to Riba. However, the modern Murabaha through ignorance of an essential element Sharia principle governing guarantees. It has become a popular financing technique in the contract. Gambling is a form of Gharar applies to a debt transaction in the event of among Islamic banks, used widely for because the gambler is ignorant of the result a debtor failing to pay. consumer finance, real estate and the of the gamble. The prohibition on Gharar is purchase of machinery and for financing often used as the grounds for criticism of short-term trade. conventional financial practices such as short selling, speculation and derivatives. 230 The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 Glossary of Key Islamic Finance Terms Musharaka: joint venture, profit and loss Q U sharing An investment partnership in which all Qard Hasan: benevolent loan Ujrah: fee partners are entitled to a share in the A loan contract between two parties for The financial charge for using services, or profits of a project in a mutually agreed social welfare or for short-term bridging Manfaat (wages, allowance, commission, ratio. Losses are shared in proportion to finance. Repayment is for the same amount etc.). the amount invested. All partners to a as the amount borrowed. The borrower can pay more than the amount borrowed so long W Musharaka contribute funds and have the right to exercise executive powers in that as it is not stated by contract. Waqf: charitable trust project, similar to a conventional partnership R Z structure and the holding of voting shares in a limited company. Riba: interest Zakat: religious tax This equity financing arrangement is widely An increase, addition, unjust return, or An obligatory contribution which every regarded as the purest form of Islamic advantage obtained by the lender as wealthy Muslim is required to pay to the financing. The two main forms of Musharaka a condition of a loan. Any risk-free or Islamic state, or to distribute amongst the are: “guaranteed” rate of return on a loan or poor. According to Islam, Zakat – the third investment is Riba. Riba in all its forms is pillar of Islam – purifies wealth and souls. • Permanent Musharaka: an Islamic bank prohibited in Islam. Zakat is levied on cash, cattle, agricultural participates in the equity of a project and receives a share of the profit on a pro rata In conventional terms, Riba and “interest” produce, minerals, capital invested in basis. The length of contract is unspecified, are used interchangeably, although the legal industry and business. making it suitable for financing projects notion extends beyond mere interest. where funds are committed over a long period. S • Diminishing Musharaka: this allows equity Sharia: Islamic jurisprudence participation and sharing of profits on Sukuk: Islamic bond a pro rata basis, and provides a method An asset-backed bond which is structured through which the bank keeps on reducing in accordance with Sharia and may be its equity in the project, ultimately traded in the market. A Sukuk represents transferring ownership of the asset to the proportionate beneficial ownership in the participants. The contract provides for underlying asset, which will be leased to the payment over and above the bank's share client to yield the return on the Sukuk. in the profit for the equity held by the bank. Simultaneously the entrepreneur T purchases some of the bank's equity, progressively reducing it until the bank Takaful: Islamic insurance has no equity and thus ceases to be a Based on the principle of mutual assistance, partner. Takaful provides mutual protection of assets and property and offers joint risk-sharing in Mutajara: an asset financing mechanism the event of a loss by one of the participants. with deferred payment Takaful is similar to mutual insurance in A financing agreement whereby the bank that members are the insurers as well as purchases a commodity or an asset and sells the insured. Conventional insurance is it to the client based on a purchase promise prohibited in Islam because its dealings from the client with a deferred price higher contain several haram elements, such as than the cash price, thus making the client a Gharar and Riba. debtor to the bank for the sale amount and for the period agreed in the contract. Tawarruq: reverse Murabaha In personal financing, a client with a genuine need buys an item on credit from the bank on a deferred payment basis and then immediately resells it for cash to a third party. In this way, the client can obtain cash without taking out an interest-based loan. The Saudi Investment Bank Integrated Report 2017 231 Corporate Information Name Auditors The Saudi Investment Bank PricewaterhouseCoopers KPMG Al Fozan & Partners Commercial registration 1010011570 Head office/Registered office The Saudi Investment Bank Head Office Registered logo P. O. Box 3533 Riyadh 11481, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Tel: +966 11 8743000 (KSA) Fax: +966 11 4776781 SWIFT BIC: SIBCSARI Web: www.saib.com.sa Legal form The Saudi Investment Bank (the Bank), a Saudi joint stock company, was formed pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/31 dated 25 Jumada II 1396H, (corresponding to June 23, 1976) in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Stock exchange listing The shares of the Bank are listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) Stock code: 1030 Subsidiary companies and joint venture associate companies Name of Subsidiary Country of operation Country of establishment Alistithmar for Financial Securities and Brokerage Company Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Saudi Investment Real Estate Company Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Saudi Investment First Company Limited Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia SAIB Markets Limited Company Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Cayman Islands Name of Associate Country of operation Country of establishment American Express (Saudi Arabia) Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Saudi Orix Leasing Company Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Amlak International for Finance and Real Estate Development Company Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Produced by Smart Media (Pvt) Limited, a carbon Prepared using the Smart Integrated neutral company that offsets its direct and indirect Reporting Methodology of TM GHG emissions, including those resulting from Smart Media The Annual Report the usage of paper and outsourced printing Company, this report captures through verified sources. the essence of the IIRC <IR> Framework and the GRI Standards. SCAN to view the online version www.saib.com.sa/integratedreport2017 saib.com.sa
