2019 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2019 2/6 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2019 3/6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 1 We will check our foreign partners’ Businesses should support and respect the commitment regarding human rights protection of internationally proclaimed Dec. 19 respect in business, thru UNGC human rights signatory or thru any other initiative. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in / we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2019 4/6 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Principle 3 Organize new talks with staff Businesses should uphold the freedom of representatives, about working time May 2020 association and the effective recognition of organization the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and / we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, / The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Write a company charter and display it. Dec 2019 of employment and occupation. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2019 5/6 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 7 We remind the importance of this Businesses should support a precautionary precautionary approach in their work, to Jul. 2020 approach to environmental challenges the just hired employees Principle 8 We will ban pesticide in the company’s Undertake initiatives to promote greater Sept. 2019 garden environmental responsibility Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion / we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Remind this commitment by a feb. 2020 in all its forms, including extortion and dedicated message to all the employees bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2019 6/6
