United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress December 2018 HASSELL Systems, Policies, Initiatives and Progress relative to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2018 Businesses should support and HASSELL has various policies in place including a A publically available Modern Slavery Act respect the protection of Code of Ethics which includes a statement on Transparency Statement has been included on Principle 1 international proclaimed human Human Rights. In addition we have policies the HASSELL website. rights addressing Equal Opportunity, prevention of Our Executive team and other relevant employees Bullying, Discrimination and Harassment. A have been made aware of the risks of modern Businesses should make sure Whistleblower Protection policy also exists to slavery and human trafficking, and our policies Principle 2 they are not complicit in human encourage employees to speak up if they see any have been updated. rights abuses misconduct. A publically available Modern Slavery Act Businesses should uphold the Transparency Statement has been included on freedom of association and the Principle 3 the HASSELL website. effective recognition of the right to HASSELL does not use or employ forced, bonded collective bargaining HASSELL reports annually to the Australian or child labour. We are committed to high Workplace Gender Equality Agency, and is standards of ethical conduct and operate our currently compliant with all requirements. Businesses should uphold the business in full compliance with all international Principle 4 elimination of all forms of forced Qualitative and quantitative measure for gender laws and regulations. equality are reported biannually to the HASSELL and compulsory labour Board. HASSELL is also a key participant in the Our policies and procedures include; Australian Institute of Architects Male Champions Businesses should uphold the  Equal Opportunity Policy; of Change Program. Principle 5 effective abolition of child labour  Discrimination and Harassment Policy; Inappropriate Behaviour training (ie anti Bullying policy; discrimination, bullying etc ) was conducted throughout the HASSELL studios in 2018.  Code of Ethics Policy; HASSELL Parental Leave policy and entitlement Businesses should uphold the  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; was introduced for the Singapore Studio in 2018. elimination of discrimination in  Parental Leave policy; and Principle 6 HASSELL continues to support a range of respect of employment and  Breast Feeding Policy community based activities including; occupation. _ Indigenous Engagement Program (Australia) _ Educating Girls of Rural China (EGRC) program. 1 of 2 UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2018 In 2018 the HASSELL Environmental Businesses should support a Management System (EMS) was revised and now Principle 7 precautionary approach to includes measureable environmental targets, environmental challenges which will be reported against in coming years. Businesses should undertake The principle objective of the HASSELL The revised HASSELL EMS was certified to ISO Principle 8 initiatives to promote greater Environmental Policy is to promote sustainable 14001:2015 in 2018. environmental responsibility development, reduce the environmental impact of HASSELL has committed to transitioning to using our projects and our studios and maximise 100% renewable energy for its studios by 2023. environmental value. HASSELL has now designed over 3,000,000 Our HASSELL Environmental Management square metres of buildings certified or registered System (EMS) includes; under sustainable building rating systems Businesses should encourage the  Environmental Sustainability Policy; including LEED, BREEAM, WELL, Green Mark development and diffusion of  Environmental Sustainability Procedure; and Green Star. Principle 9 environmentally friendly  Project Sustainability Guide; and HASSELL continues to support and promote; technologies  Studio Sustainability Guide.  Sustainable design training;  Interaction with Green Building Councils; and  Participation in university and industry research programs. HASSELL is committed to high standards of ethical conduct and operate our business in full compliance with all international laws and regulations. Businesses should work against Our policies and procedures include; In 2018 HASSELL reviewed and updated the Anti Principle 10 corruption in all its forms, including Bribery Policy and Code of Ethics Policy. These  Anti-Bribery Policy extortion and bribery policies apply across all studios.  Code of Ethics Policy;  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and  Benefits, Taking Advantage, Business Commission and Presents China 2 of 2
